@@274821

Psychiatry is as sharply split in its views on the causes and treatment of schizophrenia as schizophrenics are supposed to be split in their personalities . The prevailing view is still that of Freud : that schizophrenia is the full flowering of a maladjustment to other people that is seeded in childhood ; to cure it , the victim must be helped to establish better relationships . At the opposite end of the psychiatric spectrum are those who hold that schizophrenia is a biochemical abnormality ; if the abnormality could be identified , the victim might be cured by correcting the body 's chemistry . <P> One of the most persistent and articulate proponents of the biochemical view is Tulane University 's Dr. Robert G. Heath . In 1956 , Heath announced that he had isolated a mysterious protein from the blood of schizophrenics . When injected into monkeys or prison volunteers , the protein caused schizophrenia-like symptoms . Now , in the Archives of General Psychiatry , Dr. Heath reports that he has succeeded in further purifying this substance , taraxein . It works like an antibody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain parts of his own brain . If this can be confirmed , schizophrenia would be classed as one of the autoimmune diseases , in which the body makes antibody against one of its own parts . <P> Checkmate . On behalf of the analytic school , London 's Dr. Ronald David Laing says : " Schizophrenia is not a disease at all . And in contrast with traditional thinking , schizophrenia is not in one person but is between people . It represents a broken-down relationship , and the way to mend it is to involve the schizophrenic in a relationship that means something to him . " Dr. Laing , 38 , does not claim to have originated this idea . It traces back to the brilliant American psychiatrist Harry Stack Sullivan ( 1892-1949 ) , whose theories have been neglected partly because he wrote in obscure jargon . Sullivan blamed emotional problems on difficulties in " interpersonal relationships , " then defined " a person " not as a person in the usual sense but as a social concept . Starting from that , Dr. Laing sees the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social concepts dinned into him from infancy . <P> After Dr. Laing and his colleagues had studied scores of patients in painstaking detail , they concluded : " The experience and behavior that are labeled schizophrenic are a special sort of strategy that a person invents in order to live in an unlivable position . He can not make a move , or make no move , without being beset by contradictory pressures both internally , from himself , and externally , from those around him . He is in a position of checkmate . " Before schizophrenia can be better understood and its treatment improved , psychiatry itself must undergo a deep change , Dr. Laing believes . He insists that a mental hospital is no place to treat a schizophrenic because there the psychiatrist has to play his role according to doctor-patient rules .                     