@@488115

Mr Schiffrin attended the Frankfurt book fair as ethic:91W director of Pantheon Books . The Frankfurt book fair , in spite of the dreary city in which it takes place , is usually an enjoyable publishers ' outing . True , the long days spent in the hangar-like buildings containing thousands of exhibits tend to be tiring and depressing , and even publishers , faced with so many new books , begin to have doubts . But the opportunity to meet friends and engage in late-into-the-night talks is attractive enough to lure people back year after year . This year there were hints of change  --  but nothing to suggest that within a few days the fair and the heart of the city would offer the now familiar sight of massed students confronting rows of green uniformed police , a scene complete with water cannons and the clouds of smoke of exploding tear-gas grenades . The fair has long been a major event in Frankfurt , offering to this provincial city and to German publishers an extraordinary look at the cultural life of nearly the whole world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people  --  from left-wing Socialist students to Adolf von Thadden ( the leader of the extreme right-wing NDP ) who visited this year 's fair . Last year the students had mounted a series of demonstrations against Springer , and prosaically enough , at the small display of books from the Union of South Africa . At the time , we all joked about who would get it next year ? the students had a broad enough choice  --  but the German officials running the fair were far more worried . A visit from von Thadden did not result in a loss of business , but student demonstrations might scare away customers , might even block the stands of certain exhibitors . In the year between fairs , the fair commission faced a problem increasingly familiar to university authorities throughout the world  --  what to do when the demonstrators come ? I sensed the coming storm during the fair 's first days . I was dining with one of the professors at the university when , at a nearby table , we saw a group of his former students , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had planned a teach-in but had heard that the police would be called in to forcefully eject them . The THE NATION/October 14 , 1968 German publishers in charge of the fair were divided  --  a small minority stressing that the book business had for years been trying to lure youngsters into the fair . It was their view that free discussion should be allowed , using one of the fair 's many empty buildings as a forum . The majority , however , had taken a hard line and had elaborated an extraordinary list of house rules , forbidding the distribution of political posters or buttons by publishers ( a lot of Guevara poster sales had been made in 1967 ) , preventing discussion groups of more than ten , etc . Tickets to the fair warned , in the " You-Vill-ObeyOrders " prose style still favored by German bureaucrats , that by stepping on the fair ground , visitors undertook to obey the rules formulated . We were concerned about the situation . As exhibitors , we had not been consulted in the preparation of rules , and we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent a pro-SDS publisher from giving out " We Try Harder " buttons A few of us hastily drew up a statement urging the fair authorities to allow free discussion and insisting that the police be called only if real crises were threatened . The next morning at the ritual cocktail parties , the statement , circulated in this makeshift fashion , drew hundreds of signatures from a very broad cross section of publishers and such visiting authors as Grass and Styron . The statements seemed to work . A student demonstration began , a few policemen were called in , but a confrontation was avoided The teach-in took place in the back of the German exhibit ; a largish crowd gathered and then dispersed . We went to our Saturday dinners feeling that things were under control . The next morning began differently . The students had chosen as the target of the protest the rather abstract figure of Leopold Senghor , president of Senegal , who was to receive the German book industry 's annual peace prize . In the search for a black author , their commission quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the students as an Uncle Tom who had called in French troops to crush student and worker revolts . Like good admen seeking a hook , the SDS had seized on this choice as a way to concentrate on the problems of the Third World . However , most of the publishers , not to speak of the public , had barely heard of Senghor ? or of African leaders to whom the students proposed giving a counter prize . The few leaflets they distributed sparsely outlined their indictment ; and the press was hardly about to begin a debate on Senegalese politics . The gesture , in spite of the seriousness underlying it , was bound to be symbolic . The ritual of confrontation was thus acted out in a scenario which even Herman Kahn could have predicted with complete accuracy . The students gathered outside the cathedral to demonstrate and to award their counter prize . The police , in ever-increasing numbers , insisted that paths be kept clear . ( Whether a clash still could have been avoided had the police allowed the student ceremony is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrained . Students milled about , many extremely chic , others wearing their battle garb of helmets and leather . The police  --  largely young cadets ? held their ground with a good humor that we Americans admired and envied . Students argued with passers-by , forming small groups  --  a highly effective and purposeful device  --  hopelessly trying to convince the Sunday morning promenaders that they should concern themselves with Senegal . As I watched , a police truck tried to forge through the crowd , was stopped , pushed by , and , again , impressively , withdrew . But then the length of the confrontation began to tell . The students tried to break through the barriers into the cathedral . The police pushed back , then charged , filling the air with the acrid smoke of tear gas . Cohn-Bendit ( looking astonishingly like Mickey Rooney ) was arrested and brutally carried off , to be severely beaten , according to a large number of witnesses . We found ourselves , as in a replayed newsreel , running down the street , eyes streaming , stopping to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which presented to my blurred vision the sight of the old Nazi flag  --  red field around a white circle , with the letters NDP where the swastika used to be . ( No one seemed to have noticed this graphic tradition  --  the kind of symbols foreigners tend to notice in Germany . ) The students changed direction now , inexplicably breaking into the offices of the German publishing association , setting the stage for more arrests . Now 373 mounted police arrived , greeted by hundreds of student arms outstretched in the Nazi salute and shouts of Sew Heil  --  too effective for many of us , even as jeers . " Senghor 's soup is getting cold , " the students then chanted , as the officials stayed on in the cathedral . They left only after their paths had been cleared by the police , now attacking with batons and water cannon Later in the afternoon the students headed for the fair . Panicking , its director asked for increased police reinforcements Entrances were closed , the students sat down , more police charges and arrests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to look increasingly like an armed camp . A feeling of repression and anger grew , and some publishers began to close their stands in protest . Then followed an extraordinary series of meetings More than a hundred publishers met in a hotel lobby ( its manager seemed apoplectic ) to demand the withdrawal of police for the duration of the fair Cohn-Bendit 's various publishers and some others joined in the attempt to locate him to determine if he had been wounded , and whether the students arrested with him could be identified and given legal help ( This proved to be impossible , The police refused to divulge the identity of those arrested , and allowed the students to call only lawyers they knew which  --  apart from Cohn-Bendit , who did have a lawyer  --  was a meaningless right ) Late into the night other meetings continued  --  increasingly diffuse and impotent . No one was allowed to see the prisoners or to obtain lawyers Militant Marxist analyses dwindled into the familiar question : Did anyone know anyone ' ) Like a group of Reform Democrats looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed to think of a friendly Social Democratic party official who would ask the Socialist Mayor to listen to their requests . At first this seemed a good possibility , but it disappeared . Late at night , a much diminished group attempted a last symbolic visit to the Mayor 's house . On the next day , a final series of meetings took place The fair authorities retreated somewhat and offered to with-di aw the police , but several hundred now angry publishers demanded a more open attitude A compromise resolution was finally reached , in which all agreed to maintain freedom and order , without police and without repressive house rules . A number of foreign publishers would join the lair authorities as a counterweight Publishing , everyone agreed , could not flower in an atmosphere of bureaucratic regulations which needed police support Had any of this done any good ' ? For THE NATION/ October 14 , 1968 the publishers it had been an unpleasant and time-consuming return to the status quo ante Those running the fair were told to wore y less about the political books and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more attention to maintaining an open atmosphere in which the threat of a teach-in would be less frightening The liberal and left-wing Germans found that many foreign publishers  --  whatever their politics ? shared their dislike for authoritarianism The students could  --  and did  --  claim this as their victory  --  the radicalization of the publishers , Cohn-Bendit called it The Germans themselves had shown a fascinating split , in part generational , between the older authorities and the younger publishers and students . And as I left , I was occupied with the contrast with similar situations in France , Italy and New York . In each place , students had formed themselves into an extra-parliamentary opposition , as the Germans call it . Either excluded from the traditional parties , or believing them to be totally ineffective , they had retreated into a series of symbolic confrontations . But unlike their French counterparts , the German students were alone  --  lacking working-class allies , undoubtedly opposed by the average citizen , covered by a largely hostile press . Though they were trying hard to create a broader constituency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the periphery of symbolic demonstrations seemed wildly utopian . Though they argued that people would be radicalized by such confrontations . the opposite could equally be maintained . Critics such as Gunter Grass ( now very close to the Social Democratic leadership ) have stated bitterly that the students would create a backlash , similar to that which we have seen in France and , of course , America Yet what is most striking in the whole experience is not the menacing strength but the basic weakness of the students The very youngsters who , helmeted and armed with megaphones , had mustered hundreds of demonstrators outside the cathedral , late the same evening were huddled around the one telephone in a student hostel , trying to persuade the policeman answering the mayor 's phone to let their appeal go through They were not , as is so often said , unwilling to face the consequences of their actions , but were trying to get due process in a country that seemed surprisingly unconcerned ? for though the police had obviously been told to behave , at least at first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German newspaper that I saw raised the question of the rights of the accused students or investigated the charge that Cohn-Bendit had been beaten ? though their photos did show him being arrested , his face contorted by the arm lock on his throat , his feet grotesquely twisted , puppetlike , into contrary and , one would think , excruciatingly painful positions . The students had succeeded in creating a major incident , had caused massive disruptions and gotten vast publicity - throughout the world Their impressive strategic and tactical strength worried , at times frightened , many of the older generation . Yet to an outsider , the impression of weakness and uncertainty persists . Faced with contemporary German society , the young could disrupt , but only in a vacuum . The debate they sought to precipitate , would not take place . They would be met only with force , force which in itself frightens the older generation and further isolates the students Had this been inevitable " Did the mere presence of Cohn-Bendit mean that the students would all take an uncompromising revolutionary stand ? It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the fair , the student teach-in took place in peace and quiet . And on Monday when the left-wing German publishers confronted the fair authorities , their demands were surprisingly mild and reformist . Indeed , the last meeting took on an extraordinarily German tone While the real issue was the distrust of the fair authorities and a resentment of the repressive and harassing tactics , the debate centered on the need for a legalistic agreement which would clearly outline the rights of the public and of dissenters at the fair  --  an old-fashioned German approach reminiscent of Ebert rather than Mao . I am not saying that some of the events did not suggest extreme left-wing attitudes The breaking into the book publishing association office , the disruption of a reading organized by Suhrkamp publishers , showed this clearly enough Like all movements , the students represent an ambiguous and mixed grouping , moving in the direction they are pushed , doing whatever seems possible at any given moment But what I do suspect is that a less resigned attitude by the older generation might have led to different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have shown the students that what they were saying , not just what they were doing , was being taken seri-ously The students had chosen to demonstrate against Senghor not just to cause trouble  --  any excuse would have been suitable for that  --  but because they genuinely want to precipitate a debate on the Third World . There are undoubtedly more pressing issues in German politics ; vet it does matter what the government and , perhaps more important , the corporations are doing in this tield . Would It have been impossible to provide a meeting to discuss this question , even to open the mass media to the embryonic student research and opinion " Might not at least the Social Democrats agree that such issues merit debate " Yet in the whole fair I saw no books on this question , and from the past I remember only a few studies of dubious independence . Likewise , the fair management 's rule raised basic constitutional questions about the rights of what have been called " private governments " to abrogate constitutional guarantees . As I tried to suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the fair had touched on questions which no foreigner could answer but which did need to be discussed in a German context But this did not happen either As a result , the students found themselves not only in a political and social but in an intellectual vacuum . striking out , often provocatively , at a society whose yen ; silence reinforced their apocalyptic analysis It is n't after all just a students ' world The grownups too have their responsibilities , among which is not , on hearing the word student , to reach for their guns .                     