@@492231

THE SEX CRIMINAL 1 do n't know why I did it ' 0 ne morning in the late winter of 1956 a group of senior psychiatrists at the Atascadero State Hospital for the Mentally Ill Offender met in the director 's office to review the progress of Hugh Sion Morse . Then as now . about half the inmates of the California hospital were convicted sex offenders . and Morse belonged to that half . A blue-eyed , baby-faced ex-marine of 26. married and the father of three sons , he had a record of indecent exposure and molesting children . On his forearms were tattooed his nickname . " Chris . " his wile 's name , " Virginia , " and the insignia of the United States Marine Corps . The original psychiatric diagnosis . after the Los Angeles Superior Court committed 1 lorse to Atascadero in 1955. mentioned " schizoid personality . . . personality pattern disturbance ... inadequate personality . " Morse . a genial , ingratiating patient , wrote to the director about his treatment : It has given me more determination to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the love that a husband and fat her should . No one realizes any more than myself that the only way this can be clone is by being a man and going about it in the right way .... I am sure that E am able to handle myself now and in the future and make the right decisions . " The psychiatrists agreed , One of them said , " I think it is practical to say that he probably has reached the maximum benefit and should be given a trial at reality . " Another added , " His mental state is that of somebody who has profited quite some from the hospital ... he is recommended by the undersigned as a ' B ' candidate , who is no longer a menace . " And so Hugh Bion Morse . who had barely begun his extraordinary series of sex crimes , had been examined and " treated " and found fit to return to society . The court placed him on probation for one year . A native of Kansas City , Mo. , Morse had been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he grew painfully aware during his boyhood . The marriage took place following a charge of statutory rape against his father , his mother then being under 16 . His father was an alcoholic salesman who died drunk in a barroom brawl . Destitute , his mother found work as a waitress . Hugh . she was to recall , suffered from frequent fevers and nightmares . " There was just he and I , and we were pretty close . " she once said . " I ca n't remember being happy since I was born . " Morse said . " I 've always felt no one really cared for me . My mother was always good to me , but she never seemed to be there when I needed her . " His grandmother , who chiefly reared him because his mother 's job kept her away so much , browbeat both Morse and his mother . " My mother would tell me I could do certain things , and then my grandmother would tell me I could n't , " Morse remembers . " She was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( lingering a scar on his chin i . She hit me with a hammer . " " As he got older , " his mother recollected , " he kept yelling at me I should marry again same as he would some day , because I would n't want to be alone . " She eventually took a second husband . but not until her son married Virginia . a 19-yearold girl from Arkansas . Even so . Morse proved jealous of his stepfather . And as for Virginia . Morse 's mother said . " She was taught that sex was nasty . I tried to teach her different . " At 17 Morse enlisted in the Army and by his own request was transferred to a paratroop unit . On a jump he fractured both ankles and hurt his spine . He served three years , leaving with a sergeant 's rating and an honorable discharge , and almost immediately joined the Marine Corps . His mother attributed his subsequent emotional deterioration to the delayed effects of his parachute injuries . Virginia , whom Morse married while a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the rigors of marine training . His first psychiatric diagnosis was made at the Great Lakes Naval Hospital in 1951 , his 99nd year , after he had repeatedly gone AWOL ? to he with his bride , he claimed . He returned from his fourth breakout under a suspended sentence for indecent exposure and assaulting a woman in Wilmington , N.C. Eager to quit the marines , he told the military psychiatrist he was a homosexual , The psychiatrist so diagnosed him , and an undesirable discharge followed . Drifting to California with his wife , he worked at many different jobs  --  bellboy , car-wash attendant , hotel clerk , farmhand , cabbie and truck driver . In 1953 the Los Angeles police arrested him for exposing himself to two women , and he spent 90 days in a city jail . " I do n't know why or what makes me do it , " he said later . " All I can say is I get a wild desire , and I go out and do it . Afterward I feel ashamed and very depressed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for women . In jail I thought maybe I could conquer it myself . I found out that I could n't , and I went to a doctor . " The doctor to whom Morse went after his release from jail was a Beverly Hills psychoanalyst . He saw Morse several hours a week for two months , charging him $12 an hour . " It did n't seem like he was helping me much , and it was very expensive , so I stopped going , " Morse said . Soon after , a theft of women 's underclothing landed him back in jail for six months . On probation , he lured two eight-year-old girls into an alley with promises of money and candy and attempted to molest them . The court sent him to Atascadero , whose diagnostic and therapeutic techniques , during the first year of its history , were considerably less sophisticated than they since have become . Following his release , Morse and his wife , now pregnant for the fourth time . settled briefly near Burbank , Calif . Within a few weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wanted ads and making obscene calls . He was arrested and sentenced to a work farm in May , 1957 , winning parole in August and unconditional freedom in October . " Completed terms satisfactorily . " noted his probation officer . Virginia finally left him . taking the children to live with her mother . Her " rejection , " as he thought of it . triggered in him an urge to destroy . Wandering north to Spokane , Wash. , he broke into a girl 's apartment and beat and raped her . She recovered . He raped and beat another girl to death with a pipe wrench . He raped and killed an old woman with the same weapon . " It got to be a habit , " he said later . He raped a girl of eight , after abducting her from a street corner where she was selling mints for the Girl Scouts . The police later found her body in a wood . 11,1orse confessed to the rape but denied the murder . Morse 's last prospective victim on the West Coast was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home at Reseda , Calif. , he climbed through a window , his head hooded , and tried to strangle her . The noise roused her mother , whose screams frightened him off . Virginia had recognized him . and the Los Angeles police issued a warrant for attempted murder . But by then Morse had fled California . Interstate flight to avoid prosecution is a federal offense , and the FBI added him to its gallery of the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives . He covered ground fast . Under nine different aliases he tore through St. Louis , Minneapolis ( where he looted a woman 's house ) , Indianapolis , Miami , Atlanta the molested a child in the presence of her mother , whom lie held off with murderous threats ) . Birmingham ihe robbed and killed a divorcee , battering her head in with an iron pipe ) , New Orleans , Syracuse , St. Paul . By his count he attacked six children . To pay his way , he occasionally took on odd jobs . Mostly he stole . In July , 1961. under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul and earning $75 a week as a car washer . He occupied a one-room efficiency apartment and impressed his landlady with his fastidiousness . Though he smoked , no ashes sullied the floor . For an ashtray he used a hollow plaster skull . His reading matter was ranged neatly on a shelf above his bed . It included Playboy and an illustrated book of French pornography . Among the other tenants was an attractive , deeply religious girl , Muriel Lomas t this is not her real name ) . They formed a close attachment , and by no word or gesture did he ever betray the slightest aggression . They had no sexual relations . " I met him in August , " she was to recall with utter bewilderment . " One night I was sitting on the front porch , and he struck up a conversation . He was very much a gentleman and had beautiful manners . He had his moods , as everyone does . but I thought he was very normal , what you 'd call an all-around nice guy . He would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or whether I was eating enough . Several times he took me downtown and bought me a meal , and I knew he could n't afford it . Sometimes he 'd drop in , and I 'd throw something together . He appreciated it and complimented me quite often on my cooking ... I was n't in love with him and he was n't in love with me . We were just good friends . " When not entertaining Muriel . Morse would prowl the city . For a burglary he would note the names of apartment dwellers on mailboxes. consult the telephone directory and dial the prospective victim 's number . If nobody answered . he would return to jimmy a door or cut through a window screen . Once he encountered a poodle and almost retreated empty-handed for fear it would bark . " But I have a way with dogs , just like I do with kids , " he boasted later , The youngest child he molested in St. Paul was five . He also created a minor panic with hundreds of obscene phone calls . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name , Carol Ronan. from a mailbox at 587 Grand Avenue , near his building . She was a casework supervisor for the Catholic Charities Bureau , 34 years old . unmarried and living alone in a ground-floor apartment . Getting no answer to his call from a nearby telephone booth , Morse tried her door . It was unlocked . As he turned the knob . the superintendent surprised him . " I want to see Carol . " Morse said . " She 's not home . " the superintendent replied . Morse tried again in five minutes , and again the superintendent intercepted him . " OK , " said Morse . " I 'll see her later . " Sunday Carol answered . " I 've got the wrong number . " Morse said . Her voice excited him ? " sultry , " he described it  --  and Monday night he did n't bother to call her first . He changed into green slacks. a sweat shirt and sneakers . He wrapped mending tape around a steel padlock and drew a wool stocking over that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more he found it unlocked . She was asleep on a studio couch . her head a few inches from the door . Morse brought the padlock crashing down on her skull . He was stuffing a wash rag into her mouth when she came to . moaning , He struck again . fracturing her skull . She still struggled . He choked her first with his hands , then looped a nylon stocking around her throat . With its mate he bound her wrists . Another blow shattered a rib . When she moved no more , he raped her . He left after taking a wristwatch and five dollars from her purse . Back at his apartment he carefully burned his blond-spattered clothes in the incinerator . The superintendent discovered Carol 's naked , broken body late next morning , after her employer , puzzled by her absence . telephoned him . Morse and Muriel heard the news together that evening while listening to the radio . She jokingly taxed him with the murder . He chuckled and changed the subject . A month passed as the St. Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , D.C .. an astonishing coincidence spurred the FBI into action . A vacationing St. Paul hospital nurse , taking a guided tour of FBI headquarters , spotted a handsome . boyish face among the photographs of the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives . " I know him ! " she cried . " We live in the same building . " It was Morse . That evening FBI agents rang his doorbell . He had been sleeping , and he answered the door in the nude . Under his mattress they found a knife , a straight-edge razor and a .25 caliber automatic . He put up no resistance . To the FBI agents and the local police he coolly admitted killing Carol Ronan and recounted a host of other crimes , including some that nobody suspected . A curious phenomenon common to many horrendous murder cases is the number of people who have kind words to say about the killer and ca n't believe him guilty . Morse was no exception . " I think of him as I knew him , as a friend , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so nice . " His landlady : " He was a gentleman . Never did anything out of the way . " His boss at the car wash : " A steady worker . We ca n't say anything against him . " The bewildered Muriel took it hardest . She could neither eat nor sleep . " If he repents his sins , " she said , " I hope to see him in heaven. - Morse 's plea of guilty to second-degree murder . which eliminated the need to prove premeditation , made a life sentence mandatory . But since he would be eligible for parole in 20 years , District Judge Robert V. Rensch imposed an additional life sentence , to run consecutively , for first-degree burglary , to which Morse had also pleaded guilty . In any event , even if paroled , he is unlikely to remain at large because Alabama and Washington also have filed murder charges against him . Deploring the dearth of knowledge about sex criminals . Judge Rensch asked psychiatrists at the University of Minnesota to examine Morse before imprisonment . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " If it goes toward saving even one . it would be worthwhile . " At Atascadero , meantime , the psychiatrists revised the prognosis made five years earlier . " From the record data , " they now said , " there appears insufficient basis for predicting homicide ; however , the pathological symptoms suggested that the patient might be a sexual recidivist with mounting preference for direct contact with victims rather than satisfied with the distant factor of indecent exposure and lewd telephone calls . " One of the Minnesota psychiatrists said , " Tests could have shown Morse was extremely dangerous and destructive . " The university 's director of clinical psychology , Starke R. Hathaway , who developed the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory , used the world over to classify psychotic types , disagreed . " No test yet devised , " he said , " will surely detect psychopathic deviations . " In the short time available to them the Minnesota psychiatrists could only confirm that Morse was not insane within the meaning of the law . While awaiting transfer from the county jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to talk to reporters . As he harked back to his crimes , groping incoherently for the motive , he mingled humility with vainglory . " I feel the way about it everyone does , a feeling of revulsion . " He blamed it all on rejection by women , but hastened to add that they never rejected him sexually . They failed him in other respects , he said . They withheld the affection he needed . " Every time I found what I wanted , it would change , I would n't have it any more . Maybe it was because they did n't live up to my expectations . I guess I wanted to hurt a woman . sort of as a symbol . I wanted them to be just the way I wanted , so they would n't have any will of their own . I do n't know , it 's hard to explain . I do n't think I intended rape . I just wanted to hurt them . . . I 'm sorry for what I 've done . But what can I say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'd gladly take Carol 's place , if I could , or any of the others . " Referring to the psychiatrists ' examination , he echoed Judge Rensch 's sentiments . " I hope what they learned may keep someone else from ending up this way , " he said . At Stillwater , Morse became suicidal . He tried to open his veins and cut his throat with a hobby-craft knife . Knowing his atrocious history , one may find it hard to care what happens to him . Yet Morse and his ilk  --  a Caryl Chessman , a " Boston Strangler " ? are treasures to be zealously preserved . For if fully . scientifically exploited . they might advance our meager knowledge of sexual aberrations , enabling us to recognize early symptoms in others before they despoil children , rape or kill . " Those who are executed carry the secret of their illness with them , " complained the late Dr. Benjamin Karp-man , chief psychotherapist of Washington 's St , Elizabeth 's Hospital . " and when imprisoned , they are not studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not allowed to learn anything about the pathology of disease ? " The late Dr. Manfred S. tiuttinacher. renowned chief medical officer of Baltimore 's Supreme Bench , appealed for " scientifically controlled studies along psychoanalytical lines . " But , like most prisons throughout the country , Stillwater has insufficient research facilities , let alone a staff of therapists to treat sex offenders-116 of them serving sentence in Stillwater at a recent count . Its only consulting psychiatrist visits the place one day a week . Up to the time of this writing , he had never seen Morse . W ho is the John Doe of sex offenders ? His portrait , as it emerges from statistical sources . shows a man 35 years old . of pleasant-enough looks . good physical health and medium intelligence . He stands about live feet , nine inches tall and weighs 157 pounds . Race : white . Religion : Protestant . His religious attitudes are conventional ; he accepts organized worship . He is native-born and comes from a broken home . His parents were in the low-income bracket and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but preferred his mother . incorporating her values into his personality . He acquired his early knowledge of sex from outsiders . His first coital experience , at 17 , produced more anxiety than pleasure . His regular sex life began later than the average , after his 20th year . He went to high school but did n't graduate . He is a war veteran and a semiskilled worker , who was first employed at 16 . He has a wife and two children . He married impulsively a girl he had known a few weeks . She , too . is emotionally unstable . Without self-confidence , he believes her superior to himself . They fail to satisfy each other sexually . John Doe does n't gamble . He takes no drugs . He smokes moderately and seldom drinks to excess . Sometimes . however , he is under the influence of alcohol when he commits his offenses . He is exaggeratedly preoccupied with c'eanliness and order . He belongs to no organized social groups and has no intimate friends . Competitive sports and games do n't apical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , though he is not artistically gifted . His emotional impairments differ in degree rather than kind from those of law-abiding neurotics and even many " normal " people . fhe United States has the world 's highest incidence of sex crimes , but we can only conjecture about the indigenous forces that create the sex criminal . One answer may lie in the Puritan heritage that lingers in the United States despite the modern license of expression and morals . Summarizing the convictions of his psychiatric colleagues . Dr. Karpman reported : The most constant finding is a Puritanical attitude toward sexual matters in the offender and in his family . . . . The American social culture is repressive and inconsistent . . . . It is little wonder that sex becomes associated in the child 's mind with all sorts of emotional distortions , .. . Sexual maladjustments would not occur if children were exposed- to proper adult attitudes . " From his prison experience of 35 years Clinton P. Duffy , former warden of San Quentin , concludes , " Nowhere else is there such anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding sex . And nowhere else are there so many sex offenders . In other countries conversation about sex is open and untrammeled in front of children , who grow up with none of the guilty feelings and unhealthy curiosities that so many of our children have . The secrets we keep from our children fan emotions that are accentuated rather than offset by ourcrasslack of secrecy in public . All our display is general , but our horror of sex as it relates to any of us in particular is so deep-seated that most of our rape victims would rather drop charges than testify against their attackers . " Other probable contributory factors include the rootlessness of American society and the looseness of family ties . No hurt so scars a child emotionally . not poverty nor illness , as the collapse of a warm , fixed center of existence . Sex offenders , according to the Karp-man resume . are what they are because they were denied two fundamental human needs  --  security and affection . A Michigan study of criminal deviates revealed that they all suffered from emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could n't identify with society . Significantly , among the country 's Oriental minorities , with their domestic and communal cohesion , the rate of sex offenses is negligible . A California child-guidance authority says . " If a Chinese or Japanese kid strays , not only his family but the whole neighborhood rallies around to set him straight . " Popular notions to the contrary , rapist-killers like Hugh Bion Morse are rare phenomena . Violent sex crimes in general occur less frequently than the headlines suggest . Even rapists , who , according to the FBI 's annual Uniform Crime Reports . claimed 22,470 victims in 1965 , form a small percentage of all dangerous sex criminals . The dangerous criminal might be defined as one who threatens life and limb , or , in the case of children . their normal emotional growth  --  not nonaggressive deviates . Peeping Toms , exhibitionists ( before adults ) . transvestites , and homosexuals with consenting partners . However morally reprehensible , they harm nobody . For reasonsneyer convincingly explainea , women commit so few dangerous sex crimes that they scarcely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 to 1 in every category of serious crimes . Dr. Karpman can only suggest the obvious : " Women are more repressed , men more aggressive , " Dr. Ralph Brancale , director of the New Jersey Diagnostic Center since its inception 18 years ago . speculates : " The male offender is usually trying to reassure himself about his masculinity . When feeling unloved or rejected , he discharges his resentment through physical aggression . Women , naturally passive . receptive and anatomically unequipped for sexual violence , are likelier to do so through prostitution . " By far the most common type of dangerous sex criminal , accounting for perhaps 75 percent of the total . are the child molesters  --  in technical parlance . pedophiles , whose practices range from furtive fondling to forcible penetration and sometimes murder . For a special study John Gagnon Hof the Kinsey Institute interviewed 4,500 women . Twenty-live percent . he discovered , had been subjected . at some time between the ages of 4 and 13 , to one of a variety of sexual experiences from exhibitionism to direct contact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . numbering two million . Gagnon estimated the total at 5a0.000 a year . The Children 's Division of the American Humane Association . basing its figures on the average annual number of victims under 16 in New York City 3,000 to 4.000 : . puts the national figure close to a million . O ne night not long ago Capt . William Richey. who heads the Juvenile Division of the his Angeles Police Department , paced his office on Georgia Street , near a dilapidated neighborhood , shaking his head in despair . " Right this minute . " he said , " there are probably fifty degenerates on the prowl for kids around here . 11 , e had over five hundred cases of brutality last year . largely with sexual overtones . " Some authorities have cited California as a model slate in its handling of sex offenders , but Richey said , " If it is . God help the rest of the country . " Recently , Brooklyn 's P.S. ' 213 kept its street doors locked during school hours , forbade girls to leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corridors , after an unidentified prowler molested two first-graders and tried to rape a third in the washroom . A delegation of mothers stormed City Hall to demand safeguards . " Our children are hying in a slate of terror , " said one . " Many of them do n't even want to go to school . " In the Queens section of New York City a mother dropped her 7-year-old daughter off at church for a Brownie meeting . A handyman led the child to the basement , attempted rape , choked her to death and crammed her body into the furnace " so she could n't tell . " Four psychiatrists testified he was sane . four others that he was insane . The sentence : 20 years to life . In the upper reaches of New York City two children were raped and killed within the same hour . The first , age 7. was strangled in a Harlem tenement . The police arrested a jobless junkie . The second , a 9-yearold paralytic , was thrown out of a fifth-floor window in the Bronx , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sex offense . Both accused have been held without bail since September . Pediatric clinics serving New York 's slum sections treat , on the average , two or three raped children a week . their bodies lacerated , their minds numbed . But pedophilia is not peculiar to slums . Though the poor , the uneducated , the castoffs make up the majority , child molesters exist at every social . economic and professional level and in every age bracket . They include businessmen , doctors . lawyers , teachers , clergy . Toward the end of an April afternoon last year three small girls were ambling down Longwood Avenue in Westbury . Long Island . A blue station wagon drew up . and the driver . a blond burly man of about 30 , wearing dark , horn-rimmed glasses , a black broadcloth suit and a collarless shirt , beckoned to 7-year-old Susie Raymond ' which is not her names . As her playmates watched . he flipped open an address book and asked her for a street direction . Presently Susie scrambled into the front seat beside him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got home , they told their parents . who called the police . They had good reason . The area was rife with rumors of sexual crimes against children . When police radio cars reached Longwood Avenue and detectives began asking people there if they had seen a blue station wagon , some boys with cars of their own decided to help trace it . They spotted it in a parking lot behind a high school . The driver drove off as they approached , but they forced him to the curb . Susie was crying . So was the driver . " I did n't hurt her , " he said , and begged the boys not to hurt him . The detectives , arriving a moment later , recognized the Rev. Harold L. Elliott , a guitar-playing , folk-singing assistant pastor at the Episcopal Christ Church in nearby Babylon . With his wife and 4-year-old daughter he had moved to Long Island the year before from a West Virginia parish . Since his transfer 39 sex offenses had been reported to the police of Nassau and Suffolk counties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four occasions detectives suspected Elliott , but ruled him out because they could n't conceive a minister to be guilty of such evil . The minister , it developed , had a history of sex offenses , which was known to his church superiors . A North Carolinian by birth . he attended New York 's Adelphi University , graduating with a B.A. in 1956 . Ordained three years later . he assisted the rector of a St. James , Long Island , church as a curate until 1962 . The rector recalls . " He was quite normal . There was no trouble while he was here . " ) After St. James he became a pastor in Ravenswood , W. Va . He was arrested near there for exposing himself to two teen-age girls , but by forfeiting bond he avoided a hearing . The bishop of his diocese , the Right Rev. Wilburn C. Campbell , immediately transferred him to Keyser , W. Va . Slipping across the state line to Levale , Md. , one day , he again exposed himself to children . The police believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop Campbell managed to suppress news of the arrest . The charges were dropped upon his assurance that Elliott would receive psychiatric treatment . The pastor and his family left Keyser the same night , and the bishop thanked the Maryland state attorney for sparing the church notoriety by his " delicate handling " of the case . Elliott 's successor in Keyser said of him later , " He was a very likable guy . Many church members regarded him highly . " ( This opinion was shared by some Babylon parishioners , who said : " A great guy , a born leader . . . He is very witty and athletic .... We like him very much . " Bishop Campbell removed Elliott 's police record from the diocesan fifes and , stripping him of all ecclesiastical functions , shipped him off to work as a gardener for the Zion Episcopal Church in Douglaston . Long Island , while he underwent private psychiatric treatment . A year later , considered cured , he was restored to pastoral duties and assigned to Christ Church in Babylon . When , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alerted the Long Island church officials to Elliott 's history . and what precautions they took to protect the children of their communities , he replied , " None of your business . " After his arrest in Long Island , Elliott 's wife , who knew her husband 's past , collapsed in tears at the police station as she told how she would fearfully count the hours he spent outside his home and church . From the minister himself the police learned that he seldom varied his procedure , cruising in his station wagon and using his address hook to trap his prey . He always took off his clerical collar , putting it back right afterward . He was booked for sodomy and carnal abuse . The indictment in Nassau County 's First District Court , followed by a second indictment in Suffolk County , specified that he not only molested Susie Raymond but enticed another child into his car to watch the act . Two psychiatric examinations satisfied the court as to his competence to stand trial , and he was released in $25,000 bail . Last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He received a five-to-ten-year suspended sentence and was committed for psychiatric care to the state hospital at Central Islip . Meanwhile , the church had unfrocked Elliott . What becomes of the pedophile 's victims ? " They are forgotten . " says Vincent de Francis , a Denver lawyer who directs the Humane Association 's Children 's Division . They are children " whose presence . whose condition and whose cry for help is unrecognized or ignored . " They may suffer more from efforts to catch the criminal than from the crime itself . Under public pressure to punish the despoiler , the authorities question the child , take her before a magistrate , a grand jury , a trial judge , expose her to cross-examinations and the gaze of 12 jurors and an audience . The constant prodding to describe what happened to her in the most minute , sordid detail magnifies the child 's fear and shame , The.parents ' attitude often compounds the damage . " ' they are also victims , " says de Francis . " They feel threatened . Their self-esteem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say . Their inexperience with problems of this kind frightens them . Sometimes their frustration is turned in angry blame toward the child . " Between the parents and the law , the child may be marked for life . A few communities have adopted a program formulated by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children . By arrangement with the police and prosecutor , a social agency conducts the preliminary investigation . A sensitive caseworker of the same sex gently questions the child and her family at home . then submits a brief to the district attorney . If a court appearance is unavoidable , the caseworker prepares the child for it psychologically , never leaves her side . opposes a jury trial and tries to persuade the judge to hear the case in his chambers . In most communities , however , the child is caught up in the unrelenting cog-wheels of legal machinery . Since last June , de Francis and a New York sociologist , Sol ChaneIes , have been codirectors of a project to seek ways of reducing that emotional damage . With an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began a pilot study in Brooklyn of some 500 child victims and their families . The findings to date . corroborated by many other surveys , shatter some widespread illusions . In 83 percent of the cases , they discovered , the offender was a member of the child 's immediate environment , a close family friend or often a relative by blood or marriage . One out of four offenses was incest . It follows that educational campaigns to make children wary of strangers miss a large part of the target . During the last 10 years the FBI has disseminated 35 million " color me " posters , depicting a pig-tailed tot skipping toward a tree where a sinister figure lurks with a bag labeled CANDY . " Turn down gifts from strangers , " the caption warns . without explaining why . " Refuse rides from strangers . Avoid dark and lonely streets . Know your policeman . " In Phoenix . Ariz. , the police distribute comic books illustrating gambits of the child molester . In St. Petersburg . Fla , . a ventriloquist 's dummy named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never mentions sex . " The likely effect , " says Chaneles , " is to instill a paranoid mistrust of grownups . " More to the point , he and de Francis agree . would be adult reeducation . The community . they insist , should learn that men known to their prey commit the majority of sex crimes against children . They press for two major reforms : ( 1 ) modify legal procedures to make convictions easier with the minimum involvement of the victims ; i2f organize local services to soften the child 's torment and relieve the family 's sense of humiliation . In trying to deal with the sex offenders , society has encountered repeated conflicts between psychiatry and the law . particularly on the question of whether the criminal is insane , Insane , as the law defines it , has no meaning for psychiatry , which prefers the term " psychotic . " The 19th-century M'Naghten test . still applied in 44 states though widely derided as obsolete , does n't really test sanity at all but criminal responsibility . The accused is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defect of reason . from disease of the mind , as not to know the nature and quality of the act he was doing ; or , if he did know it . he did not know he was doing what was wrong . " Psychiatry , on the other hand , acknowledges that , even though the accused is able to draw the distinction , he may vet be unable to choose the right course . The mere capacity for not confusing good and evil is not evidence of sound mental health . Vermont . Illinois , Missouri , New York , Kentucky and Wisconsin have substituted , in whole or in part , the test recommended in 1953 by the American Law Institute 's Model Penal Code , which holds a defendant not responsible . " if as a result of mental disease or defect he lacks substantial capacity either to appreciate the criminality of his conduct or to conform to the requirements of the law . " But seldom do law and psychiatry speak the same language , the former aiming primarily to protect society against the mentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1936 , a total of 31 states and the District of Columbia have enacted " sexual-psychopath " statutes . On the whole they tend away from the punitive tradition . Sexual psychopaths , they imply . are sick people who should get medical care . The penological approach has dismally failed to achieve either of the aims of a civilized society : to protect the public and rehabilitate the offender . The new statutes shift a large share of the burden to psychiatry . Twenty-three of them empower the courts to sentence a psychopath to a sentence of one day to life , whatever period necessary until he is cured and no longer a menace . Eight states allow such commitments on a mere charge of crime or even suspicion of a bent toward it . The intent is humane but the performance a mockery . For the legislators impute to psychiatry a prognostic skill which will develop only after a great deal more research , if ever . They act as if treatment facilities exist . With rare exceptions they do n't . Few states have implemented the statutes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and treatment center . " A purely imaginary place . No funds were ever appropriated . The country 's entire correctional system numbers the equivalent of 133 full-time psychiatrists . The shortage is not , ororising . Working in the bleak prison atmospl : they earn . at the top , from about 518,000 1 .. : 2.000 a year . A skilled private practitioner , receiving patients in the comfort of hi : office , may earn two to three times as much . Who but an idealist , a novice or an incompetent would choose to fill a state post ? Statutes that permit indefinite detention in the name of treatment , where no treatment is available , that creo ( .1 , special class of prisoner-patient , but fail to f. anything more than custody , are gross viol. . of human rights . They become mere contrivances to inflict . longer incarceration than otherwise possible . The voyeur , one of the hardest types of deviate to treat under even optimum conditions , could , in sonic states , finish his days behind bars without ever talking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to invoke an indeterminate sentence and impose a fixed term . In his brisk , blunt style former Kings County ( N.Y. ) Judge Samuel S. Leibowitz once summed it up . The defendant before him was an I8-yearold child molester . " He is a sex psychopath . He needs psychiatric treatment . I have no place to send him but jail . " He gave him three years . The fixed sentence is no solution either . It guarantees society only temporary security . If psychiatry , with all it s shortcomings , can modify some criminal perversions  --  a reasonable supposition in view of its frequent successes  --  then the failure to apply it widely is a costly omission . When the untreated offender does go free , he may be as dangerous as the day he entered prison and , with his pent-up hatreds , probably more so . Semantic chaos also weakens the statutes and divides the psychiatrists . What is a " sexual psychopath , " or , to use the currently fashionable term . " sociopath " ? The New Jersey State Commission on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and got 29 different answers . Legal definitions . varying from state to state . shed even less light . They agree only that the sexual psychopath is neither " insane nor feebleminded . " In language shimmering with ambiguity , Nebraska describes him as " any person who by a course of misconduct in sexual affairs has evidenced an utter lack of power to control his sexual impulses and who , as a result , is likely to attack or otherwise inflict injury , pain or other evil on the objects of his uncontrolled and uncontrollable desires . " New Hampshire identifies him by his " emotional instability or impulsiveness of behavior , or lack of customary standards of good judgment . " The state of Washington says anybody " affected in a form of psychoneurosis or in a form of ... psychopathic personality . which form disposes such person to the commission of sexual offenses in a degree constituting him a menace to the health or safety of others . " Many states have simply discarded the term , replacing it with " sexually dangerous person , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " or " sex offender . " On practically every major aspect of sexual criminality the experts are split . Compared to their panel discussions , a session of the United Nations sounds like an orgy of acquiescence . Can psychiatry foretell the sex offender 's conduct after treatment ? During a symposium in Philadelphia a few years ago Prof , Caleh Foote of the University of Pennsylvania Law School said he had found no evidence which would allow him to appraise the accuracy of psychiatric predictions about an offender 's future conduct . But Dr. Herbert C. Modlin of the Menninger Clinic said , " Prognosis is one of our daily tasks , and I do not see that it is particularly different with sex offenders .... We make fewer mistakes than those who follow the discipline of common-sense psychology . " In his exhaustive review of the literature on sex offenders Dr. Karpman quoted a member of the Pennsylvania Board of Pardons and Parole as stating , " Nearly every case can be recognized in early childhood . " But according to a Michigan report , " Psychiatrists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a deviate . " How does the childhood history of sex offenders differ from that of the normal person ? At a Maryland state hospital conference Dr. Leopold E. Wexberg claimed it did n't . But Dr. Karpman retorted , " Without exception their problems go into early childhood . " The Harvard Law School criminologists . Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck. gave a demonstration of their theory that potential delinquents can be identified as early as the lifth to sixth year . Working backward from data on 500 delinquent and 500 nondelinquent boys of the same age , I.Q. , ethnic origin and neighborhood conditions . they used 400 factors to compare the two groups . From those factors that sharply differentiated the groups in early childhood they selected five : father 's discipline , mother 's supervision , father 's affection , mother 's affection and family cohesiveness . They scored each boy on each factor , noting the comparative incidence of delinquency between the two groups . For example . 83.2 percent who had been poorly supervised by their mothers were delinquent , and that percentage became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum of percentages . the Gluecks constructed their famous Social Prediction Table . They published it in 1950 . Two years later psychologists and social caseworkers of the New York City Youth Board tested it . Reducing the factors to three , mother 's discipline iinstead of father's. taking into account the likelihood of broken homes ) , mother 's supervision and family cohesiveness. they focused on 301 first-grade boys in public school . After analyzing family backgrounds , they identified 33 as future delinquents. 243 as nondelinquents and gave 25 an even chance . They then followed the boys for 10 years . By 1962 all but live in the delinquent and seven in the non-delinquent group had behaved as predicted . Of the even-chance group nine had been delinquent By itself the Glueck table can yield no inkling to future sexual behavior . But if the delinquency factors are present in combination with such signs as sadistic cruelty to animals or to other children , excessive precocious sexuality without guilt feelings . hostility to adult control . the shadow of the future criminal deviate looms large , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a noted psychoanalyst . Dr. Ludwig Eidelberg. whose book , The Dark Urge , probes the rapists ' fantasies . challenges the ability of psychotherapy to cure the sex offender at any age . " It 's just a modified . superficial form of psychoanalysis , " he maintains . " Cure means changing the total personality , and only psychoanalysis can accomplish that . Also , the patient must be willing . " W hat further beclouds the problem of sex crime is the profusion of popular misheliefs. many of them shared by legislators . judges and the police . " The sex offender. " wrote Dr. David Abrahamsen of Columbia University 's Psychiatric Institute , " is the most emotionally and mentally disturbed of all criminals because his problem reaches to the roots of his most basic and primitive impulses . " So , probably . does the community 's panicky reaction to those crimes reach to the roots of its own primitive impulses . No criminal . not the professional killer , the kidnaper. the dope pusher , arouses deeper fear and hatred . A prevalent psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same mechanisms as the sex offender , but coping with them through strong repression , project their repressive mechanism on him , saying , in effect , " I control myself . This loathsome animal does n't . " Whatever the psychological reason , the intense emotionalism breeds myths . Some examples : Most sex criminals are homicidal . The fact : Comparatively few sex offenders use force . According to large-scale statistical samples by Kinsey and others , the dangerous ones  --  the rapists , child molesters and sadists  --  represent between 5 percent and 10 percent of the total convicted . Murderous perverts are scarcer still , and these few do n't necessarily kill because their perversion compels them to , but to avoid discovery . The tate criminologist , Edwin H. Sutherland , reviewing homicides in America over a three-year period , concluded that people stand an infinitely greater chance of being murdered by a close relative than by an unknown " sex fiend . " Sex offenders rate high as repeaters . The fact : They have one of the lowest recidivist rates of all criminal types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , broken down into 10 categories , the sex offenders , 2,120 of them , formed the second smallest category after murderers . A tabulation by the New Jersey Diagnostic Center , covering 1,206 sex offenders . showed that barely a fourth had ever been arrested before for the same offense and about half for any offense . Studies in New York , Pennsylvania , Minnesota and California arrived at almost the same or even lower percentages . As for behavior after prison . of 3,423 sex offenders , released in Pennsylvania between 1947 and 1962. only 19.8 percent violated their parole . Less than five percent repeated their original offense . The rest were returned either for nonsexual crimes or infractions of parole rules . The violation rate for all parolees was 33 percent . with 18 percent repeating the same crime . Sex crimes have been steadily rising . The fact : No proof exists either way . The FBI Uniform Crime Reports figure of 22.470 forcible rapes in 1965 , supposedly representing a 36 percent increase since 1960 , is open to debate . It could be too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compiles its statistics do not consistently include the final disposition of cases . A " forcible rape " may have involved no force whatever . Sometimes it happens only in the fantasy of a neurotic woman . False accusations may also be lodged by rejected women craving vengeance , by blackmailers , by parents of a pregnant daughter whom the culprit refused to marry . In a single month last year the Washington , D.C. , police investigated 89 complaints . Fifty-six proved unfounded . As an alibi for staying out late , a teenager said she had been assaulted , and her mother called the police . An Army officer 's wife who became pregnant during her husband 's absence filed a rape charge so she could show him an official confirmation . She did n't get it . Roughly a third of the 3,386 rape cases more fully reported to the FBI in 1965 ended in dismissal or acquittal . The year before , the figure for New York City was 1.145 . Convictions : 22. including slatutor  --  r , rape . Yet the FBI figure could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legal fictions further obscure the truth . It is a time-honored expedient of prosecutors , when conviction by a jury seems chancy , to let the defendant plead guilty to a lesser charge . Thus " felonious assault . third degree " may mask the real crime . Evidence of a rise in crime rates is equally hard to verify . Some statisticians ascribe the apparent increase partly to improved methods of detection , partly to better police reporting . Is there really more crime , or are more criminals being arrested and more cases tallied ? One of the most startling FBI figures indicates a 70 percent jump from 1964 to 1965 in Baltimore crime . A discreet footnote. however , invalidates any comparison . In 1964. it was discovered , the Baltimore police simply failed lo tabulate several thousand cases . A recent monograph of the National Parole Institutes goes so far as to suggest a decline in crimes of violence . The myth of sex-crime waves periodically sweeping the country is not substantiated either . A few sensational headlines appearing within a short span of time suffice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivets the nation 's attention . city editors tend to highlight other sex crimes which they would normally relegate to a back page . The police , goaded into sharper vigilance . haul in every known sex offender . Sex offenders progress from bad to worse offenses . The fact : They usually stick to whatever practice initially brought them satisfaction . The voyeur seldom shifts to exhibitionism or the exhibitionist to rape . Hugh Bion Morse was exceptional in this respect . Dr. Guttmacher , who studied thousands of cases , said that the sex offender permanently adopts the kind of deviation best suited to relieve his unconscious needs . " He is conditioned to it , and he is very unlikely to seek other methods . " Sex criminals are oversexed . The fact : The majority are undersexed when not impotent . It is their very sexual inadequacy for which they try to compensate through their offense . The pedophile reverts to infantile sex play because he is fixated in some childhood experience and so unable to fulfill the demands of a mature relationship . With children he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing their study of sex offenders . asked exhibitionists what they would do if a woman showed interest , a frequent answer was . " Well , I do n't know . 1 guess I 'd run away . " Psychiatrists classify several types of rapists by motivation . One main type , perfectly potent ? " not the true psychopathic sex offender ' ' ? is the total criminal who grabs whatever his fancy dictates . rape being merely another kind of plunder . Another type , hating women because he ca n't love them , tries to prove his virility by aggression . He derives relief of his tension less from the act of intercourse than from exercising power over women . Many rapists ca n't achieve potency unless the victim resists . A 30-year-old California convict , who raped two women and attempted to rape three more . said . " They were all much older and not attractive . I did n't get any pleasure . I had no climax . I think I know now what I was doing . I was trying to get even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pedestal . " He added that his victims enjoyed it in spite of themselves , a common delusion of rapists . Among the most horrific and psychiatrically baffling sex criminals of the early postwar years was William Heir-ens. a University of Chicago freshman , who at the age of 17 confessed to 300 burglaries. the attempted murder of three women , the murder of two other women and a five-year-old girl . He strangled the girl in her bed , carried the body to a basement coal bin . dismembered it with a hunting knife and scattered the parts through the sewers of Chicago . The women he variously beat , shot , stabbed and strangled . He was committed to the Statesville Penitentiary at Joliet for life . What gave Heirens sexual pleasure was neither carnal contact the molested none of his victims sexually- ) nor loot he discarded a lot of it ) , but breaking into a strange place . The sight of an open window sometimes excited him . He killed in blind fury when interrupted before he reached orgasm . In statements to his lawyers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I first started to steal when I was about ten years of age , and the mere act of stealing carried with it sexual satisfaction . . . I have never been given to masturbation or other abnormal ( sic ) desires , nor have I ever had sexual intercourse nor attempted to have any relations with any females . . . . The only thing I get satisfaction out of is burglaries . . . If I have an erection and ejection at the place , then I go out without taking anything . " To laymen who believe that an inordinate libido dominates sex criminals , a simple . drastic remedy seems logical  --  castrate them . Though no state sanctions compulsory castration , judges have been known . especially in Kansas and California , to obtain the offenders ' consent by coercion : Submit or serve the maximum sentence . But according to the psychiatric consensus , castration only intensifies the feeling of inadequacy that motivates offenders in the first place . Since psychic , not biological . factors condition criminal behavior , loss of ix ely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide for the compulsory sterilization of " hereditary criminals , " seven of them specifically including sex offenders . The assumption here , that a tendency to crime is passed through the genes , finds little scientific support , and a vasectomy , destroying the ability to procreate. does not , of course . inhibit the sex drive . T o say that sex offenders as a class are less dangerous and numerous than they appear in the popular imagination does not imply that they are few and give no cause for alarm . They are grave cause for alarm . Wild exaggeration , however . obscures the problem . Under the impression that most sex offenders are incorrigible , retrograde and potentially homicidal , some people cry , " Lock them all up and throw away the key . " But catchall laws miss the mark . Indiscriminately sweeping the passive with the aggressive offender into the same net , they distract from the real danger . The exhibitionist needs control and treatment . Yet he is a peripheral problem . It is the sadist , the rapist , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and psychiatric resources . A Pennsylvania medical committee appointed to advise the state government recently reported , " Approximately one million dollars is expended annually in the detection and apprehension of sex deviates , an unknown percentage of whom constitute a burden to themselves andfamilies rather than an immediate threat to the community . Increased ability to differentiate between the non-aggressive and the predatory sex offender will reduce government costs now incurred in apprehension of the non-aggressive sex deviate . " More and more courts all over the country are , in fact , interpreting " dangerousness " in a stricter sense . They tend to limit the word to compulsive , repetitive perverts prone to violence or the seduction of children . The exhibitionist as long as he does n't exhibit himself to children ) . the voyeur , the fetishist , the transvestite they consider public nuisances , guilty of a misdemeanor. and the sentence , if passed , rarely exceeds a few months in jail . The courts almost never penalize homosexuality between consenting adults . Support is also growing for special sex-offender units outside the standard prison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sex offenders vary widely with respect to psychiatric characteristics  --  ranging from the normal to psychotic  --  institutions established for specific purposes , such as mental hospitals or correctional institutions , do not have adequate specialized facilities for the various types of sex offenders . " As a starter the committee recommended setting up a diagnostic , research and training institute . In Georgia , there is neither medical examination ( except to determine adefendant 's " sanity " ) nor , with the exception of Fulton County , psychiatric care after conviction . Superior Court Judge Luther Alverson , former president of the National Association of Mental Health , calls the deficiency " asinine " and proposes the conversion of an abandoned public-works camp near Atlanta into a treatment center . But why , traditionalist critics demand , should sex criminals be dealt with any differently from other kinds ? One reason is that in the caste system of prison he ranks at the bottom . His fellow convicts despise him and often brutalize him . An outcast among outcasts. he sinks deep into a slough of self-hatred. precluding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proponents of special treatment do not , in their long-range view . restrict it to sex criminals . If it proves fruitful , they would extend it to all classes of criminals with psychiatric disturbances . Thus far four states have launched such centers . California 's Atascadero State Hospital , the largest , which was established in 1954 to treat mentally ill offenders of every variety . has a population of 1.600 . About 50 percent fall into two legal categories : M.D.S.O. 's ( Mentally Disordered Sex Offenders ) . who have been convicted of a sex crime . and M.A.S.O. 's ( Mentally Abnormal Sex Offenders ) , not convicted , but voluntarily committed because of compulsions they fear may drive them to crime . Of the 467 prisoner-patients confined in Maryland 's Patuxent Institution at Jessup as " mental defectives with an emotional disorder . " 20 percent are sex offenders . Wisconsin , the first state to apply systematic therapy . installed a Sex Deviate Facility 17 years ago within the state prison at Waupun ( the present population is 150 ) . Since 1959 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexually dangerous persons . " There are 127 there today , In New Jersey a plan for a similar center now is under way . N o state has concentrated more capi- tal and energy on the problem than California . The culmination is Ata .... - cadero  --  nicknained " Ashville " by its inmates  --  built at a cost of $13 million and now operating with an annual budget of $6 million . A thousand-acre enclave of plum and pale-green units , surrounded by tiowerbeds and rolling . carpet-smooth lawns , it stands near the coast midway between Los Angeles and San Francisco . From its population the Kinsey Institute chose sonic of the interviewees for its monumental study of sex offenders . Parolees from Atascadero also provided the material for the most detailed follow-up survey of sex offenders ever attempted . Ashville 's early days were turbulent . Diametrically ( con:if:tied on page 4o ) opposed views divided the staff , one go fop stressing ixliology , the ocher. hospitalization . For a Lime the permissive views of the firs ( director , Dr. Reginald Rood . prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds to attend ball games , fairs , songfests and other local festivities . The townsfolk were alarmed , and with some justification , it turned out . During the first two years 120 Ashville patients escaped , among them an ex-marine who went berserk with a machine gun and killed a policeman . Under fire , Rood was assigned to another state hospital . His successors , Dr. G. Lee Sandritter and after him . Dr. Sterling Morgan , steered a middle course . Today no convict may step beyond the gates . Every man in a ward is accountable for every other man . If one escapes , the rest are locked in . On the other hand , compliant convicts , after their first three weeks . are permitted to circulate through the building . After six months of satisfactory adjustment a " white card " gives them access to the grounds . They are always referred to as " patients " and never as " inmates . " They occupy " rooms . " not " cells . " There has been no escape in two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solely therapy , neither prison nor hospital , but a " therapeutic community . " To absorb patients into that community . sundry devices were introduced . involving them with each other and with the staff . For example , an " Emotional Security Program " promotes self-government . Each ward elects a council charged with housekeeping , orienting new patients , planning recreational and social activities and enforcing discipline . The ward council elects a member to the E.S.P . " senate , " representing the entire patient body . The " senators " in turn appoint a seven-man executive council , which meets weekly with staff members to air general grievances and discuss means of improving living conditions . The therapeutic benefits theoretically derive from a sense of mutual aid and the experience of the democratic process . " As patients show progress , " says Morgan , a lanky , ruddy-cheeked man who exudes good fellowship , " they receive more responsibility and more freedom . They attack the specific areas of their disorder through thinking it out . talking it out . listening to other patients , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incidents of daily existence . Their every thought . word and action becomes a part of treatment . " Meanwhile therapy teams , each of which includes a psychiatrist , psychologist , social worker , rehabilitation therapist and ward supervisor working in shifts around the clock , keep the patients under constant scrutiny . Some psychiatrists doubt the efficacy of treatment in confinement . The involuntary patient , they feel , in his craving for freedom , will fake whatever attitudes he thinks the therapists approve . Morgan concedes the advantages of a more permissive setting , but the issue is academic . Society will accept no alternative . It demands as much right to isolate a dangerous sex criminal as to quarantine a typhoid carrier . Both to and from Atascadero the Ica road is long and tortuous . By way of illustration , Sam Foley ( a fictitious name ) , a 30-year-old used-car salesman , accosted a middle-aged woman on a Los Angeles side street late one night and held a knife against her ribs as he forced her into his convertible . Driving up into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She had memorized his license plate , and next day the police traced Foley . Upon conviction the superior court judge appointed two psychiatrists to settle three questions : Was Foley mentally disordered ? If so , was he predisposed to a sex crime ? If predisposed , would he benefit from treatment ? The psychiatrists did not conduct a very searching examination of him . Paid a fee with a statutory ceiling of $40 per diagnosis and report , they completed the examination in less than an hour . " The system is inadequate , " says Dr. Seymour Pollack. director of the University of Southern California 's Institute of Psychiatry and Law , whose staff assists the Los Angeles Public Defender . " I 've spent five or six hours testing a sex offender without even getting off the ground . " The court-appointed psychiatrists answered " yes " to all three questions . While the judge was not bound by them , he took the customary step of referring Foley to Atasradero for a period of observation limited by statute to 90 days . ( The alternatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspended sentence and probation , and hospitalization elsewhere . ) The Atascadero psychiatrists tackled the same three questions . They , too , declared Sam Foley mentally disordered , predisposed to sex crime and treatable . ( Had they found him not mentally disordered , the judge almost certainly would have sent him to prison ; if mentally disordered , but not treat : - ... ble , to prison or another state hospital . ) The upshot was indeterminate commitment to Atascadero . At that point Foley had the privilege of demanding a jury trial on the issue of his mental health . and he invoked that privilege . But there was no reversal of the psychiatrists ' decision . There seldom is . After 18 months , the average stretch , Atascadero discharged Foley as no longer dangerous . By law the 18 months were credited against the 10-year prison sentence still facing him . The judge . however , did not oblige him to serve the rest of it , freeing him with five years ' probation . If Atascadero had reported that Foley was still dangerous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had to reconsider all the alternatives as before . Sometimes he recommits a sex offende ? to Atascadero , telling the staff . in effect , " Persist . " The basic psychiatric treatment at Atascadero is group therapy , combining elements of psychodrama , Alcoholics Anonymous and public confession . " We have abolished individual therapy , " says Dr. Morgan . Necessity dictated the choice . If all 68 staff members were to use individual therapy on the 1,600 patients , they could spare each patient no more than live minutes a day . With the group technique , from 4 to 15 patients gather for several hours a week under the direction of a psychiatrist or clinical technician The presumed value of group therapy is the , 411111111 l it KtNTS to a ' lest-ion ( ego . to Cothillitilion with h each other can 11110-ale ttnehs about hemselses they can not tolerate alone . and Ihr disc ( ! very ' lint others shine Hier affliction helps them understand il While Freud oriented . I Ile therapisl prohinged , couch anals . rs not only hopelessly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal patient " The private psychiatrist on the Outside must usually strive to relieve inhibitions . " Morgan explains . " I ere we have to implant controls . " During a typical session at Atascadero not long ago , six patients and a young technician sat in a circle on blue plastic-upholstered chairs in Ward 22 . The ward was long and high-ceilinged. and iunlight streamed through a bank of tall windows . Scores of other patients , not part of therapy groups , wandered in and out , read , wrote letters . played checkers , sipped soft drinks . By the open door a guard , himself a patient , sat before a table covered with colored file cards . They served as a system for checking each patient 's whereabouts at a glance . Everybody except the white-clad technician wore khaki fatigues . the obligatory uniform . Throughout the therapy session an elderly man , with a long record of exposing himself to children , dozed . A beefy Mexican , convicted of raping three women , glared about him , seldom uttering a sound . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called " Nick . " blond , crew-cut and soft-spoken , acted chiefly as a monitor . He turned to a chubby , middle-aged man on his right . recently committed for molestingchildren . " Bob , he said , " did they give you your I.T . card vet ? " I.T . ( Industrial Therapy ) is a supplementary program requiring the patient to work three hours a day at an assigned chore and an additional three hours at an occupation of his own preference . Bob nodded . He was on laundry detail in the morning , and in the afternoon he typed reports for the research department . N ICK : What brought you here . Bob ? Why did you crack up ? BOB : I was working 16 hours a day , making $8,000 a year with two jobs . What more can a guy do for his wife ? That 's how I cracked up . But I guess it really started when I was a kid . I used to ask my mother about things , why I had no father , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She 'd always brush me off . So I tried to find out for myself . I had this horrible feeling of being worthless . I started working when I was nine . It seemed the only way I could feel worth something , to bring home money . NORM : la child molester , age 321 What were those last two jobs ? BOB : Soda-fountain clerk , dance teacher . AL : t The elderly exhibitionist , reviving briefly ) Too bad we ca n't dance here . ( General laughter . ) BOB Sixteen hours a day . What more can a guy do ? HARRY : In his mid-20 's , stiff black hair , rugged ) My wife left me because 1 was n't making enough dough . BOB : What are you in for ? HARRY : I Dropping his voice ) Going after kids . Boys . BOB : What kind of kids appeal to you ? HARRY : Oh . I do n't know .... lilstr 1 , V1p , do viii liter Ihem ! teller than , siiii ( ? w @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? soli , . ! wow , Intim swim in the ocean than a pool . I l ' black ( pointing to a Negro pal tetll ; rig by ) , I 'm white . ou ca n't heti day mole than Jack hrle can 11(.11) robbing banks , Al From the 11011tie um ! " mentally ill " population , a cigar clamped between loth that /flak like piano keys ) I ai n't no bank iobber . I only roll supermarkets . ( Laughter . ) Bon : ( In ? Wliat did you actu-ally do in the HARRY : What s the difference ? Is that important ? BOB : I want to know . NICK : Put it in scientific words , Harry . JACK : Nick 's trying to help you . man . ( Harry whispers his answer . ) Notts . ' : Yeah , that 's what I did too . HARRY : ( To Nick ) That 's the lous part of this hospital routine  --  repeating the same stuff over and over . But I 'm through . I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even if the hospital says I 'm not . JACK : What makes you think you 've changed ? HARRY : Hell . I changed before I got here . I learned fast that the only way to get by is to go along with the rules . JACK : Not that you still do n't like kids ? HARRY : No , but I do n't want to come back here , so I got to keep away from them . JACK : It ai n't because you want to keep away . HARRY : No , it 's because if I do n't leave them alone . I 'll wind up back here . I 'm all loused up as it is . I could n't be anything now . It 's on my record . Can you see me getting to be governor of the state ? All they 'd have to do would be look at my record . JACK : I hear there was a governor who fooled around with kids . HARRY : And I like to do art . I always liked that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into trouble in this state . They got the best hospital program in the world . And it do n't really hurt you being sent here . Before I came back this time , I was making $180 a week . Carpenter foreman . Been back four times . and each time I got out I got a better job . The hospital gives you time to think . You know , I do n't feel the way about sex offenders like I used to . I 'm not saying I approve of them , but I feel different . One of my buddies here is a sex offender . HARRY : I 've learned a lot from books here . That 's what they want you to do . If they get enough smart guys in the hospitals , it 'll profit the state . It costs plenty to keep people here . JACK : Ah , you wo n't learn nothing from books . Nobody gets well in sex just because their minds change . BoB : Harry , why do you want to have relations with a kid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! ) Because there 's sex there . BOB : You mean to say you do n't enjoy women at all ? HARRY : I did n't say that . I 'm married . I have a daughter . JACK : Why bother with marriage ? You can get a woman anytime . BOB : Oh , I do n't know about that . There are n't many women that you can just do anything you want with . ( To Harry ) About when did you go queer ? THE SEX CRIMINAL I MIRY : I 've always been . Since I was live . My first experience was with the same sex , and I gut In like it , Noelo : Five ! I ( 11 ( 111 ' 1 even loony wleii the wool meant . Bilis : Was he older , the one you had the experience with ? TARRY : Hell , yes . Forty , forty-five . Boo : After the first time , did you do it with older boys before you started with kids ? LARRY : Yes , sure , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year would you do it ? HARRY : How many Limes ? How do you mean ? JACK : Like two , three times ? HARRY : Three times ! You kidding ? Lots of times . BOB : And you think you 've changed ? What made you change ? HARRY : Well , I talked to one of the kids ' mother . She was real understanding . She saw I was in trouble and needed help . She wanted to help me. to be my friend . And here I 'd gone and messed up their lives , hers and the kid 's . All I want is another chance , get married , live a normal life and not go near kids . Bon : But what are you going to do when you see them everywhere  --  pray ? HARRY : I 'll just think of Ashville . I 'm not coming back . No more kids . It 's too dangerous . And I 'll tell you something , you know , just writing letters to kids can cost you plenty if their folks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'll try to live like a heterosexual . MANUEL S The Mexican , speaking for the first and only time ) Come on , amigo , we all know what homos are like . JACK : Yeah . how come a guy 's a queer and then , boom , goes for dames . What 's he really ? HARRY : Homo . But I 'll find a woman and stick with her . Sure , I admit I was guilty . I am guilty . It 's on the books ... you know , the lousiest thing , dragging the kids through the courts too . JAcK : You 're worried about that ? You do n't think what you did to them was wrong ? HARRY : 1 said I was guilty . I 'm just saying it 's lousy to put the kids through all that . NICK : Tell us , Harry , do you sincerely believe you 've learned enough here , gained enough understanding of yourself , to he ready for society ? HARRY : Yes , Nick , I do . NICK : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child ? HARRY : Yes , I could say no to a child . S ince this session the staff has de- cided against consideration of a discharge for Harry for at least another year . Bob has been returned to the court , and from there was transferred to the state prison at Vacaville . The prison 's hospital staff includes 16 part-time or full-time psychiatrists , and they probably will have another try . Norm has been paroled . Al and Manuel face many more years of treatment . Jack . the four-time loser , may never go free . Each case is reviewed from time to time in Morgan 's office by the senior psychiatrists . At one recent conference three patients were under consideration for discharge . The first doctor . as he thumbed through a sheaf of progress reports , began : " Frankly , I 'm a cowardnlNlnl ihls ( Mr ' Ho . ri.hit  --  g poorly IId I W ( /I/14 ' IV li Indominate everybody . tie s I ll l l iven . Let 's see , been here since 1963. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go . " They reserved judg ? inent . Second doctor : " This one molested his stepdaughter . First sex offense . He was drunk . Twenty-two arrests for drunkenness in a year . I do n't think he 's treatable . Let 's get rid of him . He 's only taking up space . " Opinions were divided . Third doctor : " The next one is a functional schizophrenic . Other hospitals ought to be able to handle him better in a closed ward . He 's been bugging me for a transfer for weeks . I 'm for it . " Unanimous agreement . In forming a decision the doctors tread a rocky path between conflicting imperatives . On the one side they are harassed by overcrowding . Atascadero now has 320 more patients than it was designed to accommodate . " : f a hun , dred come in next month . " says Morgan , " a hundred would have to go . " The inclination , therefore , is to weed out patients who progress too slowly and make room for promising cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result in the premature release of a Hugh Sion Morse . On the other side hover the ghosts of such past errors . inhibiting both the hospital and the court from running risks . Leery of a patient with an especially black history , even though every sign points to recovery . the psychiatrists tend to hedge . Glossing over the question of dangerousness , they report . " Has reached maximum benefit , " and pass the buck to the court . The patient may then go to his grave . riding what Los Angeles public defenders call " the merry-go-round . " Dr. Pollack gives an example : A boy of 17 , whom I will call Joe Macklin , raped a woman and , panicking , choked her to death . When his frenzy subsided , he went straight to the police . Largely on the strength of Pollack 's diagnosis ( " chronic schizophrenic reaction " ) . the court adjudged him not guilty by reason of insanity and committed him to Atascadero . He regained his freedom five years later with an " A " certification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confinement his sister would visit him , sometimes bringing a girl with whom she shared an apartment . He fell in love , and upon his release they married . The newlyweds ' sexual relations were normal . Yet within six months Mackin began having rape fantasies , though not of a sadistic kind . Presently he was acting them out in exhibitionism . He drove a bakery truck for a living , and when his tension built up beyond control , he would pull up beside a woman and expose himself . He made no effort to disguise his license plate or avert his face . " This is characteristic . " Pollack notes . " Unconsciously many sex offenders desire punishment . They hope to be caught . " ' Macklin soon was . Exhibitionism is only a misdemeanor. but because he once killed , the court returned him to Atascadero . " Unamenable to treatment and dangerous , " the hospital decided . Pollack disagreed . " I felt sure he desperately wanted help and would benefit from it . " He managed to have Macklin recommitted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it bounced him hack to the omit . " Nn doubt " Pollack concedes , " n psych io t r ISi ' A .11.11,1 have to say he was Milli:Illy ilis , a  --  di. , , , , i in the meaning defined by statute . but I do n't believe he was still dangerous . After all , how &nevi; ? lt is is exhibitionism ? If we had a sound system of isii . patient care and close vigilance , I think he could have been stately released in the community . But we do n't . " And so the merry-go-round . From Los Angeles . Macklin went to the Chino State Prison . a reception center which evaluates and relocates felons. one evaluation . Next stop , the California Men 's Colony , a maximum-security prison with one psychiatrist , Macklin has now been there a year . tie may well be shunted back to Atascadero for reevaluation , and from there back to the Men 's Colony again . " What psychiatrist , what judge . " Pollack asks . " reviewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to go out on a limb and say he is n't dangerous ? Nobody . Not today . Not twenty years from now . " Despite its flaws . can Atascadero claim substantial overall results ? A sociologist , Louise Frisbie , followed the careers of 1.921 sex offenders who were discharged and placed on probation during the hospital 's first six years . The largest group . almost 8 out of 10 , were child molesters ; the second largest . exhibitionists t 13 percent ) : the smallest , homosexuals 11 percent ) and , in between . voyeurs . transvestites and " lewd persons , " a catchall category 13 percent ) and sexual aggressors , chiefly rapists 14 percent ) . Of the total . 1,536 or 80 percent had not been convicted of any new offense by June 30 , 1961 . Measuring recidivism rates by type of offense . Mrs. Frisbie found the highest in the voyeur-transvestite-lewd persons ' group . with exhibitionists next , then sexual aggressors , then pedophiles . The homosexuals did n't enter into Mrs. Frisbie 's recidivism computations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A recidivism rate of less than 27 percent seems impressive , but the sociologist cautioned that Atascadero 's techniques are not the only conceivable approach . Some patients , she said . particularly first offenders , might have responded just as well to probation and outpatient care . INew Jersey 's Dr. Brancale ventures , " Maybe they get better in spite of our therapy . " ) Mrs. Frisbie further discouraged a rose-colored outlook with the forecast that , as time goes by . further testing the mettle of patients , the proportion of re-peaters may increase . T he only completely separate institution in the United States  --  indeed . in the world  --  for " sexually dangerous persons " is the Treatment Center at Bridgewater , Mass. , 40 miles south of Boston . The statute under which it operates , providing for diagnosis after conviction and indeterminate commitment , resembles that of California , but the Bridgewater philosophy and method differ sharply from Atascadero 's . The statute itself evolved painfully . As an initial step , in 1947 , Massachusetts empowered the superior court to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the petition of the district attorney . Doctors with no psychiatric training could qualify as expert witnesses . The department of health then had to " safely keep and treot I lit iterson committed , " The statute ' language was so fuzzy , its constant ionality so dubious and Ilse rle ? 151111nel-11 's facilities Si ) scant that only 11111 ? judge ever invoked it . In 195-1 a revision substituted " sex Oift .. to_the Icr " Inr " psycl own I his persom it v. ' ' mode conviction of a specifii crime a prerequisite to commite , ? and proposed a treatment center . Not to infringe constitutional rights , it limited the period of commitment to the maximum criminal sentence . Cured ? l I the offender went back to sot I staiubs too , remained in-liperot ive because no hinds fora reatment center fianished the joker that nullifies ? Hleraler statutes in most cummuno , . The present statute . like many simi ? lar ones , was the legislature 's response to the public outcry following a particularly bestial sex crime . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoe-factory worker named Raymond Ohlson , prowling through Field Park near his home in Brockton , Mass. , came upon Iwo boys wearing swimming trunks , John Logan , 12 , and his brother Paul , M. Forcing them at knifepoint into a secluded gully , he stabbed them each half a dozen times , stripped off their trunks and attacked both of them sexually . They were still breathing when he heaped brush around their bodies and set a fire . A set of house keys found beneath the charred remains led the police to Ohlson , who confessed . They charged him with first-degree murder , THE SEX CRIMINAL which is punishable in Massachusetts by elect rocution . It was not Ohlson 's first aimed v. At 13 he sexually liaised a t liree-yeat-old lxiy . A county juvenile court sent him for observation to the outpatient clinic of the Foxl ) oro Slate f The clinic 's report said that although Ohl-son was of " neurotic temperament , " he suffered from " no particular mental ailment . " Psychotherapy , the doctors suggested , might alleviate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bringing him to the clinic . This Mrs. Ohlson indignantly refused to do . The juvenile court took no further action . A year later in Field Park , Ohison again assaulted a boy of 12 , after clubbing him senseless . He then tried to strangle him with a bicycle chain . Failing that , he knifed him five times in the head , back and thigh . The boy lived , however , to identify his assailant . Before trial for " assault with intent to murder , " Superior Court Judge Charles Fairhurst requested the Metropolitan State Hospital to determine Ohlson 's competence to understand the proceedings against him . " Psychopathy with asocial and amoral trends , " ran the unenlightening report , but " without psychosis . " Dissatisfied , the judge sought another opinion from psychiatrists in the Department of Mental Health concerning Ohlson 's condition at the time of the killings . They declared him " not suffering from any mental disease or defect which would affect criminal responsibility . " The judge imposed the maximum sentence of 10 years with deep misgivings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he must under the law be turned loose at the expiration of his sentence , and if granted time off for good behavior , sooner . Only commitment to a state hospital as a mentalinvalid could keep him out of circulation indefinitely . But the psychiatrists , reflecting a prevalent attitude , hesitated to diagnose a defendant as mentally ill. unless they found him psydml ic , which is one extreme form of mental illness , They also hesitated to certify an offender as committable unless they could specify the form of psychosis , such as schizophrenia or paranoia , convenient classifications which explain nothing about cause or cure . Many state-hospital administrators , in their perpetual struggle against overcrowding , still favor the archaic classifications . So . on various grounds , do many legislators . jurists and psychiatrists . Yet the psychiatric tag pinned to an offender bears no relation to the degree of his dangerousness . A " manic-depressive psychotic , " totally remote from reality . may prove quite harmless ; an " obsessive-compulsory neurotic , " functioning successfully on most levels , may prove as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ohl-son , apparently unsuited for any familiar label , went to the Concord Reformatory . Judge Fairhurst later told a friend . " I was so terrified of what might happen that I seldom had a peaceful night. - Though Ohlson 's behavior at Concord was exemplary , the warnings of a prison psychiatrist moved the parole board to reject every appeal he filed . Nevertheless , with time off . he won an unconditional release in six years . Seven weeks from the day he walked through the prison gates he murdered the young Logan brothers . No trial followed . Now diagnosed as schizophrenic . he was committed to the Bridgewater State Hospital for the criminally psychotic , until such time as he might be competent to defend himself . He is still there . The fearful object lesson impelled the legislature to rush through a new law calling for the indefinite detention 11V:111111111 111 t 111 cut ' cp. ; ilingnowd ? 111y Oallt4v11,11 When , 11 , , veal . the 14.111S 11:0 not eel hem ; Ho potent etl agei essors still here ' being rc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  rl ; e1LCy law , SarY r1 , r t he preservation of the public " oi amendment required the i ? 1. , iter of mental health to in-stall a treatment center at one or inure state prisons . Concord was the first chosen . But again the facilities proved so meager that the state supreme judicial court abolished the law ins constitutional grounds . Ruling on the appeal of a child molester , the court decreed : " Such confinement in a prison which is undifferentiated from the incarceration of convicted criminals was not confinement in a treatment center within the purview of the statute . " In short , if detained on the strength of a psychiatric diagnosis , the offender must be considered a patient . The basic purpose of confinement was therapeutic , not punitive . The legislature finally appropriated $120,000 to organize a sex-offender unit . ( The annual operating budget now runs around $100,000 plus an estimated $3,200 per patient I. The building allocated to the enterprise is one of numerous red-brick. turreted monstrosities . dating from the 19th century . that comprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delinquents with low I.Q.'s. alcoholics and the criminally psychotic . They combine some of the best and some of the worst prison conditions . Superintendent Charles W. Gaughan. a social worker 11 ; lining , Will ) 111l411 : 110 hi'llt ; 11 1/I eillous Is rsotstu I. For the treatment eimei hr I. . , 1.1pieked guards who can ipproach : .11 deviates without re1 ? . I h. - . I irk interior of the build ; %ept spotless. ) . leals ; 11 e derabli ? . I i1 u I hr S1111111 CI'l IS some su small that the inmates can touch both walls at once by extending t heir arms  - -  contain neither running water nor toilets . A single wash area to a floor serves as many as 3t ) men . During the night they use buckets . When the guards unlock t lie cells next day . the inmates empty the buckets into a common sink . While inspecting the place , not long ago , the chairman of a state senate committee was overcome with nausea . Under the joint administration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted its first patients in November . 1959 . The ensuing efforts to reclaim a special class of offender , like those efforts at institutions such as Atascadere . Jessup and Waupun , marked a revolutionary advance in the history of criminology . Never before had such responsibility been entrusted to psychiatrists instead of jailers . To direct the enterprise , the commissioner of mental health appointed Dr. Harry L. Kozol. a Boston psychiatrist distinguished both as a private practitioner and a teacher at Harvard Medical School . Kozol is an eclectic of prodigious energy , whose seamless face and slight , trim frame belie his 60 years . He recalls , " We had to start from scratch . There was no consistent body of literature to guide us in our work . We developed our own methods out of our day-to-day experience . " Alter six years anti nearly OM pat lents he professes an opt imisin riot univ  --  rsally shared by his colleagues . Ile believes psychiatry can not only de ! rrminr how dangerous a sex offender may be but predict the probability of an ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following general criteria of dangerousness : An infantile behavior pattern . Offenders often value only those experiences that bring them instant pleasure . They have no capacity for delaying the gratification of a desire , of sublimating it , of tolerating the tension generated by self-control . As fast as the desire reaches their consciousness , they act it out . The consequences to themselves or others carry no weight . Like a hungry infant who flies into a tantrum if food is withheld , they tend to meet denial with violence . Disaffiliation ( what Kozol terms " psychological nomadism " ) . Except when they are likely to achieve immediate relief of their appetites , they pursue no sustained , orderly course of conduct . They roam , purposeless , unsettled . and are easily diverted . , 4 low threshold of satiety . They crave a perpetual renewal of energy outlets . School , jobs , hobbies , involvement with a friend or lover , soon bore them . Kozol compares their impulses to a shooting star . They move swiftly , flash across the sky of consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skies are filled with shooting stars . The impulse satisfied gives rise to another . " The exploitation of people as objects . They ca n't differentiate among individuals , only between " them " and " me . " " Them " exist solely to gratify " me . " Locking emotional depth , in capable of warmth or trust , seldom feeling intense joy or intense sorrow . they seem to he impervious to the emotions of of hers . The faintest sign of the opposite reactions that may emerge under treatment , Kozo ' contends , offers hope of salvage . 1 ) oes the offender show concern for his family 's welfare ? Does the plight of his fellow patients touch him ? Does he identify with any of them ? " The worst offender has some inherent potential for good , some positive , constructive quality , " says Kozol , who considers no offender , not even the psychotic , totally inaccessible . " The big problem is to uncover that potential and help him cultivate it , until he gains self-respect , sees himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compassion instead of hostility , and finally recognizes that freedom in the community involves responsibility as well as gratification . " howl 's staff numbers seven full- or part-time psychiatrists , six psychologists , three psychiatric social workers , two research trainees in clinical psychology , a recreational therapist and a medical officer . The paramount questions they ask themselves during the initial 611-day diagnostic stage are : What kind of problem did the offender imagine he was solving by his offense ? Does the problem still exist . and will it exist if he is released ? The search for the answers begins with a meticulous reconstruction of his thought process and actions shortly before , during and after the offense . Was the offense impulsive or premeditated ? Did a fantasy precede it ? Of what order ? Did he know his victim ? Did she provoke him . consciously or unconsciously ? ( " We sometimes discover that the real victim is the accused . " ) Did she physically resemble anyone close to him ? Did she symbolize somebody he hated , or was he venting his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threaten his victim ? Did he indicate any concern whatever for her anguish , or only gross indifference ? Field investigations covering his family . friends and the victim frequently turn up clues of clinical significance that appear nowhere in the police or court records . A member of Kozol 's team once drove a hundred miles to verify from a rapist 's first wife his assurance that their sexual relations had been fully satisfying . Besides standard personality and behavior tests and , if brain damage is suspected . an encephalogram , the offender undergoes lengthy analytical interviews . The staff then weighs all the evidence , conferring many times , before sending a report to the court . Nearly always the court accepts the staff 's finding . In 1963 , to cite an instance , the sheriff delivered to Bridgewater a confessed offender under sentence of two-and-ahalf to five years for " assault with intent to rape , and the commission of an unnatural act . " Jack Colby ( as we shall call him here ) , a meat cutter by trade , age 24. was soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along a suburban road at night , while his fianc  --  e was waiting for him at her home , he saw a 17-year-old girl . In the grip of a sudden , fierce urge , as he later described it , he dragged her behind some bushes and attempted intercourse . When she fought him , he subdued her by closing his hands around her throat and threatening to kill her . The sound of footsteps frightened him into letting her go . The police eventually managed to trace him through her description . At Bridgewater . Colby seemed coverative , sincere and deeply remorseful . According to his account , the assault followed a telephone quarrel with his lianc6e . She wanted him to take her to a movie . He pleaded exhaustion , having worked late , but finally yielded . After two drinks and dinner in a restaurant . he drove toward her house . He stopped to relieve himself by the roadside . As he walked back to his car . the girl appeared . " I do n't know why I did it , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could never happen again . " Colby , a field investigator learned , had survived a harsh childhood . The youngest of three children , he grew up in foster homes , his father having decamped , and his mother having taken to drink . He got little affection from his mother , who was often jailed , and he felt none for her . Rebellion and truancy marked his school record . In his 11th year a juvenile court put him on probation for petty theft . He stole again at 16 and spent six months in a reformatory . But there was no further delinquency . Almost overnight , it seemed , he changed into a quiet , diligent worker . He served four years as an Air Force private , receiving an honorable discharge in 1961 . The following year he became engaged to a girl of good family . Most of the people the investigator questioned could n't imagine Colby in aviolent act . According to his aunt he was gentle and affectionate . He never drank heavily . she added , and never consorted with bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her desire to marry him was unaffected . But Colby 's interviews gradually betrayed him . His spontaneous responses began to show the superficiality of his remorse . Hostility would break through the surface . Then , if he suspected himself of a giveaway , he would amend his answer to conform with what he thought to be the norm . After eight conferences the staff agreed : " His personality lacks an adequate , built-in control system . Impulse takes over in a frustrating situation . He is sexually dangerous . " But considering that his history indicated no previous sex offense , and that he had a good employment and service record , the staff finally entered a favorable prognosis . Colby stayed at Bridgewater nearly three years before the staff pronounced him no longer dangerous . and he was paroled . He has since found a well-paid job and has been married to the girl whose loyalty never wavered . Under Bridgewater 's maximum-security regulations the convicts never set foot outside the prison proper . Treatment proceeds in the cell tiers and includes both group and individual therapy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor diversification . " says Morgan , " because such is the condition in the outside world . Besides , we have found that patients of dissimilar disorders can see each other more objectively than those with iden tical ones . " Kozol dissents . He prefers , when it is feasible , to keep the grouphomogeneous . " Having an offense in common stimulates freer communication , " he argues . " Rapists interact better with other rapists. and pedophiles with other pedophiles . " But he considers group therapy by itself worthless . He believes that individual treatment is also necessary . " Society holds the individual accountable for his offense , not the group . " says Kozol . " The individual . not the group . gets paroled . " The size of his staff . 20 members for 130 patients . makes it possible to explore both avenues . In addition to one or two hours a week of group therapy , about half the patients  --  those emotionally and intellectually capable of responding  --  spend up to four hours a week secluded with a therapist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therapy consists mainly of analytic and directive talks . tailored to the patient 's I.Q. A unique adjunct of the center is psychiatric aftercare . As a condition of release , parolees must report at frequent intervals to one of two outpatient clinics which the center operates in Bridgewater and in Boston . " Their readjustment to life in a free society . after a long confinement , is extremely difficult , " Kozol points out . " 1f they are not to repeat their offense. they need close supervision and all the guidance we can give them . The minimum period of aftercare is two years . " In addition to direct court commitment and voluntary admission , Bridgewater receives its patients in a third way . Offenders already serving prison terms may be transferred at the request of a superintendent who detects a predisposition to sexual violence . " Unfortunately , " Kozo/ complains , not every judge and only a few prison superintendents choose to exercise the option . We should mend the dragnet by making referral mandatory . As it is now , we get to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Too little time has elapsed . and too few offenders have undergone treatment . to appraise the Bridgewater project . A tentative follow-up study , however , warrants persistence . Of 567 offenders examined in six years , the center certified 396 as not dangerous . Of the 173 detained , 36 have been paroled . The courts returned nine for technical infractions , none involving a sex offense . One catastrophe marred the record , but the blame fell only partly on the center . After four years in therapy . Charles Pierce , originally sentenced for sexually assaulting two children , was paroled with the proviso that he report weekly to the outpatient clinic of the Worcester State Hospital . Through an administrative oversight nobody enforced his attendance . A year later he strangled a five-year-old boy . Declared legally insane . he was removed to the Bridgewater State Hospital . " Every patient we discharge is a calculated risk , " says Kozol . " But so is every parolee everywhere . How else can we test our theories ? " With at least one premise few psychiatrists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and treated , the better the chances of cure . According to Sen. Thomas J. Dodd 's Senate subcommittee on juvenile delinquency 4,500.000 children 10 percent of the country 's school population ? need psychiatric attention . Fromthis group , Dodd says , we get a substantial proportion of the nearly six million delinquents in the nation each year . But if treatment facilities for adult offenders are sparse , for juveniles they are , in most states , nonexistent . Barring some exceptions . the juvenile training institutions ( formerly called " reformatories " ) pay only lip service to therapy . Under the minimum standards set by the U.S. Children 's Bureau there should be one full-time psychologist and one full-time psychiatrist to every 150 trainees . For the approximately 50,000 now in state- or locally-run institutions the psychologists total 183 , the psychiatrists , 56 . Their distribution , moreover . is unequal . so that 37 states provide less than the equivalent of one full-time psychiatrist for their entire delinquent population . They take the cheaper , easier course of remedial schooling , vocational training , physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's $5,109 a year to a supervisor 's $9,473 . In one state several staff members are on public welfare . " When they toss the juvenile offender into the legal works , " says U.S.C. 's Pollack. " he 's usually lost . " The average training institution breeds crime . Obliged to accept whomever the courts commit , it lumps together first offenders entering their teens with hardened 18-year-olds , the emotionally disturbed with the mentally retarded . The strong victimize the weak . In the resulting contamination , anti-social hostilities spread and homosexuality flourishes . Within a year of discharge , or less , half the trainees commit new crimes . The National Council on Crime and Delinquency recently finished a reportsummarizing a three-year , countrywide investigation of training institutions . While awarding high marks to a number of intelligent . dedicated staffs , the report bristles with stinging criticisms . In many states , the investigators found , whipping and lockups remain the chief means of discipline . The report says , " The training school is built around the concept of ' home , " farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is required to fit into its pattern . If the youth does not adjust . the training school does not adapt : instead , the youth is either released , transferred or isolated .... Once he fits into a pattern of daily institution life with minimal dislocations , the staff believes he has ' changed , ' adjusted , ' or ' improved . ' When the youth has been present in the institution a length of time deemed sufficient by existing practice , he is released home to the community . His sentence has been ' served . ' " The council attacks the common failure to differentiate between individual delinquents and to gear treatment accordingly . " Delinquency is like a headache ; it may be caused by eyestrain or a brain tumor . " The management , the report charges , tends to worry more about its budget from the next legislature , its relations with the courts , the press and civic groups than the delinquents ' rehabilitation . Demolishing various prevailing philosophies of treatment . the council says of the " moralistic-style institution , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering from hard luck . ' and generally endure the program with the knowledge that if they behave themselves , they soon can get out . " Of the " family-styled institution . " the councilnotes , " The staff are openly disgusted with the parents of the youth and never lose an opportunity to express their views about the neglectful and sinful parents . " As for vocational training , dairy farming may be taught to city-dwelling delinquents who in all likelihood will never again see a cow . The council aims its sharpest blows at the negative reaction of the community to institutionalized delinquents . Many institutions place the community 's " revenge needs " ahead of the children 's needs . Reintegration becomes next to impossible when neighbors. teachers and the police further stigmatize them with such attitudes as , " They 're troublemakers . " " They ca n't be trusted . " " We 're not letting our kids run around with them . " This month President Johnson receives proposals from his Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice , which he created in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , those concerning sex offenses are unlikely to surprise anybody familiar with the problem . They will recommend jettisoning legal attempts to regulate private morality , narrowing the sights to the dangerous criminal deviate . and adding substance to well-intentioned statutes with research and treatment centers . They also will recommend establishing community outpatient clinics under whose continued therapy and supervision the paroled sex offender can live and work usefully . What federal or state action may result from these proposals is impossible to predict . For 30 years legal and medical committees have been urging the same measures . 