@@313172

It was a five-hour spectacular , and London had never seen anything like it . Right there on stage , swans were transformed into fairies , a bridge dissolved , Phoebus galloped through the clouds in a chariot drawn by four white horses . There were waterfalls , fountains , fireworks , peacocks , monkeys , exotic wild life , Chinese dancers , assorted spirits and nymphs , gods and goddesses , all swirling before the eye in a riot of color and fantasy . <P> Natural Addition . The year was 1692 . The production was Composer Henry Purcell 's The Fairy Queen , an adaptation of Shakespeare 's A Midsummer Night 's Dream . Called " semi-opera , " it was a kind of kaleidoscopic revue for which Purcell wrote some of his freshest and most delightful music , ranging from simple roundelays , jigs and folk songs to the most elaborate canons , miniature symphonies and exercises in counterpoint . It was the smash hit of the season . Three years later , at the age of about 36 , Purcell died ( allegedly from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one wintry night to find that his wife had locked him out ) . With him disappeared all trace of The Fairy Queen for more than two centuries . Then , in 1901 , a copy of the score was unearthed in the Royal Academy of Music , and several attempts were made to readapt Shakespeare 's comedy to the score-with no success . <P> Now , with appropriate ebullience , The Fairy Queen has suddenly sprung to life again . Premired last week in Munich 's quaint , century-old Grtner-platz Theater , the new adaptation by French Set Designer-Director Jean-Pierre Ponelle proved to be the most engaging discovery of the season . Boldly cutting the Bard 's text , Ponelle fashioned a crazy-quilt mixture of opera , drama , slapstick , ballet , pantomime , skits , sight gags and fantasy into a free wheeling baroque romp . The production , which took Ponelle a full 15 months to make ready , masterfully recreates Purcell 's shadowy stage world with its strange netherworld creatures slinking through a sepia-tone forest primeval , goblins and centaurs lurking in the trees under a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the buoyant , richly varied music of Purcell , the theatrical impact of The Fairy Queen , as one critic said , " makes it a natural addition to the repertory of any opera house in the world . " <P> Something for Everyone . The open ing-night audience awarded the production an ovation that one critic cited as " unprecedented in the annals of this theater . " Raved the Mnchner Merkur : " This presentation satisfies every one : the musical connoisseur , who for once has the rare chance to experience genuine baroque theater ; the music lover , who rarely has the opportunity to listen to a whole evening of Purcell ; and finally the spectator , whose desire to be stunned , transposed and enchanted is just as fulfilled as his want for laughter and humor . "                     