@@243615

If you ca n't join Europe 's Common Market , maybe you can lick it by forming one of your own-or so goes the thinking these days among nations from Chile to the Congo . In Cairo alone over the past fortnight , the groundwork was laid for two new common markets ; one would link five Arab nations , and another six African countries ( Egypt judiciously proposes to join both ) . Africa , in fact , is building three common markets . Two more have been launched in Latin America , and an Asian market has been proposed by Malaya , Thailand and the Philippines . <P> Prime movers in this proliferation of trade blocs are the underdeveloped nations , which live by exporting raw materials , and fear that the common tariff wall being built by Europe 's Six will freeze their products out of traditional markets . By developing their own customs unions-each with monopolies on materials that Europe needs and consumers that Europe wants-the outsiders figure that they can deal from strength against Europe , or the U.S. As yet , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely of ambitious names . <P> Yes , We Have Bananas . Most of the proposed customs unions lack the homogeneity of the European Six ; often their members belong to different currency blocs and lack common boundaries . The members of the " Casablanca bloc " that met last week in Cairo-Egypt . Morocco , Algeria , Ghana , Guinea and Mali-found that transportation among them is so primitive that Ghana still finds it easier to import cotton from Europe than from Egypt . Hoping to change this , the Casablanca powers agreed to expand their shipping , create an airline cooperative , and start a joint payments union . But , like nearly all the little common markets , the Casablanca-bloc nations produce much the same things and have little to sell to one another . Mused an economist from Morocco , which still does two-thirds of its foreign trade with Europe 's Common Market : " No matter how much good will we have toward Ghana and Guinea , there 's only so much cocoa and bananas we can absorb . " Similar hurdles also confront Africa 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loose , twelve-nation union largely consisting of former French West African colonies . It is hampered by the reluctance of richer members such as Cameroun and Gabon to get too involved with such poorer sisters as Chad . The other African common market is a bloc of four East African states-Tanganyika , Kenya , Uganda and Zanzibar-that are in various stages of emerging from British colonialism . <P> Leaders of these two common markets talk grandly of forming a single black African market in the future . But to create a working common market takes more than a customs union : coordination of fiscal , agricultural and transport policy is also necessary-and so far , the newly independent nations of Africa show scant readiness to surrender any sovereignty .                     