@@478047

Why Kennedy 's most hopeful program came to such grief . . . and why a Young Pro in government management may be able to give it a lift . If there was a single field in which the Kennedy Administration seemed certain to succeed when it first took office , that field was foreign aid . High in the Administration were academic economists who had spent much of the past eight years figuring the role of aid in development . Such veterans of the Marshall Plan as Averell Harriman and William C. Foster were available to run the program . In deed , letter , and spirit the Democratic leadership in the White House was committed to the aid principle . " America 's unprecedented response to world challenges , " the President called the program . Two years later it is possible to say that if there is a single field in which the Administration has failed , that field is foreign aid . Two successive aid chiefs have resigned in acrimonious circumstances , and the third man , and present incumbent ? former Budget Director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought the job . Last year 's Congressional hearings were the worst of a lot that has always been bad . The most prominent feature of the program is widely known as the Alliance Without Progress . To compare what has happened with what was expected is to invite the exaggeration Hamlet used when measuring his uncle against his father . But how did what looked like Hyperion turn into a satyr ? What explains the sorry gap between promise and performance ? Basically , this : An ambitious program was designed , requiring for success a complex orchestration of three different types of aid , plus a delicate harmony between long- and short-term objectives . Performance of that difficult score was then assigned to an organization which , while strong in some members , was old , tired , massive , and void of effective control mechanisms ? a veritable dinosaur . The dinosaur , as it turned out , could not play the sonata . With the advent of Mr. Bell , a brain is being put into the dinosaur . For the first time in years , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change on a dizzying scale has been resisted . Mr. Bell may not succeed in achieving what is known in the Administration as a " turn-around . " But if he does , it will be an inside job done by a professional ? which is what the aid program has lacked all along . From Tanks to Yachts When the Marshall Plan lapsed in 1952 , the period of postwar reconstruction ended , and foreign aid entered a new phase . Gradually , the program spread round the world , and there emerged three different kinds of aid . Each was somewhat different in scope and focus . Each fostered a different institutional interest inside the government ; each had differem strengths and different weaknesses ; and each had a somewhat different rationale . Security aid represents by far the biggest category . It includes everything from military assistance to " black-bag " operations designed to woo or appease foreign governments and officials . Much of it is " budgetary support " ? which simply means that American taxpayers cover the deficit in another country 's budget . Because security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in - those countries directly threatened by Communist invasion or subversion , it has been relatively easy to sell , year by year , to the Congress . Because it strengthens the hand of American representatives in their day-to-day dealings abroad , it has always commanded powerful support in the State Department and Pentagon . Still , many of the " black-bag " operations do not , in retrospect , look very good ? the 53 million spent on a yacht for Haile Selassie for example . Moreover , security aid tends to tie the United States to the status quo in an era of rapid change . For it works to cushion existing regimes , many of them corrupt and reactionary ; when these fall , the U. S. is an object of hatred for the government that succeeds . Humanitarian assistance is a second category of aid . It includes not only disaster help ? such as the S832,000 allotted to Morocco at the time of the earthquake in Agadir ? but also technical , or Point 4 , assistance for specific projects in the fields of health , education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to develop a vested interest in their continuance ; so do the institutions , chiefly land-grant colleges , from which they come . Because such assistance has a definable impact ? a drop in the death rate , for example ? it tends to be easy to justify to Congress and to religious and social-service groups throughout the country . It also builds good will abroad on a people-to-people basis , irrespective of what regimes may be in power . But technical assistance tends to be expensive in men and in money , and to relate onl ) dimly to basic improvements , such as tax reform or the As " Harper 's " Washington Correspondent , Joseph Kraft contributed the article on " Kennedy 's Working Staff " ( December 1962 ) . His book , " The Grand Design , " also provided background for this study on foreign aid . building of dams , which countries require to stimulate overall economic growth . Lastly , there is no rationale for distributing technical assist . ance among competing bidders : if one African country deserves it , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category . It includes support for projects ? usually large ones such as a clam or a steel mill ? which are demonstrably part of a workable program for stimulating basic economic growth . It is supposed to force recipient governments to make reforms , because to qualify for such 4ssistance they must show a disposition to " self-help . " It is sparing of personnel , because the emphasis for the giving nation is on analyzing the economic programs of the recipients . It is dear to the hearts of academic economists and some bankers in this country , and it lends itself to joint ventures whereby international agencies and other developed countries can pick up some of the tab wit It the U. S. But the process takes time , at best , and affords few of the quick and dramatic results supposedly useful in selling the program to the Congress and the country . Why Everybody Got Confused Intellectually , it is simple to justify all three kinds of aid ; used in varying places at varying times , they can all be shown to serve American foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests in a single program is generally accounted a good thing ; it is by grinding these together that modern managers ? and notably that paragon among them , Defense Secretary McNamara ? force out decisions . But the different categories of aid are far more difficult to distinguish than such clearly marked interests as Army , Navy , and Air Force . They emerged piecemeal in a relatively brief period of time : security assistance with the Military Assistance Program of 1950 ; technical assistance with Point 4 in 1950 ; and development assistance with the Development Loan Fund in 1957 . Accordingly , they were rarely . if ever clearly , identified . And the lack of explicit identification opened a void for public confusion , Congressional resentment , and instability inside the Executive Branch . Public confusion found expression in a fragmentation of opinion . Even among the well-informed there was it proliferation of absurd clich ? s reflecting abrupt endorsement or rejection of one particular rationale for one particular kind of aid ? the very reverse of balanced judgment . Frank Coffin , a former Democratic Congressman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , has catalogued a score of these clich ? s , which he calls " cults and counter-cults . " Here , as a sample , is one that must be familiar to everybody : Cult Counter-cult Aid is too political , Aid planners are too wedtoo much based on ded to economic analysis . . Cold War strategy . It We arc in a massive political should be used only contest . Aid should be a for humanitarian pur tool of foreign policy . Our poses . We should not object is not development aid repressive govern for development 's sake . We ments or prop up should be willing to stop aid economies that are if countries are communist , getting nowhere . The if they vote against us in the American people will N. if they aid Cuba . if respond en thusiast they do n't share our view of rally if they know that the world crisis , if they exevery dollar of aid propriate U. S. firms , if they is being productively welch on debts due U. S. and sensitively used . firms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay UN dues . Congressional resentment had a solid base to begin with ? if only on the ground that funds spent abroad depleted the monies available for domestic projects , such as public works , which serve to nurse constituencies . In addition , uncertainty over ends and means in foreign aid made it easy for determined foes of the program to use the weaknesses of one kind of aid as a club to beat all kinds . Congressman Otto Passman of Louisiana , Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Aid and the bete noire of the program , thinks nothing of citing the case of Haile Selassie 's yacht to fight a development loan for India . Moreover , lack of explicit clarity about the various purposes of the program bred even among its friends a suspicion that they had no feel for what was going on , no good means of finding out , or of assessing its meaning . Senator Hubert Humphrey , a strong supporter of aid if there ever was one , exclaimed in the midst of the 1959 hearings : My own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great frustration that we have about it . It is so big , so complex that it is virtually impossible for any individual Senator to grapple with it all . The same frustrations , for much the same reasons , affected the Executive Branch . Lacking a balanced view of the different kinds of aid and the associated interests , successive administrators tilted the program first one way and then radically in the other direction . Between 1950 and 1960 , the aid program underwent three full-scale reorganizations , emerging each time under a different alias : Mutual Security Agency ; Foreign Operations Administration ; International Cooperation Administration . Harold Stamen tried to promote the agency into an independent unit with policy-making weight in the highest national councils ? and failed . John Hollister tried to subordinate it into nothing ? and failed . By 1960 , after eight different directors in a period of eight years , the agency was a crazy quilt of incongruities . Security assistance dominated the program . Over 75 per cent of the funds appropriated by the Congress in 1960 went to that category of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Korea , Formosa , and Thailand . In theory the chief aid agency , the ICA , was subordinate to the State Department in the field and at home , and its director reported to the Number 3 man in State , the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs . But most of the ICA people were technicians , heading up in the Deputy Director of Operations ? an agricultural economist , Denis FitzGerald . " Fitz 's boys , " as they were called , dominated the Washington end of ICA . Through an organization based on functional lines , they kept the regional bureaus of the State Department at arm 's length . In the field , they scattered their operations to remote corners ( 113 projects in Pakistan alone ) in a way no Ambassador could truly control . Between them and the Development Loan Fund , which was a separate organization , there was only the must tenuous connection . It was this ramshackle collection of agencies and programs which the Kennedy Administration set out to make over when it assumed power in January 1961 . The Optimistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an informal group ? set up before the election under the direction of the future Under Secretary of State George Ball ? surveyed all foreign economic policy . Next a series of panels , known as the President 's Task . Force on Foreign Economic Assistance , studied in detail the administrative , legislative , and program features of aid . In both groups the influence of the development economists , notably Walt Rostow , was paramount . Their views suffused the Kennedy aid program ? " A Program for the Decade of Development " ? which was presented to Congress in June 1961 . The new program accepted the principle that aid was an instrument of foreign policy : it sought Congressional authority to tie together the ICA and Development Loan Fund into a single unit , the Agency for International Development or AID , under the State Department . To harmonize the new unit with State , AID was to be organized ? like the Department ? on a regional basis ; and in the field its mission chiefs were to he part of a " country team " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there were many strings to the aid bow ; it called for " co-ordinated use of a variety of complementary tools . " But while admitting the continued need for security and humanitarian assistance , the new program came down heavily on the side of development . That magic word was in the title of both the program and the agency . To insulate the program from day-to-day and even year-to-year pressures , authority was sought for long-term lending to recipient countries , and for long-term borrowing from the U. S. Treasury ? a circumvention of the annual Congressional appropriations process . The presentation to the Congress stipulated that : We must shift as rapidly as possible from short-term aid designed to stave off sudden collapse to long-term assistance designed to produce basic and significant development . Except for the Treasury borrowing authority , the Congress went along with the Administration request . On September 30 , 1961 , the President signed the Act for International Development , and the aid problem passed from theory to action ? and , as it developed , from strength to weakness . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the administrative competence and governmental structures to work up the kind of programs that would make them eligible for development loans . Instead , countries in the Far East tended to want military aid while Latin American and Middle Eastern nations sought budgetary support and the new African lands asked for technical assistance . That problem might have been manageable if there had been a firm hand at the helm of AID . There was not . At the White House , aid problems did not enter into the regular flow of business passing ( on the domestic side ) through Special Counsel Theodore Sorensen and ( on the foreign side ) through Special Assistant McGeorge Bundy . Instead , aid became a special responsibility of one of the President 's all-purpose aides , Ralph Dungan . In these circumstances , White House attention to aid problems was necessarily intermittent . And nothing showed it so much as the problem of naming a Director . Initially it had been assumed that the job would go to Harry Labouisse , a Louisiana lawyer , with extensive experience in the Marshall Plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's Task Force . For reasons not altogether clear , the President decided , sometime in May , that Labouisse was not his man . A search for the right man dragged through the summer , and finally centered on George Woods , a Wall Street hanker , formerly chairman of the First Boston Corporation . The Woods appointment leaked prematurely , however , and then had to he abandoned when a group of Senate liberals , headed by Wayne Morse of Oregon , threatened to fight the nomination because of First Boston 's part in the Dixon-Yates affair . Under pressure to make a quick appointment , the President then turned to a New York lawyer he had first considered for head of the Central Intelligence Agency . On October 4 , nearly ten months after the Administration took office , lie appointed Fowler Hamilton Director of AID . Lost in the Bureaucratic Swamps In action , Hamilton did exactly what might have been expected from a successful Wall Street lawyer ? with no experience in the aid field . An efficient , clean-desk man himself , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of brisk authority . In a matter of months he Put through the shift from functional to regional organization . A recruiting program , known as " Operation Tycoon , " stocked the main regional offices with new men from the world of affairs ? Seymour Janow , a business consultant as head of the Far East bureau ; William Gaud , a New York lawyer , for the Middle East ; Edmond Hutchinson , an RCA executive , for Africa ; Teodoro Moscoso , a Puerto Rican businessman who had helped direct that island 's economic revival , for Latin America . Hamilton 's own role was that of advocate . He spoke of the President as " my client , " and lobbied with the public , the press , and the Congress assiduously , and not ineffectively . Indeed , a check of the New York Times and Washington Post shows no comment unfavorable to Hamilton during the whole period of his tenure . But at no time did Hamilton penetrate into the day-to-day operation at AID . What had been 80 FOREIGN AID billed as " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 272 persons ? less than a fifth of the average annual turnover in A1D 's complement of 9,000 Americans . Such pervasive administrative procedures as personnel selection and contract negotiation were continued unchanged from the ander ' regime , the only difference being that the staff was even older , more cautious , and more demoralized than before . Thus whatever energies were imported by reorganization and new blood tended to waste away in a miasmic bureaucratic swamp . A project to launch a study of Bolivian agriculture prior to an expected land-reform act , for example , was held up for nearly six months because of troubles in the contract relating to specifications for the vehicles needed to take the surveyors round the countryside . Employment of a young lawyer from one of the best New York firms hung fire for weeks on the question of whether service as a special assistant to the Police Commissioner constituted administrative experience . Failure of the personnel office to supply secretarial help caused one bureau to use professional people for filing , while another resorted ( illegally , it turned out ) to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a backlog of 250 contracts , which melted to fifty in ninety days when new contract personnel were brought over from the Navy Department . In one case , the hiring of a development economist was held up for five months when first his health report was mislaid and next his security report . Loan processing tended to last about eighteen months , and went through at least a dozen distinct steps , many of them obvious duplications of effort . " We should be able to process alone in three weeks , " one AID official , formerly with Morgan 's bank , has observed . Hamilton Loses His Scalp The effect of such procedures on AID operations was obscure ? but unmistakable . No major errors seem to have been made . And there took place some shift in the overall allocation of funds toward development lending . But with their energies drained away in bureaucratic struggle , the leadership had little strength to carry through the program . Time after time , in place after place , the program was compromised . In Iran , $44 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Indonesia , $2.5 million in contingency funds was spent for what amounted to a whim of President Sukarno ? readying a road , the Jakarta bypass , in time for the Asian Games . Though Hamilton spoke of " shooting with a rifle instead of a shotgun , " the total number of projects remained above a thousand , thanks chiefly to the African program . And in Latin America , the Alliance for Progress never really got off the ground . In fiscal 1962. less than 40 per cent of the $1. / billion authorized for Latin America was actually spent . Most of the money that was spent went ? notably in Argentina and Brazil ? not for development , but as Mr. Moscoso himself acknowledged " to cover government deficits , to support weak currencies , or to avoid national bankruptcies . " Though countries with economic plans , particularly Venezuela and Bolivia , received special attention , aid also went to a venal dictatorship in Haiti , and to Peru , where six million peasants ? more than half the population ? own only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Latin America realized the objective fixed by the President of a 2.5 per cent annual gain in living standards . Overall , per capita income grew by 1.5 per rent . Seven countries showed a decline in per capita income , while five stood still . " In 1961 , " a United Nations report recently concluded , " the economic development of Latin America progressed so slowly as to justify the term semi-stagnation . " The record of non-achievement gave Congressional foes of foreign aid an opportunity they did not miss . In last summer 's hearings on the fiscal 1963 program , Otto Passinan , in particular , had a field day . He held one regional director on the stand for one hundred hours . No item was beneath his attention , not even , for example , the kind of shovels used on a road project in the Cameroons . Repeatedly he was able to show apparent inconsistencies ( money taken from Greece tinder one head , for instance , put back under another ) ; apparent failures ( $228,000 spent on a nurses ' school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example ) ; and apparent ignorance inside the agency : e.g. , a request for the names of countries not receiving aid elicited from AID a list headed by Algeria ? which , in fact , was receiving it . Whether his strictures were fair or not ( and many of them turned out on examination to be at least arguable ) they impressed the Congress . In the voting , the Administration request suffered the largest cut ever made ? a 20 per cent drop from $4.9 billion to $3.9 billion . Development loans ? the centerpiece of the Administration program ? were cut by over 20 per cent . Passman 's victory cost Hamilton his scalp . All through the hearings rumors had spread , unchecked , that the White House was dissatisfied with the AID Director . On the day after the 1962 election , Hamilton offered , and the President accepted , his resignation . He was the eleventh director in ten years and had served just over a year . His departure was a melancholy confirmation of an exchange that took place in the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live with this thing year after year , whereas able directors such as yourself , come and go . Mr. Hamilton : That is one of the reasons so many people in the country are confused about the foreign aid program . For the Program , Not the Pitch Even before the Congressional debacle had been played out , the familiar calls for chop and change were heard anew . One proposal urged that the President 's brother-in-law , Sargent Shriver , sit down with our or five men in a hotel room ? as he had in mounting the Peace Corps ? and work up from scratch a new aid program . A memorandum , written and circulated in the government by Chester Bowles , argued the case for more segregation of political from economic assistance and for concentration of economic help on fewer and more deserving countries . An by Joseph Kraft at article , written by Professor Hans Morgcnthau and circulated in the State Department by Under Secretary George Ball , raised again the question of whether aid should n't be altogether political in conception . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote , " if it is considered as a self-sufficient technical enterprise of a primarily economic nature . It is soluble only if it is considered an integral part of the political policies of the giving countries ? which must be devised in view of the political conditions , and for its effects upon the political situation in the receiving country . " The real meaning of the Bell appointment is that the President is turning a ( leaf ear to these philosophic disquisitions ? not to say bull sessions . With Mr. Bell . he stands by his original program and against sweeping change in concepts . For at the Budget Bureau , Bell participated , deeply , in framing the AID legislation . At Harvard , before going to Budget , he was one of the group of academic economists who put together a development program for Pakistan ? one of the few countries where AID has performed well ? and he got some firsthand field experience in that country 's capital . As much as anyone , in short , he is an architect of the present aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? apart from knowledge of the program ? is professionalism in government . He has been practicing or teaching public administration for twenty of his forty-three years . By sheer competence he won the confidence of such disparate figures as Harry Truman ( whom he served as a White House assistant ) , Adlai Stevenson ( whom he served as a speech writer ) , and John F. Kennedy . Perhaps better than any outsider he has meshed with Mr. Kennedy 's ' White House staff . Indeed . there was a time when he used to meet regularly with Messrs . Sorensen and Bundy in a group known as The White House Troika . Above all , Bell is , unlike most of his predecessors , not a salesman or an advocate . He is not famous for getting on with the Congress ; in fact , Senator Harry Byrd once called for his resignation as Budget Director , and to ease Bell 's way on The Hill , the President has appointed an aid survey group headed by General Lucius Clay . But a Director who pays more attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may seem , may not he a bad thing for aid . " We have been selling the program long enough , " one of its veterans says . " It 's about time we made it work . You ca n't sell Ivory soap if it sinks in the bathtub. "                     