@@488173

To the question , " What has the American theatre to say at the present time about the state of American politics ? " the answer is " very little . " The question which might then more pointedly be put is " Why ? " Those who ask either of these questions are usually more interested in politics than in the theatre Still , they are good questions for people devoted to the theatre to ask themselves . The effort to answer will momentarily make them ponder politics and also induce them to think a little less superficially about the theatre In any discussion of the theatre one of the first things to inquire about is the nature of the audience . On Broadway , where most new plays originate in America , the audience never pays less than $2.50 for the poorest seat , and often more than $6.90 for the best . One can hardly call ? this a representative audience , even in the era of affluence . It excludes most teachers and students , many professional people who are not in the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " working class . " It is an audience of the business community . manufacturers , buyers and moguls of the plushier trades . It demands titillation . Hence musicals and light comedies are almost the only shows which sell out . The economic setup of the New York theatre makes it extremely difficult for plays that do n't sell out to return a profit . And what does n't make money soon disappears What is believed likely to disappear does n't get produced . This facile explanation tells less than half the story . To proceed beyond it leads to perilous ground . I have no statistics , but I venture to say that Americans are not genuinely concerned with politics . The ordinary American might define politics as something to do with elections and graft . He is convinced that China is a menace , that communism is evil , that taxes are too high , that juvenile delinquency is outrageous , that while the atom bomb is dangerous it is necessary , that our way of life , being the best , must be defended . Politics is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day on TV , or can be disposed of by a cursory glance at the headlines and by gossip about " personalities . " Politics is a sort of sport , and no one except a politician needs to devote himself to it . This view is understandable , given our history . , There have been very few deeply disturbing political events since 1865 . Compared to its effects on Europe , the First World War was for us a mere scratch . Such scandals as those of the Harding administration or of , the jimmy Walker regime were jokes . A mere handful of people were aware of the implications of Franco 's assault on democratic Spain . To judge by the aspect of our big cities at the time , the Second World War was a happy occasion . We disapproved of fascism because of its bluster , and we heartily disliked the Nazis because they produced sick-making sensations in our stomachs The cause of the war , our own or our Allies ' responsibility in its outbreak , were obscure to us The depression of 1929-39 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ althOugh , the crisis once passed , many of us grew impatient with Roosevelt and his reforms . But the depression was a condition no one could overlook , and our theatre gave striking evidence of the fact . - Came Eisenhower , the new ' normalcy and McCarthy . The Senator scared the wits out of us before ha destroyed himself , and we have not yet- recovered from the infection he spread . For years , now , not only political discussion but all discussion of vital issues has been timorous or feeble Such discussion may lead to dissent . Nowadays we hardly know what to dissent from except such enormities as totalitarianism , the insults of inimical powers , narcotics . and teen-age killers . Dissent usually involves criticism of our country , than which there is none better on earth . Dissent . moreover , smacks of softness toward foreign ideologies . We had eiiough of that in the thirties . Today the civil rights struggle ? especially in its painless forms  --  stirs a great many people . But when prejudice of this stamp is dealt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Side Story or in a sentimental play like A Raisin in the Sun : Nearly everybody , and especially those who are peculiarly touchy about aesthetics , shudders at the hate m LeRoi Jones 's plays . I myself am frightened and mortified by it , but we occasionally need to realize its presence and to see it dramatized in full terror . We hear that there is a new radicalism in the colleges and among the young who are exasperated by the flatness , the inexpressiveness of our lives . Though the manifestations of ' this trend are sometimes raw and foolish , it should be viewed as a hopeful sign if it leads to the discipline of study , thought and firmness of conviction Nerviness is not enough . The fighting in Vietnam troubles us and we are becoming increasingly vocal about it . The majority of our countrymen react automatically , either approving the government 's policy as a matter of simple patriotism , or denouncing it without facing the central issue . whether or not the possible victory of communism in Asia is something that non-Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right in these assertions , politics as such can hardly be expected to prove a proper subject for American theatrical entertainment . But should I be thought mistaken there are still other phases of the question which the liberal mind often overlooks . Granted that plays dealing with politics on our stage usually are reduced to such convivial dramatizations of columnist chatter as The Best Man or to empty melodrama like the play made from Allen Drury 's Advise and Consent , one must also recognize that very few political plays of more than momentary value exist in dramatic literature generally What we sometimes name political plays are more accurately plays of social significance or historical , plays of broad political application Shaw wrote several political plays ? The Apple Cart , Geneva , On the Rocks ? but they are hardly among his best . Shakespeare 's Histories possess general political meaning , but they are political only by extension and analogy , as is the ease with Miller 's The Crucible , Sherwood 's Abe Lincoln in Illinois , Kingsley 's The Patriots . There are also social-political " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sartre 's plays or Genet 's The Balcony and The Screens Not long ago a play about the Hiss case was produced on Broadway but , like most such accounts of recent events , it was an inconsiderable piece . Only the Germans and French have thus far accepted a. stage version of the Oppenheimer October 25 , 1965 , 4 , case . Even Kingsley 's dramatization of Koestler 's Darkness at Noon , cited as the Best Play of the Year 1950-51 by the New York Drama Critics ' Circle , remained largely inoperative I could name several other similar plays , like Maxwell Anderson and Harold Hiekerson 's Gods of the Lightning ( about the Sacco-Vanzetti case ) or John ; Wexley 's They Shall Not Die ( about the Scottsboro boys ) " which flashed by without attracting anything but the most limited attention . Far more effective than any of these were the documentaries presented by the Federal Theatre Project at Jaw prices ? Triple-A Plowed ' Under and One-Third of a Nation -- which produced audience impact through their novel staging and immediacy . But for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are more appropriate media Even Odets ' Waiting for Lefty ( about the taxi drivers ' strike in the thirties ) proved forceful not because of its political message but because of its colorful idiom and youthful fervor . For the rest , with the exception of his anti-Nazi Till the Day I Die , Odets ' plays are not political at all but social , akin in this respect to O'Casey 's early work . A social play stems from a particular environment which to a de , gree is- a reflection of a political condition . Chekhov 's plays and Shaw 's Heartbreak House are ex. amples . OSborne 's Look Back in Anger has English social connotations though its political direction is by no means clear . Gorky 's dramatic work , rightly held to be inflammatory in Czarist Russia , was not at all propaganda for a particular party or a guide to an unequivocal political solution . Since all ' plays are the products of mores and attitudes common to particular- sectors of society and are addressed to a public presumed to be attuned to . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all plays are social . ( Even The Ziegfeld Follies , I have often , said , could be regarded as a mirror of its times . ) The reason why the social basis of drama is not more often pointed out is that audiences and reviewers prefer to think of plays wholly in terms of entertainment or , betimes , of art . In this way they avoid the discomfort of dealing with troublesome matters . They want to divorce entertainment ( or art ) from their daily concerns . The wish is justifiable , since their concerns are often trivial , but by this amputation they frequently rob both entertainment and art of their primary value . There is a sense in which the theatregoer who seeks relief from his workaday cares is right . The domain of the theatre is universal , nothing human is alien to it , but the most durable and hence most profoundly influential plays are those which transcend their immediate " journalistic " material . What 271 we seek finally in the theatre is an escape  --  into reality Our ordinary activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we truly long for is to be transported to some realm of truth , the purest consciousness . This super-reality which lifts us above the ordinary traffic of existence is what the theatre ( along with the other arts and , some may add , religion ) aspires to , and in its greatest and rare occasions achieves . What makes Chekhov 's plays so touching is not their depiction of the unhappy middle class of Russia at a certain period , but the use he makes of this subject matter . From it he wrings the " music " of idealistic yearning , the aspiration which both torments and elevates the hearts of not particularly bright folk everywhere . What lends stature to Ibsen 's Hedda Gabler is not so much the psychology of a lady caught between two social classes , but our recognition that we are all a little like her ? unable to find any sphere which satisfies our innermost needs . Plays of so-called classic breadth , from Aeschylus to Racine , attain such heights The better realistic plays of modern times move willy-nilly toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shaw and Brecht , Biichner 's Dan-ton 's Death or Hauptmann 's The Weavers , are sustained by a similar afflatus Political plays , if they are intelligent and honest ( Hochhuth 's The Deputy ) , are to be welcomed even when they do not qualify as art . How many plays of any sort do ? Still the annals of drama teach us that specifically political plays seldom reach the loftiest peaks  --  unless one calls Trojan Women or Julius Caesar " political . " Nearly all social plays of merit , exercise political , effect , although the degree or exact orientation of such effects are not always de : terminable . We may cite such old ' examples as Beaumarchais ' gcirriage of Figaro as relevant to the French Revolution and Gogol 's The Inspector General as relevant to all , bureaucracies . There is no doubt that the naturalistic plays of the ? middle and late 19th century exerted liberalizing persuasion , first in Germany and Russia , and later in England and France . On the other hand , a sizable portion of the Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Cortolanus as a reactionary play which others ( Brecht , for instance ) have interpreted in another sense . We come now to what for " our present purpose is the crucial ' problem . " How is one to account ' for the fact , " a friend writes me , " that the more dramatic the general political situation becomes , the more intensely private and ingrown are the preoccupations of our more talented playwrights ? " The answer is that the plays referred to in this query , though hardly political , constitute our social drama ! There is a connection between the theatre ' and politics . It is sometimes direct and positive ; at other times indirect and negative . Today it is mostly negative . The Theatre of the Absurd , seen as a generic phenomenon without judgment as to individual talents , is , whether the writers themselves agree or not , a direct consequence of the social-political climate in most of the " free world . " It represents despair and sometimes an oblique protest in regard to the so cieties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcries signifying a sense of impotence . They . present our world as a fright ' ftilliiaess , a ridiculous fraud , a tragic farce . There is nothing left for us to do , ' they tell us , except to suffer and wait ( for what ? ) , jeer and try , to , avoid hurting anyone or , in extreme instances , burst the bonds of decorum and reason ( which have been of no avail ) to find some gado-Masochistic " mystical " release . , America , they intimate , is smug and hypocritical . Britain 's stiff upper lip has gone slack with indecision , France , poses in a caricature of grandeur . The Soviet Union abides in a strait jacket , ' China is a threatening tyranny . According to some of these playwrights it is entirely possible that life itself is no damned gbod and probably never has been . So they turn their backs on all ' this and now and then seek repose with-iii sortie no man 's land , of bleak contemplation or lunacy . I do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention others ) feel spiritually homeless . They believe themselves deprived of any reliable political , social , religious base For them all the old faiths are meaningless . That is why in America they appear to take special satisfaction in patronizing the credulous thirties . Their political posture consists of their refusal to assume any . And , one should add , no wonder . The moral and political atmosphere of the world is confusing everywhere . It is easier to assail these new and personally benign nihilists by argument than to reassure them with concrete proposals . The most " advanced " among them are trying to formulate an aesthetics of non-art . Insofar as these impulses represent , protestations against all that is bogus in our society , and if in the process of protest new means of expression are discovered , this anarchic tendency performs a positive function But a persistent turning away from the world ultimately leads to a conformism as dull and debilitating as accommodation . Very few of the new plays have any ' action . Indeed hardly any of them require it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powe=r has become superfluous . Since most such plays are based on the assumption that nothing is changeable , they present characters who- never bother to change anything . We approach the dead end of drama . To extricate himself from this dilemma the future playwright must consent to dwell in " error . " He must take ' a ? walk into the awful world , getito know it ever more intimately and widely . What is chiefly wrong with Soviet realism is that it is not sufficiently realistic . It is usually little more than publicity . Still the aims of that realism , liberated from officious supervision and Philistine dogma , are healthy . They bid thedramatist make contact with society , explore the hardships and triumphs of labor , probe the souls of men and worften in the travail of the new civilization as it is being formed , or of the old as it destroys itself This tradition gave Russia and the rest of us such writers as Gogol , Turgenev , Tolstoy , Dostoevsky , Chekhov and Gorky  --  none of them literalists  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have attracted notice through early success , American playwrights now tend to become encrusted in professional circles and thus rapidly to detach themselves from their creative sources . They deteriorate into provincials in the sterile ground of fashionable Broadway intellectual coteries . When we learn ' to see ourselves and our neighbors truthfully against the broadest horizons of human concern , we shall perhaps not need to clamor for political plays ; good ones will do . 