@@478886

Waist Deep in the Big Muddy , by Richard H. Rovere . Atlantic-Little , Brown , $4.50 . Gulliver 's Troubles , by Stanley Hoffmann . McGraw-Hill , $11.95 . A Great Society ? , edited by Bertram M. Gross . Basic Books , $8.50 . Only a decade ago ? it seems like a century ? everyone was bemoaning the apathy of American life . The middle class had fallen asleep watching TV ; the workers had become fat cats slinking into suburbia ; the students had buried themselves in silence , suffering a kind of generational withdrawal . Sometimes these complaints arose from a residual puritanism which led us to see contentment as a vice , sometimes from a fear that technology was replacing human will as the dominant force in society , and sometimes from a post-Marxist acedia . Now , all is changed . In the 1960s the United States has become , with the possible exception of Communist China , the most tumultuous country in the world : the most self-critical , self-lacerating , self-destructive . With Kennedy there was a moment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But then , for reasons everyone can point to but no one fully grasp , the country started to come apart . It is n't mere foolishness , these days , to wonder whether the United States will survive as a democracy ? though it is worse than foolishness when certain sorts of academics predict the death of democracy with a suicidal glee . For the first time since the Depression , one keeps encountering the fear that our social problems may turn out to be intractable , or , what is perhaps even worse , that solving them might not be an adequate Horper 's Magazine , July .7568 therapy for the malaise creeping into our bones . Richard Rovere 's Waist Deep in the Big Muddy starts out from anxieties similar to those I 've just expressed . Rovere writes political pieces for The New Yorker , and his prose is as lucid as his observations are sharp . In this little book he does n't pretend to chart the fundamental directions of modern society : there 's hardly a phrase about automation , aggregate demand , economic planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely , indeed ! ? a thoughtful account of the ways this country has changed during the last fifteen years . Unavoidably , this means that he must begin with a review of the Cold War , as a clash between major power blocs , a competition in ideology , and a pretext for unsavory policies on both sides . Though steadily critical of the Dullesian effort to launch an ideological anti-Communist crusade , Rovere offers a qualified defense of the policy of " containment , " especially the Marshall Plan . " Containment " had a double purpose : to speed the economic recovery of Western Europe and to prevent Stalinism from taking over Italy , Germany , and France . Rovere argues , rightly I think , that the policy was successful : the growing nationalism of a country like France would have been impossible if Russia had not been held back and Communism isolated as a political force in Western Europe . Rovere also seems right in continuing to insist , against both the " revisionist " historians and New Left ideologues , that in the years directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to limit Russian power on the European Continent . To any this is not at all to endorse everything that was done by the Western nations , or to deny that the U. S. engaged in its share of provocations during the worst years of the Cold War . It is only to insist that liberal : like Rovere and socialists like myself were right to believe that the struggle , say , for West Berlin involved the very possibility of a democratic future . Because the Russians were contained , certain major consequence : could follow : the recovery of Western Europe , the beginnings of breakup in the Communist monolith , and the avoidance of a nuclear war . What has since changed ? The center of world conflict has moved from Europe to the underdeveloped nations , and the major antagonist of the U. S. is no longer Russia but s shifting spectrum of countries and movements ? China , Cuba , guerrilla insurgents who find their inspiration not in the bureaucrat Brezhnev but in the fanatic Mao and the swinge . Castro . And where the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been nearly so successful in Asia , nor is it likely to be in Latin America , The Marshall Plan helped to reestablish bourgeois democracies that had developed economies , strong national traditions , and considerable popular support . In a country like South Vietnam , however , none of these is present . In the underdeveloped world " containment " often means giving support to reactionary regimes that are neither efficient nor secure ; it means intruding upon potentiall , ? , Mr. HO WC 'S books include studies of politics as well as literary criticism , for example , " Steady Work : Essays in the Politics of Democratic Radicalism 1953-1966. " revolutionary situations with deeply conservative policies . The results are likely to he irrelevant and harmful . Whether the U. S. , as the biggest capitalist power in the world , can adapt itself to such situations , is more than a little doubtful ; it will take a political reorientation much sharper than is reflected in , say , the political rhetoric of Hubert Humphrey ; and in the end it may turn out that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intentions , this country simply can not cope with a Vietnam or a Guatemala . Mr. Rovere is much too sophisticated a political analyst to suppose that the racking divisions we have experienced are caused directly or merely by new problems in foreign affairs . Things are more complicated . He argues persuasively that the Korean war was sharply different in character from the Vietnam war ; yet he recognizes that this difference alone can not explain why the Korean war met with little criticism at home and the Vietnam war has been the most unpopular in our history . What have changed are the perceptions of our educated classes . For many Americans , anti-Communism has become a bore , a visible deceit : they have no patience for discriminating between the anti-Communism which is a form of reactionary mindlessness and the anti-Communism which is a premise for liberal values . The tensions of the Cold War years are gone , and no one wants them back . A new myth has arisen which identifies the efforts of the American Negroes with " the Third World , " a myth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nevertheless finds much assent in our universities . There has occurred , in short , an enormous shift in political sensibility among educated Americans , some for the good and some for the bad ; and one remarkable sign of this is that in the 1968 election matters of foreign policy have become crucial , something that had not been true in this country for decades . The result , as Rovere sees it , will be ugly no matter what happens in Vietnam , When any nation fails in a great and costly undertaking , it conducts a search for those on whom the failure may be blamed . . . . The doves would fall alongside the hawks ? and in greater number . For nothing BOOKS is easier or more plausible than to blame defeat on those who stirred dissension .... In short , the nightmare we call " backlash . " But there are other reasons , in addition to failure in Vietnam , for worrying about this possibility , To these I will return . On the face of it , there could be no sharper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gulliver 's Troubles , a massive study of U. S. foreign policy by Professor Stanley Hoffmann of Harvard . Rovere writes elegantly , Hoffmann sluggishly ; Rovere skims , Hoffmann digs ; Rovere speaks to educated laymen , Hoffmann to academic colleagues . Yet there is a congruence of outlook between the two . Roth acknowledge that during the immediate postwar years , extraordinary uses of power were needed to save Europe from totalitarianism ; both feel that this , in turn , led to rigidities , distortions , and failures in U. S. policy as regards Europe and Asia ; and both , while impatient with neo-isolationist yearnings , urge a period in which American power will now be employed with greater restraint ? certainly with less inclination to shoot from the hip whenever a client regime in Latin America seems threatened ? than has been characteristic of recent Administrations . Gulliver 's Troubles is an expert performance , complex , subtle , thorough . It would be presumptuous to try to summarize , or argue with , this kind of book in a few sentences . The best part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of the Cold War years . But the book is also prescriptive , making a careful plea for a change in U. S. policy vis-a-vis Europe . Mr. Hoffmann believes that it would further both world peace and our national interests if this country tried to move beyond the uneasy stalemate , or quasi-d ? tente , which exists in Europe , and to encourage the " Europeanization " of Europe . The two superpowers would agree slowly to withdraw from the Continent , thereby loosening and perhaps scrapping both NATO and the Warsaw Pact , and then would encourage autonomous political confederations in Western and Eastern Europe which , hopefully . would lead to a gradual unification , not as a European superstate but as a kind of assembly of cooperating nations . Mr. Hoffmann is entirely aware of the barriers facing such a policy , and he discusses with much polemical verve such matters as French nationalism , the division of Germany , and the probable reluctance of the Soviet Union to abandon the status quo . His scheme strikes me as persuasive but uninspiring ? which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If there is anything in the U. S. that really can be described as an Establishment , I would imagine that its thought concerning foreign policy would be along the directions proposed in Gulliver 's Troubles : a reining in of U. S. power , a recognition of limits , a greater readiness to encourage regional autonomy both in Europe and Asia , a strong reluctance to undertake further interventions abroad . All of which is fine , as long as it does not lead to the kind of neo-isolationist parochialism which would , for example , scant foreign aid to India or claim that it is a matter of indifference whether a democratic regime survives in Venezuela . I have two criticisms to suggest here , not so much of Gulliver 's Troubles itself as of the style of political thought it reveals . The first concerns the likely effect of turmoil in the underdeveloped world upon the effort to ease relations within Europe . Now this turmoil in Asia and Latin America may be exacerbated by the Cold War , but it certainly is not caused by it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will continue to be revolutionary desperation and upheavals in Asia and Latin America ; and these , in turn , will sharply affect , perhaps even undo , efforts at a European arrangement . Mr. Hoffmann 's " model " of European reconstruction seems a bit too self-sufficient . My second criticism is a related one . Like many specialists in foreign BOOKS affairs , Mr. Hoffmann tends to speak of nations as if they were abstract entities with coherent and unified wills , as if somehow they were beyond change or division . He knows , of course , that nothing of the sort is true ; but the habit of so regarding nations is almost unavoidable in professional discussions of foreign affairs . Yet the reality of modern history is that even apparently stable nations change internally , change drastically , and thereby change their foreign policies . Consider , for example , the recent astonishing events in Czechoslovakia . Such a semirevoluUm ' must , I think , make Soviet policy more rigid , for the Communist leadership fears that any large-scale easing of tensions in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-satellite countries . Matters of foreign policy should be discussed in a somewhat larger historical context than Mr. Hoffmann 's specialized approach permits . Here , of course , he would reply that you ca n't take up everything , even the most ambitious discourse requires some limits ; and he would be right . Except that we would then get into a discussion of precisely where the limits should be set and ... A Great Soeiet14 ? is also an academic project , and of a kind that often proves to be dismal : the series of papers by visiting lecturers loosely draped around a large topic and then shackled into a book . But this time the result , first presented at Syracuse University , is a pleasant surprise . Except for a tenth-rate piece on American culture and a certain amount of professorial shuffling about " methodology , " there are some fine essays , by men as well-known as Daniel Bell , Kenneth Boulding , Herbert Marcuse , Peter Drucker , and Hans Morgenthau , concerning the social and political problems facing the U. S. at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a list of problems which two or more contributors discussed in some detail , but soon gave it up as a bad job . For the result was dizzying . Each writer points , naturally enough , to the matters that concern him most , and there is a danger that , both in reading a book of this kind and in joining the current discussions about the crisis in America , we may end in so acute a condition of social anxiety that the result will be despair rather than a release of energy . Perhaps the point to be stressed is that once a society begins to tackle its problems , they have a way of blending into one another , so a chain of energy and solution is created . If , that is , the problems are tackled at all . Among the contributors to .4 Great Society ? there is agreement that this country is heading toward what Peter Drucker calls " a period of dissension and turmoil ... perhaps with foreign affairs the storm center .... " The reasons cited by the various writers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the breakdown of local governmental structures , from the decline of the Calvinist ethic of work to such phenomena as those which Daniel Bell calls " the loss of insulating space " ( the country keeps getting more and more crowded , people step on each other 's toes and get on each other 's nerves ) and " communications overload " ( we all go a little crazy from a surplus of print , pictures , stimuli ? brazen , skillful , but without moral authority ) . Norton Long acutely describes local governmental structures : Presently , stricken with fiscal anemia , plagued by social absenteeism and the triviality of the country club suburb with its toy government , the nation 's metropolises arc organized on a necessary dog-eat-dog , devil-take-the-hindmost basis . . . they are neither structured , legally empowered , nor possessed of a political and social theory with which to mobilize their spiritual and material wealth . , . . Robin Williams cites a variety of ideological doctrines ( irresponsible localism in government , laissez-faire in economics , racial superiority , rigid anti-Communism ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , but which retain an enormous hold on the popular imagination and thereby keep us from adequate solutions . Daniel Bell predicts a series of social troubles : The relation of the individual to bureaucratic structures will be subject to even greater strain . The increasing centralization of government creates a need for new social forms that will allow the citizenry greater BOOKS participation in making decisions . The growth of a large , educated professional and technical class , with its desire for greater autonomy in work , will force institutions to reorganize the older bureaucratic patterns of hierarchy and detailed specialization . . . . The family as the source of primordial attachment may become less important for the child . ? . Finally , there is the growing disjunction between the " culture " and the " social structure . " Society becomes more functionally organized , geared to knowledge and the mastery of complex bodies of knowledge . The culture becomes more hedonistic , permissive , expressive , distrustful of authority and of the purposive , delayed-gratification of a bourgeois , achievement-oriented technological world . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " modes , particularly among the intellectuals , may be one of the great ruptures in moral temper , especially in the universities . As if to underscore Bell 's last and very important observation , Norton Long ( with one eye turned quizzically toward his New Left students ) writes : . . . the cult of the noble savage , whether of the city slum or the underdeveloped countryside , is offered as a nostrum for the tedium vitae of the affluent society and its spiritually unemployed . . . The cult of the noble savage in any of its current guises is , as it always has been , a piece of sentimental attitudinizing . And then Herbert Marcuse , writing in a somewhat less apocalyptic mood than usual and all the better for it , offers a cogent reminder that the liberal formula which invokes social planning as the answer to our difficulties can not he considered merely in apolitical or technocratic terms : The transformation of the cities into a human universe involves far more than slum clearings : it involves the literal dissolution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If undertaken for the population as a whole rather than for those who can pay , the reconstruction would be plainly unprofitable , and its public financing would mean the abrogation of some of the most powerful lobbies in the country . Enough ! There 's no point in continuing piecemeal through these difficulties ; the question one asks oneself is whether some sort of workable synthesis can be created as an aid understanding . A book review is of viously not the place to make the e : fort , but let me list a few observs Lions or notions of my own , parti stimulated by reading A Great SE ciety ? : ( 1 ) We are living at a tim when the problems of three histories moments painfully converge : ou agrarian and individualist past , ou industrial and welfare-state presen and our postindustrial future . Pas present , and future always converge but right now , in American sods experience , the pressures are espE cially acute . The racial problem , fo example , is clearly one that could an should have been solved decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult to cope win since the rapidity with which we ar moving into a postindustrial societ aggravates rather than eases tha problem . Concretely : there occurs belated recognition that justice fo Negroes is long overdue ; simultans ously a. large migration of unskille Negro workers takes place . from th South they can no longer tolerate Northern cities that seem to the somewhat snore tolerable ; but mear while , because we are starting to rae past industrialism , there are availabl fewer of the sort of unskilled job that some decades ago might hay provided these people with at least measure of security and dignity . think a similar pattern could b shown to operate in many areas o our society . ( 2 ) Politically , we are experiesx ing the breakup of the labor-libers coalition which since 1932 has bee a dominating force in this countr and has brought enormous benefits i social legislation , economic improvt ment , in short , the welfare stats Grown sluggish with time , this coal : tion has not been nearly so we equipped to deal with the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy it has played a pretty sad roll There arc now signs , reflected in th movement behind Eugene McCarthy that a new political alignment is i the making ? one that would events ally have to involve all the mak groups of the old labor-liberal coal lion , but with a new internal rels tionship of forces , so that the you'll. the Negroes , and perhaps th churches would exert more influent 103 BOOKS than in the past . Immediately , however , the consequences of all this can only be bitter dissension , a modish " alienation " on the campus , and the possibility that just at the moment when we most need a radical advance in public affairs , we may lapse back into a stagnant conservatism . ( 3 ) In the United States , the welfare state has appeared at a time of severe historical and moral ' tensions . For some decades now there has been noticeable a slow disintegration of those binding assumptions which hold a society together and provide its moral discipline . These values can hardly be evoked in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a creed of individualist self-reliance linked with a belief that the resultant of unrestrained struggle among private persons will be to the common good ; a steady devotion to privacy , rigor , control , and moral sobriety ; a belief in work as salvation and therapy ; a conviction that the claims of conscience and the promptings of the will are naturally harmonious . In short , the whole American myth inherited from the nineteenth century . In recent decades , however , this creed has proven inadequate to the American reality , with the evidence ranging from the crisis of urbanization to the gradual decay of religion . Once the American creed served to unify the nation ; now , as it visibly breaks down , new interest groups and competing moral styles start to press their claims . At the extreme poles of our society there occur enormous vibrations . On the right , a heartfelt cry that morality is being destroyed , religion mocked , our way of life abandoned . On the left , an impatience to be done with old ways and to plunge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnest suburban middle class which only a few years ago was shaking with indignation at the collapse of standards , and the hippies of the East Village ? these form symmetrical polarities along the spectrum of American moral life , each reacting to the gradual decay of American convictions and neither absorbed by the kind of moderation and maneuvering encouraged by the welfare state . The little old lady in tennis shoes and the young hippie in sandals are demonstrating equally their hostility to the " role playing " which the current scene demands . Both provide complications of response which our increasingly rationalized society finds it hard to handle . And both are important as far-out symptoms of deep-in troubles . Now , if one brings together this long-range crisis of American values and moral styles with the kind of short-range political and social troubles examined in A Great Society ? , the results could be as ugly as Richard Rovere anticipates . So far , there has been a remarkable silence ? is it patience , indifference , forbearance , guilt , or a mixture of them all ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbanites , both middle-class and upper-working-class . This silence should not lull us , however , into supposing that no reaction is mounting against the turmoil of the ghetto and the campus . What many ordinary Americans take to be a shameful disintegration of our public life ? Negro rioting , student demonstrations , sexual libertinism , hippie licentiousness , all bundled together ? could lead to a fearful political and moral backlash . It would be a backlash in the name of basic verities , law and order , and our most hallowed national traditions . Indeed , 1 fail to see how a Republican candidate for major office can avoid being tempted by the thought of appealing to such sentiments ? except insofar as he knows that the people holding them are likely to vote for him in any case . We ought to be clear in our minds that the absence , thus far , of large-scale mob violence among middle- and working-class whites is by no means reliable evidence that the backlash is not a social reality or that it is merely a fantasy conjured up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including backlash . What a few decades ago was managed by vigilantes and mobs can now be done more smoothly by the police and National Guard , while millions watch them on TV with benumbed or approving silence . Turmoil , then , is certain and the only question is , which kind will it be . If a new Administration moves rapidly toward peace and at the same time begins a very large program for the socioeconomic reconstruction of the cities , there will still be plenty of trouble . Parts of the middle class will bitch about taxes , segments of the white working class will complain that the blacks are being coddled , and some of the blacks will cry that progress is either a delusion or too slow . Yet that is a situation we ought to be able to handle within a reordered democratic structure . But if the government drags its feet and behaves according to the economics of the nineteenth century , then the aggrieved minorities will increasingly feel that democracy is of no use to them ; they will take to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blood will flow . It bears thinking about only as a spur toward radical measures of social change .                     