@@271822

It was a drowsy Friday morning in Honolulu when the news clattered in over wire-service tickers . Within 32 hours , President Johnson and a small army of " peace warriors " would descend on the island for a whirlwind summit conference with the leaders of South Viet Nam . Hordes of communications , security and transportation experts were already on the way , to be followed by nearly half the U.S. Cabinet , 125 other American and Vietnamese officials , two dozen Secret Service men , 354 newsmen . For Hawaiians , it was to prove the most harrowing ordeal since Maunaloa last blew its top . <P> To make way for the enormous entourage at the staid , pink stucco Royal Hawaiian Hotel , 40 disgruntled guests were hustled off to other rooms , while 140 other patrons arriving over the weekend were lodged elsewhere . Workmen swarmed over the pentagonal three-room King Kalakaua Suite-overlooking Waikiki Beach to ready it for the President . A seven-ton air conditioner , a monarchic double bed , and several cases of Tab and low-calorie Dr. Pepper were sent up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's use with red carpeting and plywood paneling from the Philippines . Signal Corpsmen from Pacific Command Headquarters at nearby Camp Smith worked through the night stringing communications wires at the hotel . <P> Bare Branch . It was the President 's first trip outside the North American continent since entering the White House , and it was organized with the characteristic Johnsonian gusto for the unexpected . A compelling though unacknowledged reason for the sudden decision was the opportunity it gave the President to steal the spotlight from the Fulbright committee 's televised hearings on the war . But there were other motives of greater consequence . The President wanted to galvanize the lagging pacification program in Viet Nam-and thereby show such critics as New York 's Democratic Senator Robert Kennedy that he was not ignoring the political and social aspects of the war . He was anxious to follow up the abortive peace offensive with an equally grand and , he hoped , more successful gesture . Johnson also was eager to meet and take the measure of South Viet Nam 's leaders . <P> When he left Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aboard Air Force One with him on the 11-hr. , 4,946-mi. hop to Honolulu were Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Earle Wheeler . A surprise passenger was 17-year-old Kathy Westmoreland , the general 's oldest daughter and a student at Washington 's National Cathedral School . En route separately were Agriculture Secretary Orville Freeman , Health , Education and Welfare Secretary John Gardner , former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Maxwell Taylor . <P> Pig Pictures . Arriving a day ahead of the hurriedly assembled Vietnamese delegation , Johnson grumbled a bit about the weather being unfit for swimming-though McNamara braved the surf anyway . Instead , the President held a protracted council of war with General Westmoreland , whom he had met only once before and was anxious to size up further . Johnson 's approving verdict : " He 's got a military mind and a social worker 's heart . "                     