@@477560

NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV has now adopted the " heresy " for which I was kicked out of the Communist party in 1945 . His new policy of co-existence is almost word for word the same line I advocated fifteen years ago . So my crime has become ? at least for the moment ? the new orthodoxy . It is still too early to judge how far Khrushchev will carry this policy , or how seriously he means it . But i now feel that I can tell for the first time how and why the American Communist party was destroyed as an effective political force . The reasons why I could not speak out earlier will appear in a moment . In proclaiming his eagerness to end the Cold War , Khrushchev has reversed the policy of Stalin . At the same time he says that the " principle " of co-existence has always guided Soviet policy . This only proves that " principles , " like the flowers that bloom in the spring , trala , have nothing to do with the case . Students of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning . Some suggest it started when the Communists seized power in Czechoslovakia ; others with the establishment of the Cominform ; still others with the outbreak of the Korean war . A few claim that it was always going on But I would judge that in the inscrutable mind of Stalin the Cold War began on that day . late in 1944 , when it became clear that Hitler would be defeated . The first public declaration of the Cold War came with the purge of the American Communist party , which resulted in its political death . It was prepared in the closing months of 1944 , and made public in April 1945 , in " the Duclos letter . " This letter was widely publicized , but its real meaning was successfully camouflaged . It was not , in fact , a letter but an article in a little-read French journal , Cahiers du Communisme , signed by Jacques Duclos . It scathingly attacked the policy of the American Communists , who then advocated and predicted a stable peace at the close of the war , to he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Churchill . This policy the article attributed to me . It revealed the secret that a minority of two in the American leadership , headed by William Z. Foster , opposed this policy . It supported Foster , and said the party 's policy was a notorious revision of Marxism on the part of Browder and his supporters . " Earl Browder declared , in effect the Duclos article continued that at Teheran capitalism and Socialism had begun to find the means of peaceful co-existence and collaboration in the framework of one and the same world . By transforming the Teheran declaration of the Allied governments , which is a document of a diplomatic character , into a political platform of class peace in the United States in the postwar period Browder is deforming in a radical way the meaning of the Teheran declaration and . . . sowing dangerous opportunistic illusions . That was the heart of the Duclos letter , It dismissed the Teheran agreement which had promised that " our nations shall work together in the war , and in the peace that will Follow .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The significance of this summary dismissal of the Teheran declaration was missed , by and large . by American historians as well as newspapermen . It was treated rather as an obscure squabble among the Communists . WHO LAUNCHED THE PURGE ? BUT every Communist quickly understood that the signature of Duclos was only diplomatic camouflage . The message really tame from Moscow . Six months later Duclos could not even remember the contents of the article he had signed , except that it warned against the expectation of an enduring peace . Did " Moscow " mean Stalin ? Or was this a coup by an anti-Stalin faction in Moscow , another sign of the traditional factional struggle within the Russian party ? I myself at the time was not at all certain how to answer this question . I was being purged , along with all who did not renounce me quickly enough , but I did not know by whom . I only knew that it was someone in Moscow with sufficient power to get away with it . Only when Khrushchev 's speech at the Twentieth Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Stalin regime Khrushchev described was that of a personal dictatorship ? enforced by a terrorism that kept his closest associates in hourly fear for their lives , and made real by the execution of a majority of the delegates to one of the latest parry congresses . There had been no anti-Stalin faction for years . There had not even been a party ? only Stalin . By Stalin 's personal decision alone could the Duclos letter have been written . The nature of Stalin 's personal rule also explains why it was considered necessary to denounce the Teheran agreement . Stalin needed the Cold War , to take the place of the hot war then coming to a close . He needed it to keep up the sharp international tensions by which alone he could maintain such a regime . I have often been asked why I did not know these " facts of life " in 1945 . There is one simple answer . Harry Truman ? who as President had sources of information far superior to mine ? speculated in friendly fashion as late as 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then become " a prisoner of the Politburo . " I could not challenge this conception until after Nikita 's revelations . The Ducios letter condemned the American Communist party to death . It put at its head William Z. Foster , an ultra-left sectarian who for twenty-five years had wrecked every organi ? zation on which he could place his hands . Foster ran true to form and soon wrecked the party which he had sought to control . In the larger framework of history , it is true . the American Communist party was doomed to disappear , quite independently of Foster and his role . It was doomed for much larger reasons ? the same that doomed the Socialist party of Norman Thomas . Both parties shared a Socialist perspective borrowed from Europe , which could not be made to fit the reality of America . The New World was really a new world , socially and economically ? destined to find a road to Socialism not dreamed of by Marx or any of the prophets of Socialism , whether utopian or scientific . In America reforms in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rising standard of living ? such as were conceivable in Europe only through revolution ? were achieved relatively quickly and painlessly . Traditional Socialism of all brands could only live a precarious life , if any , in the atmosphere of America . But the American Communist party need not have died such a shameful death as Foster , under the inspiration of Stalin and the Cold War , inflicted upon it . Until the Duclos letter , the American party had been moving step by step toward a new and American conception of its historical task . Entering the 1930s of the great economic crisis as a leftist sect it had taken the initiative in mobilizing large numbers in the fight for unemployment relief and social insurance , in the youth movement , in the fight for equal rights for Negroes , and especially in the anti-Hitler movement . Consequently for the first time the party gained national influence , and itself learned some of the realities of political life . It rediscovered America . It moved steadily " to the right . " Its course may be charted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communism is twentieth-century American- Born in Wichita , Kansas , in 1891 , Earl Browder began the study of Marx when he was sixteen and became a member of the national committee of the American Communist party in 1921 . After twenty-five years as party secretary , he was expelled in 1945 as a " revisionist . " His latest book is " Marx and America : A Study of the Doctrine of Impoverishnient " ( Duel , Sloan &; Pearce ) . He has three sons , all teaching mathematics in American universities . ism , " its 1938 adoption of the Jeffersonian tradition as equally valid with Marxism , and its 1944 renunciation of the " seizure of power " when it changed from " party " to " political association . " It was this Americanization process that brought growth and influence for a time to American Communists , and not the remnants of the old Comintern orthodoxy . I personally led this Americanization trend and carried the party overwhelmingly behind me . I was learning myself , step by step , along with the party , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flash of inspiration . It sprang first of all from the success of the reforms we sponsored , a success that denied Marxist dogmas . It has been said by the dogmatists that " Success spoiled the American Communists , " and from the dogmatic viewpoint that was correct . CARICATURE OF AMERICA T H E Duclos letter halted and reversed the process of Americanization . The party quickly turned openly anti-American . Foster published a " new history " of America , which was highly praised in Moscow , translated in many languages , and made a handbook of anti-American propaganda all over the world . This extraordinary book interpreted the history of America from its discovery to the present , as an orgy of " bloody banditry " and imperialism , enriching itself by " drinking the rich red blood " of other peoples , As in a fantastic caricature , Foster even joined in the Thorez declaration that if the Soviet armies found it necessary to occupy all Western Europe the working people would greet them as liberators ; the only thing missing was a direct welcome to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed the American Communist party . Its former mass following melted away , its membership shrank to a hard tore of fanatics . Only after it was already politically dead , the Smith Act trials and jailings of its leaders revived its ghost a bit , by providing martyrs and rallying the " friends of the underdog " to their aid on a non-political basis . The American Communists had thrived as champions of domestic reforms , and of a Soviet Union to which America became allied in a deadly war of survival . This was the era when General Douglas MacArthur said , " The hopes of civilization ride with the banners of the glorious Soviet armies ? " But when the Communists abandoned reforms , and championed a Soviet Union openly contemptuous of America while predicting its quick collapse , the same party lost all its hard-won influence . It became merely a bad word in the American language . Why was Stalin able to purge the leadership of the American party , and put at its head a man who had been an isolated minority within that leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it were , by a simple article in an obscure French journal ? In order to understand this one must ignore the widely-spread fables about " Comintern representatives " traveling from Moscow to direct Communist parties in all countries . That old method was long obsolete , and never very effective . The only solid representatives of Stalin among the American Communists were Americans themselves ? a little band of " old timers , " occupying strategic posts in the party apparatus . They were a political counterpart of an old-time religious sect , devoted to dogma , abjuring independent thinking , and relying entirely on the head of the church for leadership . For them Communism was a religion , Stalin was Mohammed . and Moscow was Mecca . They had played a minor role for fifteen years , during which they supported my " revisionist " leadership for two reasons : first , because the party as a whole was content with it . as it made the party " prosperous " for the first time in history ; second , because so long as Moscow did not speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's deputy in America in the hierarchy of authority . I was always aware that my leading position could be lost overnight , and that the party might break up , if either of these factors ? prosperity for the party and presumed Moscow blessings ? disappeared . Thus , despite a decade of undisputed leadership . I knew I could not maintain that position in open struggle against Moscow influence . Only two Communist leaders in history ever succeeded in doing this , and both came years later . One was Tito of Yugoslavia , who successfully defied Stalin because he had a newly awakened nation behind him , with a strong army of his own . Mao Tse-tung in China survived Stalin 's attempt to purge him in 1948 with the same technique used in America . Then the Indian Communist party played the role of Duclos , and the accusation against Mao was that of " Browderism . " But the collapse of Chiang Kai-shek 's regime thrust Mao into national power ? to Moscow 's surprise ? quite suddenly , and America 's rigid hostility to Mao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Stalin . But in 1945 , with the party very unfavorably situated in America , I could not dream of successfully anticipating Tito 's and Mao 's defiance of Stalin . Therefore I confined my resistance to the Duclos letter to publicly declaring it a disastrous mistake which I would never approve . But I made no efforts to organize my supporters to hold onto the party apparatus . Consequently I was soon expelled , and my followers who did not change coats overnight quietly left or were expelled from the party . I have opposed the Communist Cold War line ever since , both by public utterance and by private help to trade unionists breaking free from the Communist influence . I abandoned the party apparatus to Stalin 's adherents in order to prevent them from capturing the party 's former mass influence . For almost a decade I have not considered myself a Communist nor even a Marxist in the dogmatic sense . WHY STALIN WAITED T H U S Stalin could purge the American leadership and capture a party machinery , but in the process he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result was guaranteed because , in order to carry out the purge , Stalin had no choice but to use William Z. Foster as his instrument . And no doubt he still resented the American party 's refusal to accept Foster as Secretary in 1929 , when Stalin personally nominated him . But that was way back when Stalin was only a rising star . During my last seven years as head of the party , I could easily have removed Foster from its leading ranks . Indeed , Dimitrov at the head of the Comintern suggested to me in 1938 that this might be necessary . I rejected the proposal , first from a distaste for established " purge " methods , and second because I had found a useful role for Foster as " opposition . " He collected all unreliable elements around himself , made them easier to identify and isolate , and stated their platforms with a classic simplicity easy to refute . Moreover , I already foresaw ( if dimly as yet ) that Foster , as my inevitable successor if hostile forces purged me , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be my hidden mine to blow up the captured fortress . Foster ( lid not fail in this role . Many persons have accused me of naivet ? in believing that the Russians would ever permit my reconstruction of American Communism to be carried out . There are always plenty of such wise generals after every war . Yet I had good , tough-minded reasons to believe this might be possible . Stalin had tolerated my " revisionist " program over more than a decade after its direction was clearly shown , and did not intervene against it or permit others to intervene . Why ? Repeatedly he had opportunities to purge me quietly and without crisis ? but he held back ( though never endorsing me on the record ) until 1945 , when it required a major operation and international scandal . In the reason behind this long tolerance , I thought , was a promise that I might he permitted to complete the job -of -- integrating American Communists- into the country 's democratic life . Many fables have been printed to the effect that I was " Stalin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . They are not true . I never met Stalin personally except in large party gatherings , and that seldom . I was never invited to meet him , and for my part l found it inexpedient to ask for a meeting . And after 1929 ( when Stalin last intervened personally in American Communist affairs to break the alliance between Jay Lovestonc , then party head , and the Bukharin faction in the Russian party ) he had kept hands off the American organization . I was entirely a free choice of the American party leadership when I headed the party in 1930 . By 1934 1 was firmly established as party leader , exempt from Comintern tutelage ? both because that institution had sorry results from previous interventions , and more importantly because I was getting results in shaping American public opinion favorably to Russia . My work most directly pleasing to the Russians was done through the American League for Peace and Democracy . This was an anti-Hitler mass organization chat rose to five million affiliated membership ; many hundreds of outstanding non-Communist Americans associated themselves with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of this League and gave it much of my attention . It was of considerable importance in rousing America against Hitler , and in creating sympathy for Russia . It thus paved the way in public opinion for the eventual Great Coalition of World War II . Even Winston Churchill , when he was opposing Chamberlain on the issue of appeasing Hitler , was at one time unable to obtain quick sponsorship for an American tour , and consequently asked the League to organize such a trip for him . I used unorthodox , " revisionist " means to build the League , but the Kremlin bosses were not finicky about the emphasis I put on common Russian and American interests when they saw the results . In the presence of great danger they easily forgot their dogmas . I relied upon this pragmatism to outlast the war . One incident , I recall , expressed their undogmatic attitude most sharply . I had publicly supported America in the dispute with Japan over the USS Panay incident . When I was next in Moscow a German dogmatist named Florin arose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had impermissibly " taken sides with one imperialism against another " where no issue of Socialism was involved . Even the mild Socialist , Norman Thomas , he pointed out , had condemned such a position because the USS Pan-ay had been escorting Standard Oil tankers on the Yangtze River . The case was argued for several hours . I refused to retreat or compromise and called for a united front of all opponents of the Japanese , even including Standard Oil , because the Japanese were in reality making war not only against America but also against Russia and China . The Russians listened silently ; all other speakers had been more or less sharply against me . A few days later I asked Mannilsky , known as Stalin 's man in the Comintern , what would be the decision . He said to forget the whole matter , there would be no decision . Then most unusually , the old cynic embraced me and for the rest of my stay treated me with great cordiality . The Russians avoided open approval of my heresy on the record ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese armies on their borders had won freedom of action and opinion for me ? temporarily . When my purge was started , without notice to me , in late 1944 , the defeat of Hitler had become certain . Browder was no longer needed . My removal from the party was a liberation for use personally . But at the same time it signaled the opening of the Cold War , a great misfortune for the whole world . LAST VISIT TO MOSCOW A FTER being expelled , as an ex-Communist I applied for and received a visa to visit Moscow . I had no invitation , no appointment to meet anyone , no idea what would be the result . 1 simply felt that one more trip to Moscow was necessary to close the books on twenty-five years of my life . And I was glad to make it as a free man , unconstrained by party discipline . Soon after my arrival I was invited to the office of A. Lozovsky at the government InformaLion Bureau . He was a man I had known since 1921 , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trade Union International ( Prof-intern ) , and when I was directing the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat formed at Hankow , China , in 1926 . Lozovsky had advanced in the Soviet hierarchy by replacing abler men who fell into party disfavor . For twenty-five years he served whoever was in power , and from the trade unions moved into governmental offices . As a Soviet counterpart of a Western high-level civil servant , he seemed a permanent fixture . When I met him in 1946 he was a picture of prosperity and contentment . I could not foresee that Stalin would order him shot as part of the " Jewish conspiracy " and an agent of Zionism , only a few years later . I explained to him that I took seriously the dissolution of the Comintern , and thought its final resolution was its greatest document . I had not come to discuss my relations with the American party , but rather as a long-time friend of the Soviet Union with views on future Soviet-American relations which I hoped they would examine seriously . As far as the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and leadership would cause it to decline and disappear , and considered this a fortunate result . During several sessions I expounded my opinions on the possibility of peaceful co-existence , and related problems . Finally 1 summed them up in a series of written memoranda . After about ten days this business was concluded , and Lozovsky told me it had all been submitted to Foreign Minister Molotov who was then in Paris in the deadlocked Council of Ministers meeting on Germany , in which America was represented by Secretary of State James Byrnes . He asked me to remain in Moscow to talk with Molotov when he returned . I had arrived on May 3 , and it was May 20 when Molotov came back from Paris . It happened to be also my birthday and , not knowing in advance when Molotov would arrive , I had accepted some typical Russian hospitality from a few old friends in a very good Moscow restaurant . When , after four hours of food , drink , and anecdotes , I finally got back to my hotel , I found frantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell me that Molotov wished to meet me in the Narkomindcl ( Foreign Office ) at ten o'clock . I had uric hour and a pot of black coffee to get myself back to normal . Molotov met me courteously and , after a few polite amenities , said he had read my memo50 THE AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTY randa but would like to hear my views from my own lips . He led me with questions which showed him familiar with my opinions . It was all rather one-sided , but I did manage to score with a question of my own . I asked him pointblank : " Is the Comintern going to be revived ? " Molotov hesitated a moment in thought , then answered : " No . " Events soon showed that his answer , technically true , was in essence and reality false . The Cominform ? an ersatz Comintern with all its Faults and none of its virtues ? was born the following year . Perhaps Molotov was overruled on this issue by Stalin , as so often happened . I received the impression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to my views . Perhaps it was only because he had spent hours in examining them , with much understanding . Or again , this may have reflected merely his great diplomatic skill . At any rate , the very fact that I had been listened to led me to believe that the big issue of Cold War had not yet been completely closed in Moscow . I could still hold onto the hope that the bad turn in international relations could be reversed , even though I knew American Communist prospects were hopeless . My visit , I thought , would not have been entirely wasted if in any degree it strengthened the peaceful tendency among Moscow leaders . MOLOTOV OFFERS A JOB A FTER two-and-a-half hours of questions , Molotov closed the meeting by asking what my personal plans were . I said I had none , beyond using whatever influence I had in favor of a peaceful modus vivendi between America and Russia . He then said it had been proposed to offer me the position of American representative of Soviet publishing houses , to place their books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the offer without too much disturbing my own plans . I had previous information that the proposal would be made , and had thought the matter out . To refuse it would mean 1 had no confidence in my own advocacy of Soviet-American co-operation ; to accept it would give me an opportunity to do something practical in this field . I therefore accepted . Molotov then thanked me for visiting Moscow to give him my views which he found quite interesting . Thus ended my last political contact with Moscow . Needless to say , my hopes would prove vain . Next day I received an invitation to visit General Walter Bedell Smith , the American Ambassador , at the Embassy . He was very friendly and asked me to spend the afternoon with him in leisurely conversation . He understood that 1 had " received the red-carpet treatment " and had a long audience with Molotov on his first day back in Moscow , while he himself had waited for months in Moscow without being able to get fifteen minutes . He wanted to learn the secret of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even enlist my aid . He felt frustrated in Moscow , as never before in his life , and was willing to cut corners to break out of his isolation . His genuine frankness and friendliness made a favorable impression on me . I told the General my " secret " would not help him much , as it consisted in getting myself expelled from the Communist party , something beyond his power . I doubted if I could help him , even though quite willing to do so . But I was ready to give him my opinions at length , in the same wary I had with Molotov ? though I would be grateful if he responded more freely than Molotov had done . I had talked so much in Moscow , without an opportunity to listen , that I was hungry for some two-sided discussion . General Smith laughed heartily , and we settled down for a three-hour conversation . I assured him that I thought his frustration in Moscow was merely a by-product of the deadlock in the Council of Ministers . Molotov was spending so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that he had little left for seeing the Ambassador . But if the Russians seemed to " get tough " with him , they had picked up that slogan in Washington , and only applied it more systematically . " Alt , " exclaimed the General , " what an unfortunate phrase that was , ' get tough ' . " Perhaps for General Smith the chief profit in our conversation was in providing a break in his boredom in sealed-up official Moscow . I had felt the same boredom myself . It can be most oppressive . For me our visit had one practical consequence . The Ambassador offered to bring his private airplane from Berlin to take me on the first lap of my trip home . ( " You see , " he complained , " they do not permit me to keep my plane in Moscow . " ) Later on I dutifully reported his complatnt to Lozovsky . I doubt if it did the Ambassador any good , but I 'm sure it was the cause of Lozovsky 's going the Ambassador one better , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My new publishing venture was ruined by the sharp development of the Cold War . But I hung on despite extreme financial difficulty until 1949 . Then I canceled my contract , and broke my last technical relation with Soviet circles . Viten I closed the office I was penniless , having exhausted the small savings of a lifetime in this doomed venture . It was high time to make the break , however , for much more serious reasons . In Sofia , Budapest , and Prague , the Stalinists were putting national leaders on trial for " treason " ? using as a central bit of evidence the accusation that they had used Browder 's hooks to train their associates in treason , in classes held in American Consulates , with printed texts in translation provided by American secret agents . Laszlo Rajk and a group of associates in Budapest were hanged on such absurd evidence of " Browderism . " ( Among them was the man whose " confession " provided this tidbit , a Dr. Tibor Szonyi . ) The big accusation was , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Tito had been orthodox ideologically until Stalin made war on him , the required " heresy " was provided by injecting my name and books . THE SPICE OF BROWDERESAI T H E instrument for this purge was the Cominform ( or Communist Information Bureau ) . It was the formal front for imposing " unity " with Moscow on the Eastern and Central European nations which had , for a few brief years , enjoyed relative freedom as " new democracies " with multi-party governments . Yugoslav Communists were represented in the formation of the Cominform by Tito himself . But on discovering that Stalin was opening a war against hint , Tito and his party refused to attend the second Cominform meeting . Thereupon the entire Yugoslav party was expelled for treason , and Moscow appealed to " loyal Communists " in Yugoslavia to overthrow the Tito regime . This was the only serious act the Cominform ever took . It was created for that single purpose . The purge in all countries was carried out under the Hag of " eliminating Titoism , " with the minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These personal reminiscences of the origin of the Cold War may , I hope , throw some light on the complex problems of bringing it to an end . I watched men and movements , personalities and parties , in a process of rapid change , for worse or for better . Such experiences show how futile it is to deal with these problems in terms of fixed dogma ? as though the world of BY EARL BROWDER 5i ideas by which mankind works out its fate are eternally unchangeable . We all need restudy and intellectual rearmament . My own personal reorientation was a long and difficult process . In the middle and late 1930s I was deeply disturbed by the disappearance of some of my best friends in the Russian trade unions , and even more profoundly troubled when , on inquiring for them , T found that even their former existence was denied , their records had been rubbed out , they were " unknown . " Rut with the American Ambassador attending the purge trials , and vouching for their authenticity , a Communist leader could hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 , with its overtones of a possible future collaboration of the dictators , was also disturbing , and caused a group of American intellectuals to split from the party . But since the immediate effect was to put the Soviet Union into a neutral position quite similar to that which the Neutrality Laws enforced upon America . I took the position that I could not demand more from the Soviet Union than from the United States in the fight against Hitler . And 1939 actually eased the positicin of the American Communists at home , especially in the labor movement , which was then isolationist in sentiment . Therefore , as long as the Russians tolerated my " revisionist " policies , I had no imperative occasion for a clash with them . Only with the Duclos letter of 1945 , was it revealed there was a deep chasm between us , and its full depth was made clear only in 1948 . By the 1950s , my break with the Russians had led me into a basic reexamination of Marxist theory , and I followed in Marx 's footsteps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " My personal revolution in thinking is , of course , of importance only as an example of how the shattering years of the Cold War have broken up the old patterns of thought ? behind the Iron Curtain as profoundly as in the West , although there it is revealed mainly in the lightning flashes of mass discontent and revolts . What remains constant , for me , during the past fifteen years , has been the conviction that the Cold War was a calamity for the entire world , and that it can be justified by no consideration of theory , nor by any supposed national interest . I can only hope that Khrushchev 's new line of talk portends a new line of action to which America can respond in kind . Such hopes are , however , tempered by years of disillusioning memories , which remind us all that it takes two sides to make a peace . 