@@313680

Rolls closed on Medicare registration last week . Some 17.3 million people over 65 ( an incredible 91% of those eligible ) had signed up for the voluntary $3-a-month insurance plan that entitles them to bargain-rate doctors ' care beginning July 1 . On that day , a total of 19.1 million elderly people who are drawing social security benefits automatically become eligible for low-cost , Medicare-financed hospital and nursing-home care . A very automated data system stands ready in Baltimore to handle the record-keeping end of the intricate program that Health , Education and Welfare Secretary John Gardner understates as " an extraordinarily interesting partnership between the Federal Government , the hospitals and nursing homes , state health agencies , private insurance companies and the medical profession . " <P> Nevertheless , plenty of people are wondering whether Medicare might not need something far , far more than extraordinary management to make it work . No one will know for certain how complicated its ailments will be until after the program goes into effect next month , but there are plenty of symptoms to worry about . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration or in the American Medical Association can be really certain as to how many aged eligibles will jam into hospitals for long-delayed , noncritical " elective " operations or other " nonessential " treatment . It would not take too many to cause a serious problem , for there are not many beds available ; some 25% of the nation 's hospitals are already filled to capacity . Beyond that , the Medicare bill prescribes medical standards that hospitals must meet before they can qualify as Medicare institutions ; only 3,000 of the U.S. 's 8,200 hospitals had been approved as of last week . Another 3,000 may be approved this month , but the extra strain put on those that do qualify is bound to be enormous . The Government has no way to even out the increased patient load , for Medicare registrants are free to choose their own doctor or hospital . Even if there were enough beds available , the nurse shortage is rapidly worsening ; the nation has vacancies for 75,000 registered nurses and 25,000 practical nurses . Insofar as Medicare-backed nursing-home treatment is concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds are in institutions that have the medical staff and facilities to qualify for Government payments , SEGREGATION . Under Title 6 of the 1964 Civil Rights Act , federal money can not be appropriated for public institutions that practice racial discrimination . A last-minute campaign by Social Security Commissioner Robert Ball , who is the overall Medicare administrator , has convinced some Dixie hospital administrators that the financial benefits offered by guaranteed Medicare payments outweigh outmoded habits of bigotry . Yet right now , only one-fourth of the hospitals in the South can qualify for Medicare coverage on grounds of desegregation-a fact that will cause critical pressures on the few integrated institutions that will have to carry the entire Medicare load .                     