@@211738

The idea of trial marriage is nothing new ; secular freethinkers have been proposing it for a number of years . But facing the large number of youthful weddings that end in divorce , some reputable Christian theologians today are cautiously debating whether temporary liaisons make good common as well as spiritual sense . <P> Speaking last month to a Protestant conference on welfare work in West Germany , Theologian Siegfried Keil of Marburg University argued that while sexual mores have quite obviously changed during the 2,000 years of Christian history , churchmen nonetheless continue to act as if there were a permanent , inflexible standard of behavior . " Why , " he asked , " should it not be conceivable to think of the act of marriage as being divided into several stages , from single life to matrimony ? " One such interim stage , he suggested , might be a " recognized premarriage , " during which sexual relations by the couple would not be condemned as sinful . <P> Under Strict Controls . Roman Catholic Father Jacques Lazure , a Harvard-educated sociologist who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has tentatively proposed that the church might some day consider the institution of " probationary marriages " as an antidote to the high divorce rate among the young . Lazure-who was promptly silenced by his superiors after explaining his views to the Toronto Star-suggested that trial marriages , if ever they are authorized , ought to be surrounded with strict social and ecclesiastical controls . The couples involved should be at least 18 years old , and would be required to practice birth control . Sanctioned by both church and state , such unions might last anywhere from three to 18 months , and could be readily dissolved at the request of either party . Hopefully , however , most would end in permanent marriage . <P> Although most U.S. theologians are somewhat reluctant to openly challenge traditional church views on the indissolubility of marriage and the sinfulness of premarital sex , there is some support for these proposals . Says Dr. Edward Craig Hobbs of Berkeley 's Episcopal Church Divinity School of the Pacific : " Something like trial marriage would be vastly superior to our present system , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Robert Lee of San Francisco Theological Seminary argues that since " intercourse during engagement is becoming standard , " the time of betrothal , in effect , " has become a trial marriage . " <P> Paying an Indemnity . Another theologian intrigued by the idea of trial marriages is William Hamilton of Colgate-Rochester Divinity School , one of the leading " Death-of-God " thinkers , who suggests that a betrothal period in which sexual relations are licit would actually be in accord with the marital patterns that prevailed in the time of Christ . Under early Jewish custom , couples who became betrothed often lived as man and wife , without being required to enter permanent marriage . By this custom , if either party objected to formalizing the union , it could be dissolved by a religious court .                     