@@494520

" I have sampled and sought out German culture . It has changed all my political views . I am wildly in favour of nineteen new Dreadnaughts . German culture must never , never , prevail . " Confessedly unmusical , Brooke responded favorably to only one aspect of German culture : its anti-Semitism . Despite his sincere socialism , Brooke was notably xenophobic and had an ingrained streak of gentlemanly anti-Semitism which pops up frequently and nastily in his otherwise charming letters . It was the " Temperamentvoll German Jews " haunting the Cafe des Westens in Berlin who inspired the bathetically nostalgic evocation of WASP England in one of Brooke 's most famous poems , The Oki Vicarage , Grantchester . Even more than Jews , Brooke loathed Americans . Hoping to recover by travel from his blighted romance with Katharine Cox , whom he thought a goddess but who looks in her photographs alarmingly like Theodore Dreiser , Brooke set sail for America . He found it a " harsh hysterical hell " ( this in 19131 ) filled with " ugly people and civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , if anything , worse , so Brooke went on to the South Seas , a tropical paradise complete with memories of Gauguin , freshly imbibed coconuts , and even a dusky paramour , poor Taatamata of Tahiti , whom Brooke loved and left behind when he returned to his own civilization , now poised on the brink of suicide . If all this makes Brooke seem both na ? ve and a trifle sinister , I am not succeeding in conveying his great charm and insouciance as a correspondent . Sometimes he is , to be sure , appallingly cute , as when he tells the actress Cathleen Nesbitt , with whom he flirted in his last years , " There 's a place downwards from the corner of your eye , and inland from your nose , and about half an inch North East from your mouth ? that 's entirely adorable . " When Brooke runs on like this , we can understand why Peter Pan was one of his favorite plays : he hated the idea of growing up . But much more frequently he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live to see the total prohibition of alcohol in England , which is the female idea of politics , and the establishment of Christian Science as a State Church , which is the female idea of religion . " His writing is always fresh and unpretentious , and his literary opinions , of which one gets all too few ( Brooke never came on as Grand Cham with his friends ) amazingly accurate . Thomas Hardy at breakfast " was quite incredibly shrivelled and ordinary , and said faintly pessimistic things in a flat voice about the toast , " but Brooke is fully aware of Hardy 's greatness as a poet . As early as 1912 he knows that Yeats is " worth a hundred " of Robert Bridges ? an opinion not many would have shared at the time . Edwin Arlington Robinson is the " one poet in America , " and Brooke hails the newly published Sons and Lovers as " extraordinarily vivid in conception of scenes , " adding that its author is " always hectic , is n't he , a little ? . .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , too , Brooke was ahead of his time , often using deliberately modern imagery of the Eliot-Auden sort that must have been shocking in the sedately pastoral context of Georgian Poetry . He does very little theorizing about poetry in these letters , largely , I think , because he felt that a gentleman does n't bore his correspondents with private technical concerns , but it is evident that he thought much about the directions in which zoth century poetry was headed , and looked ahead rather than behind him . For all his personal weaknesses and the sanctimonious myth-making which has posthumously surrounded him , one puts his letters down tempted to paraphrase Grillparzer 's epitaph for Schubert : " Poetry has here entombed a rich treasure but much fairer hopes . " At first glance , this little book is rather unpromising : the style is inhibited , the accent is Old Bostonian , and the content - a diffuse expatiation on the need for strong government is what one might expect from a man who spent five years in one of the most frustrating jobs in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last March , now slightly revised for the reading public , it lacks the vigor and passion of a tract for the times . Nevertheless it may have its uses as a sort of conspectus for Democrats getting ready to overhaul their party . We find it hard to think of our government as weak when the symbols of its strength are spread all over the world , from Vietnam to the Mediterranean . Moreover , we have been raised on the belief that government is inherently mean and brutal , and that there is likely to be too much of it rather than too little . McGeorge Bundy addresses himself to the opposite thesis : that our government is far too weak and inefficient to meet the demands of the present or the greater demands of the future . Bundy emphasizes that the White House , where he served as Special Assistant for National Security Affairs , is far from being the seat of power , as is commonly thought . As Harry Truman observed , it is more like a " big white jail . " Presidents with ambitious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or silently undercut by the executive bureaucracy . Bundy has a lot to say about the deficiencies of the Presidential setup : the inability to get taxes raised or lowered when the national interest dictates ; the Congressional penchant for passing impressive legislation without appropriating the funds to implement it properly ; poor communication between governmental departments , and between spokesmen for different viewpoints ; the mediocrity of some Cabinet officers , and the tendency of even good ones to                     