@@477839

Once again we are hearing a good deal about the " politics of college youth " ? not only in this country but abroad . Magazine articles solemnly report " new " currents ? new conservatism , new radicalism , new enthusiasms for working overseas and demonstrating at home . Few campus phenomena seem to be so widely reported and , at the same time , so oddly distorted ; for there has been very little careful analysis of what , precisely , is new about the present student activity , and even less concerning the ways in which it is , and is not , political . One reason for the distortion , I think , is that so many of the reactions to the political moods of college youth today come from my own generation of the radical ' thirties and ' forties , and these views are likely to have no firmer basis than our own autobiographies ? our own exorcism of our youthful Marxism and other creeds and our subsequent reconciliation to the America of the ' sixties . Because we are now the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are acting out some imitation of our radical past and will follow the same path we did . Therefore , we whisper to them , " Be careful of the Communists " ; we applaud and express concern over their " new " new " unrest ; and yet behind our parental interest I detect a complacent assumption that the young are merely reliving our experience , laying away a kind of moral credit against the future bankruptcy of adult life . Students seem to have become keepers of the American conscience , something like the religious , who in their world apart pray for us . What of the young themselves ? My own exWhether American college politics are left or right , loud or silent , Philip Rieff contends they operate in very peculiar ways ? completely different from those abroad , and scarcely understood here . Now Professor of Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania , Mr. Rieff has taught at Berkeley , Harvard , Munich , Brandeis , and the University of Chicago . He is the author nf " Freud : The Mind of the Moralist. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicates to me that they are we aware of the role into which they have been cas . They have been told , often , that their elde have become both disenchanted with ideologi , and lacking in ideals . And , for this good reasm they refuse to listen to anything else we has to say . Like our old enemies , the Communist we too have become ghosts , and we are ghos that are generally ignored . To be compelling , ghost needs a Hamlet to instruct , but our collq youth are interested in playing neither Hamb nor Oedipus now . They neither heed ? an avenge ? their fathers , nor destroy them . Lackir continuing leadership , they play a fickle gar ' of father figures . For a time , indeed , it appeare that Adlai Stevenson would become Hamlet father ? there was perhaps no more admired figui among political youth in the colleges ; instead Mr. Stevenson chose to play Hamlet . Built u into a father-figure for the student young , I finally tore himself down and out of the politic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honor of being " father of the year , " a mats title but hardly one to compel a youthful fc lowing . The fact is that no one compels the young t , day . Therefore they must compel each oche like children left without their parents . Wh ; passes for politics among them may be mm accurately described , perhaps , as their mood excitement at discovering that they arc alone and without direction from the adult worlds of power and responsibility . And precisely because it is so leaderless and unconnected with the real world of parties and power , the present discontent of the student young ought to be taken seriously . We must remember , however , that a lack of connection with power and responsibility is an established quality of college life in America . Until the ' thirties , this isolation was taken for granted by the students themselves ? they happily pursued other interests . From the ' thirties until today there has been a slow ? and very partial ? development of a different style of political life , closer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved in real politics . In effect , American students still remain in their comfortable ghetto , apart from the political process , but some no longer think this condition is a fortunate privilege , and they try to express their feelings about it . POLITICS BY DEFAULT T his comparison with Europe is not irrelevant . On the contrary , I believe it is impossible to understand college politics in America ? and visualize its possibilities ? without seeing it against the background of the very different activities of youth elsewhere . Looking at youthful politics around the world , we can immediately make a number of sharp distinctions . First , we can define youth anywhere as that group which runs roughly in age from fifteen to twenty-five and has not yet put down many deep stakes in the national economy by acquiring jobs , families , homes , salaries . Secondly , we can see that in advanced Western societies ? the United States , Great Britain , France , much of Western Europe ? where youth are on the margin of political and economic power , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we see that in the new societies of Asia , Africa , the Near East , and Latin America , youth arc most emphatically and directly in politics . ( So are they in the Communist countries , but in a quite different way . ) By far the most significant activity among college youth today is taking place in the underdeveloped areas where students have moved into politics by default . Their countries have become sovereign nations with little preparation for twentieth-century politics and without anything like a twentieth-century economy or social structure . The older leaders are often unable to deal effectively with modern realities , and a new eliteof students is in effect attempting to serve as a local substitute for a European-style middle class ? the group that has been the historic carrier of modernization in Western society . Iran can serve as an example . It is a very poor nation with an archaic social structure . A small court aristocracy hovers around the Shah 's throne and is counterbalanced by a larger tribal aristocracy more loosely tied to the throne ? rather like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Between the two there are numerous rural peasants and nomads and a small industrial working class . Except in Tehran , the middle class is nonexistent . However , instead of a middle class , there is a growing and self-conscious student class , which identifies its own quest for status with the national quest for power . The importance of the students far exceeds their numbers . There are some 12,000 of them in Tehran , and the Shah often consults ? and sometimes debates ? with them , acknowledging a voice already powerful in the nation . Moreover there are 20,000 Iranians studying abroad , almost all of them in fields that bear very directly on the immediate problems back home ? agriculture , medicine , economics , the sciences , etc . ( Very few arc studying the arts or humanities . ) Of course these students are sponsored by the Iranian government and in that sense they are not independent political forces . Yet they show promise of being able to perform as the European middle class did in the nineteenth century , being both nationalistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced and official breeding of an elite group of students developed in the Soviet Union in the late ' twenties and early ' thirties when the Communist party recruited a corps of students dedicated to the national interest , giving highest priority to training for the task of modernizing the Russian economy . Essentially the same policy has been continued under Khrushchev . The underdeveloped nations are now imitating the Russian emphasis on building up the student class , not because they believe in Communist ideology but because they have the same need to modernize , But students as a group are no more grateful than other groups and the sponsorship of a student elite by a regime raises sharp problems . A rising status breeds quite as much grasping anxiety in students as a declining status does in other groups . In Russia the regime has found that the students have become too jealous of their elite status and Khrushchev has announced that they will have to spend more of their time 158 doing manual labor to assure that they remain " proletarian " in taste and outlook . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true will and interests of the nation ? however inarticulate the nation may actually be ? the government that sponsors them runs the risk of creating a powerful opposition . Indeed , the great question in the emerging countries is not whether the students will exert political influence ? they will ? but in what ideological direction they will move . From 1789 to 1848 the European middle class conceived of itself as representing the true interests of the nation ? and in fact it became the dominant class . As the student classes of the underdeveloped countries join positions of power , they may well be able to perform the historic Function of the European middle class as the vehicle of nationalism . This does not mean , of course , that they will acquire a European middle-class viewpoint . For , unlike the Europeans , they are directly sponsored by poor governments and their nationalism ? more than ever before ? is likely to develop internally along statist lines , with a predominantly collectivist organization of the political economy . But if the new nations are to modernize swiftly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give their unshaped countries the unity they now lack . SHOCK TROOPS FOR ELDERS I n this , the college students of the new nations are in striking contrast to most students in the West . If we date the history of modern politics from , say , the French Revolution , the evidence tends to confirm this generalization : Polaical youth has done no more than follow , often with decisive effect , the lead of its elders . There are exceptions , of course . One would seem to he the case of Cuba where Fidel Castro , a student leader , led a small and determined cadre of student revolutionaries to depose a regime that had lost favor with the older middle-class groups , partly because of its brutal treatment of students . But most youthful political activity has run along lines laid down during the French Revolution . As one student of that period puts it : " When the adults were radical , the youths were radical ; when the adults were reactionary , the youths still followed . " Indeed , when adults turn reactionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacobin auxiliary youth clubs were active in the French Revolution itself , but during the counter-terror the most sinister political gangs in Paris were the " Gilded Youth " ? bandsof dandies who re-established their identification with authority and enjoyed the protection of high government officials . This classic pattern ? in which youth serves as the shock troops for older age-groups ? has been followed again and again in Western politics right down to our own time . Many European political parties have organized youth auxiliaries along Jacobin lines , allowing the student leaders of proven effectiveness a voice in their councils . For the most tightly organized of the youth groups , an analogy can be found in Church history : It was an essential part of the Jesuit theory of the Counter Reformation that a militant elite ? devoted to the interests of the Church ? be trained in Catholic schools for the eventual recapture of Europe . Essentially the same doctrine is applied in Soviet schools with the state replacing the Church as the focus of responsibility . As early as 1902 , Lenin wrote off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary movement and called for an effort to recruit youth into the Party . Since the Revolution , student youth groups like the Russian Komsomol ? the Communist Youth League ? have become instruments of official policy throughout the totalitarian world , pledged to total dedication to the state , and called upon for special effort in time of emergency . Nevertheless , in Russia the League of Communist Youth is no longer the elite outfit it once was . Its membership of twenty million remains a main feeder into the Communist party ( now eight million ) but the organization is fairly open , and membership in it is now simply a way for the ambitious Soviet youngster to clear the way for success in Soviet society . ( Some Russian experts count on the aging of former students within the Communist movement to act as a dissenting or moderating force on the Party . It remains to be seen whether by rigorously training a large student elite , the Soviet government has crested a " new class " from which some measure of internal opposition can be expected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out if the " new class " remains obedient to the state , exacting only those concessions necessary to keep up its new status in the Communist world . ) Both the German and Italian totalitarian movements were quick to learn basic lessons from their Socialist and Communist rivals and organize the young in the service of the state . By the early ' thirties large numbers of German students and jobless youth had been incorporated into the Nazi apparatus and sent into the lecture halls and streets to compete with the Red Front organizations and officially sponsored republican youth groups . All over Europe similar efforts were made ? often with less success ? to build up the existing youth auxiliaries of European parties ; and to a large extent European youth was politicized in the ' thirties . Throughout the Continent today we can still find student groups acting within the major political formations , despite the postwar decay of ideological fervor . Meanwhile , what was happening in the United States ? It is significant that the effort to marshal young people ? particularly students ? into national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' thirties . This was not because similar conditions of unemployment did not exist here but because the parties and the American government had different attitudes toward the young . The Civilian Conservation Corps , established in the fateful year of 1933 , was essentially a device to keep young men from becoming hoboes . Although the American Communists were quick to label it a Fascist threat , they could not have been more in error . The Corps never became a political weapon and the more than a million young men who enrolled in it from 1933 to 1935 received no ideological training . In its statements on the Peace Corps , the Kennedy Administration has seemed to indicate that it has something like an international CCC in midd . It is unclear , however , how such an organization could avoid developing political functions abroad , and there are some signs that in fact the Peace Corps members will he expected to involve themselves in the local politics of community development . It is too early to tell just what will become of the Peace Corps but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis has been on the constructive labor the students will perform . Whatever ideological mission it may have , it has been expedient to present the Peace Corps ' purpose in practical rather than political terms. * Both of these American youth corps help to illustrate a basic distinction . Because our politics developed in a fundamentally different way from Europe 's , the place of youth in American politics has been altogether different . In Europe , doctrines based on " self-evident " first principles un- leashed the revolutionary impulses ? and it took a sense of shared purpose and danger to send the young students out into the street . But such doctrinal politics passed from the American scene soon after the Revolutionary period and even then did not command the unqualified respect of the American Revolutionary leaders . Unlike the sponsors of the French Revolution , with their emphatic doctrine of Liberty , Equality , and Fraternity , the American Revolutionaries did not organize auxiliary youth groups and the party politicians who followed them were not interested in bringing students into adult political life . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both uniquely free of adult politics and notoriously uninterested in them . The politics of the established middle- and upper-class families which sent the students to college could be safely taken to stand for those of the silent students themselves . In the ' thirties , something new occurred . Students were organized into more or less disciplined college units of adult radical political organizations ? Socialist , Communist , Trotskyist , etc . Significantly enough , this first appearance of politically conscious student groups paralleled the appearance on American campuses of non-Anglo-Saxon , first-generation Americans with some family history of Continental political experience . Thus , American student politics of the Continental sort came first ? and almost exclusively ? at those great urban universities which admitted considerable numbers of East European Jews and other children of recent immigrants in the ' twenties and ' thirties . These students found themselves both socially and politically outside the usual patterns of American student life . The occasional old-family American who found his way into their radical organizations was welcomed , of course ; indeed , he was often elected to office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England , became a useful front for the group as a whole . However , because it was dramatically different , it is easy to overinflate the importance of this first generation of radical students ? not only the quality of their political programs and their relevance to American life , but also their numbers . Although they did make a few large and important inroads into a few schools ? the City College of New York , Columbia , Harvard , Chicago ? they never succeeded in reaching any sizable number of students outside the first-generation circles in which they were likely to make friends . The average student remained more interested in sports , fraternities , and his career than in socialism or political action ? and in this he was following an example his father had set in his own day . If something had been added to the content of student politics , the form of student life remained the same . What is this form ? Essentially it springs from a conception of American student life as something set specially apart from any other time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student leads a kind of aristocratic life unique in American culture ? he is given extraordinary privileges of unearned leisure , and is catered to in many ways which seem to astonish no one except , now and then , the faculty . Not long ago I walked through the main gate of the University of California at Berkeley with a mathematical colleague who suddenly waved his arm and exclaimed , " They have been given everything ? what more do they want ? " He was pointing to the university 's glittering new Student Union which some students like to call the " Berkeley Hilton . " ENVYING THE NEGROES B ut the students are expected to pay a price for their privileges in the form of good behavior . For misbehavior implies an affront to those who are supporting diem during their privileged and bracketed years of grace , before they go out into the world as it really is . To be idealistic and , above all , to try to carry that idealism into demonstrative political action is to take unfair advantage of one 's special situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleasurable and cozy isolation from the real adult world ? " the best years in life " ? which has been arranged by a great deal of adult effort and expense . Thus , in order to maintain his status and his privileges , the student is supposed to keep out of trouble . His politics , like his other extracurricular activities , must be conducted in approved ways . And the way most approved is a mock version of adult national party politics called " student government . " This is encouraged , not to give the students an opportunity to govern themselves , but as a way of rendering genuine political interest innocuous . Student government is most acceptable when it mimics ? indeed parodies ? adult politics : the furious campus election campaigns , complete with posters , speeches , parties , factions , jockeying for office . All the political trimmings are there except the real issues and the real relation between action and power which are the very substance of politics . Such a relation might be built by an attempt to imitate the European model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active role in adult politics and would in return have some voice in adult political decisions . But even during the ' thirties this was repugnant to most of the students themselves as well as to their elders . Of course there are student political groups in America on the European model , many of them European in origin : Socialist Youth , Zionist Youth , church-related youth groups which take positions on social issues . And there are the college Democratic and Republican clubs which generally count for very little with party politicians . But whatever the organization , the university authorities can exert control by sealing off " on-campus " from " off-campus " activities . Anything approaching serious and controversial politics runs the danger of being considered " off-campus " and not sterile enough for student participation . An excellent case in point recently occurred at the University of California when the student organization called " SLATE " was banned by the administration for calling itself a " political party . " This group of several hundred students was involved in the San Francisco demonstrations against the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been trying to consolidate itself as a continuing force on the Berkeley campus . In banning it , Professor ( later Chancellor ) Edward Strong , the school 's chief administrative officer , said that a university must be " entirely independent of all political and sectarian influences " ? a perfect statement of the hygienic concept of the campus that dominates the minds of the officials who run our college system . Here again there is a sharp contrast with Europe , where the student politics are national politics brought into the university . We prefer mock politics , all empty gesturing and no substance . This is not to say that mock politics can not be played to real effect . For example , in England the Oxford Union remains a training ground for party parliamentarians , with the House divided along national party lines , prominent guest debaters from the national parties , and the very design of the debating hall a replica of the House of Commons . But our collegiate debaters and politicians have no such elite institution to make their training a genuine stage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they lack a stable or continuing connection with the politics of the adult world into which they will be inducted only on their graduation . When they become lawyers or businessmen and put down stakes in some community , they will finally he eligible for adult political life . Recently there has been a striking exception to this rule . Negro students in the South ? the most backward area of the American college world ? have with their sit-in demonstrations and Freedom Rides developed a kind of student politics that aims to relate itself directly and immediately to the adult world . This is a rare instance of youth leading age , and in fact it bears comparison with the role of the students in the underdeveloped countries . For the Southern Negro students have also stepped into a situation where the older powers are often impotent . Their skill and articulateness ? as well as their conscience ? arc really useful to the adult Negro community because they can not be supplied in adequate quality or quantity by the older Negro leadership . Yet even this exception contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students arose only after Martin Luther King , a relatively young religious leader , had offered them a compelling example of disciplined , nonviolent protest that could strike at sensitive spots in the Southern towns ? a workable alternative , in effect , to the formless resentment and acquiescence of the past . Even though many of the active Negro students are not directly linked to Dr. King , lie has given them crucial direction . The example of the Negro students has stirred their white contemporaries in the North not merely to sympathy but to imitation in the form of demonstrations and even trips to the Southern jails . But this imitation can not be carried very far because , unlike the Negroes , the white students do not have a community which needs or wants their support . Nor have the white students a Martin Luther King to give them not only a strategy but also a faith in their capacity to redeem themselves and others . The would-be political students I have talked to in the Northern colleges can only envy the vitality of the Negro student movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect , a second generation of politically conscious liberals and Socialists , the children of the first generation of college radicals I have already described . Their parents passed along to them the ethics of political activism , yet demonstrated their own incapacities during the McCarthy era . But they have found no opportunities like those of the Southern Negro students , however much they may dream of them . WORDS MUST SINK N evertheless , there have been insistent claims that , after years of apparent deadness , American college life has recently undergone a mysterious political quickening . As late as May 1959 , The Nation magazine made the standard generalization that college youth were " apathetic , silent , conformist , indifferent , confused . " But early in 1960 , some brisk change of attitude is said to have occurred , blowing away the defeat . ism and apathy of the ' fifties . I would argue that no such major change has taken place and that beneath the publicized flurries of student political activity , the same basic attitudes continue . In the first place , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority ? the great mass of students remain quite apathetic and resigned . And what this minority has done has been to shift the politics of youth toward a more explicit and demonstrative protest against the politics of the adult world itself , after the more silent protest of the ' fifties . But this is not a major change , for the politics of American youth has always been a negative anti-politics . The chief actions the students have taken recently have been protests against abuses of power by their elders and indeed against power itself , For example . in California since 1960 , students have demonstrated against the execution of Caryl Chessman : against the House Un-American Activities Committee ; against military service in the colleges ; against nuclear weapons ; and against unjust treatment of Negroes in the South . And the same or similar issues have attracted college students elsewhere . No doubt all these demonstrations involved a satisfying discharge of moral conscience for the students who took part . But looking deeper into the attitudes behind the protest , one finds little that is political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be a determined protector of intellectuals and au apprentice intellectual himself . Most politicians appear to him as Babbitts , " phonies , " and professional moralizers , lacking culture and sensitivity . And above all he is suspicious of " phoniness " which he detects everywhere around him : the old patriots he finds reactionary ; the old Marxists discredited ; the oldliberals compromised . All are dismissed and distrusted as " word slingers . " If silence was the student rhetoric of the ' fifties , noises and marching would seem to be the rhetoric of the ' sixties : both indicate intellectual scorn for professional moralizing . But , for all this scorn , there is a deep-rooted anti-intellectualism among the politically sensitive young . Words , they consider , sink a subject ; action enlivens it . They have no political theory or program , either Marxist or non-Marxist . To protest against the House Committee , Chessman 's sentence , or ' Woolworth 's is still to " play it cool , " for it implies no further responsibility , except perhaps to march @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adult political decisions . This denial of any link between student action and adult political power shouts from the very walls of the dormitories . During the last election . for example , I would see signs reading , " Vote NO for President , " as well as , " Ban the Bomb , " and Stevenson posters hung around the rooms of my radical students . I often wondered just how superior they were to their apathetic or conservative fellows in their understanding of , say , racial discrimination . Many , it seemed clear , would rather cherish their sentiments for equality than study carefully the complex questions involved . If such students could grow less sentimental and more analytical it might help them take their first steps toward participating in the organized worlds of power and responsibility now ruled by the philistine representatives they reject . On the campus itself , the radical young are , predictably , anti-organization men . Their own organizations function as gadflies to the main body of student organizations which are generally conservative . And in the last year or so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever before , as large college audiences have turned nut to cheer Senator Goldwater . Some teachers have observed among the professedly conservative students both articulate criticism of organized mass society in all its forms ? " big corporations " as well as " big labor " and " big government " ? and a kind of nostalgic individualism . My own observation of the campus conservatives is somewhat different . These students seem to me to be rejecting not only radicalism but the advanced college culture . They are able to focus both resentments on the campus intellectuals , who are generally to the left and culturally more aspiring ? they tend , for example , to choose scholarly over business careers . In effect , the young conservatives form an aggressive minority of nonintellectual students who now stand openly for the traditional college culture which implicitly approved of athletics , fraternities , old-fashioned patriotism , and the virtues of good business as opposed to good works . By turning to Senator Goldwater , they proclaim their loyalty to the American business community , into which they hope to graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and leftist contemporaries who have for years made " big business " and " organization men " their targets . Moreover , by bucking the campus liberals and their many mentors on the faculty , the conservatives do demonstrate an old-fashioned American individualism of a sort ? they play the role of " agin-ers . " And since they can sometimes spot worms at the core of standard liberal policies , they feel superior to the liberal establishment , which they see as dominating campus thought . The student radicals and conservatives are thus strangely alike : both feel embattled and both can only protest . Lacking political solutions of their own , the radicals now pit their ethical consciences against the dangers of the political game itself . For example , their agitation against the moral horror of nuclear weapons is absolute , with no attempt to visualize political costs or alternatives . And while the newly vocal conservatives may voice more or less well-founded suspicions of liberal gospel , they show no signs that they have ever tried to visualize concretely a society in which both public welfare and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is in this sense that the politics of college youth may be fairly called antipolitical . INEVITABLY POLITICAL ANIMALS ? oral indignation is one expression M of student antipolitics ; snobbery of taste is another . Indeed , if any single quality is apparent among intelligent students in the ' sixties , I should say it is a sense of cultural superiority over the generation of their parents . For example , the youthful sentiment for Adlai Stevenson seemed more centered on him as an attractively civilized man than as a political figure . To be radical politically has become thoroughly confused with a belief in a minority culture and the students have not even begun to sort out the problems and contradictions . It is , however , only too easy for members of the adult generation to criticize college students today ? to condemn the apathy and dint belief that characterize the large majority , and the precocious cynicism and fruitless protest that set apart the few . Adults would do better instead to examine their own political institutions . For , as I have pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have generally followed the lead of elders who inspired and organized them ; who presented them with ideas and programs in which they could believe , and gave them a definite role to play in senior political life . The plain fact is that in our complex society most college students arc not able to formulate political beliefs and programs of their own . And they are not old enough ? or involved enough in adult political and economic realities ? to accept an adult political system based on responsibility for decisions , compromise of convictions , and the balancing of opposed interests . They have not yet acquired worldly interests of their own . They look for ideals and men in which they might believe , and quickly reject them when their acts are at odds with their words . They have not yet learned , in short , to act without conviction . It is certainly true that exemplary men and programs are hard to come by in any modern industrial society , but every generation of students continues to need them for models if it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society arc well aware that none of them can pretend to be anything like exemplary men , and in pasteboard figures like Yuri Gagarin they have tried to provide Soviet youth with substitute heroes . In France and England more and more young people have felt so estranged from adult leadership that they have entered their own phase of vocal protest against adult politics itself . Lacking direction from any group above , most of our own political youth remain stranded . They can only devise attitudes of protest against the possibility of dying without a cause they deeply believe in and without leaders they can love . Unless our society can produce political leadership and ideas which will compel their positive emotions , we may expect that the Inure aware among our college students will continue to act out their kind of rejection of all power and politics I have described in this article . For this is their one sure way of hedging against the disappointments and betrayals and compromises which the most respected and intelligent among their elders have told them are the inevitable lot of decent men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     