@@488145

California is in the throes of one of the most subtle and intensive racist political campaigns ever waged in a Northern or Western state . As Ronald Reagan admits privately , his chances of victory over Governor Edmund Brown lie in his ability to exploit overwhelming voter opposition to open-housing laws while building up and maintaining an image ot moderation . The task is n't eas , but that it can be done was proved by Sen. George Murphy . who two years ago defeated the Democratic candidate , Pierre Salinger. in the lace of a Johnson landslide , by exploiting the muted and evasive approval of Proposition 14 , the initiative measure designed to pull the teeth of the Rumford Fair Housing Act and prohibit all future open-housing laws . Of course , Murphy was n't quite the right winger that Reagan is  --  and was publicly seen to be , until Spencer-Roberts , the public relations managers , took him under their auspices . Reagan began his retreat from liberalism more than a decade ago . after having noisily supported Helen Gahagan Douglas in her Senatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself as an all-out convert to the right-wing cause when he managed Loyd Wright 's forlorn primary campaign against Sen Thomas Kuchel in 1962 . Wright once called for preventive war against Russia ; andhe sees civil rights as a part ol the Communist conspiracy . Two years later , Reagan plunged into the Goldwater primary campaign so wholeheartedly mat Spencei-Roneris , then managing the Rockefeller campaign in California . referred to him as an extremist . During the Presidential race , his carefully worded phrases on such subjects as voluntary social security , the United Nations . Supreme Court decisions and violence in the streets made Reagan the darling ol the right wingers . He sent them into ecstasies with his artful radio and TV performances , and they launched his gubernatorial campaign the day after the election . Reagan was applopliately co , but alter the pioper arm twisting he announced that he would ield to public demand . He tested that demand through state-wide tours , and in announcing his candidacy said that one of the prime issues was civil rights He got the pre-primary backing of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus insuring victory in the primary over moderate George Christopher , former Mayor of San Francisco , but his hackers knew that he would need a more moderate image for the general election . Spencer-Roberts came in to do the Job , and in an enthusiastic moment one of its executives said that the agency was going to make Reagan the John V. Lindsay of California . That 's quite an order . but the real problem is to make Reagan palatable to the middle-of-the-road voters without offending the Right . Apparently Reagan discussed the problem with his friend and political associate , former Rep. John Rousselot , the John Birch public relations man , because he confided in an unguarded moment at a pre-primary gathering that " John " was quite a good fellow who was willing to ' help in any way he could from publicly denouncing the Reagan candidacy to outright endorsement . In the ensuing ruckus , Reagan dismissed the statement as a wry joke of his own making . His official position is that he will not denounce the John Birchers , nor will he solicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Birch members who are Republican candidates . If elected , he says , he will appoint " qualified " John Birchers to office . He says that if Birchers support him it is because they subscribe to his program and not he to theirs . It is no secret that the Birth brass is lined up solidly behind him and that reactionaries such as Walter Knott and Henry Salvatori and John Mc-Cone are in his corner . He has avoided the embarrassment of having Goldvvater or Sen. Strom Thurmond campaign for him by saying that he does n't think it proper for out-of-state people to advise Californians on political choices . Reagan 's bid for the middle7of-the-road vote consists of taking ambiguous stands on public issues . He 's all for voluntarism , including a voluntary box-office tax to be levied by theatres to help the movie industry ; he sees such a tax as a way to ward off the horror of government subsidy to the producers . He approves the social security system , but thinks it is possible to " let some young men who are just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to take as much out as they might put in . He approves voluntary action to stamp out pornography , but supports an " anti-obscenity " initiative measure called " CLEAN " that is so unbelievably bad it has earned the condemnation of the Council of Churches , the State Bar , all leading newspapers , the state 's district attorneys , and even that of the Republican candidate for lieutenant governor , who agrees with all knowledgeable lawyers that it is unconstitutional . ( See " California 's Dirty Book Caper " by William Wingfield , The Nation , April 18 . ) " Constitutional , or not , " says Mr. Reagan , " if this measure is voted down , my opponent might take this to mean that the people of California are not opposed to pornography . " What that means is anybody 's guess . Of course Reagan is for tax reform and against tax increases , but if we must have increased taxation , he 's all for a raise in sales taxes . What be regards as turmoil at the University rof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school under the - leadership of former CIA Chief John McCone . He 's opposed to right-to-work laws for California , but he wants to keep Section 14(B) , in federal laws so that states may have a free choice . Welfare payments are too high , in his opinion , and he would reduce them by putting relief recipients to work at tasks unspecified . By his own say-so , Reagan is ' opposed to bigotry and racial prejudice , but he 's also opposed ' . to civil rights legislation . Republican Attorney General Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts , a Senatorial candidate and a Negro , heard him try to explain his position for about an'hour : " It ' was all vague and hazy , " Brooke said later . " I do n't think he thinks very well . I could n't always Make out what he - was TEE NATION / October 31 , 1966 driving at except that he was trying to tell me that although he would n't have signed the 1964 Civil Rights Bill he was a friend of the Negroes . Ile seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other campaign issues , says Reagan ; is that old Goldwater chestnut " morality in government " ; the details are not defined , but it is apparent that morality in government will be furthered by the election of all Republican candidates . This bland diet does n't excite the voters , and Reagan 's managers know . n . But they believe that if they can present him as a reasonable man , he will win his share of middle-of-the-road votes , and the undertow of opposition to open housing will land him in Sacramento . The potency of the fair-housing issue in the election is a political gift to Reagan from Los Angeles Mayor Sam Yorty , Brown 's Democratic primary opponent . Yorty was wooing Negroes and liberals in 1964 and opposed Proposition 14 when it appeared on the ballot ; but as soon as the measure scored its victory by a greater rnargin than President Johnson 's triumph over Goldwater , he changed his strategy , taking to TV and radio in the last three weeks of the primary campaign to charge that " Brown 's supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justices  --  had made up its mind to invalidate Proposition 14 and was waiting until after the primary to announce its decision . Alarmed real estate brokers and their friends and lower-middle-class and working-class Calif or-mans who had formed the backbone of Proposition 14 support began to rally around Yorty . Reagan 's stock also shot up ; most Republicans had favored the proposition when it was on the ballot and Reagan now appeared as their champion in ' contrast to , the moderate Christopher . When the court did overturn the initiative , Yorty appeared as a prophetic opponent of ripen housing , and Reagan loomed as the man upon whoni:Republicans would have to depend to safeguard their homes against the specter of Negro invasion . As an incumbent , Brown was able to turn back Yorty 's hid , though by a reduced margin : Christopher did n't stand a chance Pollsters , who sensed and commented on the swift tide that ran in favor of Yorty and Reagan in the last two weeks of the primaty campaign , professed perplexity at its cause There was no mystery : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The same thing was to happen in Maryland and in Georgia a few weeks later . As soon as the California supreme court announced its decision , the California Real Estate Association ( CREA ) said it would carry the case to the United States Supreme Court . but California enemies of open housing fear that the Supreme Court V , a n't reverse the state court . They want in Sacramento somebody who , if Proposition 14 is really dead , will lead a light for lecislutile repeal of the fair-housing acts , which remain in full force by reason of the invalidation . That somebody is Ronald Reagan : certainly not Goveinor Brow n the man who signed the Rumford Fair Housing Act and who opposed Proposition 14 . But Reagan ca n't afford to put all his eggs in the open-housing basket , too many voters are tied to Brown on varied issues Even those tempted to vote against the Governor because of the housing question might not bring themselves to vote for a Goldwater right winger or a Reagan who favored retention of Section 14 ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on welfare issues . That 's the reason for the Reagan all-things-to-all-men stance . There is also no doubt that Reagan has his eyes fixed on national objectives . As an ambitious Northern politician he has to pay at least lip service to civil rights : you ride the backlash , you do n't champion it . Reagan 's tactics are simple He insists that civil rights is a campaign issue ? ' one of the three or four most important issues . " he says  --  and he rejected out of hand Brown 's pioposal that open-housing legislation be referred to a nonpartisan committee But he stops short after making it plain that he is ill propose and support repeal of existing fair-housing laws He offers no affirmative civil rights program , a stand in keeping with the public mood of halting all further equalitarian action . The calculation of the Reagan backers is that it is tip to Brown to take the initiative on civil rights issues and that the Governor dare not do so because his every proposal will only stimulate the white backlash . As one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic residual interest in civil rights issues " even when he is not saying a damn word about it . " Whenever civil rights problems are broached , Reagan bristles with self-righteousness. proclaims that he is not a bigot , and sass that he utterly abhors racial discrimination . He stormed out of a pre-primary meeting last spring with his heart heating on his sleeve because he said he had been accused of bigotry . Whenever he can find an opening , he brands " bigots " as " sick people . " His cure for their ailment is " voluntary action " and he said after the recent San Francisco disturbances that the Governor has n't adequately explored voluntary action as a remedy for urban disorders . Reagan has never defined " voluntary action . " Reagan is also reaping a harvest from various attempt to void the Rumford Fair Housing Act and punish its supporters . After the California court had invalidated Proposition 14 , Reagan supporters in the CREA set up a dummy organization headed by aging lawyer Frank Doherty who had spearheaded opposition to a fair-employment initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans to gather 292,662 valid signatures to force legislative repeal of open-housing laws . The calculated effect of the announcement and consequent widespread publicity was to pinpoint Reagan as an opponent of fair-housing laws and to underscore Brown 's approval of such legislation . Shortly afterward , a usually reliable poll reported that 72 per cent of California voters " believe that a property owner has the right to discriminate any way he sees fit in the sale or rental of his property " However , the repeal initiative nes er got off the ground and has been abandoned , largely because its hackers think that legislative repeal is in the offing without it It had served its purpose in the Reagan campaign CREA has polled every Assembly and Senatorial candidate in the state as to his stand on repeal of open-housing laws , and rumor has it that an overwhelming majority have signed on the dotted line for repeal , another undercover maneuver that aids Reagan by emphasizing his leadership in the repeal program A Reagan supporter has noted with impeccable logic that " you do n't elect a legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will veto the repeal " CREA president Burt Smith told reporters at its recent convention that the association will mount a major campaign to repeal the Rumford Act He added that it would he " awfully naive " to assume that open-housing laws would not have " a major effect on the race for governor , " but added somewhat archly that " as an association " CREA would not endorse either candidate . Another ploy that aids Reagan is a campaign to punish the tour supreme court justices who voted to invalidate the housing initiative and ? s h o must seek election in November Under Califoi nia lass , a justice 's name appears on the ballot with the question as to whether or not he shalt be retained in office He has no opponent , but if the vote is negative , the gosernor appoints a successor . The right wingers are out in the open to oust the four justices so that , as they say . ' Reagan can appoint a new supreme court " He has not seen lit to denounce that bigoted appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The biggest boost to Reagan 's evident attempt to win the anti-civil rights vote came on October 4 , when the Republican Coordinating Committee and former President Eisenhower demanded a crack-down on what they called " rampant crime in our cities and on the streets " and on " violence and mob madness " ( See editorial , " Party Politics and Race , " The Nation , October 17 , p 371 ) As the Los Angeles- Tunes Washington bureau chief noted , the statement " made some strong Republican campaign medicine , dispensed at a moment when reaction against racial violence and disorder is a potent factor in many Congressional and gubernatorial races " Reagan took his cue quickly and rapped Brown for " failing to exhibit the leadership required to forestall riots . " He added , " We must not recognize the rioters " ? a code phrase which means that demands for reform made by demonstrators must be rejected out of hand . Governor Brown 's counter to the racist campaign is n't very high-minded , and it is hard to gauge its effectiveness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing initiative and proposed a moratorium on enforcement of state fair-housing laws until the United States Supreme Court had acted . When the fatuity of that course dawned on him , he announced that he would appoint a nonpartisan commission to examine the Rumford Fair Housing Act and the objections to it . He has named the committee , and the inference is that he will recommend whatever changes it proposes  --  if any . Later , he suggested that open-housing laws be dropped as a campaign issue , an obviously absurd suggestion as fat as Reagan is concerned . Meanwhile , the Governor bowed to Sam Yorty 's insistence and pushed through the legislature an anti-riot bill that is so badly drafted as to be little short of incoherent . In general , the Governor and the Democrats had been playing down civil rights and hoping for the best , when the San Francisco riots put the issue on the front pages . Brown 's swift action in calling out the guard in San Francisco probably won him some friends among fearful whites . Negroes cast about 90 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissatisfaction and grumbling over what they regard as the Governor 's failure to fight for the civil rights in which he believes , the chances are that Reagan will get less than 10 per cent of the Negro vote Brown will get 90 per cent , and a small percentage of Negroes will go fishing . But Negro voters will cast only 4 or 5 per cent of the total . vote on November 8 , and they ca n't rescue Brown if the anti-civil rights current is running as wide and deep then as it is now . Just how strong that current will be depends to a great extent on labor . Union brass is all out for Brown , who won his first two elections on the strength of labor , lower-middle-class and minority support . But the California white workmen and lower-middle-class citizens are bitterly opposed to open housing , just as they were shown to be in Maryland and as they obviously are in Chicago . Los Angeles ' CIO suburbs contributed crushing majorities for Proposition 14 ' two years ago , far heavier majorities than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southeast working-class and lower-middle-class suburbs of Los Angeles are concentrated in the 23rd Congressional District , where Democrats outnumber Republicans by one and a half to one , but are represented by a Republican dullard , Rep. Dell Clawson , who stays in office because his consistent votes against all civil rights legislation reflect the sentiments of his constituents . The district is heavily unionized . Unless Governor Brown can find some potent issues to outweigh this obsessive fear of open housing , he is in grave danger . Every informed ' Californian knows how deep-running is the undercurrent of racism in the gubernatorial campaign . The New York Tones California news bureau commented on September 29 that " many California votes on Noverhber 8 hinge on feelings among electors about . the racial backgrounds of their neighbors , about nondiscriminatory sale or rental of property , about the Watts riots of last year and racial violence everywhere . " The Los Angeles Tunes 's Richard Bergholz said last July 5 that there are " those in both parties who will tell you that race relations is the one campaign issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time he reported that Richard Nixon told Republicans , " I want everyone in California to believe that Lieutenant Governor Glenn Anderson was responsible for Watts . " The reference was to Anderson 's supposed reluctance to ' call out the national guard during the Watts disturbances . Bergholz added that Brown 's refusal to back away from support of the Rumford Act " may frighten more voters who are already resentful of Negro militancy and who do n't like their mandate on Proposition 14 nullified by some judges and politicians . " It is to the obvious advantage of those who want Reagan elected to fish in these troubled waters and to trouble the waters to snake fishing good . The Ronald Reagan campaign is more , much more , than a mei e Republican Party effort to elect a governor . Essentially , it is a carefully contrived campaign to strengthen and perpetuate right-wing control of the GOP machinery . Top-level decisions are not being made by titular heads of the party or by Spencer-Roberts . The Republican Party label is invaluable , and party leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job is to package the candidate and make him salable . The crafty politicians who are directing the Reagan campaign are at once stage-managing and taking . full advantage of every possible racist maneuver that will benefit their candidate , not because they are bigots or racists per se but because they think they have a winning issue that will cement their control 441 of the Republican Party They were the architects of the move to put the legislative repeal initiative of fair-housing laws on the November ballot , they now encourage and further the drive to oust the supreme court justices who voted to invalidate Proposition 14 , they stimulated the CREA to put legislators on record as favoring repeal of the Rumford Fair Housing Act and engineered the association 's tacit endorsement of Reagan , they helped whip up the recent national attack by the Republican Party on " crime in our cities and in our streets . " Ronald Reagan knows what 's going on . But he wants to be governor . He 's willing to do whatever is necessary to achieve that ambition , no matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told a cheering CREA convention that Negro complainants who alleged discrimination in housing had made " staged attempts to rent homes , when in truth there was no ical intention of renting , only of causing trouble . " Thereafter , he said , the " stale com mission acted as accuser , judge and jury " After criticizing the courts for overruling the people 's " constitutional right to put an end to " what he called these unfair practices , he wound up by saying that " the right of an individual to the ownership and disposition of property is inseparable from the right of freedom itself . " He got a standing ovation from the real estate brokers . There will be more of this kind of demagogy as the campaign comes to a climax , with Reagan using code words and phrases to let the electorate know his right-wing stand on racial issues without his having to voice outright racist sentiments . There wo n't be much plain talk from Californians about the racism that they know permeates the Brown-Reagan contest . Most of them wo n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They do n't want the nation to know  --  they do n't want to admit to themselves  --  that the number-one state may elect Ronald Reagan governor in order to " keep the Negi o in his place " 