@@478319

Writers on technology and society can be roughly divided into two groups , which might be designated by the kind of labels they give each other , the overreachers and the soreheads . The overreachers are usually technologists themselves and have the great advantage of understanding at least a part of the technological enterprise ; they know something of the excitement of discovery and the thrill of achievement that go into such marvels of the age as nuclear weapons and television . The soreheads are usually not technologists and have the hardly less great advantage of understanding some of the human implications of technology ; they see their children growing up under the shadow of nuclear weapons and with the overstimulating boredom of television . Kenneth Boulding , author of The Meaning of the Twentieth Century : The Great Transition ( Harper &; Row , $4.50 ) , and L.V. Berkner , author of The Scientific Age : The Impact of Science on Society ( Yale Press , $4 ) , are both overreachers . Their overreaching begins with the titles of their books . Both are rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purely ritualistic mastication , make no attempt to chew the immense mouthfuls that their titles bite off . Yet the arguments of the two essays , within their rather narrow limits , are highly intelligent and well informed ; they are also curiously complementary and probably irrefutable . Boulding , an economist at the University of Michigan , believes that we are now at the end of civilization as we have known it and headed for something he calls postcivilization . The civilization that historical man created was the product of cities ; when agriculture developed to the point where it could produce surpluses ( about 3000 B.C. ) , cities were possible , and in them gathered the priests and kings , the tax collectors and military strategists , the sages and artists , and all their train of surrogates and progeny , who through fifty centuries created that extraordinary fabric of art and thought , of conquest and glory , of piety and passion , which for so long seemed the noblest achievement of man . But the triumph of technology , Boulding argues , means the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbanized . It will be all one vast middle class with nothing to be the middle of . The underdeveloped will be as developed as anybody else ; the underprivileged as privileged as anybody else ; the great objective of social entropy will have been achieved . The Plan Berkner shows why Boulding 's apocalypse has to be realized , and has a good many practical suggestions about how it is to be done . A distinguished scientist himself , Berkner initiated the great effort at joint research known as the International Geophysical Year , and as president of the Graduate Research Center of the Southwest he is very actively engaged in the suburbanization of American education in the service of technology . Berkner argues that we need far more highly trained technologists ( called , by a sublime anachronism , doctors of philosophy ) than can beturned out by the old universities of the Northeast , Middle West . and West Coast , and that many new centers for such training must be established in this country , chiefly in the South and Southwest . He is of course right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his discussions of the problems of these new training centers ? problems such as the relation between private and public funds for their support , provision for the continuing training of postdoctoral fellows , and so on ? is obviously judicious . Berkner is a bit testy with those who do not share his visions of the future ; he speaks impatiently of people " whose ideas have no more established validity than those of the man on the street " and asserts that the public simply must accept " technical value judgments . " But the reader , especially if he suspects that there is no such thing as a technical value judgment , may feel a little resentment at being treated like a pig that has wandered into the Third International Symposium on World Peace Through Improved Methods of Curing Bacon : it is , after all , his life . No one proposes to imitate the Greeks by killing the messengers who bring unwelcome news . Writers like Boulding and Berkner who bring word of the triumph of technology are only telling us what we already know in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and excellent Paul Pickrel , who has reviewed books for " Harper 's " for many years , is lecturer in English at Yale and managing editor of " The Yale Review . " 124 training , undoubtedly devoted to the public good as they see it . What they need is a little more shallow pessimism . Of the grander pessimism . the imagination of vast disaster that comes so easily to the technological mind , they have a plenty . They can scare their readers with pictures of an overpopulated and overweaponed world waiting for the overkill as well as the next writer . But they say nothing of the countless little ways in which experience is impoverished every day . Their prose , however , and even their arguments betray them . Berkner , for instance , in the course of advocating continuous training for technologists , asserts that the human mind " simply rusts if allowed to lie fallow . " That is more than an absurdly mixed metaphor ; it is an unsuccessful attempt to deal with two concepts of mind . The first is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or tool ( a kind of primitive computer , perhaps ) which has no function but utility ; it is a hard and solid object that will waste with disuse . The second is an organic concept of mind ; it sees the mind as a field where the rain falls and the wind blows and disregarded flowers bloom : but growth is possible , life can be sustained there . Lying fallow may be an essential condition of future productivity . Many men of genius have recorded periods of fallowness ; the mathematician Poincar said that only then did his discoveries come . Boulding too embraces a theory of mind that his text can not live with consistently . He sees our progress into postcivilization as a slow but accelerating and altogether praiseworthy triumph of scientific knowledge over all the other kinds of knowledge ? folk or ceremonial or literary or whatever . So he puts his hopes for the future ? he calls it his THE NEW BOOKS major policy recommendation in a massive research project to investigate peace : the expected appeal to scientific knowledge . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat different : he thinks that nations most give up resorting to wars to settle their collective differences , as a few hundred years ago men gave up dueling to settle their individual disputes . But that was a change in manners , in ceremonial knowledge , and the Ford Foundation 's twenty-million-dollar study of the obsolescence of combative techniques in the resolution of interpersonal conflict probably came too late to have much effect on it . " Calculation .. , " Boulding writes , " is the enemy of the irrational . " That may be so , but there seems to he a good deal of evidence to the contrary . People who work on assembly lines or in highly routinized offices , for instance , seem to be more interested in gambling than people whose work has some built-in chanciness , like gardeners , publishers , and archaeologists . The bushmen of the Kalahari Desert , who keep no vital statistics , do a better job of controlling population growth than the Dutch , whose statistics ( I am told ) are admirable . A Long and Level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Knopf , $10.95 ? . is presumably not himself a technologist ; he is a French sociologist , a Catholic layman active in the ecumenical movement , a leader of the French resistance in the war , and ? one is tempted to add , after reading his book ? a great man . Certainly he has written a magnificent book . It was originally published ten years ago in France , but the text has been brought up to date and the translation by John Wilkinson is excellent . What Ellul is concerned with is the universalizing of the technological principle , the adoption of efficiency as the only criterion of human behavior . He scolds no one ; he realizes that he is just as much a technological man as his reader . With monumental calm and maddening thoroughness he goes through one human activity after another and shows how it has been technicized ? rendered efficient ? and diminished in the process . It takes weeks to read the book , because at the end of every paragraph you look up to think of ways to refute the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that might have been adduced and of more telling examples than those Ellul has chosen . You want to believe that the completeness of the argument is simply paranoid , or that the author has got hold of one of those principles which by explaining everything explain nothing . But unfortunately these hopes perish of malnutrition . Ellul leaves the possibilities of grand terrors to the technologists ; he deals with the little terrors that are here for anyone to see who cares to look . Take conversation . Almost certainly the most common topic of conversation in the world is the weather . But technology is making weather obsolete . When a man lives and works and passes between the two activities in controlled temperatures , an ancient source of talk with his fellowman , and an ancient part of their shared condition , is obliterated . The next step , which Ellul does not discuss , is the technicizing of conversation . One principle , borrowed from psychotherapy , has been promulgated : let the other person talk about what interests him , But the principle is faulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested in anything but also on scientific grounds ; a technological principle must be applicable by anyTHE NEW BOOKS one trained in its use , and obviously when each of two people tries to let the other talk about what interests him there will not be much conversation . My major policy recommendation is a massive , indeed a brutal research project to investigate the conditions of conversation . W hat everyone counts on in the great transformation that society is now going through is some unconquerable greatness in ourselves that can not be destroyed . But Ellul shows that when technique comes into conflict with the organic , technique prevails . When bakeries could not be mechanized , it was not technology that was defeated ; a new substance took the old name of bread , and people accepted it as such . More recently a food processer invented a machine for harvesting tomatoes and then developed tomatoes that could he harvested by the machine . The dimension of life that demands ecstasy grandeur or violence ? can be made to serve the technological order , Ellul thinks . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crude adaptation to technique ; the whole thing can be done much more suavely with experience . Here he may he wrong ; the violence that seems so much a part of the technological order may not be transitory . On the other hand , the intellectual Luddites ? those who would crush or evade the principle of efficiency to realize other things they value ? look more and more harmlessly ornamental . Ellul believes that a great deal of modern literature which nominally protests the sway of technique ( through what Boulding calls the " salacious exploitation " of sex ) actually serves it by absorbing the fantasies of the reader that might otherwise prove socially inconvenient . The Beatnik , in his analysis , serves the technological order by showing how little depth of feeling and significant action can be achieved outside it . Novelist Laureate The novelist laureate of the technological society , as well as one of its major mystagogues since the publication of The Two Cultures , is C. P. Snow , whose new book , Corridors of Power ( Scribner , $5 95 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a superb subject : British politics in that period ( the middle 1950s ) when the British were deciding not to go on competing with the great powers of East and West in nuclear armaments ? that moment when a great nation chose , or was forced to choose , the route to sub-urbanization . But the treatment of this subject is remarkably tedious , because the novel simply does not take it up in any significant way . Snow promises revelations of the world of " closed politics , " that sacrosanct inner circle where great politicians and high-ranking civil servants and Nobel Prize-winners in science make far-reaching decisions amid the complexities of " technology , politics , ideology , moral conscience , military foresight . " What he has in fact written is a rather limp account of an ambitious young politician not quite out of the top drawer socially who , in the old phrase , overmarries himself and ends up with woman trouble . His career involves no issue that Trollope would have had the slightest trouble in understanding , and Trollope , moreover , would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To illustrate : one character in the novel is a great industrialist , and the reader constantly expects to see him do something that will reveal the kind of influence great industrialists have on the making of major political decisions in the world of " closed politics . " But the only significant action the industrialist takes is to get a rival firm to fire a petty blackmailer who is about as relevant to the story as Betsy Ross . Or again : one scientist disagrees with the other scientist , not on technological or scientific grounds ( there is no technological issue in the novel ) , but on political grounds . But there is not one page , indeed not one line , of intelligent exchange of opinion between them ; the man who disagrees is simply treated as a madman and his opinions dismissed as contemptible . At the time it seemed as if Britain 's decision was in large part economic , since there were not the resources available both to pay the enormous costs of nuclear competition and to buy the social services that the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pages that such was the Bewitched or Bewitching Iris Murdoch is a novelist very little concerned with the kind of public life that fascinates Snow , She is primarily interested in prescientific dimensions of experience , in magic and enchantment and possession . In the best of her work the predictable everyday world offers at most a kind of surface tension that svill bear up only those who are extraordinarily light and sure of foot ; one misstep and it 's down , down into depths and abysses where the light is strange and the distances are immeasurable and unblinking creatures float slowly by without a sound . Or eat you up . Her newest book ( she is very prolific ) is The Italian Girl ( Viking , 84.50 ) , a macabre fairy tale for very adult adults . The main character is a man in early middle age , an engraver in London who has reduced his life in accordance with the strictest commandments of common sense . He goes back to the English village where he grew up to attend his mother 's funeral , not because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotion , but because there is an estate involved . But the old homestead has fallen into the hands of his brother and his brother 's curious ? not to say bizarre ? collection of relatives and retainers . Everyone is bewitched or bewitching or both , and with one crashing misstep the sojourner from London breaks through the surface tension that has so long sustained him ; he plunges , panic-stricken , into dimensions of experience that he has hoped to escape forever , but out of them he is reborn to life . This is a wildly imaginative modern gothic tale , a little uneven in execution ( the ending is impatient ) , but it will remind Miss Murdoeh'sadmirers of her earlier work , with its bold and sinister playfulness of invention . Testament of a Survivor If Ellul 's Technological Society describes the shape of the mold that contemporary society is forming , then Saul Bellow 's Herzog ( Viking , $5 ) shows what it feels like to be the reluctant jelly poured into that mold . Bellow 's speaker in the book ? he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narration ? is one Herzog , a historical man living in posthistory , a survivor of civilization stranded in posteivilization , a Jew with a past stretching back many generations who has to talk in a language that is losing its preterite . Herzog , understandably enough , is a little out of his mind ; he spends a good deal of his time writing outlandish , brilliant letters to all kinds of people , ranging from his psychiatrist and an old friend who has passed him on the street , without speaking . to Eisenhower and Vinoba Bhave . Of course he never sends the letters , never finishes them ; they are the gestures that replace action in despair . In many ways Herzog 's reading of the world strikingly corresponds with Boulding 's and Berkner 's ; like them he thinks that " few intellectuals have grasped the social principles behind the quantitative transformation " of the age ; he even exhibits the technological imagination ? he has a splendid scheme for bringing the rat population of Panama under control by feeding them contraceptives . But the prevailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the human . Herzog does not pretend to know how much of this feeling is private neurosis and how much is social engineering . He is in many ways a sick man and knows it ; he is in many ways a foolish man and knows it ; but both folly and sickness are defined by the world he lives in . If a hundred years from now there are still readers interested in what it was like to be a sensitive and intelligent and imaginative man struggling to keep sane and make sense of the world in that remote year of 1964 , they can turn to Herzog and find out . 