@@215017

In his home town of Pekin , Ill. , Everett McKinley Dirksen once wrote and directed Chinese Love , a riceball melodrama about the unrequited passion of one Sing Loo for the beauteous Pan Toy . The Washington house of Hugh Doggett Scott Jr. , who took over as leader of the Senate Republican minority after Dirksen 's death , is chockablock with chinoiserle , mainly from the T'ang Dynasty ( A.D. 618-906 ) . That slight Oriental connection is one of the few similarities between the two men . Where Dirksen was a conciliator , expert in sub rosa dealings with Democrats , Scott is an acerbic infighter who means to do open partisan battle from his new front-row desk on the Senate aisle that divides the two parties . " I 'm more of a militant , " says Scott . " I 've drawn a little white line down the middle aisle . " <P> Unanswered Mail . In his September showdown over the Republican leader 's chair with Howard Baker of Tennessee , Dirksen 's son-in-law , most of Scott 's strength came from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , his reputation as an aggressive activist " got me the two crucial votes I needed . " Dirksen had antagonized some Republicans by his celebrated coziness with Lyndon Johnson and by the highly personalized manner of his leadership . Scott deliberately follows the reverse course . He is committed to making no under-the-table deals with the opposition , and - partly out of personal conviction , partly because of pressure from his party colleagues-the pipe-smoking Pennsylvanian has moved to spread the leadership role around . <P> " Dirksen was doing it all , " complains one Senate Republican . Now Gordon Allott of Colorado runs the Republican policy committee , reports to the weekly luncheon of Republican Senators on White House sessions with G.O.P. legislative leaders , and holds the Tuesday afternoon Senate-press-gallery news conference that was once Dirksen 's private preserve . Maine 's Margaret Chase Smith heads the Senate Republican caucus and will speak for it when it meets . Assistant Leader Bob Griffin of Michigan steps in for Scott when the minority leader is off the floor , and also takes the party headcounts ; that too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Griffin four or five head-counting lieutenants , a move that will further decentralize party leadership . <P> One of Scott 's biggest problems is the parlous state of relations between Republican Senators and " downtown , " an often pejorative Capitol Hill term for the executive branch . John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky has been getting no answers to his letters to Postmaster General Winton Blount ; when Blount invited Cooper to his office recently to talk over a Post Office problem , Cooper refused to come . Colorado 's Peter Dominick is still seething over a contretemps with a second-echelon Treasury Department official , and even Karl Mundt of South Dakota-a staunch Nixon loyalist-complains of the " remoteness " of Administration staffers . The President himself angered many Republican Senators of every political hue . They could rarely get to see him .                     