@@488189

There is a good deal of talk in church circles today about a new division in Christendom . This may sound strange to those who believe the churches are still riding the magnificent wave of ecumenical euphoria activated in part by the Vatican Council . But open discussion about a fast-approaching period of disruption and dissension is growing among both Catholics and Protestants . Archbishop Andre Pal-her of Rouen recently conceded publicly that he foresees a schism in Roman Catholicism , led by the ultraconservatives , if the Vatican Council accepts the controversial sections on " Religious Liberty " and " The Modern World " now before it . There are other strains in the Catholic Church and in Protestantism that no one is yet talking about publicly . A prominent Protestant church leader told me recently that at the rate the altercation between the young turks and the old guard is now developing , we can look for a major split in Protestants-1n within five to ten years . Let me make clear at the outset that the split people are discussing now is not one between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor does anyone expect the main Protestant sects to diverge further from one another . Many so-called " church unity " proposals will probably develop and come to fruition in the next ten years . The schism now being talked about runs straight through churches and denominations . When it comes , so the predictions run , it will find Catholics and Protestants , clergy and laity , high and low churchmen , on both sides . Nor will the issue in this split be explicitly theological . It is mainly one of praxis or church strategy , with very important theological overtones . It is the question of how the churches should respond to the revolutions of color , opportunity and power now sweeping the world , both at home and abroad This , and not the Virgin Birth , the infallibility of ' the Pope or the Bible is what Christians argue about most heatedly today . On the one hand , there are those in all churches who want the church to play its customary social role as the guardian of the values and institutions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that the church should " stay out of politics . " On the other hand , there is that growing group of laity and clergy , mostly young , which insists that the church should play a direct role in social change , The nub of the question is the secular significance of the church . Jesuit Thomas Clarke was probably right when he wrote in America , his order 's weekly periodical , that the future image of Vatican II probably will not be either collegiality or even ecumenism but " Christian secularity " It is the coming theological mode of the era : Christians plunging into the social order to struggle for justice and peace . But it is not a mood which - everyone accepts with enthusiasm . Protestant theologian Martin Marty writes in a Methodist publication : There is a hushed-up revolution abroad in our land One side of the revolution says that the Christian church should be involved in the struggle of today 's poor in city and on farm ; at the side of the delinquent , the racially oppressed , the politically exploited The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not become involved in the politics of their problems . Tensions set in motion by this hushed-up revolution are far-reaching They simmer just below the surface at the national meetings of denominations , church agencies and church organizations . They erupt - in city councils of churches . They distress the vestries and deacon boards of local congregations . It is not that these differences have not always been there ; they have But recently , the young turks within the churches have felt an increasing strength . The civil rights movement helped . In many instances it brought together people who had felt the same on a number of issues , but because they served churches in different cities never had a chance to get to know one another . Just as the Greek slaves in Rome were forbidden to wear a distinctive garb  --  lest they recognize their number and revolt ? this group has been kept unaware of its potential power by the sociology of church division . Then came the March on Washington and the ecumenical convergence on Selma . " When I got to Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I was shocked to see how many of us there were in the church . " In short , the " Christian underground " has surfaced . A rather amorphous , generally young , mostly Northern and urban group of clergy and laity has come onto the scene and is now learning its strength And the church will never be the same again . It is important to realize that the present controversy is not just the old " social Gospel " fight wearing a new hat . There are differences between the current crop of socially militant churchmen and the early 19th-century followers of Walter Rauschenbusch . The socially active churchmen of today , for example , lack the confidence of their forebears that one more big push will bring in the Kingdom . They tend less to identify particular idealistic schemes , such as socialism or pacifism , with the Gospel . They see the The NATION church and its members more as supporters and strengtheners of a movement already under way than as a vanguard . The passion and dedication are similar , and there can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the social Gospel is with us again . But unlike the social Gospel movement , the secular Christians of today work from a broader interdenominational base , have a higher degree of theological sophistication , and are determined not to disappear until their militancy has worked some major alterations in the life of the American churches . Under the leadership of the new militants , the churches have begun to play an unprecedented role in some aspects of American society , a role once played by labor unions . ' Saul Alinsky , the controversial head of the Industrial Areas Foundation , said in two recent interviews : " The unions are now the haves  --  they 're part of the status quo . The Christian churches are now taking the leadership in social change . " The new mood in the churches has developed rather quickly . A telling index of the shift can be seen in the radical metamorphosis the public image of the American clergyman has undergone in the past few years . A decade ago , the clergyman was often depicted in cartoons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a genial incompetent . These images still persist ' in some places . But the average man is now just as likely to think of nuns , priests and ministers leading protest marches or standing on picket lines . The new image may bewilder or even infuriate him , but it is undeniable that the popular view of the clergy has undergone sweeping revision . The ? changing public stereotype has also affected the minister 's own self-image . It has marked off the new breed from the old . Among the clergy , the clear demarcation is between ' those who have participated in direct action and those who have n't . It designates the frontier along which any new division is apt to erupt . The debate within the church about how deeply it should be involved in the secular order has stirred up things in every area of church life . The most crucial issue , however , and the one which will have most significance for the future of the churches themselves , has to do with the nature of church-ly authority . It may or may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Los Angeles that some Roman Catholics wanted to get involved in civil rights . It is highly important , however , that Father William DuBay  --  frustrated by the caution and inaction of his superiors  --  finally resorted to writing the Pope and urging him to remove Cardinal McIntyre from his office as archbishop because of " malfeasance . " Cardinal McIntyre was not removed , but neither was Father DuBay . He was not even publicly reprimanded ; his punishment was to be wiled to a posh parish far from the Negroes and impoverished whites with whom he had been identified . It is hard to imagine any priest getting off so lightly ten years ago . One can not help wondering if even Cardinal McIntyre has not had second thoughts on how far the Church , should go to resolve the racial mess in his diocese . - The same sort of thing happens again and again . When the Roman Catholic bishop of Birmingham and Mobile , Thomas J. Toolen , told the nuns and priests who were marching in Selma to go home and tend to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go but 300 of them signed a press statement spelling out their disagreement with the archbishop and stating that they would return to , Selma , or to other racial crisis spots , whenever Martin Luther King asked them to . Here is a situation almost without precedent in the history of the Church . Some 300 Roman Catholic clergy refuse to obey a bishop 's request and , at the same time , pledge obedience to a Baptist minister who ironically bears the name of the main leader of the Protestant Reformation . ( King became a de facto Catholic bishop in Selma . ) Yet not one of these 300 was defrocked . The role of the Catholic Church in the racial revolution in America has precipitated something like a crisis of authority in the Church itself . The Pope has publicly criticized the declining respect for authority , and Paul Emile Cardinal Leger of Montreal , who is known at the Vatican Council as a " progressive , " recently deplored a " growing climate of opinion hostile to the whole idea of authority , much less its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Catholic clergy at Selma had not rejected the idea of authority . They hadchosen , in this instance , to submit to another authority , realizing it could mean danger or even death . They had chosen to obey Dr. King rather than Archbishop Toolen . The authority problem in the Roman Catholic Church is in no sense confined to the clergy . Readers of the Catholic press have become aware in recent months of an increasingly strident and insistent criticism by laymen of Church policies and personages . The vexed issue of contraception is now open game for disputation , and such Catholic writers as Michael Novak take open and sweeping exception to the Church 's teaching on the - subject . Lay student groups have picketed chancellory offices on racial issues . A year ago , Dennis Clark published a withering ' attack on Archbishop Kroll of Philadelphia and the failure of that city 's Catholic leaders to face up to its racial crisis . But the present b  --  te noire of this critical crackling in the Church is a young California convert to Catholicism , Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , easily the most controversial publication within American Catholicism today . Keating , whose technicolor covers and vivid reportage attract numerous non-Catholic readers , even from the newsstand trade , has ruthlessly attacked such Catholic cultural heroes as Dr. Thomas Dooley ( " Hang Down Your Head , Tom Dooley " ) and Pius XII ( in a spirited defense of Hochhuth 's The Deputy ) . He cheerfully acknowledges that " . . . if McGucken ( Joseph T. , archbishop of San Francisco ) could figure out a way to do it , he 'd shut us down tomorrow . " Keating 's recent book , The Scandal of Silence , has outraged Catholics from coast to coast . More considerate critics , such as the editors of Commonweal , view Keating- and Ramparts in much the same way as Roy Wilkins must often view the shenanigans of SNCC . Yet Keating certainly dramatizes the new vigor and openness not previously thought possible in American Catholicism . And his main battle is pointed at precisely the decisive point , the freedom of laymen to participate vigorously and with minds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued supremacy of the hierarchy and priesthood over the laity in tem-poral affairs , " says Keating , " is the most serious obstacle to the fulfillment of the Church 's mission in the United States . " Once again , the sore point of tension clearly emerges , it is the collision between Christian secularity and traditional notions of churchly obedience . The United States is not the only country in which the Roman Catholic Church-is wracked by problems of authority growing out of clerical participation in political action . The talk of Colombia today is a young Roman Catholic priest , Father Camilio Torres , who recently defied his bishop , the Most Rev. Angel Maria Ocampo Burrio , Archbishop of Tunja , by openly supporting a , revolutionary solution to Colombia 's bewildering social , problems . When Father Torres ' ideas were attacked by his superiors , he asked to be relieved of his priestly duties if he could not be a priest and a revolutionary too . He was joined in his request by a fellow priest , Father Martin Amaya Martinez , who said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should rout the misery of hunger and superstitious ignorance of our people . . . . In fact , " he added , " since the Emperor Constantine , the Church has become more of a business corporation than a messenger of Our Lord Jegus Christ . " When questioned directly about his attitude toward ecclesiastical authority , Father Torres replied that he would always obey his cardinal " except when it runs contrary to the ideas of Christianity and my conscience . " It requires onl a modicum of historical imagination to detect in Father Tones ' reply a distinct similarity to the words of a rebellious priest in a Council at Worms some 400 years ago , who told his superiors , " Here I stand , God helping me , I can do no other . " But conditions differ significantly from the 1500s . It is noteworthy that the schism Archbishop Pallier of Rouen expects , if the Vatican Council moves too far on religious liberty or on the relation of the Church to the modern world , is appearing on the Right , not on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to a ' lesser extent under Paul VI , is often viewed by the young turks in the Church as their ally . This re-creates a climate reminiscent of certain moments in the 17th and 18th centuries when the Jesuit order , with its loyalty centered in Rome , was able to take radical positions in some countries , frequently opposing 218 the local diocesan clergy . It is why a Father DuBay in Los Angeles appeals to the Pope to remove his archbishop and an Edward Keating can suggest , apparently in all seriousness , that the whole Los Angeles archdiocese may be out of communion with Rome and therefore not be a truly Roman Catholic Church at all . Archbishop Pallier 's opinion is also confirmed by the fact that a considerable conservative Catholic backlash is already gathering steam . The backlashers have found their hero so far in the rather unlikely figure of a mild-mannered professor of Canon Law at tiny Mt . St. Mary 's Seminary in Emmitsburg , Md . His name is Gommar Albert DePauw , and he leads something called the Catholic Traditionalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liturgical reforms in the Catholic Church and to fight what its members call the " Protestantizing " of their Church . But the movement doubtless represents a growing apprehensiveness among conserva2 , tive Catholics about the number of trends at work in the Church , which to them must appear quite ominous . Recently , its representatives picketed at the National Catholic Liturgical Conference in ' Baltimore , carrying signs which extolled Father DePauw and denounced the " novelties " now being introduced into the worship life of the Church ( vernacular masses , congregational participation in the liturgy , etc . ) . Another rallying point for the Catholic conservatives is William Buckley 's weekly journal , the National Review . Buckley , a Catholic layman , has been nervous about the way things have been going in his Church ever since Pope John assumed the throne of Peter , but his unease has been multiplying in recent months . A few weeks ago , he announced the publication of a thick booklet entitled " What in the Name of Cod Is Going on in the Catholic Church ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . The title of the brochure gives elOq-uent voice to the anxiety felt these days not only by conservative Catholics but also by non-Catholics who have relied on Rome and its minions always to provide a dependable ally for the status quo . Despite all the talk , however , the possibility of a significant schism within Catholicism is a minor one . Though potent here and there , the real reactionaries in the Catholic Church add up to a tiny band on the world scene . The progressives , on the other hand , are now doing well . If they can not get conservative cardinals sacked , at least they keep themselves from getting excommunicated . Here and there in Catholic interracial councils , ecumenical action groups and a variety of lay apostolates , they keep pushing , and the general climate of the Catholic Church is , if not wildly responsive , at least not inquisitional . Besides , the uncanny flexibility of the Roman ' Church , its almost unerring capacity to make room for diversity and inner tension , will probably pull it through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division carry a greater threat for Protestants ? Whatever happens to Protestantism will happen to a religious community that is already badly fragmented . Though " Protestants " are usually mentioned along with Catholics , Jews and agnostics as one of the four socio-religious groups , in America , the classification is misleading . Despite much talk and some action about church union in recent years , and considerable interchurch cooperation , Protestants are still wastefully and catastrophically divided into more than 200 denominations and sects . Futhermore , there has been a historical tendency among them to separate if the situation seems to warrant it , rather than to preserve unity at the price of burning conviction . Where then do the strains appear in Protestantism ? Protestants in America have not often been troubled by excessive clerical control over their activities in the secular realm . The battle therefore is in no sense a battle for the freedom of laymen and activist clergy against a dominating hierarchy . But in Protestantism , it has frequently happened that activist ministers must contend with the socially conservative laymen who sit on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a particularly interesting phenomenon in view of the vocal demands among Catholic laymen today for a wider responsibility in the governance of their Church . Protestantism in America , at least in its main-line denominations , is far from being completely lay controlled , but it is often where lay control is most powerful that The NATION the opposition to social action has been most vociferous . Studies have shown that ministers who do not serve a local parish , and hence are somewhat more insulated from direct lay control , are much more likely to demonstrate and become involved in direct action than pastors of local churches . Of the hundreds of clergymen who flew to Sel-ma , , a disproportionate number were denominational and interdenominational staff people , college and university chaplains , and ministers of mission churches not directly dependent on a congregation for their financial support . It is worth noting that not one of the three Protestant ministers who have lost their lives in the civil-rights struggle in the past two years was a parish minister . Bruce Klun.der , who was killed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Student Christian Union . James Reeb was working for the American Friends Service Committee in Boston when he went to Selma . Jonathan Daniels was a theology student . Still , in the South and also in metropolitan areas , it is the parish minister who may soon find himself on the firing line whether he chooses to be or not . The - denominational executive can fly to Selma or Hattiesburg for a couple of weeks and then return to his office : The minister in'a city parish lives every day with the tensions of race and social change swirling around- him and forcing him to make costly decisions . Although the suburban minister has not had to face this kind of pressure as steadily , he soon will . As Negroes move to the suburbs , as fair-housing committees accelerate their activities , as groups try to modify zoning laws to bring lower-income housing to the suburbs , the minister will find himself just as inescapably involved as are his inner-city colleagues . ' The next decade may see scores of ministers from Northern suburban churches join the hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congregations angered by their attitudes toward race and the social involvement of Christians . The , crisis in city and suburb , North and South , usually emerges over an issue which may at first seem minor . It usually has more to do with what the minister does than with what he says in his sermons . Even deep South congregations have been known to accept October II , 1965 large doses of " brotherhood " talk in sermons . The flame point comes , however , when a group asks for permission to use the church building , or the minister participates in a community organization of which his congregation does not approve . The issue of use of the building varies between North and South . In Dixie , some ministers were ousted by angry congregations when they opposed using church buildings as private schools to evade the Supreme Court decision . In the North , ministers reap the wrath of conservative laymen when they permit the church building to be used by groups the deacons consider radical or disruptive . In the South , a parish minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community relations council or a biracial committee . In the North , the same thing happens when he joins a group protesting de facto segregation , or supports the picketing of a discriminatory business . In almost all instances , ministers who can avoid retaliation by boards controlled by laymen are the ones willing to take larger risks . Ministers of mission churches are the clearest example . Such - churches are frequently located in slum areas and usually receive only a small part of their income from the local congregation . The rest comes from city , state or national mission boards . The minister of a small missions congregation can therefore move with much less hesitation into controversial community and national issues . Not only do supra-local agencies support staff involvement in controversy but they often initiate things a local church would not usually undertake . A prime example is the Mississippi Delta Ministry sponsored by the National Council of Churches . Begun in the " Freedom Summer " of 1964 , as an effort , to help train and orient volunteers , the program was continued at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most decisive forces at work in Mississippi . In cooperation with Mary Holmes Junior Col-lege , the Delta Ministry received a $1,460,748 Office of Economic Opportunity grant to run a Mississippi Headstart program last summer . Besides the summer people , the Delta Ministry now- has a permanent staff of more than a dozen seasoned veterans of clerical activity in civil rights . It works in projects all over the state , using an abandoned college campus at Mt . Beulah in Edwards as its headquarters , When the cotton choppers in Leland went on strike late last spring , The New York Times rightly sin , gled out Rev. Laurence Walker of the Delta Ministry staff as a key figure in the astounding walk-out by one of the most exploited groups of workers in America . The Delta Ministry is a dangerous and ground-breaking mission of direct participation in social change . It proceeds , however , only in the teeth of the bitter and determined opposition of many of the white church leaders and probably the majority of their churchgoing laymen in Mississippi . Efforts have been made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the Delta Ministry , to force the Delta staff to confine their efforts to relief work and literacy , or to turn the ' whole program over to Mississippi churches . To date all these- attempts have been resisted . The Delta Ministry stands as a particularly dramatic symbol of supra-parochial and ecumenical " presence , " persisting despite determined 219 local opposition . The fact is that mission agencies not only tolerate controversial activities by their staff but even encourage them , while the average local lay board opposes such involvement . But this still leaves two important unanswered questions . The first is why national boards and agencies , and in some places city mission societies , often lean toward the side of secular involvement , while local congregations are more hesitant . The second is what effect this growing militancy and activism at national levels will have on a possible split within Protestantism over the direct involvement issue . ' The reason why the agencies are often sympathetic is apparent . A growing number of people on their staffs have come from a formative experience in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II some of the most capable and militant young ministers avoided suburban congregations and went into the Harlems and West Chicagos of America . There they quickly saw the futility of a strictly " spiritual " ministry and also learned how to deal with institutional politics and structural problems . Many had their baptism of fire in racial issues and tough city politics . During the past ten years these men have moved into the hierarchies of the Protestant churches and agencies with an unusually strong determination to lead the church into the political struggle and to engage it on a larger scale with the issues they once faced locally . By now the period of appren ticeship for these secular actionists , who are no longer really " young " turks , is over . They are assuming the reins of power all over the church . Robert Spike , who leads the National Council of Churches Race and Religion Department , got his start in the slums of lower Manhattan . George Todd , director of the Presbyterian Church 's urban work ; Don Benedict , who leads the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently left the United Church 's urban mission division , all began their careers in East Harlem . Suffragan Bishop Paul Moore of the Washington Episcopal Diocese and Kilmer Myers , Suffragan Bishop of Michigan , both began in the tenements of Manhattan 's Lower West Side . Jitsuo Morikawa , the Baptists ' main agency pioneer , served a church in the racially tense Hyde Park-Kenwood section of South Chicago . There are dozens more of the New Breed of Protestant church leaders . They are still a minority but no longer a battered one . Their influence will probably continue to expand , and since they are all inside the structures of the church , this diminishes the possibility of the rupture ' some predict , Why pull out of the church when there is some chance of taking it over ? Thus , increasingly , goes the logic of the New Breed . ' But this still does not preclude the possibility of a schism . Since there was a rather wide , if somewhat grudging , consensus in the churches on the moral aspects of the civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ideal battlefield . But what will happen when the focus shifts , as has already happened to some extent , from race as a narrow issue to injustice and the need for decisive social change in the North and all over the world ? It is becoming clear that while the churches ' action in Selma drew kudos from many laymen , similar involvement in Syracuse elicits sharp criticism . Church leaders who try to swing into action in Saigon and Santo Domingo find the going much rougher than it was in the March on Washington . As more G.I.s are killed in the rice paddies of South Vietnam it will become harder for church leaders to support even verbal criticism of our policy , to say nothing of direct action protests . Will the question of Christian secularity force a new division in the churches ? For Catholics the answer , I think , is a clear no . For Protestants the answer depends on a number of imponderables . Will the militant young turks grow flabby and complacent ? Positions in church hierarchies have been known to cool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the churches themselves to assume a new and creative role in our society ? Will everyone settle for a kind of ecclesiastical two-party system with spiritual Christians and secular Christians ruling in uneasy coalition ? Nothing is resolved , but whatever happens , American church history will be well worth watching in the next few years .                     