@@431732

 | Our Backward Medical Schools MRS . Charlotte A. Williams , a seventy-twoyear-old widow , was admitted to a large medical center in the Western United States after eight months of " weakness , pallor , and weight loss . " Her case history reports that Mrs. Williams , who lived alone in a small mountain town , apparently did not consult a doctor because none was available in her community . Dr. Lawrence M. Cole , her family physician for thirty years , had died four years before , and no one had come to replace him . Finally , after Mrs. Williams had lost thirty pounds , her daughter became concerned and drove her ninety miles to a large urban center , the location of the nearest general hospital . The medical staff at the diagnostic clinic spoke quietly of " prolonged therapy " and an " uncertain course . " A few months later , she died . Mrs. Williams could be alive today had she received early treatment . Like thousands of others each year , she was a victim of the doctor shortage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical research last year , there are fewer doctors per 100,000 population today than at the turn of the century . In 1900 , approximately 150 practicing doctors outside the federal government cared for each 100,000 civilian population . Then , as a consequence of the Flexner report on medical education in 1910 , many inadequate medical schools . the so-called " diploma mills , " were closed . By 1931 , there were only 118.3 doctors per 100,000 civilians , and in 1959 only 117.7 . In 1964 , this ratio was still approximately 117 , the downward trend having been halted by a more stable population growth , as well as by the yearly licensing of more than 1000 foreign physicians as a stopgap measure to meet current needs . In 1964 , only about 80 percent of the 278,000 physicians in the United States were working full time with civilian patients . Most of the rest were in government jobs such as the Armed Forces and the Public Health Service , or in nonfederal teaching and research positions . While family doctors are in short supply , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater in hospitals . Eighteen percent of internships and 13 percent of residencies remained unfilled in 1960 , even after nearly 10,000 foreigntrained medical graduates were hired to help fill these positions temporarily . Moreover , the 51,800 positions available in hospitals in 1965 represented an increase of 1400 over the previous year . Our doctor shortage has developed out of an obsolete system of medical education that has not kept pace with population growth or with educational advances in other fields . Medical schools have not expanded sufficiently to meet the increase in demand , and according to the Association of American Medical Colleges , the supply of medical  | graduates has fallen behind since 1955 despite a 2.7 percent increase in their number . Moreover , many medical educators are reluctant to overhaul and modernize their training programs . As a consequence , many of the most qualitied college graduates are passing up medicine in favor of other , more attractive scientific fields . In 1962 , the Association of American Medical Colleges noted that 28 percent of all college graduates entered medicine during the period 1861 to 1880 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though the number of college graduates has been increasing , proportionately fewer go into medicine . A recent upsurge in the popularity of physics , chemistry , and mathematics has grown out of the space-age incentives given these fields by government and industry . Educators have shortened and accelerated their programs , providing more stimulating material and up-to-date teaching methods . As a result , these nonmedical sciences are now attracting the best college science graduates . Capable students can win Ph.D . degrees while still in their mid-twenties , and are well paid in the process . In contrast , medicine has not progressed since the reform years following the Flexner report when programs were lengthened and made more arduous . Today , medical graduates are thirty-two to thirty-four years old by the time they have fulfilled training and military requirements . They earn only subsistence pay at the hospitals where they train , unless they are in the Armed Services . By graduation day , 60 percent of medical students are married , and many have several children . These families must live frugally , often under a heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 20 percent of the total expenses of $10,000 to $20,000 incurred by each medical student . Debt continues to grow during the hospital training required after medical school , with interns earning an average of only $3000 per year , and residents averaging $4000 per year . Because of the high cost , poor families often can not afford to send their sons through medical training . As a result , a majority of medical students come from homes with yearly incomes of at least $10,000 and usually much higher . A very small minority of medical educators have attempted to streamline training in order to attract better recruits . They have introduced accelerated pilot programs at such medical schools as Northwestern , Johns Hopkins , and NYU , where students may earn an M.D. degree in about six years instead of the usual eight . Most medical educators resist change . They claim that the accelerated programs produce " inferior doctors , " and steal time from professorial research . The medical faculty pursues research determinedly , often at the expense of teaching . Professors cancel conferences and ward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinics for long periods of time while tardy staff members drift in from offices and laboratories . Students listen to what is often pedantic teaching , usually a loose repertory of facts ranging from drug dosages to morbidity statistics or enzyme research figures , without being stimulated sufficiently to remember such information . They are rarely asked , " What would you do in this case ? " , and more rarely still do they have any immediate opportunity to put the information into practice . @# ASIDE from the disappointing quality of teaching , the traditional system of medical education as it exists today is so obsolete and doctrinaire that it disheartens many trainees . Beginning in college , a young premedical student must labor for four years through a program of difficult " required " science courses , many of which do not interest him and are unnecessary to his medical education . How vital , for example , are invertebrate zoology , comparative anatomy , or general embryology , or even advanced nonmedical chemistry and mathematics ? The student 's immediate goal in college is to prove only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many premedical students would prefer to major in the liberal arts , but few do so for fear of jeopardizing their medical school acceptance . Most play it safe by overspecializing in science , hoping thereby to impress medical school admission committees . If a premedical student gets into one of the eighty-seven medical schools in the United States , he will study subjects more pertinent to his calling , including human anatomy and physiology , medical biochemistry , pharmacology , medical microbiology , biophysics , and pathology . These , known as the " basic sciences , " lay the foundation for further study in medicine . The freshman and sophomore students in medical schools must compete in the same undergraduate atmosphere as in the premedical years . Although medical students arc thus motivated strongly by competition , as well as by their vision of tending and comforting the sick , many medical schools fail to capitalize on such motivation and omit nearly all clinical material from the first two years of training . The students generally have only one semester of physical diagnosis , where they learn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of their time in the lecture hall and laboratory , where they memorize facts for which they have no immediate use . The absence of a clinical context makes this material less meaningful , and it is , therefore , often poorly retained .  | The students ' ambition to be " real doctors " ? that is , to work exclusively with patients comes closest to realization in the junior and senior years of ' medical school in the form of " clinical clerkships . " At this time they leave formal classroom training and go on hospital wards to serve what some educators have despairingly called an " apprenticeship . " Unlike any other group of graduate students , these junior and senior " apprentices " are no longer judged objectively on mastery of subject matter and examination scores , as in college or the first two years of medical school . Grading now takes on political and subjective overtones . Students must be good-natured , obliging , and gregarious if they wish to excel . Above all , whether they like it or not , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are told to do it . They must follow unerringly the orders of superiors , many of them young men only two to four years further ahead in training . They must learn to live with " scut work , " an endless array of unstimulating hospital chores , including routine laboratory tests , drawing blood , starting intravenous injections , and changing dressings . Juniors and seniors spend so much of their time as laboratory technicians and orderlies that they frequently lose confidence in themselves as potential creators and innovators . Responsibility and independent thinking are luxuries they can rarely afford . They attend endless conferences , listen to other people talk ( " teach " ) , watch other people do things , and in the end are bored . In their passivity , they are bullied in the operating room and ignored on rounds . Their opinion is seldom sought . Ideally , they become retiring , docile , and obedient . Medical students must scrupulously avoid personality conflicts with superiors and must refrain from blatant criticism of their training program . Disciplinary action may come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or delay of graduation . Occasionally , a tentative diagnosis of " psychiatric disease " is slapped on a vociferous student , and he is requested to seek " therapy . " Under the scrutiny of a faculty psychiatrist , such an offender is not likely to make further trouble if he wishes to graduate on schedule . I have known students who jest that proof of a perfect record in medical school is when at graduation the dean , on handing a student his degree and announcing the name , wonders , " Who is he ? " Enforced conformity continues into the internship , the first year of postgraduate training . Interns are the hardest-working ( usually a 100-hour week ) and poorest-paid ( $3000 to $4000 per year ) drudges in the medical profession . They often find themselves filling jobs as second-class technicians or orderlies . Though they possess M.D. degrees , they are defined by the AMA only as " full-time students . " Yet they have far less freedom than students . They arc expected to work obediently around the clock , usually every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours , or even for better pay , is generally discouraged by hospital administrators and medical staff . The average intern has no real job security or collective-bargaining power . He can be hired and fired or denied certification almost at the whim of hospital administrators and attending staff . Personality conflicts with superiors can be disastrous . The residency , which follows the internship , is the highest stage of medical education . Since residents have much more authority and responsibility than do other trainees , but little more experience , considerable conflict develops when students , interns , and residents are working together . The resident talks ; the others listen . Nonetheless , the resident himself is still a " pair of hands " in the serfdom of the medical profession , and many residents say that their programs are too lengthy , that they could learn the same material in half the time . @# PUBLIC dissatisfaction with the present system of medical care was one of the reasons for the passage of Medicare . The federal government , with the great momentum gathered in the drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into medical education . In December of 1964 , the President 's Commission on Heart Disease , Cancer , and Stroke , composed mostly of eminent physicians , published a report stating broad proposals for improving and expanding medical care for the average citizen . The commission took a critical look at the doctor shortage and recommended that $40 million be spent over a five-year period to provide 5000 additional spaces in medical schools . The commission also recognized that while the number of college graduates has been increasing , proportionately fewer are applying for medical school , a consequence of the high cost of medical education , competition from stimulating careers in the other sciences , and the small number of scholarships and grants now available to medical students . The commission asked that $6 million be spent to advertise medicine as a career in high schools and colleges , and that the Health Professions Educational Assistance Act be amended in order to provide more scholarships . Appropriate bills for all recommended funds were passed by the 89th Congress and signed by President Johnson in October , 1965 . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional system of medical education , which has remained unaltered after nearly two generations . Progressive medical educators can not rest until the system is changed . A revolutionary movement is already taking form in the Association of American Medical Colleges , an organization of medical school deans who seek a more powerful and radical voice in medical education in order to challenge the currently supreme American Medical Association . Complete reform of the system , however , is improbable in the foreseeable future . Gradual changes would hopefully embody four basic modifications : .0 ) the high school curriculum could be accelerated and shortened by one year ; ( 2 ) the traditional four years of college and four years of medical school could be fused into a six-year program that would entail the deletion of many premedical science courses as well as a substantial beefing up of clinical curricula ; ( 3 ) the internship could be abolished , medical graduates beginning postgraduate training immediately on the resident level , and unnecessarily long residencies could be shortened ; ( 4 ) continuing education programs for practicing physicians could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reduce the time required for training . The academic pace would be stepped up , resulting in an accelerated program similar to those of the other sciences . More outstanding students could be expected to show an interest in medicine . New medical schools should then begin to offset the doctor shortage . Ending the monopoly on a student 's time which science studies now hold would make it possible to infuse more liberal arts into an accelerated curriculum . This is lacking at present , except for a uniform language requirement which is generally thought by medical educators to be of particular advantage in developing self-discipline and thoroughness of study habits ( medical students typically acquire a reading knowledge of German ) . In recent years , medical schools have shown more interest in applicants with liberal arts credits , and some schools now list humanities among their scholastic requirements . The University of Colorado , for example , has an English literature premedical requirement , and Stanford has interspersed humanities within its five-year medical school program . Undoubtedly more could be done on a national basis , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prospective doctors some knowledge of the humanities . As a beginning , campus premedical advisers ( usually faculty members in science departments ) could be asked to emphasize the fact that medicine is becoming more tolerant of the liberal arts . A final expedient in reforming medical education would be to tighten up the postgraduate program , the internship and residency . The internship today is the remnant of a hard-line medical 49 50 tradition prevalent up to a decade ago which approved of late marriage and prolonged serflike dedication to the profession , with the financial reward postponed until middle age . The coming of Medicare makes such a philosophy harder to defend . The internship , plus what it stands for , is a deterrent to prospective recruits , and the same can be said for residencies that are too long . The six-year surgery program is a notable example because only the final two years provide sufficient opportunity for a young surgeon to practice his technical skills . An intern could spend his year much more profitably as a first-year resident . He would enjoy greater responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appropriate clinical training in medical school , he should be equal to the task . Admittedly , there is more to learn in medicine today than there was ten years or even one year ago . A vast improvement in the efficiency of medical teaching is vital to any accelerated program . New knowledge must replace obsolete material ; the entire medical curriculum should be kept in a state of constant revision . Clinical studies could be introduced earlier in the program , and basic science courses could be more clinically oriented than they are now . Medical schools should be encouraged to function as teaching institutions , not as research centers . Professors should expect as much advancement from teaching as from research , and teachers should be hired primarily to teach . Students should enjoy greater status , and should expect to have a greater hand in patient care instead of lingering for years on the sidelines . Interns and residents should be granted equal consideration by a hospital 's attending staff . The principal beneficiary of all this effort , of course , is supposed to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an improved medical discipline . If society is to ease the doctor shortage and at the same time continue to enjoy medical care of high quality , it must look closely at the entire system of medical education . As Hippocrates said . " To heal even an eye , one must heal the head , and indeed , the whole body . " they are defined by the AMA only as " full-time students . " Yet they have far less freedom than students . They arc expected to work obediently around the clock , usually every other night at the hospital . Agitation for more reasonable hours , or even for better pay , is generally discouraged by hospital administrators and medical staff . The average intern has no real job security or collective-bargaining power . He can be hired and fired or denied certification almost at the whim of hospital administrators and attending staff . Personality conflicts with superiors can be disastrous . The residency , which follows the internship , is the highest stage of medical education . Since residents have much more authority and responsibility than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict develops when students , interns , and residents are working together . The resident talks ; the others listen . Nonetheless , the resident himself is still a " pair of hands " in the serfdom of the medical profession , and many residents say that their programs are too lengthy , that they could learn the same material in half the time . @# PUBLIC dissatisfaction with the present system of medical care was one of the reasons for the passage of Medicare . The federal government , with the great momentum gathered in the drive for this legislation , has begun to extend its activities into medical education . In December of 1964 , the President 's Commission on Heart Disease , Cancer , and Stroke , composed mostly of eminent physicians , published a report stating broad proposals for improving and expanding medical care for the average citizen . The commission took a critical look at the doctor shortage and recommended that $40 million be spent over a five-year period to provide 5000 additional spaces in medical schools . The commission also recognized that while the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applying for medical school , a consequence of the high cost of medical education , competition from stimulating careers in the other sciences , and the small number of scholarships and grants now available to medical students . The commission asked that $6 million be spent to advertise medicine as a career in high schools and colleges , and that the Health Professions Educational Assistance Act be amended in order to provide more scholarships . Appropriate bills for all recommended funds were passed by the 89th Congress and signed by President Johnson in October , 1965 . Such measures represent important advances , but they do not change the traditional system of medical education , which has remained unaltered after                     