@@488144

Dr AR SIRS May I speak my welcome to the uncommon good sense in your eclitolial on the California elections 17 lie Neuron . Oct 171 ' I he decision of the Conference for a New Politics ignores the central lesson of the past hall centiiiy of political history  --  that in a contest between candidates of the Center and the extremist Right , the Left dare not be neutral , unless it is strong enough to elect its own How dearly the Germans and the world paid for having blundered in this regard The " new radicalism " is so postured to bleak with the old radicalism that they do not study it to tind its positive and negative sides Consequently they are repealing its crudest mistakes , and not salvaging any of its virtues In 1934 in Calitorma a much stronger than now exists Left made a similar error in the gubernatoital campaign and contributed considerably to the election of the wicked Merriam machine If Reagan is elected , at best the awful days of the Rolph-Merriam rule will return , and at worst , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom Reagan is attached will capture the state , an outcome sinister for the entire nation The drive to make Vietnam the criterion for support of Brown sounded very idealistic  --  it was in fact a sure pattern for Brown 's defeat . Were he to support the President , he would lose the Liberal-Left Were he to oppose Johnson , he would lose a parr of the Democratic organization and middle-of-the-road vote Did the Liberal-Left believe that the election of Reagan would make lor a better climate in which to achieve peace " It is a worthy subject for political study , that ever since the LaFollette campaign ol 1924 the political Lett has developed a lemming psychology , as soon as its numbers increase somewhat , it leaves the congenial surroundings that made for growth to begin a march to its own destruction Instead of crying " bankrupt " and " irrelevance " to the Liberal-Left and Marxist past , as the leaders of the " new radicalism " in California have done , it would be more profitable to study that era , The California " new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is easy to become intoxicated with the eloquence of one 's own self-righteousness and militancy It 's an occupational disease for leaders to avoid if the major objectives of a larger strategy are to be realized I appeal especially to those Californians who shared many hard battles with me to prevent that magnificent state from falling into the gills ' ) of the ultra-Right extremists Alter the rhetoric is trimmed away , there is only one way to do that  --  elect Pat Brown , despite his imperfections 4 A. Dan y the Fulbrights Cambridge , Mars DEAR SIRS I was distressed by Richard Kostelanetz 's article " In Darkest Fulbright " The Nation , lune 131 . As chairman of the United States Board of Foreign Scholarships which administers this program , I have some concern about correcting inaccuracies that do an injustice to a program which in twenty years has aided the exchange of 100,000 persons and performed an inestimable service to the international academic community I regret that you allowed The Nation to become the vehicle for a spiteful and ignorant diatribe . Here follow corrections ot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Man v I- nib ? ight pi ( ) gloms in e ( Continued on page 452 ) EDITORIALS Top Secret The best kept  --  and gloomiest  --  secret of the Tohnson era is Just what the Vietnamese wai is costing It is a truism that the social costs of an vvai ale incalculable , and even the money cost can not be ascertained to the last ( Jolla : but this hat ( .11 ? , ' accounts for the murkiness that surrounds a subject so important to the American people The real reason is that deception is being practiced on a grand scale , by experts in the art That this is not a groundless assertion the following facts attest ' Governor Scranton , emerging from a White House conference , told newsmen that the w at in Vietnam may cost as much as 510 billion mot e in the next fiscal ? , eat l he statement was almost immediately denied 4 , Sen Richard B Russell , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , said a few days ago that he and other Senators have been unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , present and future He thinks the outlays are currently running between $1 5 and $2 billion a month . Sen. John Stennis , chairman of the preparedness subcommittee , estimates 9 ) 2 billion a month . Wilbur D Mills , chairman of Ways and Means , is irked by the reluctance of the Administration to give him a straight account of costs It he does n't know , who would " Marquis Childs , in September , said flatly that the cost at that time was 52 7 billion a month He added " Rather than a t andom figure picked out of the au , this is a careful calculation accepted at the highest levels of government concerned with takes and debt and the storm cloud of threatened inflation hovering over the economy " Under a release date of October 20 , Prof Raymond J. Saulnier declared that we are faced with inflation and " we need a realistic assessment of defense spending requirements , which have been consistently underestimated . . . . It is impossible to plan monetary policy , let alone fiscal policy , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cost " There is tricky accounting all over Washington One device is to estimate war costs in terms of actual expenditures , a technique which automatically hides the truth The Pentagon has been slow in paying contactors When the government is slow in paying , vendors do not write threatening letters of hand accounts over to collection agencies they turn to the banks for money George A Murphy , chairman of the Irving Trust Company , says that the Defense Department slowdown , which he calls " widespread , " has been a " significant factor in producing extraordinary loan demand " One need not he unduly cynical to connect this situation with the pre-election minimization ot the financial disruption caused by the war Only the most credulous could imagine that bad news is not being withheld from the public now , when it could influence votes , to he released after the votes have been counted That costs must be high is self-evident We are chewing tip materiel at a fantastic rate , In terms of materiel , this is our third largest war According to Senator Morse , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the two Vietnams than all Europe and Africa received in the same time in World War II . It is a small , war only in terms of the area involved . Devastation at this level of intensity is expensive for the receiver in lives , and property ; for the donor the cost in lives is less but the money cost is enormous . And the worst is yet to come . Counting the crews of the Seventh Fleet , the United States now has nearly 400,000 men engaged in the assault on Vietnam . It is common talk in Washington that 1967 will see an increase in the air and ground forces from the present level of some 330,000 to 600,000 or 700,000 . The major voice in the conduct of the war has passed from the civilians to the military . Writing from Saigon in the New York World Journal Tribune , Ward Just asserts that the recent visit of Secretary McNamara " marked the beginning of the end of civilian supremacy in the American effort here . " Gen. William C. Westmoreland , though no Caesar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Public relations tribute will continue to be paid to the importance of winning " the hearts and minds of the people , " but the war will be fought with bombs , cannon and firearms in ever greater measure . The role of the South Vietnamese army m combat will be further reduced , and the brunt of the war will fall with ever greater weight on the American forces . Ambassador Goldberg will continue to bleat at the UN , but American lives and American dollars will be ponied into the South Asian cauldron with no limit in sight . On the financial side alone the American people are in for unpleasant surprises ; how unpleasant they will not know until Mr. Johnson and his aides are forced to give an accounting  --  after November 8 . Korea and Vietnam A Korea-type settlement in Vietnam would be a political godsend for the Johnson Administration , would further the long-term U.S. policy of containment and military frustration of Red China , would relieve the anxieties of American youths and their families , and partially restore the luster of American democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact the objective of such planners as Arthur Schlesinger , Jr. ; Richard Goodwin , John Kenneth Galbraith and the " No Wider War " committee said to be in the making . Almost any kind ' of end to the war would be welcomed by a majority of Americans : they would applaud its artificers as they applauded General Eisenhower 's promise to bring peace in 1952 . Unfortunately , this hopeful picture is visible only from the American side . As seen from Hanoi and Peking  --  even from Moscow  --  it is shot through with wishful thinking , an indulgence which among all human activities can be least afforded in war . There is , indeed , one condition on which the war might be ended with American troops garrisoned in Vietnam ( or Thailand ) and air bases in readiness for re-use by American bombers , whether under USAF occupancy or some caretaker arrangement with the native military . That condition , in a slight modification of General LeMay 's formula , is that we can manage to twist the enemy 's arm hard enough so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' staggers to the conference table . This outcome is conceivable , though not probable , in relation to North Vietnam ; but it ' is - unimagiTHE NATION lOctober 31 , 1966 ' table in relation to the Chinese , who are in a position to exercise veto power over any proposed settlement So the solution is likely to reduce to LeMay 's earlier prescription bombing North Vietnam back into the Stone Age and , if the Chinese attempt countermeasures , meting out the same treatment to them , Short of total defeat , the enemy will not , because it can not , settle for the Korean pattern To Hanoi that would mean not only the loss of the war presently raging but a reversal of the victory over the French which led to the Geneva Agreements of 1954 Hanoi 's objective . identical with that of the National Liberation Front is a share for the latter in the future government of South Vietnam and , ultimately , reunification of North and South under Communist auspices The last they may never achieve but they will continue guerrilla warfare indefinitely rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the end of World War II , when French intransigence finally made it impossible for them to remain in the French Union Nor can the Chinese settle for another Korea . this one on their southern flank Already the cordon sanitaire that has been drawn around them is tighter than the one Clemenceau devised for the Soviet Union atter World War I The only remaining gaps are in the south Actually , with Shanghai some 500 nautical miles from Okinawa , Peking a slightly greater distance from Seoul . and southwest China across the Taiwan Strait from another complex of de lac to American bases , and Polaris submarines cruising the Pacific . the additional peril from the direction of Thailand and South Vietnam makes a had situation only slightly worse , but Chinese psychology has reached the so-far-and-no-farther stage . Their hostility toward both the United States and the Soviet Union is aggravated by a factor rarely mentioned in discussions of Chinese militancy that both Soviet and American ballistic missiles must long since have been targeted on Chinese population centers and nuclear plants . with the Soviet sites probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missilry ? not the United States when Khrushchev did it in Cuba , nor the Chinese when it is done to them In war , to assess enemy intentions with any certitude. one must put oneself in the enemy 's place If one does this with respect to Hanoi and Peking , only one conclusion can be drawn . Even if we withdrew to defensive enclaves in accordance with General Gavin 's proposal , the wai would not end . The enclaves would he attacked and the initiative would be with the enemy . The no-wider-war position has merit insofar as it provides a pause for reflection , as a solution it is unworkable The war can end only if the United States comes up with a promise of eventual withdrawal more persuasive than anything the Johnson Administration  --  or its critics  --  have so far offered And both might as well make up their minds that Vietnam is not Korea . Can Dr. Condon See It Through ? It 's hard to feel sorry for an organization like the U S. Air Force , but the present flying-saucer situation almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is charged with investigating UFOs ( unidentified flying objects ) , has been saying that there is no evidence that earth is being visited by spaceships from another world . Not only has this position failed to impress many people , it has made them furious at the Air Force . Now , with excitement over flying saucers again at fever pitch , the Air Force wants to get off the hot spot . It has therefore commissioned the University of Colorado to conduct an independent fifteen-month study of the phenomenon at a cost of $313.000 The choice of Dr Edward U Condon to head the study is an unusually happy one . He is not only a world-renowned scientist , he also has a rare ability to communicate ideas to the nonscientific public In addition , Dr Condon had enough troubles with the government during the McCarthy period to protect him Irom the easy label 01 government stooge Dr Condon is approaching the saucer project with enthusiasm , but we wonder if he knows what he is letting himself in tor . Word is already spreading that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be suppressed . If Dr. Condon and his associates come up with anything less than the little green men from ( Mats , they will be cruel i led . But the Colorado investigation can have some useful results It may explain some of the small number of genuinely puzzling sightings that have occurred . And , perhaps mole important , the psychologists on Dr Condon 's stall- may he able to provide some insight into the reasons why so many Americans must look to beings from beyond the earth as the only hope for escape from the tensions , dangers and boredom of modern life . The Search for Santa Claus On November 8 , New York voters will he asked to approve an amendment to the state constitution which would authorize a state lottery , the proceeds of which shall he applied exclusively " In aid or support of education in this state ' One of the oldest dodges in promotion ot rackets is to link them to good causes . It will he noted also that this is a blanket authorization , with no indication ot how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of drawings . or what sateguaids are to be incorporated against the infiltration of criminals A pig in a poke is being offered to voters in the Empire State Lotteries have been outlawed in New York since 1833. and with good reason The New Yolk Poo has published a series of articles on the history in one of them ( October 5 ) John S. Ezell , author of Fortune 's Aleriv LI:lieel , pointed out that a study of more than 1.300 legal lotteries in the United States proves that the most careful supervision can not eliminate abuses Anthony Scaduto notes in the same series that lotteries have been characterized as " a tax on imbeciles " and -a plague invented by despots to silence the people " But historical evidence is outweighed in the minds of proponents by the New Hampshire experiment , which has been in operation for three years without scandal This brief record is hardly a guarantee of purity in the lulu e , besides , in terms of net revenue the New Hampshire lottery has been a disappointment A large percentage of the New Hampshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  are sold to out-of-state visitors , and in other respects the differences between the two states , one with a population of less than 700,000 , the other with 18 million , surely outweigh the similarities , In New York , with its heavy urban population-8 million in New York City alone  --  it is a foregone conclusion that most of the gambling would be done by those least able to afford it . The argument is adduced that the mob-operated policy games , bookie setups , etc. , now take tremendous sums from the poor , and that a government-operated lottery would at least be honest and would provide the state with much-needed revenue . Unfortunately , the history of government lotteries shows that they can be as dishonest as those privately operated ; countless schemes are evolved for control by criminal elements , which have quite enough power in government already . Nor does government-sponsored gambling dry up other forms of gambling . The poor continue to play the numbers and buy lottery tickets , hoping to make a killing somehow , somewhere . Puerto Rico has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike of lottery employees halted the sale of tickets for ten days , food sales in the supermarket chain the Racketeers control shot up 30 per cent . A lottery is a typical sucker setup , both for the customers and for the state . In effect it is a search for Santa Claus ? a particularly benevolent Santa Claus who will finance public services painlessly . If New York becomes the second state to go into the lottery business , other states will follow suit , and there is even the prospect of a national lottery atop the state lotteries . This contagion should be stopped before further mischief is generated . Union Stripes The enemies of progress are right , from their crazed perspective , to scotch the organization of equality wherever it appears . Equality is an extremely " catching ' idea , and groups that are a moon flight removed from Harlem , Watts and the Mississippi Delta are beginning to develop the fever . Catholic priests , who for some time have been appearing on other people 's picket lines , ' have recently been heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be incongruous . And now from the West Coast comes word that the San Francisco County Jail No. 2 has been organized by a rank-and-file group known as the Inmates Activities Committee ( IAC ) . This " union " called ' public attention to itself when it submitted its first memorandum to Sheriff Matthew H. Carberry and with public relations finesse sent copies to the local press and radio stations , members of the grand jury , Congressmen , Assemblymen and the police commission . ' It is a model document : cool , specific , realistic and tough ( convicts can not very effectively strike , but frustration can move them to riot ) . The principal grievance of IAC is racial discrimination in jobs and housing within the jail , a charge persuasively documented and for which remedies ( including the firing of two prison officers ) are succinctly outlined . Beyond this the memorandum demands , among other reforms , more and better food , improved bathing facilities , frequentchanges of bed linen and clothing ( many of the inmates do farm work ) and the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have a voice in the spending of it . To a reader on the outside , the statement offers some surprises . One wonders who among its drafters cited as one sign of racial discrimination the fact that weekend movies are always shown in the predominantly Negro wing , whereas the white wing " escapes this inconvenience entirely . " And who would have expected prisoners to recommend that an orientation course for supervisory personnel be conducted by the Community Relations Department of the San Francisco Police Department ? The men who drafted this paper are intelligent , thoughtful , articulate and not without humor ( in one paragraph , they deplore the use of cell toilets as iceboxes , however effective this " ingenious practice " ) . Of course , they may also be fearful villains , but if the Sheriff is a wise man he will have received their memorandum in the spirit in which it was written . As canny industrialists learned long ago , a self-respecting union is a wonderful device for keeping the plant operating smoothly . The IAC could make the operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; or , if its grievances are ignored , it could produce " labor unrest " of a peculiarly acute variety . And the bloody minded need not worry that conditions will become too good for the scoundrels . The essence of jail is that the gate is locked ; no amount of justice and common decency on the inside will make that fact more than endurable . The Penance of Matthews As an American institution . The New York Times is properly subject to evaluations which might be irrelevant or impertinent in relation to an ordinary newspaper . Every day , for every working journalist , how the Times judges news , how it reports news , what news it sees ' fit not to print , are facts that are themselves news . This is what makes Gay Talese 's article in the November Esquire , " The Kingdoms , the Powers , and the Glories of The New York Times , " such racy  --  and important  --  reading . It offers just the right combination of gossip , insight and vivid detail , seasoned with a touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body of the article , warrants special emphasis . " The Times , " writes Mr. Talese , " is quick to denounce the suppression of news and ideas , even when such may be contrary to its own editorial policy , and yet in recent years its news department has refused to print anything by Herbert L. Matthews , who now sits rather quietly in Room 1048 along a corridor of editorial writers . " Matthews became famous in the thirties with his reporting of the Spanish Civil War . He became famous again when he interviewed Fidel Castro , before Castro came to power . In 1963 , he revisited Cuba  --  and Castroand on his return , according to Talese , offered to do some articles ; the offer was declined by the Times news department . Apparently the source of the embarrassment , on the Times 's side , is that Matthews in 1958 did not believe that Castro was a Communist , and even now believes that Castro was not then a Communist . However Matthews might handle the subject , the mere fact of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the implication that if the United States had managed matters differently Castro might never have become a Communist He certainly would not have been a Yankee-style capitalist either , but there need have been no Communist island sticking into the Gulf of Mexico , no Bay of Pigs . fewer Cubans would have gone into exile and those who remained at home would have suffered less hardship . Last spring , Matthews again returned to Cuba  --  it can not be said that the Tulles is niggardly with travel allowances , even for employees who are not in the highest favor with those Talese calls " powerful princes in this church . " He reacquainted himself with Castro and conditions in Cuba and , with his characteristic thoroughness . amassed 25.000 words ot notes . On his return the news department again declined his oiler to write articles . Nor , since he went representing the Tunes , is he free to write about Cuba for other publications  --  at least that is his position , naturally regretted by The Nation and other magazines whose editors would like to inform their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Matthews has laid  --  we think correctly  --  that no news ot consequence about Cuba is being regularly published in the United States today . The only American correspondent , representing the Associated Press , can get very little copy through his New York office . The general paucity of coverage may be due to the fact that there is an American market only for bad news ( bad from the standpoint of the Castro regime and ordinary Cubans ) . And Matthews told one inquirer that he " found the situation infinitely better than the picture that has been presented to the public this year . " Could that be the rub ? The notion that a particular land mass must become terra incognita if it is Washington 's policy so to regard it , and therefore that nothing happening there , short of the assassination of its leader , could be news , is no doubt a natural govermental attitude in a time ot permanent cold war . But The New York Times is not an arm of the government  --  that is one of the blessings for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " When Is News News ' ' " The Nation , June 20 ) should we tin get that once before the limey decided not to publish a stoi v about Cuba Its editors had learned about the plans for the Bay of Pigs invasion , and President Kennedy later assured the executive editor and publisher that it would have been better for all concerned it the Times had told what it knew . It is not inconceivable that similar regrets may some day he voiced about the material accumulated by Herbert L. Matthews in 1963 and again in 1966 It is certainly to he regretted , today , that the output ol a distinguished iournalist with a long acquaintance of Latin American attain , is barred by the newspaper whose motto is , " All the news that s hi to print . "                     