@@269145

It was late afternoon when Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and his lady drove into the neatly trimmed country estate outside Paris . There the Charles de Gaulles awaited their weekend guests on the steps of the Chteau de Champs , the magnificently paneled onetime home of Madame Pompadour . It has become Macmillan 's custom to make contact with France 's haughty leader at least once a year . But this time it was especially important for the two statesmen to have their leisurely hours together in the French countryside , for Europe is moving into decisive times ; bargains made , friendships hardened , grievances dissolved could have an impact on the world 's future for decades to come . <P> Swap Denied . Macmillan , who used to see himself in the role of " honest broker " between East and West , now was closer to acting as broker between West and West . There were many familiar items of disagreement within the Western Alliance-De Gaulle 's desire for a loose European federation ( Macmillan in agreement ) and the U.S.-British desire to negotiate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear weapons and France 's determination to build its powerful independent force de frappe , there was-officially- little that the Prime Minister could say ; Macmillan earlier had flatly denied any intention of offering to swap nuclear aid for France 's cooperation in easing Britain 's Common Market membership . It was , after all , the U.S. that insisted on refusing to France scientific secrets that might speed De Gaulle 's nuclear plans . <P> Clearly , the Common Market was uppermost in Harold Macmillan 's mind . What price must Britain pay to enter Europe ? The step now seemed inevitable , but at fearsome risk to Britain 's Commonwealth ties . Charles de Gaulle fears the influence of the U.S.-British alliance in Europe ; does he so savor the vision of France as No. 1 nation on the Continent that he would actively try to keep Britain out forever ? <P> Seven Veils . The answers might soon show up in Brussels , where another round had begun in the negotiations on Britain 's Common Market membership . As De Gaulle and Macmillan met , the mood in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began , Britain 's Lord Privy Seal Edward Heath set the tone . " Well , shall we begin the Dance of the Seven Veils ? " he cracked in a reference to seven complicated problems that must be resolved for British membership . <P> One veil came off with the parley 's first agreement on a specific hurdle : Britain proposed to abandon Commonwealth preferential tariffs on a list of 400 manufactured goods it normally imports from Canada , New Zealand and Australia . In a mild spirit of compromise , the Europeans agreed to apply the tariff cuts in slow stages , postpone the final cutoff date until 1970 . So far as the Common Market Six were concerned , it was a small first step , but experts now detected a new suppleness in the hitherto stiff French position . Delighted at the way things were going , Ted Heath tentatively declared that the step " has undoubtedly improved the atmosphere . "                     