@@485788

The tragic happenings in Dallas have succeeded in wildly activating the latent James Bond that is- in everyman . From all points on the compass , letters , unsolicited manuscripts , queries and telephone calls have poured into this office since November 22 ; The hypotheses are varied and ingenious , including the suggestion that President Kennedy 's death was ' not an assassination but a prearranged , ordered suicide ! The Nation , too , has been curious about the obvious ' discrepancies , inconsistencies , gaps and unexplained aspects of the three murders , but has- resisted the temptation to enter the lists until an " official " version of the facts is available . The intensity and scope Of public speculation is understandable , but it also has an unpleasant aspect . As Arthur Hoppe , columnist of the San Francisco Chronicle has pointed out , " Now that he is dead , we all ask , who did it ? Who really did it ? How important it is to all of us who failed in our duties in some small way  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy to blame . How very important . And how very sad . " All the same , the public should maintain an alert , skeptical , wholly critical attitude ; nor should public concern , abate merely , because the Warren Commission has set to work . For one thing , the role that the FBI played , according to its own account , m relation to the Dallas police and to the Secret Service , is itself a subject of legitimate public concern , and the FBI ? according to its past record  --  is not to be trusted to pass judgment on its own activities . The public is entitled , specifically , to an explanation of the motive which led the FBI to " leak " aspects of its report before it was even delivered to the Chief Justice , much less released to the public . By clear inference , some publications have been permitted to " see " the report , if not to study it . This is both irregular and highly objectionable . Nor should the public give a blank check of credence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and skill and integrity of the Chief Justice is not to be questioned  --  although it has been editorially questioned by the New York Daily News  --  the commission is not as well balanced in make-up as it should have been ; it is heavily weighted in favor of the " official " or Establishment view . A majority might be inclined , for example , to seal off further inquiry with a brisk " official " report ' and to ignore sensitive aspects of the matter , including the role of the FBI , of the Secret Service and of the Dallas police . Newsweek has suggested that the Warren Commission is the " jury " in this matter , but that is inaccurate . At best the Commission is the petit jury or , more accurately , the coroner 's jury ; the grand jury consists of the American people . Precisely because of the world-wide scope and intensity of public speculations about the facts , nothing short of the earliest possible full disclosure  --  and verification wherever possible  --  of all the known facts , will suffice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , we intend to make an independent assessment of whatever " official " report is eventually issued . Political Punditry With the flags still flying at half-staff for President Kennedy , and during a period of remarkable political fluidity ( " it 's a neW ball game " is the phrase ) , the political commentators have reached a set of abSolute conclusions with a speed and finality that is - breathtaking . Item. : President Johnson is formidable , invulnerable and invincible . On the basis of a few spot interviews , one pundit assures us that the President will carry ' all the Southern states ; another soothsayer , having sur'veyed one precinct in Philadelphia , informs us that Mr. Johnson iS certain to hold the vote of the Northern urban Negroes . Item : Senator Goldwater 's chances , which the commentators themselves had grotesquely inflated in recent months , have now been damaged , we are prbmised , beyond repair . Yet it is quite apparent that Senator Goldwater , without waging much of a campaign , can take to San Francisco a block of pledged delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make him a real power in the convention . Item : Richard Nixon 's chances , we are told , have now been vastly improved  --  despite clear demonstrations , in the same columns which announce his resurgence , that a Republican nominee should be able to carry New York and California , in neither of which states is senthnent for the former Vice President exactly overwhelming . Item : Goyernor Nelson Rockefeller remains hopelessly disqualified by reason of his divorce and remarriage , despite the concession , again made in the Same columns , that he would be the strongest Republican nominee in California and New York . If these commentators are right , and a major part of the electorate actually votes on the basis of togetherness and lifelong monogamy  --  at a time when the problems confronting the President must tax the powers of the ablest incumbent  --  all one can say is that such a public deserves not only the President they get , but the commentators who inform them . Actually , the effect of the Governor 's remarriage was aired initially by Republican bigwigs who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut Rockefeller down to size , the better to make Senator Goldwater appear ten times larger than life . Nor is it only the commentators who have jumped to conclusions ; spokesmen for major ' political interest groups , under the stress of recent events , have made rash pledges which  --  once the existing political moratorium is over , and it will be very soon  --  they may well regret . Wisdom at this juncture is to forgo pat prophecies and  --  firm commitments until the ball game is a bit further advanced . The Handwriting on ? the Wall What has now happened at South Bend was forecast by B. J. Widick in The Nation of February 17 , 1962 --  " Tragedy at StUdebaker . " Widick called attention to the fact that Studebaker and South Bend were once synonymous with the American dream  --  friendly community feeling , good labor relations , technological progress and pride of workmanship . And yet , he pointed out , just one decade later the dream had begun ? to turn into a nightmare : " The middle-class dream world of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Why ? ' One - reason ' is the dominance of duopoly in the automobile . industry . The giants , Ford and especially General Motors , set the prices . General Motors figures that it will never be engaged more than 75 per cent of the time ; in other words , they expect , and are able to show , a 20 per cent profit with 25 per cent unused capacity . The smaller companies are tempted to take advantage of this generous price umbrella . Instead of pricing their products to undercut Ford and General Motors , thus creating a market for themselves , they try to compete in a market where they are defeated in advance . Bigness reaches a point where , unless one Strikes out into new ground , it is irresistible For example , the trade-in value of a GM or Ford car , is established . NeW parts and reason-ably efficient service can be had anywhere . The very names inspire confi-dence , and this confidence is constantly amplified by massive injections of advertising. ? That an automobile company can survive  --  provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the VolksWagen . This car provides the cheapest transportation since the Model T Ford . It is assembled in the United States from parts imported from West Germany . The detnand for it exceeds the supply . Caught in the middle ; Studebaker could not compete with Volkswagen any more than with GM-Ford . From a technological standpoint this is most unfortunate , because at tithes Studebaker has made a good car and contributed to the health of the industry as a whole . George Romney and others testified at the adrainistered-price hearings that Studebaker-Packard had been among the leading technological innovators of the industry . They introduced torsion-bar suspension , separate rear-wheel traction , greater driver visibility front and rear , and other functional and stylistic innovations . The giants are not necessarily the innevators  --  often the contrary . The South Bend shutdOwn is tragic for the workers at the plants and for some of the dealers , but the worst is yet to come . Those economists who predict that 1964 will be a " vintage year " may be right , but joblesness will be part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlanta Constitution , writes that in ten years U. S. manufacturing has not added  --  net  --  one new job . In transportation , not one new job  --  nethas been added since 1929 . In the ten years from 1950 to 1960 , seven of eight new jobs have been outside the profit economy , i.e. , paid for out of taxes , as in defense and space exploration . The economy is one which can produce increasing profits , but these gains will not be reflected in a proportionate increase of jobs . South Bend is merely one syllable in the handwriting on the wall . Lone Crusader In his brief visit to the United Nations , Henrique M. ? Galvao , the sixty-eight-year-old Portuguese firebrand , did not succeed in pleasing the African nationalists who had urged that he be heard . He did not try to please them . He has the habit , almost intolerable in the modern world , of saying what he believes to be true and right , not what he supposes people want to hear . His argument is that Portugal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her colonies , that the Salazar regime must be overthrown before either the people in the homeland or those in Angola and Mozambique can exercise their right of self-determination . As he sees it , the Portuguese themselves are under the equivalent of a colonial yoke and their liberation must be given priority . Moreover , since unity is lacking among the rebel leaders in the colonies , precipitate liberation might result in a situation " worse than the Congo , " which three years ago was set adrift by the Belgians without preparation for self- ' aovernment . Galvao 's view , is that after democracy has been established in Portugal , the people of the territories can choose , presumably through plebiscites , between independence , a federation among themselves and federation with the democratic Portugal of the future . This last suggestion was not well received ; understandably , the Algerian delegate Was the least enthusiastic . When Galvao went on to observe that the existing African states had failed to achieve unity , he was told to limit his remarks to the question of territories under Portuguese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's thirty-six hours in the United States ? should turn into a trium= phal tour . For one thing , he is an indiVidual with scant political power  --  only what he exerts as one of the leaders of a group of Portuguese democrats in exile , and from exploits of - personal - daring like the seizure of the Santa Maria  --  and the visit to New York in the face of extradition threats . But , more than that , Galvao has an old-fashioned **25;1864;TOOLONG quality , larded with a streak of romanticism and a touch of Don Quixote , a combination not calculated to appeal to the working politicians of the new African states any more than to those of the Soviet or Western blocs . So he struck a lonely note . Just the same his visit was not in vain . He did not get the attention that the American press lavished on Madame Nhu ; his age and sex militated against any such orgy of publicity . He did , however , remind Americans that one of our most stalwart allies is a dictatorship of seeming stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of its long tenure . His visit served , also , to show that our State Department was not hand in glove with the Portuguese dictatorship when it came to such delicate matters as the visit of a dissident Portuguese to the UN . The Salazar regime asked for Galvac 's extradition , but he was not touched ; no doubt the State Department was relieved to see him on the airplane en route to Brazil once more . Here and there , at the UN , in Washington , and among the reporters , there may even have been a spark of admiration for the indomitable old man who thinks that principles are important , , and is ready to risk his life for a cause whose triumph he may never see . Senator Lehman It is a measure of the character of Senator Herbert H. Lehman , and his achievement , that his death has evoked deeply felt tributes from the most diverse quarters , from all walks of life , from opponents and critics no less than from friends and allies . For Senator Lehman never hesitated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of measures and causes that were bitterly opposed , and to take timely and courageous positions on issues that other honorable men artfully avoided . McCarthyism is only one ' example . The universality of the tributes tendered to Senator Lehman was more than a measure of the man and his achievements : it was a measure of the capacity of the - American people to - recognize goodness and courage and wisdom when they find these qualities exemplified in a public figure . ' ' 