@@209149

IN the year or so since President Johnson first outlined the concept , the Great Society has become a national and international catch phrase and a challenge to Americans in all walks of life , notably including journalism . That particular challenge was discussed last week by Time Inc . Editorial Chairman Henry R. Luce in a speech to the Magazine Publishers Association . The occasion was the M.P.A. 's presentation of the Henry Johnson Fisher Award to Luce for " outstanding achievement in magazine publishing , " an award named after the late chairman of McCall 's and Popular Science companies . The speech set forth some basic thoughts on the function of magazines that will be of interest to TIME readers . <P> Taking as his text Preside n't Johnson 's Great Society speech at Ann Arbor , Editor Luce described it as " marking one of the ten or twelve great milestones in American history . This country needed it , was ready and waiting for it . And magazines had a great deal to do with making the country ready and waiting . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress on self-improvement , a characteristic that differentiates America from other times and lands where " men and women have been schooled to accept the lot into which God or fate put them . " The U.S. , continued Luce , has developed a " questing spirit-a quest not only for what we call the good life but also a quest for greater meaning in that good life , for higher achievements of mind and spirit . " <P> The President 's " spectacular performance in implementing his aims " only makes " another fact all the more evident . You can not legislate the Great Society . You can not buy the Great Society . " The President himself , recalled Luce , spoke of his vision not as a " safe harbor " but as a " challenge constantly renewed . " Editors , like philosophers and educators , must address themselves to this challenge by always looking far beyond the magazine 's entertainment function to the task of spreading information , " the great hunger and need of our time . Information made radiant by inspiration is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes been criticized for putting too much stress on material things , and , said Luce , " let us recognize the validity of this criticism . . . But , in fact , it is the glory of Western civilization and especially of its Jewish and Christian religions that the distinction between what we call matter and what we call spirit shall not be made too sharply . . . We need to show , and can show , how both the things of the spirit and material things are interrelated and work together-either for the enrichment or for the destructive impoverishment of mankind . " This is true in the U.S. as well as in the world at large , and " to the extent that we grasp the situation , our magazines will be more interesting and more effective in moving with our readers toward the inner meaning and outward achievements of the Great Society . "                     