@@213721

It was only a probing action , but it shook the very foundations of the fortress . Since 1907 , the Oak Room of Manhattan 's venerable Plaza Hotel has been an all-male bastion for three hours every weekday at lunchtime . Until last week , that is , when 15 members of the National Organization for Women , led by that superfeminist Betty Friedan ( The Feminine Mystique ) , 47 , demanded entrance on the ground that their civil rights were being violated . Five of the ladies actually managed to brush by a Plaza assistant manager and the maitre d ' to capture a center table . But then they came up against the main line of resistance ; the waiters studiously ignored their repeated cries for service , and the ladies were eventually forced to fall back . " This is the only kind of discrimination that 's considered moral-or , if you will , a joke , " fumed Mrs. Friedan . But she has not given up . She and the NOW girls have begun planning similar raids in Washington , D.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst thing we can think of , " Muhammad All , otherwise known as Cassius Marcellus Clay , cautioned delegates to a National Conference of Black Students in Minneapolis . " It 's like a bull running into a locomotive : you can admire the bull for his courage , but he 'll still end up splattered all over the track . " Strange words indeed from a man who used to make his living with his fists-but Ali , undefeated but defrocked heavyweight champion , was not pulling any punches on the race question . On the contrary . " By nature , blacks and whites are enemies , " he insisted , urging separatism within America . " We want land . We want factories . We want stores . We must control our own destiny . " <P> It started out as a droning House of Commons debate on the automatic right of hereditary peers to vote in Britain 's . House of Lords . But the argument quickly picked up steam when the talk turned to bastardy among the bluebloods . There are 25 dukes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few of them trace their lineage back to " those royal romances which always seemed to involve births on the wrong side of the blanket . " As Hamilton figures it , the Duke of St. Albans , the Duke of Grafton , the Duke of Richmond and the Duke of Buccleuch are descended from Charles II 's twelve bastard children . There was some grumbling that Hamilton was being unfair to illegitimate children of the past . Responded the M.P. : " I am objecting to illegitimate children having the right , by virtue of being illegitimate , of going into the Lords . "                     