@@494423

Gen. William C. Westmoreland has a winning manner . His heavy eyebrows , prominent chin and West Point posture combine with an almost boyish openness of countenance and a modest turn of speech to make him at once impressive and appealing . This , no doubt , is why President Johnson chose him to revive the public 's flagging patience with the Vietnam war during last month 's visit to Washington by the American team in Saigon . While Westmoreland and Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker shared a crowded week of speeches , a television appearance , briefings for Congress and background meetings with the press , it was Westmoreland who projected confidence most forcefully and most frequently . The general 's " Progress Report " before the National Press Club was artful , with its orderly analysis of the " four phases " of the course of the war . ( We are rounding out the second , moving into the third and simultaneously glimpsing the fourth and " final " phase , perhaps two years away , when token withdrawals of American forces can begin . ) But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We have reached an important point where the end begins to come into view " ) it conveyed the same message of official optimism that has been the government 's Vietnam stockin-trade since 1961 . This is an understandable exercise for a government which is fighting to preserve its policy in Vietnam as well as its continued existence in office . But the number of Americans fighting in Vietnam will soon be raised by 50,000 to 525,000 ; and Westmoreland had asked President Johnson for still more . Last month 's performance should be assessed as part of a political campaign , not as a candid review of the war situation . For instance , during his briefing of the Pentagon pressmen , General Westmoreland disclosed a new intelligence estimate that North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces in South Vietnam declined from 285,000 men to 242,000 men between the summer of 1966 and the summer of 1967 . This was interesting news , because the figure routinely available at the Pentagon for the past several months showed the communist forces holding steady at 297,000 , their high point in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were " not inconsistent " with previous estimates , because they dealt only with " armed strength . " He indicated that they came from a new study " which is not fully completed yet . " Two days later , the US command in Saigon made public some results of the study , repeating the claim that communist " armed strength " in the South had declined by over 40,000 in the past year . But the study also made it clear that the total number of communist troops , militia and agents in the South is much larger than previously suspected . It could be over 400,000 at present . The new study was based in large part on communist documents ' captured in the past two years . It made the largest changes in the estimated number of guerillas and political cadre . The old figures placed the number of local and regional guerrillas at somewhere between 33,000 and 40,000 . The new study puts the number between 70,000 and 90,000 , adding that the guerrillas " probably numbered well over ioo , 000 a year ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political cadre in the South ? what Saigon calls the " infrastructure " or the " shadow government " ? at about 40,000 . The new study estimates that there are 75,000 to 85,000 . Further , the old figures put the number of North Vietnamese and Viet Cong combat troops in the " main force " communist battalions and regiments at about 113,000 men . The new study says this number was actually as high as 127,000 men in 1966 , and is now about 118,000 . The old figures estimated that the communists had 25,000 administrative and support troops . The new study says the number is actually between 35,000 and 40,000 . In citing a figure for " armed strength " of the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese , the new study includes main force troops , guerrillas and administrative personnel , but not political cadre . The new study drops altogether the estimates for two other groups of personnel that , along with the political cadre , were part of the old overall figure for communist strength of 297,000 . These are the " self-defense forces " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were described as " operating at all levels from village to re-gion " as " home guards , primarily for the control and light defense of VC-held areas . " They were said to include " personnel of all ages " and to have " a high percentage of females . " The latter category was described as " essentially low-level fifth columnists , used for information collection . " Although dismissing these groups from the official " order of battle , " the study noted that " they cause some casualties and some damage " and form an intelligence network and a " base for recruitment as well as for political and logistical support work . " The old estimates set the number of these harassing agents and home guards somewhat arbitrarily , at up to 8o,000 . The odds are strong that the actual number is much higher . But even if one accepts the old number and adds in the new estimates for the other components of communist strength in South Vietnam , the total comes to over 400,000 even after subtracting the losses cited by Westmoreland . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two points about these numbers are of interest . First , General Westmoreland conceded at the Pentagon briefing , in answer to a question , that North Vietnam has units in reserve which could be committed to South Vietnam as reinforcements ( as distinguished from the replacements which it regularly sends south ) . He also sidestepped a question concerning the problems that would be posed if China began supplying troops to replace the manpower losses of the Viet- namese communists . The point is that the other side could prolong the big-unit war by drawing additional manpower from outside South Vietnam . Second , if the new estimates are accepted , the local , mostly native Viet Cong structure is about twice as large as anybody on the allied side was willing to concede officially as recently as midsummer , and this despite some attrition . The political part of the structure , the heartwood of the tree , appears to be untouched , suggesting that General Westmoreland 's forces have at best pruned some branches . The size of the local Viet Cong structure helps to explain the slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Westmoreland and Ambassador Bunker during their visit here and frequently repeated was that about 67 percent of South Vietnam 's 17 million people live under government " control , " or as it is sometimes put by officials , under government " protection , " and about 17 percent under Viet Cong control . This claim is based on detailed reports from American officers in the field under the Hamlet Evaluation Survey ( HE S ) . Following a checklist of 18 criteria , officers grade each of South Vietnam 's 12,000 rural hamlets for degree of government control ? or protection ? on a descending scale of A through E. If the hamlet is thoroughly controlled by the Viet Cong it is graded V. In compiling its claim that two-thirds of the population live under government control , the American mission in Saigon lumps together 3.5 million living in cities and 8 million living in class A , B and C hamlets . About 2.5 million persons in class D and class E hamlets are said to be " contested , " while just under 3 million persons are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? particularly the claim of government control of all 4 million persons living in class C hamlets ? appears open to question ( although it is said to be supported by experience in the recent elections ) . And it masks the existence of z million people whom bombing and other aspects of the war have turned into homeless refugees in the past two years . Whatever the validity of doubts about this interpretation of the HE S data , the monthly surveys Throw a strong light on current communist military and political tactics in South Vietnam . Recent HE S reports have recorded a substantial reversion of formerly secure hamlets in the northern provinces as the result of a coordinated effort by main force battalions and local guerrillas against the US Marines and Vietnamese army in the First Corps area . The big battles along the demilitarized zone last spring and summer drew the allied forces away from the populated areas , exposing them to repenetration by communist political agents and local guerrillas . The big battles had the further effect of dramatizing US casualties in a theatrically barren setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique further south . In the recent big battles at Loc Ninh in the Third Corps area and Dak To in the Second Corps area , the first part of the pattern was repeated . The communist threat brought the allied forces out of the coastal valleys and delta farmlands to fight for apparently worthless real estate in the remote border zones , under terms relatively favorable for the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese units . The First Cavalry Division , for instance , sent a brigade which had been engaged in pacification work in coastal Binh Dinh province . Earlier , the division had sent another brigade north to prevent the situation in the First Corps area from deteriorating further . " We have had to cancel the pacification operation in Anlao Valley ( in Binh Dinh province ) , " said an official in Washington to Hedrick Smith of The New York Times . " In terms of Hanoi 's strategy , this is a crashing success . " It is too early to tell how well the communists will exploit this success . But they have clearly stepped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern developed earlier in the year in the northern provinces . And Hanoi is predicting sustained pressure throughout the winter . So it seems too early as well for General Westmoreland 's assessment of Dak To , which he called " the beginning of a great defeat of the enemy . " To sustain the pressure in the central highlands and west of Saigon , the communists must make use of sanctuaries in Cambodia for supply , training and planning bases . The units then slip across the border and quietly prepare the battlefields where they hope to draw the allies into a fight . When the allied attack is mounted , the communists can break contact and slip back across the border to safety . " It 's hard to play chess with a man who takes his king off the board every time you 're ready to checkmate him , " complains an Army colonel . The United States would like Cam-  -- entcztufgjeci4bodia 's Prince Sihanouk to make it harder for the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese , by cracking down on their rice purchases in his country and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent pressure campaign , carried on through diplomatic channels as well as in the press . At a " background " dinner for reporters in Washington last month ( " But Do n't Tell Anyone I Told You , " NR , Dec. 9 ) General Westmoreland disclosed a deeper concern about communist use of Cambodia when he spoke of possible arms shipments from ports on the Gulf of Siam to the sanctuaries . If the North Vietnamese could open up such a supply route , they could dramatically increase the tempo of communist military operations on South Vietnam 's western frontier . And what if this should happen ? Some officials speculate that allied " spoiling raids " would be carried across the border . Two footnotes . A year ago , American officials were apt to put great stress on the significance of the rapid growth in the number of communists who defected to the South Vietnamese side . The argument was that these defectors " vote with their bodies . " Plans were laid to handle nearly 40,000 new defectors in 1967 , double the previous year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledges of amnesty and security for those who chose to come over . For the first half of the year the flow of hoi chi-mils was as predicted , reaching 18,546 . Since then the flow has trickled off to less than last year 's rate . By the end of November the number for the year stood at about 26,000 . The rate appeared to be going down sharply in November , when the numbers coming in were lower than they were during the unsettled spring of 1966 , when the northern provinces were in virtual revolt . Some officials blamed the drop on the election campaigns and changeover to a new government in Saigon ; others thought it had something to do with the current situation in the northern provinces . Yet , Bunker said categorically , in New York on November 17 , " defections under the Chieu Hoi program this year are running nearly 5o percent ahead of last year . " The high-level visitors from Saigon feared lest Washington and the public look with skepticism on the new claim that the other side is losing men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New York Times reported that " Bunker and Westmoreland " are " privately critical of past US intelligence estimates made by an American officer who has been transferred to another post , and confident about the intelligence estimates that they are now getting from his replacement . " Others , however , rate the officer ? reported to be Westmoreland 's intelligence chief , Major General Joseph Alexander McChristian , who has been transferred from Saigon to Fort Hood in Texas ? as very competent and a " realist. "                     