@@216708

Say the word Calcutta to most Americans , and they think of saried Indians bathing in the Ganges and sacred cows basking in the middle of dirty thoroughfares . But say Calcutta to the member of a golf club , and he is apt to look nervously to either side and whisper , " Shhhh ! How did you know we were having one this year ? " Until 1955 , a Calcutta was an integral - and often the most fun-part of every golf tournament . A few days before a member-member tournament , or on the night before a member-guest , a properly anointed auctioneer would " sell " each team to the highest bidder . If the members were affluent and the bidding spirited , the pot sometimes went into five figures-which the " owners " of the winning teams happily pocketed . Then disaster struck . Two con men showed up as guests at a respectable Long Island club , posted grossly exaggerated handicaps , and bought a piece of themselves . They handily won their flight , and walked off with a large chunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Golf Association ruled that Calcuttas were strictly out of bounds , and most clubs stowed their auction hammers away in old closets . But for golfers who liked to gamble , playing in tournaments without a purse was as dreary as dancing without music So betting slowly crept back to the links , and today members in hundreds of clubs across the country are watching fellow golfers practice putts with more than a casual interest . Many clubs are playing it safe , allowing only modest parimutuel bets ; others have returned to the auctions of old , only slightly toned down . Wary in some cases of local ordinances against gambling while drinking ( most Calcutta auctions are held after dinner parties ) , nervous about the Internal Revenue Service 's ruling that Calcuttas are gambling operations and therefore subject to tax , and anxious not to displease the U.S.G.A. , most clubs now place a limit on the bids and a muzzle on the members . In fact , to hear most officials tell it , the only money that ever changes hands on a golf course these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was handed over to the winner of the tournament , well , he is probably the head of the local Red Cross chapter , and is simply taking the club 's annual collection down to the bank . At 6 p.m . Sunday .                     