@@493425

There is no doubt that a good concert hall and possibly also an opera house and another theater building are sorely needed in the capital city of the United States . There is room for considerable doubt , however , that it is really desirable to wrap the three into the one big package , to be dumped on the banks of the Potomac , we are now being sold with such hoopla . To raise such doubt about our proposed National Cultural Center seems somehow naughty . It 's a little like sneaking downstairs at dawn to see what 's under the Christmas tree . Here is this lovely big present the President himself and Mrs. Kennedy and Mr. Danny Kaye and Mr. and Mrs. Eisenhower and Mr. Leonard Bernstein and Mrs. Roger L. Stevens and Robert Frost and August Heckscher and all these other fine people are working so hard to give us . And we know Culture is good for us , so we should know that national culture is iSo million times better . We must also appreciate how hard it is still going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackie and Dannie and Augie and Mamie and Lenny and everybody want us to have . So it seems downright uncultured to look at it right in the mouth . Besides , we do need that concert hall in Washington . And we badly need government interest in and support for the arts . National Cultural Center Week , on the other hand , is over now ( it ended November 3o ) . It seems all in the bag , anyway , including some of the necessary money . So perhaps there 's no harm , after all , in taking a good look at the model of the Center , now on public display at the National Gallery of Art , to see what we 're getting . In one sentence : Unless plans are changed , we will get a mediocre building on an impossible site that is not a Cultural Center but a Festival Hall . Let 's begin with the site which , aside from the possibly semantic question of cultural center versus festival hall , is really the rub . Nobody so far has dared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will afford from the terrace and lobby of Edward Durrell Stone 's proposed building . The reason is that the land is worth $iz million and was donated by Congress for the specific purpose of a National Cultural Center , provided the rest of the money is raised privately . No one wants to complain about $12. million . The gift is a 15-acre piece of public park land along the Potomac , opposite Roosevelt Island and just a little south of the Lincoln Memorial . Part of the trouble is that Congress has been equally generous to the highway department and that the site will be virtually wrapped in a spaghetti of highways . A big inner loop expressway will just about scrape Mr. Stone 's building within zoo yards and another , smaller one , Rock Creek Parkway , will go right under it . It is bad enough that the center will be located so far away from the heart of the city where the hotels , restaurants , bars , civilization and life are . It is worse that because of distance plus the highways the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they launch a Potomac river barge . it will be next to impossible to walk there and Mr. Stone 's design shows no footpaths . These could , of course , easily be added if footbridges across or tunnels under the highways are also built . This , however , seems hardly a dignified and civilized way of approaching culture . But aside from dignity this also means that one ca n't park anywhere but in the center 's underground garage . It will hold 1,50o cars which may or may not be enough for 6,450 people who will visit the center if the 2,500-seat opera , 2,750-seat concert hall , and i , zoo-seat theater are all sold out on the same night . It will , at any rate , cause quite some delay and commotion to drive 1,50o cars into and out of one parking lot at the same time at the beginning and end of performances . The site also obviously forced the hand of the architect . Mr. Stone is a charming teddy bear of a man with a pleasant Arkansas drawl who rose to moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Museum of Modern Art in New York . Thereafter he fell into oblivion from which he emerged in the mid-fifties with a new architectural style , announcing that henceforth he would " go to bat for beauty . " With the US Embassy in New Delhi he produced a building which , to judge from photographs , is , indeed , stunningly attractive . It is basically square and formal international-style curtain-wall architecture . But to shade the interior against the hot New Delhi sun , Stone cantilevered his flat roof way out , supported it with delicate outside columns , and wrapped the structure in a lacy decorative grille . This gave the building a lithe loveliness particularly appropriate to India . A sensation in New Delhi , the grille still looked stunning in Brussels around Stone 's World 's Fair pavilion . It became an utter , absurd bore on dozens of Stone 's subsequent buildings , including college dormitories , a pharmaceutical factory , and a gas station at Idlewild airport . He has now abandoned what has become a fad and emphasizes other features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a row of slots , somewhat like the holes in IBM cards , and the delicate , gilded columns . Applied to the National Geographic Society office building in downtown Washington , this formula works extremely well . That almost-completed ten-story structure promises to be another beauty . The cantilevered roof and the strongly articulated , soaring mullions are reminiscent of the best of Louis Sullivan 's early skyscrapers at the turn of the century which in turn was somewhat inspired by Florentine palaces . Applied to the Cultural Center , however , the punch card roof and the spindly columns do n't really help , but rather emphasize a basically bland form . All that roof , punched or not , seems to squash the flat horizontal box even more . There is probably no other shape for the building as long as we persist on putting an opera , a theater and a concert hall under one hat . This has some economic advantages such as a common lobby , common backstage loading space and common mechanical equipment . But these seem outweighed by the practical disadvantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Architectural mass can be quite uplifting if it is treated in a monumental fashion . But we do n't want another monumental design so close to the Lincoln Memorial . This forced Stone to give us his oversized garden restaurant straining to take the emphasis off its 600-foot length , zoo-foot width and loo-foot height . What makes its model so seemingly pretty is only exterior decoration things like the gilded columns and the planter boxes dangling between them and the neatly arranged greenery and umbrellas on the roof and terrace which will both contain restaurants . That terrace , and Stone 's idea of a roof-garden which can be closed against the weather and where concerts and exhibits can be held , will , of course , be most enjoyable . It is pleasant to contemplate intermissions in such a huge lobby opening to the terrace and the river view . But here again , some of that restaurant decorator pretty-prettyness creeps in . Consider the huge crystal chandeliers , for instance . This appliance , as the name implies , was invented to hold candles and reached the height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days of Empress Eugenie . Since Mr. Stone will presumably illuminate our Cultural Center with that great American invention , the electric light bulb , it seems quaint that he did not find a more appropriate way of reflecting it . We must not forget , finally , that we will hardly see the finished building from the helicopter perspective from which the model , displayed on a belly-high table , is usually viewed and photographed . In that view its main assets , the roof garden and the terrace , are prominently expressed . But from ground level the second roof and its colonnade can only be seen across the highway from a dimming distance . And the somewhat more interesting glass fa ? ade and terrace display themselves exclusively towards Roosevelt Island which is populated only by the birds . Fortunately , there is nothing really irretrievable about any of this . If all these wonderful people in charge of this effort could persuade Congress to leave the gift horse site to its fine old trees and , maybe , a nice waterfront restaurant and contribute another to culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a more inspiring design . A logical place for it would be Pennsylvania Avenue . The President has recently appointed a special committee to consider ways of turning it from its present decrepit condition into the great ceremonial thoroughfare it was meant to and should be . What better place for national culture than between the Capitol and the White House ? Conceivably the three buildings could be placed in a relationship which , in a geographic sense , justifies the word center . If such a layout around a nice plaza , perhaps , promises to enhance the beauty and liveability of Washington , fine . If it does n't there is really nothing to be gained by sticking to this " center " notion . We are not talking about a place , like New York 's Lincoln Center , where schools , libraries , workshops , studios , intensive artistic encounter , and financial support , in addition to auditoriums , combine to advance study , experimentation and excellence in the performing arts . Perhaps some day we can have such a center in Washington , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What we are talking about is that it 's a shame that our national capital does n't have a better concert hall than that place built for the political pep-rallies of the Daughters of the American Revolution ; that a group like the Bolshoi must perform in a movie house whose stage is too small and which will soon be torn down ; and that we ca n't attract more nationally and internationally famous performing groups to supplement the fine efforts of Washington 's own not-yet-so-famous ones . When the capital cities of other nations were faced with such needs they just built themselves a concert hall , an opera house and a theater . And they saw to it that people can get to them ? even on foot . 