@@478376

On October 30 , 1960 , a few days before the election , the Neustadt memoranda were presented to him aboard the aircraft Caroline . It was a historic flight . These notes were not for university students , but for a man about to assume the leadership of the Free World and the awful responsibility of the nuclear armory who had no clear idea , from no fault of his own , of how to run his office . Let us ponder the dreadfulness of the system . At a time when the world was agog with the vision of America moving again , neither the Presidential candidate nor his intimates knew how to move an interdepartmental memorandum . While relations with Cuba had not yet been broken , plans were being secretly prepared for an invasion of that island . Nobody knew what Mr. Khrushchev was up to over Berlin , Laos was falling apart again , and unemployment at home was reaching crisis proportions . Gold was leaving Fort Knox by the truckload , and only the increasing population was managing to expand the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mess by any standards , and yet the candidate was forced to seek the advice of a scholar outside government . Mr. Kennedy had of course his old Congressional staff , expert in getting out the vote and running a political campaign . Sorensen . O'Donnell , and O'Brien , and the other old hands were all tried and trusted men , intimate with the new chief . Eventually they proved their worth in larger roles . But at this juncture the Neustadt memoranda filled a void . Commodious Establishment M any pages of notes were devoted ' co the Inaugural Address ; others were concerned with ' organizing for reorganizing , " the development of a program , and its presentation in the first message to Congress . The memoranda also anticipated more immediate problems of the new President . The bureaucracy must be promptly reassured and the Congressional leadership consulted , Of greatest urgency would be the designation of assistants , the nomination of Cabinet officers , and innumerable other appointments . Mr. Dean Rusk was first suggested as a consultant on personnel and finished up , no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Tufts and Mr , Paul Nitze were tentatively proposed as Presidential assistant for national security affairs . Mr. McGeorge Bundy , who was finally chosen , was not on any list . From this small start the King 's Men were selected by Inauguration Day ; and , apart from the old Congressional staff , they came mainly from the ranks of the American Establishment . Let there be no argument about whether such a body exists . It does . In recent years it has been institutionalized by the interlocking of the universities , the foundations , and government . Its members have been in and out or on the fringe of Washington for as long as most of them can remember . Not all , of course , had the massive Rockefeller Foundation background of Mr , Rusk , or the proconsular experience of Mr. John Mc Cloy . Some were sons of eminent fathers , and others had nothing obvious to offer except perhaps a special devotion to a defunct American statesman whose long-forgotten speeches they had edited . Yet when they were assembled for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their Establishment connections . Then there were the specialists , such as Dr. Jerome Wiesner. the scientist , who were as experienced as C. P. Snow in moving from the university quadrangle to the corridors of power . They at least brought their expertise . Another , a younger man , came from law clerking by way of the campaign trail to the White House , moved on to the State Department , then to another agency , and then to a new international secretariat which nobody else seemed to want . Subsequently , he returned to the White House . Very odd , if one did not realize that there are many mansions in the American Establishment . These men gladly accepted jobs paying maximum salaries of from $17,500 to $22,500 . The financial remuneration was obviously not the attraction ; as some have admitted , it was the opportunity of being close to , influencing . and possibly wielding power without the preliminaryand , for some , distasteful chore of seeking elective office . Very few of them managed to wield real power , except in bureaucratic combat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twofold : first , to help the President manage his daily chores , gain information , and control key government decisions ; and second , to meet the needs of government officials outside the White House for the President 's support , judgment , decision , or the loan of his prestige . They also had to project the President 's will in Departments whose rulers he had himself just appointed . This last odd exercise is necessary because American Presidents in recent years have made very little use of their Cabinets . In Mr , Kennedy 's case it was inevitable because he met many of these men for the first time when he was considering them for their Cabinet posts . Furthermore , the Departments have grown enormously over the years and have become independent forces to be treated with very much like the medieval magnates of old . In the Pentagon , for example , as Admiral Leahy remarked in 1945 , the Joint Chiefs of Staff were ender no civilian control whatever . They virtually dictated the federal budget , and General MacArthur challenged the very authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had got his comeuppance , the generals and admirals continued to act as if they were responsible for setting national goals and dictating foreign policy . In his farewell address President Eisenhower rather weakly complained of a military-industrial complex . Who Decides to Wake the President ? in this situation , like any medieval monarch , President Kennedy with the assistance of his King 's Men acted promptly . He appointed a powerful Defense Secretary , " muzzled " ( as it was called ) the military public-relations apparatus , and transformed the National Security Council from a baronial moot into a civilian arm of the Presidency . Here the King 's Men really came into their own , The old institutional structure was swept away with the generals . caused a flurry in Ottawa which afterwards had to be explained to the President . All in all , the King 's Men served Mr. Kennedy well , thus confirming the Anglo-Saxon assumption that almost any intelligent man can help run a government . Downing Street Meritocracy The question that needs to be asked , however , is : Could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could , if the American Presidency were less monarchical . Being an Englishman , I look to London for the evidence , even though I am fully and painlessly aware that Britain is a much smaller country . But the fact is that the burden of responsibility carried by the Prime Minister is heavy and just as varied as the President 's . First , let us compare the White House with Number 10 Downing Street . The latter is a modest structure , where extensive recent renovations provided working space for a mere forty assistants and clerks . As mentioned earlier , there are only four private secretaries . They are Mr. Derek Mitchell , the principal private secretary , who specializes in economic matters ; Mr. Oliver Wright , on loan from the Foreign Office ; Mr. Philip Woodfield , who concerns himself with domestic affairs ; and Mr. Malcolm Reid , a Kremlinologist from the Board of Trade . Mr. Wright is a good example of these public private secretaries . A tall , dark , handsome type , he has served as a diplomat in posts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two places where I knew him as a foreign correspondent . He is one of those hardheaded younger men who can mislead their country 's friends and enemies by masquerading in the striped pants of formal diplomacy . There is nothing aristocratic about him . His background is strictly middle-class , and , although he is a product of one of the two better universities , he belongs , if a label must be used , to the meritocracy that runs Britain . Apart from these four , and a press secretary who normally comes from outside , the Prime Minister has the Secretary of the Treasury to advise him on senior civil-service appointments and questions of interdepartmental machinery , and the Secretary of the Cabinet . This is a key job ; although the Secretary serves the Cabinet as a whole , he has a special responsibility to the Prime Minister for the conduct of Cabinet business . Here , then , we have only seven men , less than an infantry squad , but they are enough because the Prime Minister can depend upon the civil service and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own party . United under the principle of Cabinet responsibility , it is accountable on a day-to-day basis to Parliament , I suggest that this system . when allowed to work , is more democratic , more in tune with the spirit of republicanism , and more effective . There can he no question of a candidate for the highest office being selected in some smoke-filled room or a Chicago motel , no room for a Colonel House , and no scope for a Mrs. Woodrow Wilson . There is no need to seek the advice of a theorist on how to form a Government , no empty offices or files , and no King 's Men . The duties of the private secretaries are well established and known to all . They ensure that the Prime Minister receives advice from the appropriate authority and that his advice and decisions are properly and clearly conveyed . The advice from the departments must nearly always have the authority of the departmental minister . The secretaries provide an essential link between the Prime Minister and his Cabinet , and in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible only for office routine , the keeping of records , and the handling of the Prime Minister 's secret and confidential business . That is all ; if they aspire to more direct power and influence , they must seek elective office . The system is not perfect , and it can be misused as when Sir Anthony Eden acted like a President in the Suez crisis . But as an efficient instrument of the democratic process , 10 Downing Street is , I believe , superior to the White House . No matter how talented the men serving it , the Youngish men such as Mr. David Klein mentioned above have proved that the talent is there , and anybody who has worked in Washington knows that there are many more . Some kind of a rotating secretariat is especially necessary for the National Security Council , and a precedent can be found in the Budget Bureau . I would also suggest that the great Departments , especially State and Defense , should have permanent under-secretaries similar to the British model . The political system , I know , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political debts when he appointed Mr. Rusk and Mr. McNamara , and not all the Assistant Secretaries of State are political appointees . With trained men to administer the Departments , the Cabinet officers might be able to do what they should be doing , representing the President 's interest and projecting his will , instead of being at best experts in cotton acreages , international liquidity , or program analysis . An effective Cabinet system might evolve and , who knows , some aspects of medievalism might depart from these shores . It would he rough on those now in the better universities who are dreaming of becoming King 's Men . They would have to run for elective office , or sit for civil-service examinations , but it could also be rewarding . I refer them to those four private secretaries in Downing Street if they remain unconvinced . Those have known are confident men , who clearly enjoyed their well-defined duties near the seat of power . Not for them the social lionizing in the London equivalents of Georgetown , nor the subsequent writing of discreet memoirs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master 's red boxes like a superior Jeeves , a stance that might not be attractive in a society apparently devoted to the fulfillment of the personality . Nevertheless , it is a modesty they can enjoy because they are members of a small group essential for the smooth running of an advanced political democracy . What more could a young man of spirit ask for ? Joseph Kraft will be bark with WASHINGTON INSIGHT next month . Give and Take , by Francis D. Moore . Doubleday , $5.50 . Bird Migration , by Donald R. Griffin . Natural History Press , $4.50 ; paper , Doubleday-Anchor , $1.25 . The Earth Beneath ITs , Rirtley F. Mather . Random House , $15 . The Deep and the Past , by David B. Ericson and Goesta Wollin . Knopf , $6.95 . Of Men and Galaxies , by Fred Hoyle . University of Washington Press , $2.95 , 0 ne of the consequences of the continuing scientific explosion has been a vast outpouring of writings in and about the sciences . The greatest part of the flood has consisted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ documents intended chiefly for professional scientists . But a parallel increase has also occurred in nontechnical accounts of scientific work , and many of these are no mere popularizations concocted for the edification of a naive general public . They are aimed increasingly at the professional scientist , who is also , as a result of the proliferation of knowledge , a layman outside his own special field and who more and more needs to have things spelled out for him in other branches of science . A reflection of this is the phenomenal success of the Scientific American , a magazine that crosses specialty lines to report on biology to physicists and engineers and vice versa . A similar process is taking place with books and is already yielding quite superior science popularizetions ( if that is really the word for some of the volumes at hand ) . An example is Give and Take by Francis D. Moore , a superb account of the important and exciting new medical field of organ transplantation . Dr. Moore is professor of surgery at the Harvard Medical School . where much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was done , and hence has had a ringside seat from the start . His book is addressed to physicians and biologists as well as the general reader ; a medical edition has been brought out by another publisher . Organ transplantation has been a medical dream for centuries . As Dr. Moore makes clear , however . it has been held back not by surgical difficulties but by the fact that we are all different . biologically speaking , and , with some exceptions . we reject tissue grafts from other individuals . But now , investigators are learning how to breach the " transplant barrier . " In a dozen centers here and abroad , kidneys obtained either from cadavers or living donors are being transplanted into patients dying of incurable kidney disease , and , in the best hands , more than half of the grafts are proving successful . Efforts are also under way to extend these successes to other organs . Plainly , a major breakthrough in medicine is in the makirg. and Dr. Moore gives not only the dramatic details of what has occurred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A nother new book of the same **30;2137;TOOLONG genre , Bird Migration by Donald R. Griffin . recounts one of biology 's most intriguing and least known accomplishments ? the discovery that migrating birds navigate by sun and stars . A zoologist on the faculty first of tot : nell and now Harvard , Griffin is the discoverer of " bat sonar , " the echo-ranging system utilized by bats to avoid obstacles in the dark . He has also devoted years to the study of bird navigation , even learning to pilot a plane in order to follow migrating birds in their own medium . As Griffin relates , the critical findings were made by German investigators who hand-raised starlings and European warblers from hatching to maturity ( a particular feat in the case of the warblers , each of which had to be hand-fed uncounted thousands of laboriously collected insects ) to provide subjects for orientation cage experiments . The cages are large and round , completely symmetrical inside , from which the bird can see only the sky or , in one especially elaborate set of experiments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warblers exhibited remarkable directional behavior in the cages . In seeking food , the starlings , a daylight-flying species , oriented themselves by the sun ; regardless of the time of day or the actual position of the sun , the starlings immediately headed in the right direction for food ? so long as they could see the sun . On the other hand , the warblers , a night-migrating species , oriented themselves in accordance with the stars during " migratory restlessness " ( trial flutterings preliminary to migration ) : north when the birds were in spring breeding condition and the stars showed the constellations of spring in the area the European warbler inhabits ; south when the sky or planetarium dome showed the constellations of fall . Two warblers , reared in complete isolation in closed rooms , made trial migratory flights in the right Leonard Engel wrote this review not long before his death in December . In his many articles and his book , " The Operation , " he made an important contribution to the layman 's understanding of science and medicine . 118 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sky . Although Griffin 's writing style is a little wordy and on the dull side , Bird Migration is clear and gets the main point across . There are more wonders in nature than we know of even yet , and this is surely one ? birds steering by sun and stars on flights that extend , for some species , nearly halfway around the world . In our affluent society , publishers have taken to putting out expensive , lavishly illustrated compendiums of practically everything . Many of those in the field of science and natural history are disfigured by poorly selected photographs and an incompetent text . In The Earth Beneath Us by Kirtley F. Mather , however , we have the happy combination of an author who knows what he is talking about ( Mather is one of the world 's most eminent geologists ) , an editor who worked long and hard to keep things clear and nontechnical. and a subject that cries out for the handsomest possible illustrations . The result is a volume that elegantly reveals the forces shaping man 's home , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running water , and ice , the carving of the shore , the raising of mountains and the mighty forces involved in earthquakes and volcanism . There is only one thing seriously wrong with Mather 's portrait of the earth . Like most geologists , he ignores almost completely the 70 per cent of the earth 's surface covered by water ? the oceanic regions of the world ? although these regions are proving an increasingly interesting and useful source of information about the earth as a whole . This is well illustrated in another new book , The Deep and the Past by David B. Ericson and Goesta Wollin. an account of Ericson 's success in dating the start of the Pleistocene ( the Great Ice Age ) at 1.500,000 years ago , by studying sediments from the bottom of the sea . Ericson is a geologist on the staff of the Lamont Geological Observatory , the oceanographic research center of Columbia University . Wollin is an amateur of geology who has long worked with Ericson . During the past dozen years , the Lamont research schooner Venue has collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; these are samples punchedout of the ocean floor with the aid of a massive device , the piston corer , without ( when things go right ) upsetting the arrangement of sediment layers within the sample . The Lamont core collection is the world 's largest . The sediment layers contain microfossils ? tiny shells originally fabricated by microscopic creatures living in the upper , sunlit layers of the sea . To the knowing eye , changes in the aggregates of shells reveal changes in the climate , environmental conditions , the history of earth and life on earth . In practice , most sediment cores go back only a few hundred thousand years : older marine fossils are easily found in areas that are now dry land . But ocean-bottom sediments are less subject to disturbance ; the pages of earth history are more easily deciphered and pieced together . Working with Lamont 's cores , Ericson has constructed a continuous sedimentary record extending back to a time when , as a series of abrupt changes in the microfossils indicate , a previously warm world suddenly turned cold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Age , and the composite sediment-core record has even provided a date ? I.500 , - 000 B.P. tBefore Present ) , a figure much earlier than any yielded by previous methods of reckoning . All of this and more is quite well told in The Deep and the Past . Ericson and Wollin should just have left out the stuff ( inserted in a needless attempt to heighten drama ) about man being a child of the brutal conditions of the Ice Age . Tool-making men appeared on earth at least two million years ago ? well before the ice ? in sub-Saharan Africa , where there never was any Pleistocene ice . British astronomers and cosmologists have a tradition of addressing the general public almost as often as their own colleagues . The current general-public entry from British cosmology is a slim volume by Fred Hoyle , Of Men and Galaxies . In it , he sets forth his views on " big science " ( what it may gain in other ways , it loses in creative power ) , the future of man ( mankind is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk of journeys beyond the solar system is twaddle ) , and life on other worlds ( it certainly exists and may be much like life here ) . Most of what Hoyle says is true and even commonplace ; but that last observation is merely commonplace . During recent years , astronomers , space experts of assorted kinds , and others with an interest in the farther reaches of the universe have come to the conclusion that life exists elsewhere and that it includes beings comparable in intelligence to man . Both presumptions are based on the likelihood that many stars have planets closely comparable to the earth . This is sufficient to make it probable that life does exist elsewhere but not that it has evolved forms comparable to man . For , as George Gaylord Simpson has repeatedly pointed out , evolution is a historical process . What evolves depends not only on external conditions but on what went before : a creature like man could evolve only from a certain type of primate , and so on back . Thus , a planet must closely match the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparable to ours ? a most unlikely occurrence in view of the complexities of the evolutionary process . And when distinguished astronomers like Hoyle or mere science-fiction writers talk about life resembling ours elsewhere , they simply show how little biology they know . world ivill never be quite the same . " find the federal political system unmanageable . He tried to purge his party of some anti-New Deal Senators and Congressmen , and largely failed . And in the midst of his domestic difficulties he had to struggle with Nazi aggression at full tide . In one of John Blum 's phrases , there was a quality of mad inextricability to the whole period . Near the center of most of these and other crises was Henry Morgenthau , Jr. , Roosevelt 's confidant , neighbor , sounding board , butt , and Secretary of the Treasury . In this volume , the second of three drawn from the voluminous diaries that Morgenthau kept , Professor Blum has portrayed Morgenthau 's varied activities with the same shrewdness of judgment and mastery of detail that he demonstrated in his earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes jumped from Roosevelt 's first term to the war years , slighting the fascinating period that lay between . Morgenthau 's diaries illuminate some of the vacillations , perplexities , and intramural battles that often marked Roosevelt 's councils during this time . when the President was neither the gloriously embattled reformer of the first term nor the resolute warrior of the third . Morgenthau recorded in detail some fascinating episodes and exchanges . During one long , inconclusive discussion of recovery early in 1939 , the Secretary told his chief that he had a sign on his desk , " Does it contribute to recovery ? " and that he wanted to give such a sign to the President . Roosevelt seemed friendly and attentive , but two days later the Presidential mood had changed . He said that Morgenthau 's sign was " very stupid " and accused the Secretary of supporting a " Mellon plan of taxation . " Such a policy might help for a year or two but after that might bring a " fascist President . " A sharp argument followed , with Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God 's sakes , do n't be innocent ! " Rarely has Roosevelt-appeared so blunt and so unsure of Mr. Burns , who is professor of political science at Williams College , has written many books on contemporary American history , - including " Roosevelt : The Lion and ' ' the Fox . " himself as he does in these pages . He was simply unable to take command of events . It was a time when perverse facts seemed to be in charge . During the collapse of Europe in the spring of 1940 William Allen White wired the President that " as an old friend , let me warn you that maybe you will not be able to lead the American people unless you catch up with them . They are going fast . " A year later Roosevelt told Morgenthau in effect that he was waiting to be pushed into war and that he was waiting for something to happen . Roosevelt seemed to have his own private radar to pick up political , Congressional , and bureaucratic obstacles . But he could also strike hard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyer deal with Britain . Under urgent but usually vague mandates from the President , Morgenthau carried much of the burden of organizing the nation 's finances for defense and of getting help to Britain and later to Russia . Much of his job was simply pushing people to anticipate a series of financial , procurement , and even military problems ? and to do something about them . Again and again , he went out on a limb for the President , who was not always a dependable supporter . Roosevelt was so inclined to send up trial balloons , improvise a variety of policies , and deliberately use men hostile to one another to do the same job that the Secretary was reduced to petulance and despair . He and colleagues like Secretary of War Henry Stimson grumbled about the President 's free-wheeling administrative habits . Certainly this volume will not salvage Roosevelt 's reputation as an administrator in the narrow sense . But perhaps he hardly needed to be a good manager , with the team he had : Morgenthau , Stimson , Ickes , Hopkins , Wallace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Morgenthau and Knox the need to appoint a national defense chief who would feel the " sting of responsibility . " The cardinal quality of alI these men was that they demonstrated a sense of responsibility in the profoundest sense . They grasped the threat of Naziism , understood the complex diplomatic , economic , and military -. weapons needed to overcome it , and , under Roosevelt 's sometimes                     