@@492002

The Elusive ADVENTURES of the MIND By DONALD I. HUGHES Neutron How this most versatile of atomic particles behaves and what it tells about the nature of matter . S ince the beginning of the present century man has gradually come to know of the world of inner space , a strange world of the very small , where the " ultimate particles " of matter behave in ways completely alien to our everyday experience . Throughout the last several decades the dramatic revelation of this new world of matter has been dominated by a most remarkable subatomic particle  --  the neutron . The neutron 's elusive nature and its many roles as a research tool have illuminated a few of the universe 's most awesome mysteries and inspired some of man 's greatest intellectual achievements . The discovery of the neutron by Sir James Chadwick in 1939. marked a great step forward in understanding the basic nature of matter . More than twenty centuries ago the Greeks speculated that in spite of the wide diversity of matter it was all composed of minute particles which they called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , based not on speculation but on ingenious , indirect experiments , we know that atoms exist ; we even know their sizes and shapes with accuracy , although they are invisibly small . The atomic scale of measurement staggers the imagination-100,000,000 atoms in a row would constitute a line only one inch long . Yet this realization is only the beginning , for we also know that the volume of each atom is practically empty , a void crisscrossed by electrons , eternally speeding about a small , heavy , central speck of matter  --  the nucleus . Though it is difficult to visualize an CONTINUED ON PAGE 75 atom , its nucleus presents an even greater conceptual problem , for in extent the nucleus is only about one ten-thousandth the size of the whole atom . It is the nucleus which will provide the stage for much of the action to be described in this article . Scientists who must enter the subatomic world constantly in their daily work learn to adjust their thinking to the world of the very small . As they do so , they gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were directly experienced . This perception of the atomic world is possible because mere smallness alone does not constitute an essential difference ; the change is quantitative and not qualitative . This feeling of kinship with small objects is symbolized by a unit of nuclear size adopted , half in jest , by early researchers in the microcosmic world within the atom . To these physicists the nucleus of an atom was a concept that loomed " as big as a barn " ; the measurement " barn , " representing the cross-section area of art atomic nucleus , is still sometimes used as a unit of nuclear scale . Though we can learn to visualize their size , we fail utterly when we witness the actions of atomic particles . For this involves not only another order of magnitude but qualitative differences as well . The laws governing the actions of atomic particles are completely alien to the everyday world . They are of two kinds  --  quantum mechanics governs the behavior of particles that are very small , and relativity applies to particles that are moving very fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of velocities , the full complement of strange behavior is encountered . To illustrate this wide-ranging behavior , let us consider the application of quantum mechanics in the subatomic field . Normally we have no difficulty in distinguishing between a large particle of matter , such as a rolling marble , and a wave , spreading in all directions on a pond . The subatomic particles that are subject to quantum mechanics , however , act as both a particle and a wave . Each particle can act as if it is well localized , as a particle should ; yet at the same time it can exhibit a wave length that increases as the particle moves more slowly . Man has not yet learned how to visualize an entity which shows concentration in space , as does a particle , and yet simultaneously spreads over large distances as a wave does . But in spite of our failure to visualize these things , they are demonstrable  --  small particles are waves and particles at the same time . We accept these complex laws of subatomic behavior as true , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phenomena of our everyday world . The other laws at variance with common sense are those of relativity . These laws always involve one speed that is a fixed constant in nature , the 186,000 miles per second at which light moves . Relativity does not enter appreciably into our ordinary life , for speeds so far attained by man are insignificant relative to that of light . For subatomic particles , however , such speeds are common , and the strange principles of relativity emerge clearly , almost shockingly . As its speed increases , the weight of a particle grows , slowly at first , then enormously as its speed approaches that of light . Unquestionably the most striking property of relativity is the equivalence of matter itself to energy , the amount of energy involving again the fundamental constant , the speed of light . Expressed simply by the well-known Einstein equation , the relation is : E - mc2 . This equation , simple in appearance , yet distilling so much complex theory , gives the amount of energy ( E ) equivalent to the mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ c ) is such a large number  --  and its square , of course , is much larger yet  --  the amount of energy equivalent to a small amount of mass is prodigious . Einstein 's equation indicates , for instance , that the energy resulting from the conversion of one pound of matter would equal that obtained by conventional power sources from 200,000,000 gallons of gasoline or 1,000,000 tons of coal ! What is the place and the role of the neutron among the so-called " fundaMental particles " of matter ? In structure the neutron is very much like the proton , the positively charged particle which forms the nucleus of the hydrogen atom .. In fact , if the neutron is isolated in a vacuum so that it never conies into contact with any matter , the neutron will disappear of its own accord , and its place will be taken by a proton and an electron . This process takes place so slowly  --  in approximately twelve minutes  --  that for the purposes of nuclear experimentation this spontaneous transformation can be ignored , for the time scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The essential difference between the neutron and the proton is that the neutron , as its name suggests , is neutral , bearing no electrical charge . This apparently trivial difference is the source of the astonishing diversity of the neutron 's accomplishments . This lack of electrical charge which distinguishes the neutron is vital because essentially all other components of matter are electrically charged ; protons are positive , most electrons are negative and , on a larger scale , atoms are made up of positive nuclei surrounded by negative electrons . If the positively charged protons were shot into solid matter as probes , they would quickly be brought to rest by the repulsive forces of the other protons in matter  --  for like charges repel each other . The uncharged neutrons , on the other hand , pass easily into the innermost regions of the atoms which constitute matter , being unimpeded by the electrical charges of the constituents . Of equal importance is the fact that the neutron can penetrate matter at low-particle velocities , enabling it to reveal to the observer the most striking properties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slipping easily through the electric fields of the atoms , its behavior at various velocities dramatically illustrates the strange laws of quantum mechanics and relativity which govern the world of the quick and the small . The two-sided nature of the neutron  --  its capacity for being either or both a particle and a wave  --  is best revealed at slow speeds . ( It should be noted that a " slow " speed in neutron physics may be in the order of 1700 miles per hour and a " long " journey for a neutron might entail a transit of twelve inches of solid matter . ) Having a definite mass and velocity , a slow neutron is expected to behave as a proper particle ; surprisingly , it at the same time shows ' characteristics that are undeniably wave-:like . The size of the wave , or the wave length of the neutron , varies inversely with its velocity , becoming larger as the speed of the neutron decreases . Thus we are forced to accept , common sense to the contrary , a penetrating particle with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutron 's speed drops , it becomes more and more like a light wave and less and less like a moving speck of matter . The discovery that certain specially prepared metal surfaces would reflect neutrons as a mirror reflects light proved that slow neutrons are as truly waves as they are particles . For , in the act of reflecting from the highly polished surface , a neutron does not collide with a single atom of the surface ; instead , as a very extended wave , it reflects from all the atoms in the entire surface , numbering many billions . But even as we observe the neutron in its wavelike motion , it can instantaneously change , behave as a typical particle , and further confound our common sense . Leaving the mirror , the reflected neutrons are detected by a gas-filled Geiger counter in which each neutron interacts with a single target nucleus of the gas , thus signaling the neutron 's arrival . The neutron has collapsed from as ) extended wave capable of covering an entire mirror to a localized particle absorbed within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? simply and clearly , the central fact of relativity  --  the direct conversion of mass into energy . Unaffected by the negative electric charges of the electrons , neutrons - , pass through the shell of the atom and at times approach the central nucleus . Neu. trons also penetrate the nucleus , unhindered by its positive electric charge . When such a penetration results in the stopping of a neutron in a nucleus , the process is called a neutron capture . When the neutron is captured by a nucleus . a large amount of energy is released  --  energy resulting from the disappearance of some of the excess mass added to the nucleus when the neutron is captured . An example of this energy-producing process is found in the capture of a slow neutron by the nucleus of the metal 75 aluminum 27 , which in its stable form contains thirteen protons and fourteen neutrons . The additional ( captured ) neutron produces aluminum 28 with an unstable nucleus  --  a nucleus which spontaneously disintegrates with the emission of energy  --  containing thirteen protons and fifteen neutrons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others are self-perpetuating and result in awesome releases of energy . Such is the case in the fission process associated with neutron capture by the heavier elements , such as uranium 235 . As the wave length or size of a neutron increases as its speed decreases , it is understandable that a very slow  --  and therefore large  --  neutron has the best chance of meeting and entering the nucleus as the neutron penetrates the atomic structure . When a slow neutron enters the U 235 atom and penetrates the nucleus , a tremendous agitation is produced which results in the explosive splitting of the nucleus into two approximately equal parts . The two parts weigh less than the original uranium atom , the vanished mass appearing as motion or kinetic energy involved in the separation of the severed parts . The same splitting process produces several additional free neutrons  --  we can understand them to be " boiled " off the two fragments of the original nucleus as they rush apart  --  which form the links of the " chain " which continues the splitting process with other U @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no problem in a U 235 nucleus , which contains 143 neutrons and ninety-two protons . ? The power implicit in the conversion of mass to energy is emphasized when we realize that , although only about a tenth of a per cent of the mass of the uranium atom disappears in the process , it is sufficient to produce amounts of energy entirely unknown in the preatomic age , and millions of times greater than that produced by conventional high explosives . Actually two facets of the world of the very small are vital to the fission process  --  the triggering of the reaction resulting from the large wave length of the slow-moving neutron , a typical effect of quantum mechanics ; and the enormous amount of energy that appears as a product of the relationship E = mcl , the core of the relativity theory . With this general understanding of the process through which neutrons are emitted or " liberated " through the fission of uranium nuclei in a reactor , it is time for us to examine the method by which these neutrons are controlled and put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for research , experimentation or industrial uses in several ways . One method , used mainly to produce a small supply of neutrons for experimental purposes , is to accelerate a charged particle such as a proton in a nuclear accelerator  --  a machine which speeds up the particle in a directed line of flight , investing it with tremendous energy . When the energized particle reaches sufficient speed it strikes a target nucleus in solid material placed in the proton 's flight path . The proton is absorbed by the target nucleus , a process that excites the nucleus so that a neutron is emitted . A more plentiful source of neutrons is the chain-reacting nuclear pile . This device uses the previously described fission process as the source of neutrons and sustains the chain reaction by means of moderating material which surrounds the fissionable fuel elements . The moderating material , generally highly purified graphite or water , serves to slow down the swiftly moving neutrons that are emitted in the fission process so that they may be 111.1 ? .7F // readily absorbed by other fissionable nuclei , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reactor vessel may he thought of as a gas colliding with the atoms of the moderating material which surrounds the uranium metal that acts as fuel . Reactors arc designed so that the neutrons are concentrated in the region of the uranium fuel in order that a chain reaction can be maintained . This is accomplished in part by surrounding the reactor with a wall of material which reflects escaping neutrons back into the reactor . The reflector is surrounded by a shield which absorbs those neutrons which penetrate the reflector . The main purpose of the shield is to reduce the radiation field to a safe biological value . Neutron experiments can be carried out either inside or outside the reactor . Experiments inside the reactor utilize the intense flux of neutrons concentrated in the center of the atomic pile . Such experiments are usually performed to produce radioactive isotopes or to study the damage produced in materials subject to high radiation fields . Beam experiments are carried on outside the reactor by opening a hole in the shield and allowing neutrons to escape in a beam from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available outside the reactor is typically 10,000 times smaller than that available on the inside . On the outside of the reactor very complex apparatus may be assembled to perform experiments that would be impossible inside the reactor . The beam of neutrons emerging from the reactor includes neutrons of all energies or speeds  --  from the very-slow or low-energy particles to those with tremendous speed and high energy . Neutron energy can also be expressed in terms of temperature , which increases with the energy content of the neutron . Instruments are available which allow the experimenter to separate a small band of neutron energies from the broad distribution and then study the interaction of neutrons with matter . Mechanical choppers use the particle properties of the neutron . These choppers are rotating disks which interrupt the beam of neutrons and periodically allow short bursts of neutrons to pass through the openings in the disks . The neutrons are then allowed to travel down the beam and are detected at some distance from the choppers . The high-energy neutrons , traveling at the greatest velocity , arrive first , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later time . Thus the time it takes for a neutron to arrive at the detector after passing through the chopper is a measure of the neutron energy . The time interval is measured electronically . Neutron spectrometers utilize the wave properties of neutrons . These instruments act in a way similar to an optical prism which separates white light into its various colors . The beam of neutrons is directed onto a single crystal of some material , usually copper or aluminum , and the crystal bends ( diffracts ) the neutrons through an angle depending on the neutron energy . By an arrangement of slits which define the various angles of diffraction , different energies in the incident beam may be separated . Beam experiments using such instruments are used to study the properties of the nucleus and the movement of atoms and molecules in solids and liquids . In studying groups of atoms in matter , whether it be liquid , solid or gas , the principal task is one of determining the pattern of atoms relative to one another . The study of these atomic patterns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as hardness and color , is the concern of " solid-state physics . " Research in this field can have enormous practical value , as shown recently by the development of the transistors which are replacing the vacuum tubes used in electronic circuits . As atomic patterns change , so do the ordinary properties of materials . An outstanding example of the way in which differing atomic patterns result in different physical characteristics is the case of diamond and graphite  --  as the diamond in a ring and the graphite in your pencil . Both these materials are made of the same atoms , carbon ; the difference in properties of the two materials results from the arrangement of the atoms within them . There are several general methods of employing neutrons to study or to change the atomic patterns within material . Moderately fast neutrons directed through a crystalline structure  --  the fixed pattern of atoms in a solid material  --  collide with a certain number of the atoms and knock them out of their normal positions . Such a displacement can alter the basic properties of the material  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat and electricity . Metals actually become harder after such neutron bombardment , a process which holds great promise for industry . In order to study the arrangement of atoms in a crystal without disturbing the atomic pattern , it is necessary to use neutrons that are moving very slowly . It will be recalled that a neutron 's wave length , or effective size , increases as its speed diminishes ; for investigating atomic patterns the neutrons employed must have a wave length which matches the distance between the individual atoms of the crystal . As these slow and relatively large neutrons pass through material they are scattered by their collisions with the atoms ; by studying the resultant deflection of the various neutron streams as they emerge from the material with a measuring device , we can analyze the atomic structure of the material . This procedure , called neutron diffraction , might be likened to rolling a stream of tennis balls down a bowling alley ; a study of the deflection of the balls after they rolled in among the tenpins would suggest the pattern in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale in neutron research , the fantastic little particle-wave becomes smaller and moves faster  --  though it always retains its unique characteristic of having no electric charge . As you might expect , there is a point on this ascending energy scale where the fast neutron approximates the size of the nucleus of the atom . Despite the fact that the nucleus is a million million times denser than ordinary matter  --  such as a piece of granite , for instance  --  some of the fast neutrons which enter a nucleus re-emerge , leaving the nuclear particles unchanged . Others of the impinging neutrons are absorbed by the nucleus , just as " cloudy " glass is transparent to sonic light waves and opaque to others . This analogy has caused physicists to liken the nucleus to a cloudy crystal ball . While we do not as yet understand how an alien neutron can pass through the closely packed neutrons and protons which comprise a nucleus , this process has made it possible for us to learn something about the structure of the nucleus ; we know now , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once supposed , but of various shapes ranging from spherical to elongated ellipsoids . For the next step up the neutron-energy ladder we depend upon the large February 4 , 1961 nuclear accelerators such as the cyclotrons , which can , by successive electrical pushes , speed up particles until they contain millions of volts of energy . Such high-energy neutrons not only penetrate a nucleus but also pull apart its strongly bound , constituent neutrons and protons . What still puzzles us about these tremendously cohesive forces  --  the same forces released in the fission process  --  is that they apparently do not operate until the particles involved practically touch each other . By thus selecting neutrons with appropriate speeds , we can conduct large-scale investigations of materials comprising millions of atoms , or we can explore individual atoms , the nucleus of the atom or even the individual particles within that nucleus . It is the neutron 's unique quantum mechanical change of lire with speed that makes it possible to study phenomena of this enormous range in size . The discerning reader may at this point wonder how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumscribed area if , as we have postulated , their size increases in inverse ratio to their velocity . The answer is , of course , that all atoms and all the particles comprising atoms are continually in motion ; within the nucleus the neutron is most energetic and moves very rapidly  --  vibrates , if you will  --  and thus has a wave length , or size , small enough to enable it to fit within the nucleus with plenty of room to spare . At this writing the top of the energy ladder in neutron research is reached when we use the neutron not as an exploratory tool , but as an object to be explored . Within the last few years the giant new particle accelerators have provided us with enough energy  --  in the order of a billion electron volts  --  to penetrate the interior of the neutron itself . Using extremely energetic protons  --  the neutron 's companion particle in the nucleus  --  as probes , scientists have exposed the internal structure of the neutron and found that it , in turn , consists of still-smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with various electrical charges , have been torn out of the neutron in this manner . The presence of mesons , originally discovered by cloud-chamber techniques in which the speeding particle left a track in water vapor , is now affirmed through the use of special particle counters . The important role played by the meson in the structure of the neutron isstrikingly revealed in the action triggered by the energetic protons . When such a " fast " proton passes near a stationary neutron , the proton transfers a positively charged meson to the neutron and , becoming itself a neutron , moves on with unabated speed . Meanwhile the neutron. having gained a positive charge , becomes a proton . This process of switching identity by exchange of mesons takes place constantly and rapidly within all nuclei , providing the mechanism for the force that binds the neutrons and the protons to each other . Wthin the neutron , among the swarming mesons , contemporary physics has encountered two baffling puzzles . The first concerns the explanation of the observed properties of the neutron in terms of its constituent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a positively charged core of matter surrounded by a rapidly moving negative meson  --  a model in miniature of the hydrogen atom with its positive nucleus and circumambient negatively charged electron . If this conjecture is valid , it should be possible , by delicate explorations in the space between the positive central core and the negative meson , to find some evidence of the electrical forces involved . Recent experiments performed at Brookhaven National Laboratory and at Stanford University revealed no evidence of a region in which separate charges exist . This presents us with a paradox ; we know that mesons are present within the neutron because we can tear them out of the neutron , but we find no mesons when we probe inside the neutron . The other puzzle brings up , once again , the old question  --  are there fundamental particles ? Will we ever find the ultimate particle ? With the enormous accelerators now building or in the planning stage , will we be able to split the meson only to find new submesonic members of our family of " elementary " particles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a valid basis for answering this question . The practical application of the knowledge gained from research in neutron physics may benefit or menace society . The effect of the development of the fission A-bomb and the fusion thermonuclear bomb  --  which the A-bomb triggers  --  is surely potentially catastrophic . The employment of neutron activity in power-producing reactors , in radioisotopes for use in medicine , in food processing and in various industrial processes , on the other hand , promises a future that is beyond accounting  --  the use of radioactive tracers in United States industry alone already results in savings of 5500 , - 000,000 a year . The essential motivation for basic research in neutron physics , however , lies above and beyond all such social values ; to the scientist the neutron is primarily a tool to be used for the better understanding of the structure and behavior of matter .                     