@@442320

Tim day that President-elect John F. Kennedy announced the appointment of Dean Rusk as his Secretary of State , the new chief executive expressed the hope that from now on American foreign policy " will be identified in the minds of the people of the world as a policy that is not merely anti-Communist but is rather for freedom , that seeks not merely to build strength in a power struggle but is concerned with the struggle against hunger , disease , and illiteracy that looms so large in the minds and the lives of the people in the southern half of the globe . " The very next day the United States abstained in the United Nations General Assembly vote on an Afro-Asian sponsored resolution calling for " immediate steps " to transfer power to the peoples of the remaining " colonial " territories . The resolution passed , 89 to zero , with nine abstentions ? the United States , Britain , France , Belgium , Portugal , Spain , South Africa , Australia , and the Dominican Republic . When the vote on passage was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood and joined in the applause . Later she said , " I thought about crawling under the table , but instead , when the time came I just stood up and applauded . " Mrs. George was in fact expressing the dismay of the entire U.S. delegation , for , as she also said , " There is no one on the entire delegation who would have supported the abstention . " The United States had indeed intended to vote for the resolution but abstained on orders from President Eisenhower after he had received an urgent plea from Prime Minister Macmillan . No two incidents could better illustrate the difference in intentions between the outgoing Eisenhower Administration and the incoming Kennedy Administration . The UN . vote in thatinstance , as in many others , reflected a dominant concern about holding together the North Atlantic alliance , a worthy objective in itself . But the visible effect was that it was the Soviet Union and its Communist allies which were voting with the new nations of the world and it was the United States which was in the public position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the fragments which remain . Works , not rhetoric It will not be easy for President Kennedy and Secretary Rusk to reverse the image of the United States as a status quo power , an image compounded of such incidents as that at the United Nations and constant Communist propaganda about the " reactionary " nature of American policy . It obviously will take more than the President 's well-expressed words . No one is more aware of this latter point than Kennedy himself . In a book review which he wrote last fall ( it was not ghosted , but his own product ) , for the Saturday Review , of B. H. Liddell Hart 's Deterrent or Defense , Kennedy noted that " in the 1960s it is our works , not our rhetoric , which constitute the real test of our survival . " And he offered this advice : " The Russian leaders must understand that we are men who are committed in every fiber of our being not merely to protect our nation but also to struggle for the cause of freedom on the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressed , by blackmail or by force , to accept the transfer of territories and peoples to Communist rule . " There has been some uneasiness among some of the nations allied to us in NATO that the Kennedy Administration is so anxious to improve American relations with Asia , Africa , and Latin America that it is going to neglect Western Europe . There are , however , no grounds for such a belief . Indeed , in the book review cited here , Kennedy said : " We must think through afresh the military mission of NATO . " New hope for disarmament There is some evidence , and it has reached Kennedy through private but very authoritative channels , that the Soviet leaders may have decided to give the new American Administration an opportunity , as seen from the Kremlin 's point of view , to demonstrate whether it is indeed serious about disarmament . The Soviets long have loudly complained , and they appear , in fact , to believe , that the Eisenhower Administration has been interested only in arms control , with " control " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of truth , though not the whole truth , in that charge . President Eisenhower certainly hoped for some agreement on disarmament , but he never forced his official family to carry out that policy from the American side . The strong indications are that President Kennedy is going to make a much harder effort . If , as is widely believed , the December meeting of the world 's Communist leaders in Moscow produced a Red Chinese agreement to permit Nikita Khrushchev for six months or so to try to come to terms with the Kennedy Administration , the first half of 1960 may be a fateful period for the world . There doubtless will be loud outcries from the Communist propaganda mills about Kennedy 's effort to increase America 's armed might . But if the Kremlin can remove its Marxist blinders sufficiently to analyze that Kennedy effort , it should understand that the effort is a deterrent , not an aggressive , move . For , as Kennedy has put it , the Soviets " are not going to take arms control negotiations seriously unless they know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the will , and the resources to deal with limited aggression and with nuclear blackmail . " At some point , perhaps earlier in the new Administration than may now appear likely , there very probably will be a **25;1391;TOOLONG . In the judgment of knowledgeable Washington observers , the two men should have an opportunity to meet and talk without any intention of negotiating . One possibility is that they could meet privately under the cover of appearances at a United Nations gathering in New York . The pressure of time Kennedy 's problem is one of time . As he comes to office he faces serious domestic economic problems , and he has made commitments to act boldly to meet them , a sizable matter in itself . To build the military strength , and its economic counterpart , about which he has so often spoken , will take far longer , for here much more than appropriations by Congress or Pentagon reorganization measures are involved . While he is attempting to do these things , the Communists can be expected to be pressing him for action , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for the new Administration to work out its own policies , for Kennedy has said that " the design of an arms control system is as complex a task as the design of a military system . " Nor will the Administration expect the Communist pressures throughout the free world , especially in the uncommitted nations , to be lessened . More likely , they will be increased . The new Cabinet To meet this string of foreign and domestic problems , President Kennedy has assembled a remarkable group of men in his official family . The youngest-elected President in American history has chosen the youngest Cabinet in this century and probably the youngest since the youthful men who composed the Founding Fathers first guided the American democracy . But the point is not their individual or collective age , nor the number of Phi Beta Kappa keys , nor even how many went to Harvard . The point is the common thread which marks the selections of both Cabinet and sub-Cabinet members . The selection process was lengthy , because Kennedy was not easy to satisfy . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political or foreign policy ideas . He sought men who could compose a team , men who were on the same mental wave length , men who would find it easy to communicate with one another . Kennedy confessed to one whose advice he asked that he was hampered in his search by two facts : despite his fourteen years in the Congress , he knew remarkably few who served in the executive branch of the government , and despite his father 's business background , he knew few of the top men in industry , the category from which he picked Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara . Fortunately for newcomer McNamara , he will be backstopped by Roswell L. Gilpatric , a Pentagon veteran , as Deputy Defense Secretary . The brilliant Gilpatric was Air Force Undersecretary under Thomas Finletter , served on the Rockefeller Report group and on Senator Stuart Symington 's recent Pentagon reorganization committee , as well as on the companion Paul Nitze National Security Committee . An outspoken critic of Pentagon organization and strategic concepts , he will be a highly knowledgeable addition to Kennedy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and McNamara , for example , Kennedy was far less interested in hearing their ideas ( he had already read extensive dossiers about them , including their own writing or statements ) than in finding out whether they could easily communicate . One prospective Cabinet appointee was ruled out partly because he failed to give concise answers and tended to make encyclopedic replies ; another because he was not easy to talk to , despite evidence of great ability at staff work . Both ended up in the Administration , where their undoubted abilities will be used , but they did not make the first team . Perhaps the incident which tells most about the quality Kennedy sought involves his brother , Robert , the new Attorney General . During the closing days of the presidential campaign , the Reverend Martin Luther King was jailed in Atlanta . Both Senator Kennedy and his brother , without consulting each other , reached for the telephone : Robert to call the judge and the Senator to phone Mrs. King . Call it instinct or any other name ; it is a priceless quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Ambassador to the United Nations fits into this picture with utmost precision . Kennedy knew that he would deeply wound an important segment of Democratic opinion if he did not honor Stevenson with high office ; he knew , too , that Stevenson has a vast reservoir of good will in all the free world , an asset not to be lightly dismissed at this time of peril for the nation . Kennedy did not disagree with Stevenson on policy , nor was there any element of personal pique in passing over for Secretary of State the two-time presidential nominee . Rather , it was Kennedy 's feeling that he and Stevenson do not adequately communicate with one another , that they lack sympathy , which brought the decision . Be that as it may , Kennedy has given Stevenson the maximum support in his UN role , a seat in the Cabinet , and a public promise of a part in policy decision-making . Fortunately , Rusk , Stevenson , and Undersecretary Chester Bowles are all personally close , and they should form a smooth-working team . Stevenson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of Henry Cabot Lodge , and Kennedy believes it will be far more effective . When Lodge took the post , he was dealing , as the diplomats say , from a position of strength , but Stevenson will be in a far less secure position , and his task will be more difficult . Mood of the Capital Looked at as a whole , the nature of the Kennedy appointments makes it possible to say that the American government once again is in the hands of intellectuals , for the first time since the early days of the Roosevelt New Deal . The opprobrium of the term " egghead " ought now to be ended , and only in the nick of time . Intelligence , energy , enthusiasm are the key qualities with which the new Administration begins . Free government can not exist and prosper on these qualities alone , but they are indispensable . In the months and years ahead , there doubtless will be times when not enough intelligence , not enough energy , not enough enthusiasm are applied to this problem or that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the new President and his choice of advisers have lifted the gloom which has enveloped an increasing area of the national capital over the years since the rude shock of Sputnik I. THE Soviet Union , in its current plans for economic expansion and competitive coexistence , is determined to establish itself as a primary distributor in the international oil market . Comrade Evgenii B. Gurov , a director of Soyuzneftexport , the Soviet state agency charged with handling the sale of oil and oil products to foreign countries , made this fact clear to the second Arab Petroleum Congress at Beirut , Lebanon , last October . Simultaneously Comrade Gurov sought to allay the anxieties of principal producing countries , notably those in the Arab East , that the projected Soviet sales expansion would take place at their expense . " We are confident , " he told the seven hundred delegates to the congress , " that the Arab countries need have no fear regarding their exports , not only to Western Europe but to other countries as well , particularly as world consumption of crude oil is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international oil market reflect not only the aggressive foreign economic policies of the present Soviet leadership but also the steady expansion since 1953 of their petroleum industry . The hinterland of Baku in the Azerbaidzhan Republic at the southwest corner of the Caspian Sea continued under the commissars in the interwar years to serve as the primary source of Russian oil , as it had under the czars , and accounted , as late as 1940 , for over 70 per cent of Russia 's output . In the post-war years , Azerbaidzhan progressively receded in importance as the center of crude production shifted to the region stretching some eight hundred miles northward from the Caspian Sea between the Volga River and the Ural Mountains . The Volga-Ural zone , dubbed the " Second Baku " by Soviet oilmen , brought three fourths of Soviet crude to the surface in 1959 . The Russians , moreover , have been pushing ahead with petroleum exploration in other parts of the U.S.S.R. and have already reported significant discoveries in Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan , which promise to become active crude lifters in the 1960s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its proved petroleum reserves ? that is , those recoverable by existing techniques . Informed estimates by non-Soviet experts range from four to eight billion tons . If the lower figure is correct , Soviet reserves nearly equal those of the United States . At the 1959 crude-lifting rate , the Soviet supplies , even as most conservatively calculated , would suffice for over thirty years , and ours for little more than twelve . If the higher Soviet figure is accepted , and this may not be entirely ruled out , Russia 's proved reserves are approaching those of the Persian Gulf desert principality of Kuwait , which boasts the world 's richest oil deposits . The search for customers Soviet export oil found its way , in the early postwar years , primarily to the satellites of Eastern Europe , and after 1949 to Communist China as well . The Soviet government , after Stalin 's death , began deliberately to cultivate non-Communist oil purchasers , as part of the new economic policy . From two million tons in 1953 , petroleum exports to countries outside the Soviet orbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to Europe and the rest to Asia , Africa , and Latin America ) , 14.5 million in 1959 ( almost four fifths to Europe ) , and an expected 20 million in 1960 . Indeed , after 1957 the quantity sold to countries beyond the Soviet orbit started to surpass that reaching Russia 's Communist allies . Most of the petroleum crude and products destined for non-Communist lands have been funneled through Black Sea ports into chartered tankers . The Soviet government was not under pressure in 1960 to build its own fleet , in view of the approximately four million tons of idle tankers begging for customers in mid-1960 . Far more serious was the need for internal transportation facilities to bridge the vast distances from the oil fields to Soviet and satellite refineries and to ports for shipments abroad . Now that plentiful sources of supply have been located and the outlook for future discoveries is bright , the growth of transportation facilities will control the rate of the oil industry 's expansion . Little wonder that crude oil pipelines , under construction or projected for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Second Baku . A 2300-mile , 28-inch system , now under construction , will link the Tuimazy fields with Irkutsk on Siberia 's Lake Baikal . Another , more ambitious system , still largely in blueprint , will push into Western Europe , with one branch to feed Hungary and Czechoslovakia , and a second , Poland and East Germany , while a third will debouch at Klaipeda ( Memel ) on the Baltic Sea for exports to Scandinavia and Western Europe . The Soviet Union will be capable of satisfying the needs of its oil-poor satellites and Chinese ally and of freeing mounting quantities for sale elsewhere . The choice clients are the industrialized countries of Western Europe and Japan , which have virtually no oil of their own . The rival producers are the Middle East countries , which sit atop the most fabulous pools of liquid fossil fuel ? no less than 50 per cent of the world 's proved reserves ? but which in the foreseeable future will remain marginal consumers . On a much smaller scale , Venezuela , too , falls into this class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share of the Middle East resources has been preempted by eight Western companies known in the trade as the " majors " ? five American , one British , one Anglo-Dutch , and one French . The majors appeared on the scene first , took the initial risks , invested heavily in the search for oil , and made the discoveries . Three of the majors also own concessions embracing most of the producing areas in Venezuela . The eight companies are integrated companies which engage in all phases of the industry from ex- ploration and crude lifting to refining , distributing , and selling the finished products . In Western Europe the majors established a position of primacy , while in Asia and Africa , and to lesser degree in Latin America , they won protected markets by special arrangements entailing on their part the construction of refineries and of retail outlets , and the assurance to local consumers that the majors would deliver oil products in the requisite quantities and varieties . The majors were thus able to adjust supply to demand and keep the price of crude relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the wellhead in the Middle East , which ranged between ten and twenty-five cents a barrel , but was geared to that in the United States , which was many times higher . The handsome profits , shared equally , after 1950 , with the Middle East host governments , attracted to the scene American , Italian , and Japanese " independents , " as oil companies which are not members of the major league are called . In 1953 eight American independents struck oil in the Kuwait neutral zone , and in 1955 three of these joined six others to purchase a 5 per cent interest in the Iranian consortium , which took over a well-established enterprise . The American independents , finding the United States market virtually closed to Middle East crude and the international market largely cornered by the majors , started selling at cut prices . The majors were prone , initially , to absorb most of the discounts themselves , by permitting the Middle East governments to continue enjoying the scale of revenues , if not the annual increment , to which they had become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they were losing in price , the companies tended to produce more-crude . Moreover , majors and independents alike took part in the new scramble for Africa . Saharan oil , already reaching French and Franco-African outlets by 1960 poured more surplus into the inter national pool , as Libya was also bound to do as soon as its commercial production got under way . Meanwhile , early in September 1960 , Iran , Iraq , Kuwait , Saudi Ara bia , and Venezuela , later joined by Qatar , formed the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries fo purposes of imposing a prorationing system of their own on the majors . At the second Arab Petroleum Congress in October , the companies turned a deaf ear to the governments ' request for consultation on oil production and pricing . How little chance the O.P.E.C . scheme would have of bucking the realities becomes manifest after a closer look at the Soviet oil industry . Soviet marketing practices The oil industry in the U.S.S.R. must be seen for what it is ? a government agency run as a state monopoly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metric tons of crude , of which it refined over 80 per cent and marketed the products . Clearly , then , the Soviet oil industry is already the largest integrated " company " of its kind in the world . More than that , it is operating quite independently of the other ' majors in competition for the same markets . An economic enterprise of such magnitude , managed by a state so firmly committed to a fixed politica doctrine and dealing in a commodit of such high political and strategic content , is bound to be influenced in its activities as much by political by commercial considerations . So vict oil politics dictates the closest vigilance by the non-Communist ; world , particularly by the United States and its transatlantic allies . Not every Soviet petroleum transaction is necessarily politically mo tivated . Many deals may be con eluded on purely commercia grounds . These must first be separated from those that may have varying degrees of political content before one can determine the charac ter of the Russian threat to the Western oil industry , and even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries of Latin America , Asia , and Africa . Soyuzneftexport spokesmen insist that the U.S.S.R. is interested solely in the commercial aspects of the petroleum business and , like all other oil companies , in making the largest profit possible . No one will deny that Gurov and Company always takes the highest price it can get . But given the soft condition of the international market , the U.S.S.R. , to compete , must offer its wares at more attractive prices than those of companies with contractual rights and established outlets . In political-commercial bargaining , the Russians may be expected to press their advantages . In the short run , at least , they stand to gain . Any Soviet initiative can not help catching the entrenched companies with little or no maneuverability . Jersey Standard 's attempt in July , 1960 , to bring pressure to bear on tanker owners against using their fleets in the Soviet service boom- eranged . The threat did not frighten the owners of idle tankers and merely enabled Soyuzneftexport to argue with its superiors even more persuasively the case for construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet oil into Western European trade channels need not be viewed with undue alarm or suspicion where the primary motivation is commercial . Short of foreign exchange , the U.S.S.R. is nevertheless anxious to procure capital equipment and consumer goods . Soviet oil exports are usually arranged in negotiations with governments as part of larger trade agreements , which rest essentially on the principle of barter . Petroleum is thus a versatile substitute for hard currency in oil-dry Western Europe . The Gurov organization reportedly has concluded a fresh barter agreement with Italy for 1961-1965 on extremely favorable terms for both parties . Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi , the state-owned oil and gas agency in Italy , is said to have been offered a minimum of five million tons of crude a year at half the posted Persian Gulf price . With excess re- fining capacity , ENI will undoubtedly try to sell the products in the Common Market of Western Europe , to which Italy belongs . In return , the Russians are allegedly to receive transportation equipment , including 40-inch pipe , pumps , and an unspecified number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its future petroleum shipments to Europe . Oil transportation equipment appears to have figured also in the agreements with Japan and Sweden . Soviet aid No less promising as clients are the underdeveloped countries , where disgruntled nationalists are addicted to accusing the oil companies of overpricing , which they regard as a survival of Western imperialism . Thus , Soyuzneftexport acquired the Egyptian account at the time of the Suez crisis . With imports averaging close to two million tons a year in 1958-1959 , Egypt became the U.S.S.R. 's best petroleum client outside of Europe , until it was replaced by Cuba in the second half of 1960 . Indeed , it was the offer of Russian oil which Western companies refused to refine that provided Fidel Castro with a pretext for nationalizing American oil companies ' properties . As part of the promotional effort , the U.S.S.R. has erected a state-owned refinery in Syria and is building another in India . By thus encouraging Asian governments to go into the oil business , the Russians simultaneously undermine the exclusive position of the majors and make it easier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Furthermore , in all underdeveloped countries , Soyuzneftexport is prepared to accept in payment raw materials and foods ( such as coffee and cocoa beans in Brazil ) , or , where these are not available , local currencies . This is precisely the kind of thrust that can not be parried by private oil companies , which must demand freely convertible payment . The Russians ' oil breakthrough presents an excellent case study of what they mean by competitive coexistence . The time has come for the United States and its transatlantic allies to devise a common scheme for dealing with the political threat . IIone political belief that shows signs of growth in London is an intuitive and still only barely represented liberalism . The official Liberal Party holds only six out of 630 parliamentary seats . Its platform is nebulous in the public mind . Yet in recent by-elections the Liberals have ousted Labor from second place at the polls four times out of six . And each time they have gained substantially in their share of the vote . Both major parties are in some trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the Laborites from only half believing theirs . For the winter recession , coming after a short , sharp , happy burst of expansion that pushed production up 10 per cent in a year , has eroded the bases of the two classic concepts of economic control , uncovering some flaws . Those two classic methods were each designed to counter problems of poverty . But for Britain , even in recession , this is a time of plenty . For example , it now seems to economists , and begins to appear to consumers , almost painfully obvious that " dear money , " the traditional remedy of the Conservatives , does not overcome inflation ; it overcomes expansion . Nor do the massive variations of government spending that were once the Labor specific seem likely to be effective in regulating the economy . In the conditions of 1961 , it has become essential for any type of economic control to be reasonably steady and expansive . The effort now is at least to get the rate of interest down , if that is possible without encouraging inflation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1.75 billion pounds ) . Between 1956 and 1958 the policy of high interest rates and complementary credit restriction , it could be claimed , produced stability . In 1960 the same policy produced fundamental instability . High interest rates , intended to reduce demand at home , drew in quantities of hot money from overseas , largely from America . The flow , partly in gold , has been as potentially dangerous to Brit-aM as to the United States . Just as it has given America the illusion of a balance of payments deficit , it has given Britain the illusion of a surplus . In fact , the British trade gap has reopened . With exports falling , the first effect of credit restrictions was to turn Britain into perhaps the world 's only " fully underemployed society . " Production fell , yet total " employment " remained high . Seven thousand people lost jobs in the car factories of the English midlands in a month . Most found other jobs . Seventy thousand went onto a three- or four-day week . With demand for labor still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep their workers , even if they have to pay for the luxury in increased costs . To get skilled men back later would cost even more . British cars In the automobile industry these contradictory effects of orthodox monetary policy are at their most striking . This is now one of the largest single industries in Britain , employing more than 900,000 men , as many as agriculture and half as many again as coal . In terms of exports , revenue , and wages , it is quite the most productive British industry of all . There is a high natural demand for its products ; even when British people lose their jobs , the last possession their families will part with now , whatever the cost , is the car . What is more , the government itself is heavily committed to this particular industry 's further expansion . Car output in the first half of 1960 , before the recession , was running at an annual rate of 1.6 million . Expansion schemes costing 250 million pounds were announced to provide a potential in only three or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The government is committed to lending more than 10 million pounds toward this expansion as a means of persuasively directing new factories to Scotland , Lancashire , South Wales , and Northern Ireland , where unemployment at present is two or three times the national average ( which was 1.7 per cent in December ) . But production has been allowed to slump to 1.2 million cars . The immediate cause of trouble in the industry was a relatively small decline in exports , largely of those to the United States . Unsold cars filled thousands of acres of rented fields in the midlands , for meanwhile the credit squeeze and the 50 per cent sales tax made it impossible to increase sales at home . The threefold need in this industry now is the same as the need in the country as a whole : a new monetary policy specifically directed at achieving steady growth ; a new fiscal policy that can more quickly and generally affect consumer spending , but which leaves it to the consumer rather than the Treasury to choose between products ; and a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like America , because of the amount of aid it gives , needs a large surplus of trade and payments . The aim , never yet quite attained , is a surplus of $1.2 billion a year . Nineteen sixty produced a deficit instead . It seems now that the rate of industrial expansion at home will be closely geared to the rate of expansion of exports . In this context , the urgency of the immediate political decisions facing Britain can well be understood . The easy thesis , for instance , that it will make " only a marginal difference " to Britain whether there are six or seven or thirteen in any European common market , or whether there is an approach toward a North Atlantic union , has been exploded . Britain 's best single customer is the United States , until Europe is considered as a unit . Then Europe will come first , America a close second . They are the too prime movers of expansion . Meanwhile , Britain 's own market is largely free to members of the Commonwealth , which have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In return , the Commonwealth provides the solid basis of Britain 's day-to-day living . Joining a limited European market like that of the Seven ? the European Free Trade Association ? never has made sense in isolation . Even joining the Seven to the Six would not make complete sense if either the Commonwealth or the United States was thereby excluded . For these reasons , Mr. Macmillan 's personal diplomacy has concentrated on " bridging the division in Europe " without giving up Commonwealth preferences or weakening Britain 's trade links with America . Mr. Macmillan won support in 1960 in principle from both Chancellor Adenauer and Premier Fanfani for an open-ended merger of the two European trading blocs . But he received no encouragement from President de Gaulle . The Council of Europe , the Assembly of Western European Union , and the Assembly of the European Economic Community all have voted support for some , kind of merger . But the United States government has not yet shown enthusiasm for the idea . That is not true of American business , however . To take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe as a whole offers in the next ten , or even twenty , years the prospect of the only fast-growing large-scale automobile market in the world . It might possibly expand as much as 10 per cent per annum . Manufacturers on both sides of the Atlantic are already planning on the assumption that it will become a single market . American car firms appear , indeed , to be preparing for an actual Atlantic union . Gaitskell 's troubles Because these seem to practical men to be the practical needs now , the dialectical arguments that have split the Labor Party seem even colder and more sterile than before . The greatest blow to Mr. Gaitskell , as to the Labor Party as a whole , is the loss of A neurin Bevan , the great Welsh Socialist , the supposed maverick . Now that he has gone , nobody.can hold the party together . Bevan 's place as member for Ebbe Vale is filled by Michael Foot , a Socialist as kindly and charming in private life as he is acid and implacable in public . Foot is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gaitskell himself is working for the renunciation at the next annual party conference of the neutralist resolutions that were so narrowly passed at Scarborough in the autumn , with the aid of the massive block votes of the big trade unions , notably the Transport and General Workers , led by Frank Cousins . He believes he can win . But if Gaitskell can refuse to accept the decision of the annual conference as mandatory for parliamentary policy , as he has , why can not the left wing do so in its turn ? Three kinds of Socialists The possibility of reuniting the party is lessened by the fact that there are actually three Labor parties . There are those Socialists who are so close to Communism in their ideal of a planned society that they can , and do , work with Communists . There are other Socialists , also loosely classed with the left wing , who are simply isolationists , seeing Britain somehow peacefully maintained as the European neutral with the fullest employment , the highest wages , the most complete welfare service , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaitskell 's followers , still in a two-to-one majority in the Parliamentary Labor Party , who are sufficiently close to the prospect of government to recognize that Britain can not possibly afford isolation , but who do not see why it should not have a greater degree of central planning and of economic equality than its allies . Because recent events have underlined the lesson that the best-laid plans often can go astray , and since a new kind of planning clearly needs to be developed and it is agreed that the aim must be steady growth , the Liberals now see nothing inconsistent or unrealistic in their dream of drawing the planner Gaitskell in with them one day . If numbers alone are considered , it can be proved that Liberals united with Gaitskellites could get more votes than the Tories at an election . This is more than the divided Labor Party can hope to do , unless perhaps a recession were to get out of hand . Is it really impossible ? There was a significant moment at a private conference of industralists , mostly traditional Tories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Exchequer , Lord Amory , who had said in his keynote speech that Britain 's priorities must be , first , a surplus on the balance of payments ; second , full employment ; and third , a stable price level . Sir Hugh quickly put the new view . The first priority , he said , must be economic growth . The rest can come in any order you like . The price of gold Britain 's dilemma today , then , is that while trade is in the red , growth can not , as things stand , even be contemplated by the Conservatives . It is this that powers the quiet but determined British drive to get the United States to raise the price of gold . For if gold had a higher price , things would certainly be different . Sir Roy Harrod , Keynes 's pupil and chief open protagonist of revaluation , points out that since 1938 the dollar value of world trade has multiplied five times , while the dollar value of monetary gold stocks has increased only 50 per cent . Too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade . If no change is made , Sir Roy forecasts , the system of multilateral trade established since the war will come to an abrupt end . Britain needs above all a breathing space while it readjusts to new realities . It may have the lowest rate of growth of all Western industrial countries in the last decade ( 29 per cent in ten years against a European average of 64 per cent ) , but it has sustained up to now the highest overseas investment of all , next to America . But if no such luck as revaluation turns up , Britain will have to take a long , hard look at its costs , prices , wages , and politics . They may have been outmoded by prosperity , even in recession .                     