@@494584

One difficulty in imagining alternatives to the way the professions are organized is the sheer complexity of so much of our social machinery . Education , for ex ? ample , is an intricate apparatus of historical accident , neglect , and professional greed , loosely bound together by haywire and red tape . Since most people seldom question the supposed necessities under which they labor , it is not odd that ' in the past few wondered whether things had to be the way they were . Today , however , in education as in other professions like law and medicine , a certain amount of critical intelligence is being applied . For example , our strange system for licensing teachers and administrators is now under attack . Most good teachers , most thoughtful students in ed ? ucation schools , and a growing number of laymen are aware that present certification practices are absurd . They do n't protect children from incompetent and unfit teachers and administrators ; they do n't guarantee a decent level of teaching ; they fail to provide incentives to good teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the schools who might do a better job than some of the professionals . The trouble is partly the result of state certification laws , but mostly , as James Koerner keeps pointing out , it stems from the schools of education . In general , ed-school training goes beyond state requirements in the number of worthless courses in non-subjects it demands . There are just about two useful things a prospective teacher can get from a training program . The first , especially for secondary school teachers , is knowledge of some real subject , like English or math . The second is supervised experience in practice teaching . Yet most ed schools continue to pile on more and more " edu ? cation " courses , neglecting practice teaching , which for all too many students turns out to be a lonely , un ? pleasant , and profitless experience . The most important power the graduate schools of education have is their control over the programs for school administrators , for the administrators dominate out over-administered school systems . New Haven has an administrator for every nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job as principal or superintendent without years of graduate study in edu ? cation , and often a candidate has to have a degree in educational administration . In many parts of the coun ? try , academic despots in the field hand-pick ? for hand ? some consultant fees ? all the nominees a board of education considers when it 's choosing a new superin ? tendent . There is no body of knowledge called " educa ? tion , " nor any real scholarly discipline called " educa ? tional administration . " There is teaching experience , which ought to count for something , but schools of education do not give their full professorships to good , experienced teachers . Classroom teachers have almost no influence on teacher education . This situation may be changing : the rise of powerful teachers ' unions in big cities has led to a decline in the strength of school administrators , and the unions may now take an inter ? est in reshaping training programs . If the unions can transcend their narrow guild mentality , if they can make peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can avoid turning into a new class of educational bureaucrats , they may press for training programs with less of a mandarin cast , giving more emphasis to actual classroom experience . Monopolists can not be expected to take a deep interest in busting trusts , however . Any reform of the system will have to come from outside the educational profession , which has grown remote from the concerns of the public . Making professions and bureaucracies more respon ? sive to their clients and to the public interest , making big institutions like school systems , hospitals , and uni ? versities more accountable ? these are issues that will take us very far down winding roads . For the schools , a small first step toward a credentialling system that serves the public better might be something like a recent piece of legislation in California . This summer a potentially far-reaching bill to modernize training and licensing passed both houses of the legislature , only to be vetoed by Gov . Ronald Reagan , who said he thought the matter needed more study . What the governor may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rafferty , the State Superintendent of Public Education . Rafferty opposed the bill both because it takes some of his power away , and because he is trying to court the state 's education establishment , with which he has not had particularly cordial relations . Despite the educators , however , the bill passed handily , 43-14 in the Assem ? bly , and 27-3 in the Senate . There is reason to believe that an amended version of it will become law . ( Prob ? ably Gov . Reagan will propose it and take the credit for an act of educational statesmanship ? another rea ? son for his veto . ) There has been much debate in the state over this issue . In 1961 , after a controversial report by a citizens ' advisory council , an act called the Fisher Bill was passed over the resistance of hundreds of education lobbyists . The bill was intended to discourage teachers from majoring in education in college , and to encourage them to take courses in the subjects they were to teach . The bill also reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a solid background in classroom teaching ? not just ex-coaches and home ec teachers with education degrees . On paper , the Fisher bill promised a big change ; in practice it has been an administrator 's nightmare . What was meant to be a simple set of guidelines be ? came , as the state educational bureaucracy interpreted it , an incredibly complicated set of rules detailing all manner of acceptable university programs for teachers . It 's hard for a prospective teacher in California to know whether his transcripts of academic record meet these mysterious standards or not ; the only way to find out is to mail them in and let the state 's gnomes decide . The confusion is n't helped by a teacher shortage . One purpose of this summer 's bill was to bring order out of this chaos , to set up new rules simple enough to work . Another was to take licensing out of the hands of the education establishment and make it the responsibility of classroom teachers and laymen . It es ? tablishes a permanent Commission of Teacher Prepa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and laymen ? not " educators . " Its members would be chosen by the governor from a list compiled by the state department of education . Six would be school people , four of whom must be full-time classroom teachers ; four would be college or university profes ? sors ; two , members of local school boards ; and three , private citizens . Thus the monopoly of the ed schools on licensing would be broken . Under the proposed bill , a candidate for a teaching job would need a BA ? not in education ? and one of two things : either a graduate degree ( which may be an education degree , but clearly does n't have to be ) or a passing mark in ? an examination in the subject he wanted to teach . If the subject exam is passed , no graduate degree would be needed . A teacher could take as many different exams as he wants . Within seven years after being hired , a new teacher would have to do a fifth year of graduate study ; the requirements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer school . In effect , the proposed teaching requirements would enable any college graduate who passes a test . to qualify immediately for a teaching job . And they would immediately qualify almost anyone with a grad ? uate degree in a reasonable field . Requirements for administrators , principals , super intendents , and such are also fairly straightforward . Besides teaching credentials , an applicant would need three years of full-time classroom experience in public or private schools , and either passage of an adminis ? trator 's exam approved by the Commission , or com ? pletion of a program in school administration approved by the Commission . The Commission could approve training programs for administrators offered by local school districts or any accredited university , as well as the usual programs offered by the education schools . A " grandfather " clause would waive the new re ? quirements for teachers and administrators now work ? ing in the system , as well as for people still in training . The Commission is charged with encouraging uni ? versity departments ? all of them , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local school systems placing graduate students and undergraduates in class ? rooms as aides and assistants , and working out career lines for paraprofessionals . The object is to get the widest possible variety of school intern programs for teachers and administrators . The California bill is anything but radical . Its re ? liance on exams in the standard university subjects dodges any consideration of what makes an effective teacher , or whether the mandarin conventions of the credentialling economy really are appropriate to the world of education . It skates on very thin ice over the whole matter of testing . Test scores in " hard " sub ? jects like math and science probably measure a per ? son 's knowledge , but objective tests in " soft " fields like English are another matter , and easily degenerate into the kind of one-upmanship candidates encounter in the academic portions of Boston 's notoriously shabby-genteel teachers ' exam , where it helps to know the works of poets like Sara Teasdale . Some testing is in- evitable , no doubt , yet it is hard to see how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject for satire . And although the bill says its tests wo n't discriminate against minorities , seeing will be believing . California tradition has it that the legislature always tries to spell out the people 's will in detail , but I ca n't help feeling that decisions in the tangled realm of test ? ing should be left to the common sense of the teachers and laymen on the proposed Commission . A Massachusetts bill that died in legislative com ? mittee last spring was similar to this California bill , except that it very sensibly left issues of testing up to the members of the proposed licensing board . Impor ? tant matters such as testing are , in this society , usually left up to the mindless play of social forces , or else the machinations of self-interested professional groups , and it would be refreshing for once to see them turned over to the sustained consideration of representatives of the public . The proposed Massachusetts bill made its intentions in this respect clearer than the California legislation did . ( Similarities in the two bills are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the writings of DECEMBER 13 , 1969 James Koerner , a long-time critic of the education establishment. ) t is the snobbish fashion of university professors to ridicule the subjects taught in education courses , many of which are a waste of time ; but there is no evidence that the more respectable university disci ? plines are any better background for teaching . I 'm talking about teaching in primary schools . Secondary school teaching is something else , although here again it is best to look on the claims of the academy with a cold eye . An M.A. in English does not necessarily make you any better at teaching reading . And there ought to be more of a question as to what the ad- vanced degrees from our universities actually mean . Many " softer " disciplines have little intellectual co ? hesion ; apart from a common core of narrow technical training , fields like English and history are mainly categories maintained because university professors have a vested interest in the graduate school 's depart ? mental system . One small source of the malaise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been permitted to dominate the entire intellectual life of the academy . Liberal arts degrees in the more prestigious colleges have already turned into mini-Ph.D. programs , and the waves of this trend are already washing over people in crack high schools . I 'm not saying that the universities do n't have anything to offer the schools , or that teaching would n't be better if more teachers knew more about the subjects they were teaching . I am saying that the institutional prior ? ities of the academy are far removed from any con ? consideration of good teaching ; most first-grade teachers give immeasurably more thought to whether kids are following the lesson than most university professors . It is only fair to the authors of the California bill to say that they show an awareness of this problem . In different parts of the bill , they are obviously straining toward more flexibility against the routine academic boundaries , trying to encourage interdisciplinary B.A.s and so on ; for primary school teachers , the subject exams will be tests of general knowledge in broad areas such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really strong Commission might experiment with alternative paths to the B.A. , as well as teachers ' certification . And two sleepers buried in the bill could in theory mean a wholly different approach to licensing and creden ? tialling . On the recommendation of a local school board , the Commission would have the power to issue what the bill calls a " subject credential " to any person who has achieved " eminence " in a field taught in the schools . Interpreted liberally , this establishes a claim to teach for all sorts of people who ought to be in schools ? artists , craftsmen , dancers , writers , engineers , professionals , social workers , retired people , people who want to work full- or part-time . Similarly , if a local board so recommends , the Commission could21 issue an " administration credential " to anyone whose experience is such that he would make a good principal or superintendent ? in theory opening up these jobs to businessmen , college deans , and directors of com ? community action programs , to name just a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will de ? pend partly on the power of the Commission , but even more on the imagination and initiative of local com ? munities . The most promising aspects of this bill clearly rest on a faith that some communities are interested in a different kind of schooling , and that many different kinds of people can be persuaded to take a hand in the education of children . No one can predict how such a bill would be administered , or how independent the Commission will be of entrenched interests and old habits of mind . Nevertheless the bill is an enormous im ? provement over the present system of licensing school-men . It offers alternative paths into the schools , it validates many different kinds of knowledge as a suit ? able background for teaching and it opens up the schools to new kinds of talent . It does not solve all the problems raised for education by the credentialling economy , but nobody has solved them . At least it sets up a forum where they can be discussed in the light of ongoing experience . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills of this kind cuts across customary political and educational lines . The party of reform consists of an alliance of those who want to weaken the grip of administrators , education schools , and state education establishments on our schools . In this sense , what is happening represents an attack on the educa ? tional profession , although it will undoubtedly win the support of many classroom teachers and people in better schools of education . It would not do to idealize the motives or the talents of the motley forces of reform . Our schools , beset by crisis as they are , also represent a major growth industry , and American education is a battleground on which various interests are struggling for power , money , and control , against entrenched , but increasingly insecure bureaucrats and administrators . Teachers ' unions , and the urban minorities have been for some time the most vocal contenders , but there are new groups , too : government and foundation people , university professors , " urbanologists , " edbiz and knowledge industry magnates . The newer groups tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't necessarily speak for better or more humane schools . Their complacencies are not necessarily preferable to those of the educators . There is no evidence that the newcomers are any more knowledgeable about children or teaching , or any less corrupt than the groups whose grasp on the schools is now loosening . The entry of the new forces onstage simply opens up possibilities for releasing energies . As in California , they can band together with citizens ' groups to make the situation a little more fluid , a little less ridiculous .                     