@@209739

Pity the diplomat from a small Latin American nation in London , Paris , Bonn or Cairo . He has no real need to arrange treaties , snoop for political intelligence , or seek out the details of clandestine missile sites . There is really only the social life and perhaps Bingo once a week to take one 's mind off the worst threat of all-job insecurity . With every attempted coup d ' tat back home comes a whole new wave of replacements . In Santo Domingo last week , Provisional President Hctor Garca-Godoy gave his nation 's foreign representatives a case in point . <P> Up for export was a sort of Who 's Who of the Dominican crisis . Commodore Francisco J. Rivera Caminero , Armed Forces Secretary and head of the loyalist military , was slated to be naval attache to Washington . Colonel Francisco Caamao De , head of the 1,400-man rebel force , was named military attach to London ; Colonel Manuel Ramn Montes Arache , Caamao 's top aide , naval attach to Ottawa ; General Juan de los Santos Cspedes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Israel . Twenty-two more army , air force and police officers were assigned to an " indefinite " tour of duty studying the finer points of military organization in Israel . <P> With his list , the President hoped to bring some peace and calm to his turbulent , bullet-pocked nation by ridding it of some of the forces that are pulling it apart . Instead , he nearly succeeded in triggering another coup . Loyalist troops sealed off the National Palace , took the government Radio Santo Domingo " into custody " ; and the ultra-right-wing Radio San Isidro-shut down since last October-suddenly switched back on the air , accusing the government of opening the way to a Communist takeover . As Jeeps and combat vehicles rumbled once again through the streets , Garca-Godoy moved quietly and easily about his suburban home , nibbling on rock candy , chatting with friends and talking on five of his six phones . The sixth was his hot line to the OAS peace-force commander , Brazilian General Hugo Panasco Alvim , who stood ready with 8,000 troops if Garca-Godoy decided to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up , it seemed to pass . Next morning , Caminero told newsmen that he was ready to leave the country as soon as he straightened out some personal matters . Then a few hours later , after talking with Garca-Godoy , he changed his mind . " The armed forces , " said Caminero , " are agreed that in the best interests of the fatherland , we can not accept the presidential decision , and we are hopeful he will reconsider . " At week 's end Caminero met with the OAS 's Alvim and agreed to turn Radio Santo Domingo over to the OAS . But that was all that Caminero agreed to . As for the Rebel Leader Caamao , he was keeping silent and-like everyone else in the country-watchful.                     