@@488159

If candor reigned in politics , Californians of both parties might well be driving around with bumper strips reading : " The Only Ism For Me Is Negativism . " As the campaign for governor plods into its final weeks , the axiom that people vote against things rather than for them is getting a notable workout . The trouble is that Californians , by and large , are prosperous beyond precedent . The basic indices ? production , employment , wages are at record levels ; migration into the state continues almost unslackened , infusing plasma into the economy . The politician 's traditional shadow play of a Promised Land becomes an exercise in lily gilding , and there 's nowhere for people or politicians to turn , except to carping . Ronald Reagan has been busy trying to prove statistically that California has more of everything bad , from " crime " , ( does that mean overtime parking or homicides ? ) to Dutch elm disease . Governor Brown , having had to present his " Promised Land " spectacular in 1958 , and again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cold audiences . So he has taken to knocking his Republican opponent on every available count from the actor 's Birchite friends to his often inaccurate Hollywood-and-Vine notions of what , where and how things operate in California . California 's 7 million voters have done little to animate this barren scene . Their most acute concern , according to all professional soundings , is " high taxes " ? a complaint that has lacked novelty since the BOston Tea Party . The rival candidates dutifully deplore the high taxes , but when they are asked ? and they are repeatedly asked ? how they would reduce them , all that comes out is double talk . When a state 's overhead has reached $4.6 billion a year , it is obvious that sizable economies can be made only by abolishing basic services , and no candidate dares propose that . The one state activity that the public feels it could dispense with , surveys consistently show , is the nebulous category called " welfare , " which consumes more than $1 billion a year . But to voters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the state budget it includes such fixtures as prisons , hospitals and mental health clinics . The result is more rhetorical shadowboxing . The exercise in futility is conducted at an exhausting pace . One recent day found Mr. Reagan flying 400 miles from his Los Angeles home to successive rallies on a Vallejo street corner , at the Yountville Veterans ' Home and at the Krug winery in St. Helena ? topped off by a barbecue at Yuba City . Simultaneously , Governor Brown was visiting the John F. Kennedy Grammar School at Daly City , addressing a Democratic businessmen 's luncheon club at San Mateo , attending a Mexican-American reception at San Jose , and finally starring at a " Re-Elect Governor Brown " banquet at Palo Alto . The Brown organization ' is much more massive , professional and smooth working than the Reagan team , hastily assembled from such varied sources as the Goldwater , Rockefeller , Nixon and Murphy campaigns . One day recently the Reagan headquarters Was bottling up as top secret the advance text of a Reagan speech , hours after Brown scouts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejoinders . The present administration finds itself hoist with its own good works . Brown 's private-opinion polls show that thousands of voters , who four or eight years ago were marginal blue-collar workers and wedded to the Democratic cause , now have " arrived " ; they own homes , boats and maybe even white collars . Suddenly they 're conservatives , deploring taxes and concerned lest a Negro move in down the street . The Brown forces started the campaign committed to the Rumford fair-housing act , which they had campaigned for in 1963 . Reagan at first , advocated repeal . Recent surveys have shown a division of 33 per cent for , 43 per cent against the act ; and meanwhile both sides have altered their positions . Reagan now favors " revision " ; Brown wants a commission to study " possible revision . " This is a good ' example of how California 's historically " bipartisan " electorate , unpolarized because of singularly weak party structures , vitiates issues . Each party must seek votes from the other side . Consequently , any question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Democrats , is frantically neutralized by contending candidates to avert any such alarming delineation . Instead , the voters get such nonpartisan popcorn as Reagan 's arm-waving assertions of what " I as governor " would do about the University of California . Neither he nor any governor is going to do anything about the university , beyond appointing an occasional regent , unless the state constitution is amended Constitutionally the university is a corporation as autonomous as Genera Motors , and beholden only to the legislature for operating money . Such air kicking has presumably contributed to Reagan 's decline in the ratings from an 18 per cent edge after the June primaries to approximately even standing with Governor Brown in September . Reagan has been projecting himself fairly mellifluously in set appearances crafted by his handlers ; but the old ham urge to top the script with ad-libs keeps tripping him . To date , remarks he has ventured about various phases of state government have evoked formal , official contradictions on matters of fact from the State Resources Agency , the state health and welfare administrator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California administration But for all that , he 's a fresh face . Brown has been prominent on the California horizon so long that when he speaks its an event hardly less novel than the sunrise . The negative quality of the campaign is emphasized by the remarkable number of notables on both sides who for one reason or another prefer to stay in the shadows . Pierre Salinger , a symbol of Democratic Party cleavage in 1964 , has modestly confined himself to raising money . The Kennedy-oriented Tom Braden , the Oceanside publisher , and Lloyd Hand , Mr. Johnson 's recent expert on protocol , who in May were equating California 's salvation with their abortive efforts to displace Lieutenant Governor Glenn Anderson , have since been invisible The powerful Assembly Speaker Jesse Unruh , whose " old pro " faction was defeated by a libcralish rank-and-file junta when it ran Mrs Carmen Warschaw for Democratic state chairman , has given little public indication of whether he fa  --  ors Brown or Reagan . Mrs Warschaw and her coterie have been spurning reconciliation overtures from Governor Brown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorously enough . National Committeeman Eugene Wyman has avoided the limelight because of long-time hostilities with the UnruhWarschaw axis and with Mayor Samuel Yorty. whose 900,000 anti-Brown primary votes the Democrats are wooing anxiously . Yorty himself , with his eye on support for a 1968 Senate race against Sen. Thomas Kuchel. is affecting such sedulous neutrality that he will view the November 8 election from the vantage point of Tokyo . The California Democratic Council , the state-wide federation of local Democratic clubs that claims to be the main voice of the party rank and file , has been kept in the background so that its liberal leanings would provide a minimal target for Reaganites trying to depict it as the left-wing counterpart of the Birch Society . On the Republican side , Senator Kuchel , the California GOP 's top-ranking figure , is viewing Reagan 's race in studied silence on the Potomac . Former Governor Goodwin Knight has remained as elusive as he was in 1962 when his bete-noire , Richard Nixon , was running Former Sen. William F Knowland , Brown 's 1958 rival , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forlorn " moderate " entry whom Reagan defeated in June , has spoken out , in recent days In effect , he spoke on Brown 's behalf by needling Reagan as to whether he would support Senator Kuchel in 1968 . Reagan 's chilly response has been that it would be improper for him to indicate a preference in advance of the 1968 primary . Constant jibes about his refusal to repudiate the Ruch Society finally impelled Reagan to declare the subject ? as Richard Nixon in 1960 declared the mysterious Howard Hughes loan ? out of bounds , but this has scat cely stopped the Democrats from harping on it . Governor Brown recently sent a tongue-in-cheek telegram of welcome to Nixon . who was on a speaking trip to California , noting that in 1962 Nixon repudiated the Birch Society , and imploring him to prevail on Reagan to do the same Columns of space and hours of air time have been spent in vacuous debate on whether the two rivals were wittingly or unwittingly parties to racially restrictive covenants ( inoperative for some years ) on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furor over the propriety of State Republican Chairman Gaylord Parkinson 's enjoying a $30,000 well-wishers ' subsidy fund , similar to the Nixon $18,000 fund of 1952 . " Brown only talks about me ; he wo n't discuss the issues , " Reagan complained on a recent telecast ? ignoring the fact that in Democratic eyes Reagan himself is the main issue : his right-wing past and his questionable qualifications for the state 's top executive office Indeed , the burden of Reagan 's offensive is to attack Brown 's competence o which the plump , bespectacled Governor 's essential response is to gulp incredulously and point to the state of California , still in place and growing The candidates have steered clear of Vietnam , since strong pro-Administration sentiment in California makes any criticism a possible vote loser However , anti-Viet militants had their say over the October 1 weekend when the New Left staged a two-day conference at Los Angeles attended by several thousand  --  many of them expense-paid representatives of underprivileged sectors of the state Prime movers of the conference were the national New Politics co-chairmen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a covey of staff members of Santa Barbara 's Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions ( which itself had no connection with the assemblage ) . The keynote of the conference was : " Do n't vote for either Brown or Reagan : both represent outworn , reactionary political mechanisms . Let 's look ahead to constructive , humanitarian , opportunistic radicalism , unformalized as a third party  --  yet . " This view , well publicized in advance , occasioned a schism among intellectuals . Harry Ashmore and Episcopal Bishop James A. Pike of the Center staff , among others , threw their weight with a concurrent , rival conference on " The State of the Future " promoted by Brown people to neutralize the New Left manifestation . It drew a comparable attendance across town for a one-day meeting , salted with such luminaries as the Governor himself and touring Senator Ted Kennedy . Bishop Pike took time out from the pro-Brown gathering to try to dissuade the New Left meeting from its boycott idea . His sentiments persuaded several hundred of the New Left participants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white-collar liberals and Marxists attuned to explicit political action . Among the New Left activists were five of the " peace " candidates rejected in last June 's Democratic primary . On the Congressional front , indications are that California 's solidly gerrymandered districts will produce no more than the Change of an odd seat or two in the present 24 to 14 Democratic-Republican line-up . ' Amid a cacaphony of trivia , electoral sentiment in California has moved into the familiar , cryptic , head-in-the-shell , penultimate phase when no one is sure what the voters may finally do . Neither candidate has yet conspicuously preempted the " nice-guy " role ? the defensive , put-upon exponent of stability , holding at bay a disruptive rock thrower ? that is often decisive in California contests. '                     