@@725079

txt The inter-American peace force in Santo Domingo  --  now 10,000 strong  --  will stay that way at least through May . A few troops , perhaps , will be pulled out as the presidential election aproaches seven months hence . But the force now stands at the minimum experts think necessary to maintain order in that rebellion-scarred republic . The 9,000 American and 1,000 Latin-American troops will be kept as much out of sight as possible . Already new troop sites around Santo Domingo  --  instead of in it  --  have been staked out . Organization of American States officials hope they wo n't have to use the force at all . But they also hope its presence will deter trouble before it develops . Provisional Dominican President Hector Garcia Godoy can rely on the Santo Domingo police . But he 's not sure about the Dominican Army . So he is happy to have the force hanging around . An armada of Latin-American historians is bound to set sail now in defense of Christopher Columbus . CristObal Colon , as Latin Americans call him , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fierce Latin pride . He not only sailed under the Spanish flag , but he was Italian . And that makes him Latin . But recent historical findings have heaped up new proof that the Viking , Leif Erickson , discovered America 400 years before Columbus ever left port . And that 's sad news to Latins . Hemisphere historians will be dusting off various theories in the years ahead . They will point out , as some scholars do , that the venerable Admiral of the Ocean Sea spent several years in Iceland before his voyage and knew of the Viking discoveries . Evidence exists that Spaniards and Portuguese mariners ventured into New World waters well before Columbus . This will get closer study . And Columbus 's true worth  --  as the seafarer who threw open a new world just when everybody was finally ready to go there  --  will win a new round of oles . Venezuela is about to get together with most of the rest of South America on a common-market arrangement . The door to Venezuelan entry in the hemispheric free trade association has long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it never quite took the last step . The Venezuelan economy is a bit more advanced than most of Latin America 's . And many businessmen in Caracas bridle at the prospect . However , Venezuelan delegates to recent common-market sessions in Montevideo , Uruguay , nodded their preliminary approval . Now the country will probably enter before the year is out . Trends .. ? Czechoslovakia is gazing past Cuba to wink economically at other Latin-American nations . The Czechs have just signed a new trade pact with Communist Cuba . But at the same time they are courting Argentine wheat and Brazilian coffee . They hope , in return , to send more oil-drilling gear to Argentina and industrial-plant equipment to Brazil . Final details are being hammered out now . It is likely such trade will be stepped up and Cuban trade soft-pedaled in the years ahead . Part of the reason is a Czech desire to win its way back onto the United States most favored nation list and the trade tax relief that brings . They have been off the list since 1951 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned out to be a poor trading partner . It owes a whopping $30 million trade debt to the Czechs . How and why ? ? ? Bundling West Indian islands together into some sort of federation is difficult at best . Now a developing currency muddle is showing just how difficult . For some years British Caribbean territories in the Leeward and Windward Islands ; Trinidad and Tobago , and British Guiana used a single currency . But that arrangement is now spinning apart . First Trinidad and Tobago began issuing their own currency . British Guiana is about to . The rest of the islands , including the largest ( Barbados ) are banding together ? perhaps temporarily  --  to issue their own money . It all shows how hard it is to get together .                     