@@727163

txt Dr. Benjamin Spock and three other men were found guilty in Federal District Court today of conspiring to counsel evasion of the draft . A fifth defendant was found not guilty . The four convicted men are expected to carry their cases to the Supreme Court , if necessary , as part of their crusade , against the war in Vietnam and the draft . Found guilty with Dr. Spock , the 65-year-old pediatrician and author , were the Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr. , 43 , chaplain of Yale University ; ' Michael Ferber , 23 , a . Harvard graduate student from Buffalo , and Mitchell Goodman , 44 , a , teacher and author from Temple , Me . Marcus Raskin , 34 , co-director of the Institute for Policy Studies , a private research organization of Washington , was found not guilty . Sentencing Set July 10 With tears in his eyes , Mr. Raskin said , " I am glad for myself , but rather sad for the others . " Judge Francis J. ? W. Ford , 85 , who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impose sentence July 10 . The defendants have 10 days after that to file appeals . The maximum penalties are five years in - jail and $10,000 fines . The defendants , who hat ( been free On bond of $1,000 each , were released on personal recognizance . An all-male jury brought in the verdict at 7:58 P.M. after deliberating 7 hours 23 minutes . Richard G. Hussey , foreman of the jury , read the separate verdicts in a ringing voice . Each of the other jurymen also responded in a clear voice when defense lawyers called for a polling of the 12 . Spock Explains Position Dr. Spock , author of books on babies and foreign policy , was smiling confidently as he commented on the verdict . He said : " My main defense was I believed a citizen must work , against a war he considers contrary to international law . The court has found differently . I will continue to press my case . " Mr. Coffin , standing beside Mr. Spock in the glare of television lights on the ground floor of the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is wonderful that Mark Raskin was found not guilty ; it was a real victory for the First Amendment . We are now happy to go on to the appeals court . " The indictments returned against the five men on Jan. 5 contained four separate charges . These involve conspiring to counsel , aid and abet young men to evade the draft , to refuse to carry their draft registration cards and to refuse to carry their classification cards , and conspiracy to hinder and interfere with the administration of the Selective Service Act . Under the heading of special findings , granted the Government by Judge Ford , all five men were specifically found not guilty of conspiring to counsel young men to give up their registration cards and their classification cards . This had no marked bearing on the general charges of conspiracy . The case could now go from the Federal District Court to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit , also in Boston . From there , it could be carried to the Supreme Court . Films Shown to Jury There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which began on May 20 . Frequent bench conferences slowed proceedings on several days . But Judge Ford strove constantly to - " go forward . " The jury was shown films depicting demonstrations , in which one or more of the defendants allegedly took part . And Mayor . Lindsay of New York appeared on Monday as a surprise witness for the defense . The prosecution was led for the Government by an assistant United States attorney , John Wall , 36 , a former paratrooper in the Korean conflict . He praised Dr. Spock as a man " worthy of respect . " But he said that all the defendants had been too " self-righteous " in making pronouncements about morality in the Vietnam war . The defendants have contended that they are motivated by moral concern over the legality of the Vietnam war and the constitutionality of the draft . Instructions to Jury In his 90-minute charge to the jury this morning , Judge Ford said , " We are not trying the legality , morality or constitutionality of the war in Vietnam or the rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying the United States of America or President Johnson , nor are we trying the registrants who took part in demonstrations , " the judge went on . " The conspiracy indictment is the crucial issue and it is your duty to determine whether the defendants knowingly and willingly conspired . " In its indictment , the Government cited 10 " overt acts " that it contended the various defendants had committed in furtherance of the alleged conspiracy . These included the distribution of a flyer , " A Call to Resist Illegitimate Authority , " signed by 373 persons last August . Other incidents cited were a news conference in New York on Oct. 2 , 1967 ; a public meeting at the Arlington Street Church here on Oct .. 16 , and a demonstration that included the turning in of draft cards at the ' Department of Justice building in Washington on Oct. 20 . Mr. Raskin was listed as being involved only in the alleged conspiracy to stage the Washington demonstration . But the acts themselves were not part of the prosecution . Mayor Lindsay 's testimony concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he told Dr. Spock and others that he was concerned for public safety at a scheduled ' demonstration at the Whitehall Street induction center three days later . He said he wanted to protect the rights of the demonstrators but also to caution against violence . Dr. Spock and Mr. Goodman were arrested peaceably in , the demonstration after sitting ' on the sidewalk in front of the center . The lawyers for the defense were Leonard B. Boudin for Dr. Spock , James D. St. Clair for Mr. Coffin , Edward S. Barshak for Mr. Goodman , William P. Homans Jr . for Mr. Ferber and Calvin Bartlett for Mr. Raskin.                     