@@721824

txt Springfield , Ill. , May 9 ? A request by Mayor Daley of Chicago that Illinois cities be permitted to double their present half cent sales tax ran into trouble in the Republican Senate today but won committee support in the Democratic ruled House . The Republican majority of the Senate revenue committee listened politely to Daley 's plea that suburban and downstate cities as well as Chicago need more money . The committee on straight party lines then voted 10 to 7 to recommend that the bill not pass . In the House , the municipalities committee later voted 23 to 16 for the bill . Daley Predicts Passage Mayor Daley later told newsmen he was confident the bill , which would give Chicago an additional 23 to 39 million dollars a year , eventually would be passed by both houses and sent to Gov . Kerner for approval . Republican spokesmen , however , said they were determined to block the plan . If the bill passes the House it must be referred to the Senate revenue committee , which disapproved it today . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change of heart by some Republican members of the committee or , as an alternative , a vote by a majority of the Senate to discharge the committee from further consideration of the bill . Odds Against Adoption As sentiment stood tonight the odds were heavily against the city sales tax increase . The Daley forces were hopeful that by the time the House completes its action the downstate and suburban mayors could persuade several Senate Republicans to break party lines . Since it was enacted in 1955 at Daley 's request , about 1,150 cities and villages have adopted the half cent tax on every dollar of retail sales . Committee hearings will start next week on Gov . Kerner 's revenue program , the key part of which would increase the state sales tax a half cent , to a total of 31 : : cents on the dollar , and broaden its scope . Sees Realty Tax Cut Daley promised that if cities get a half cent increase in their sales tax , half of the increase in Chicago revenues would be devoted to reducing levies on real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted in 1955 , property tax rates would be higher in all cities and villages . Questioned by Rep. William E. Pollack R. , Chicago , Re publican House leader , Daley said he would not want the bill amended to make it mandatory that half the new revenues go to relief of property taxes . He said he was objecting in behalf of the other cities , because some of them now need all the funds they can get . Opposes Tax Ceiling Daley flatly opposed a Pollack bill , backed by the Civic federation , to put a tax rate ceiling on the Chicago corporate operating fund . The Illinois Municipal league appeared in force to back the city sales tax increase , and one of Daley 's chief supporting witnesses was . ts first vice president , Mayor John R. Kimbark of Evanston . Kimbark under questioning said Evanston would not adopt the increase at this time . That would give Evanston merchants a half cent price advantage over Chicago , and em phasized a contention of Pres ident Joseph T. Meek of the Illinois Retail Merchants ass* @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sub . urbs . County Sales Up More " Since 1954 , retail sales in the city of Chicago have increased 8.1 per cent , " Meek said . " During the same period , retail sales in Cook county , not including Chicago , increased by 84 per cent . " Spokesmen for several Chicago business groups also argued against a higher sales tax , and Maurice Scott , head of the Taxpayers Federation of Illinois , testified in both houses that public officials can never be satisfied in spending requirements . Daley 's contention that the bill was statewide and nonpartisan was echoed by Mayor Lester Collins of Springfield and Village Atty . J. Edgar Kelly of Glen Ellyn , head of a Municipal league committee . Asks Modern System Daley opened with a plea for a " modern system of taxation " thru a constitutional amendment . He asserted that funds for essential services are inadequate , and said his goal is to eliminate all slum and blighted housing in Chicago in 10 years . In the House committee , the Daley forces were supported by Peter J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the election of a Democratic speaker . Debate Hotel at O'Hare Before Daley 's arrival , the House wrangled over a major piece of his legislative program , a bill that would permit a 40 year lease at O'Hare airport for a hotel . It is opposed by owners of nearby motels . Rep. William E. Pollack R. , Chicago charged that steamroller tactics were used last week in getting the bill approved by the House utilities committee . On a straight party vote , Pollack failed to have the bill recommitted to the committee . Several Republicans asserted that the use of proxies is being abused by the legislature . Rep. A. W. Hachmeister f R. , Chicago ) asked that use of proxies in committees be abolished . Speaker Paul Powell D. , Vienna asked Hachmeister to appear before the House rules committee ThtIrsday when th. change will be considered .                     