@@721651

txt President Elect and Mrs. Kennedy meet conductor Howard Mitchell ( left ) and composer John LaMontaine of Oak Park , Ill. , after arrival at Constitution Hall for Inaugural concert . The Kennedys are holding souvenir score of concert overture , " From Sea to Shining Sea , " which LaMontatne composed , UPI Telephoto Old Man Winter ruts Skids Under Kennedy BY LAURENCE BURD Chicago Tribune Press senicel Washington , Jan. 19 ? John Fitzgerald Kennedy got thru part of the last day as President elect at his usual breakneck pace , but old man weather slowed him down before ajeeb Haldbr. new FAA Head nightfall . A round of last minute conferences on problems he faces starting tomorr ow crowded the 43 year old Kennedy 's schedule thru luncheon . Then came one of the city 's worst blizzards . The gay part of his day with receptions , a concert and a gala of show-world stars was almost blanketed under the winddriven snow . Kennedy managed to get to one reception given by . the state governors , but ' his car skidded and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that . Chains were , put on the white limousine , but by then the traffic was so thick he " and his wife , Jacqueline , could n't go anywhere for hours . They skipped two receptions but finally ventured to a scheduled night concert in Constitution hall , where only 300 or 400 others had been WHITE HOUSE IN COLOR The John P. Kennedys are moving into a new home  --  the White House ? and for reproductions in color of some of the rooms in that home , turn to page 16. able to make it . The hall seats more than 3,800 . Most of the musicians were missing , too . The Kennedys and Vice President E1 e c t and Mrs. Lyndon Johnson , who were also delayed in getting to the concert , stayed for a few numbers . Violinist Mischa Ela an , a sche4uled performer , was a blizza0 absentee . The Kennedys and Johnsaid the number of unemployed has risen steadily since then . Kennedy , who bid strongly for labor votes in his 1960 campaign , also discussed the unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Carlton hotel . sons headed from the concert hall for the big gala of stars in the National Guard armory , 3 miles across town . The start of the gala , billed as having 170 topflight musical and screen stars , was held up an hour because the honored guests were delayed . Gets Last Word Kennedy 's day began with a call at the mansion he will inhabit starting tomorrow . At the White - House he spent 2 hours canvassing international problems with President Eisenhower . The meeting was warmly cordial . Last month when Kennedy was there President Eisenhower greeted him at the front portico of the residence and an honor guard lined the driveway . But with the ceremonial and actual transfer of Presidential power only a day away , this morning 's meeting was all business and no ceremony . A joint statement after the meeting said it was devoted to a full discussion of the w o r l d situation , including problems in the far e a s t , Africa , western Europe , and the Caribbean . The statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a number of matters affecting the security of the United States . Kennedy told newsmen afterward that the conflict in Laos and the gold outflow question were among topics discussed . From the White House Kennedy went to the home of a friend , William Walton , an artist , to receive callers so his own home could be free for Mrs. Kennedy to make inaugural and moving-out plans . Later Kennedy turned his attention to a major domestic problem , unemployment , and promised he will have something to say in a few days on how to combat it . Kennedy 's pledge to deal promptly after he takes office with the jobless question came after he met with Arthur J. Goldberg , his secretary of labor-designate. 51k Million Idle Goldberg estimated that nearly 51/2 - million Americans are out of work . The latest official figure , for December , is 41/2 million , but Goldberg At the governors ' reception Kennedy was joined by former President Harry Truman , who rode to the President Elect 's home for a half hour visit . ' Kennedy told reporters that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency . " The President elect announced during the day the appointment of Najeeb Halaby , 45 , of Los Angeles as chief of the federal aviation agency . Halaby , a former military test pilot , is secretarytreasurer of the Aerospace corp. , which does space and missile research for the air force . Appoints More Officials Dr. Robert C. Turner , 52 , Indiana university professor , was named assistant director of the budget bureau today by Kennedy . Turner , chairman of Indiana 's business ' economics department , was an economic adviser to President Truman . Kennedy also named Roger Tubby , one time press secretary to Truman , as assistant secretary of state for public affairs . Walt Whitman Rostow , professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , was made Kennedy 's deputy assistant for national security affairs . Cmdr. Maxwell Taylor Shepard , 40 , World War II veteran , was chosen as naval aide to the incoming President .                     