@@724329

txt Chicago The Democratic presidential victory tide in Illinois spoiled the political debut of Charles El , Percy , one of the GOP 's brightest prospects for party eminence . President Johnson was carrying the state by a plurality that approached 800,000 votes as this edition went to press , incumbent Democratic Gov . Otto Kerner was swept into a second term . With 9.162 out of 10,344 precincts reporting , the vote was : Kerner ? 2,066,929 ; Percy-1,885,986 . Percy Guilt Tallied Despite 15 months of campaigning , Mr. Percy 's first drive for elective office faltered before the combined popularity of the President and the Governor . Governor Kerner 's surprising downstate strength played a major part in thwarting Mr. Percey 's bid . Mr. Johnson swept the entire Democratic state ticket into office in Illinois . While President Johnson rampaged ahead of Governor Kerner , Mr. Percy ran ahead of Senator Goldwater by up to 300.000 votes . Drive Stalled The suburbs came through for Mr. Percy , but the Chicago city precincts turned nut in force for Governor Kerner , although somewhat more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manages . Except for the Eisenhower breakthroughs in 1952 and 1956 , Illinois has gone Democratic in presidential elections since 1932 . Sen. Barry Goldwater listed Illinois as essential to his victory . He visited the state no less than four times in the late days of his campaign . Tuesday 's defeat abruptly stalls the Percy political drive . A protege of former President Eisenhower . Mr. Percy has been watched for some time by many moderate-to-liberal Republicans as a bright hope for GOP leadership in the future . Now . the Percy tactics and timetable may be revised , perhaps in the direction of the 1968 race for the seat of veteran Sen. Paul H. Douglas . There would likely be another rugged primary battle for Mr. Percy if he sets his sights on the Senate . And taking on the venerable and locally popular Senator Douglas has been a thankless assignment for Illinois Republicans in the past .                     