@@723420

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 2 ? The Air Force has been given only a relatively minor role in the Gemini man-in-space program of the National AellIllaU tics and Space Administration . ' I Some Air Force experiments will be carried out in the t ? oman Gemini capsule . But present plans do not call for any Air Force astronauts to orbit in the capsule . The decision by the Defense Department and NASA to limit the Air Force to essentially a " piggyback " role came as another setback to Air Force anibitions to extend its flight operations into the new domain of space . Once again the Air Force found its ambitions thwarted by the deep-seated skepticism of its Defense Department superiors about the military reCont limed on Page 5 , Column I AIR FORCE 'S ' ROLE IN GEMINI IS CUT // quirements for putting a man into space . NASA was reluctant to make any of the valuable and expensive flying time 4n the Gemini capsule available to the Air Force unless it was to fulfill a clear military need . The Defense Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military role involved . The decision could have political repercussions because it fits into the developing Republican charge that the military requirements in space are being ignored by the Administration in its emphasis upon landing a manned expedition on the moon . Administration officials are becoming increasingly sensitive about this Republican theme . They foresee the Republicans in the political campaign of 1964 raising a " space gap " charge corresponding to the " missile gap " indictment used by the Democrats in the last Presidential campaign . Planned to Participate The Air Force once had hopes , ! that the Gemini program could ! be used as a stepping stone ! toward developing a military ' man-in-space capability . Last January it seemed that the Air Force 's hopes might bel fulfilled . At that time , Defense , Secretary Robert S. and James E. Webb , administrator of the civilian space agency , entered into an agreement designed to assure that the Gemini project met the " objectives and requirements " of both the military and civilian manned space flight programs . It appeared , from the somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gram , conceived by the space agency as an intermediary step ; between Project Mercury and the Apollo manned lunar landH ing , was being turned into a , joint NASA-Air Free project. ; In recent weeks , however , it ; has become evident that the ' Air Force would basically be a ' recipient of scientific informa-I tion obtained during ; VASA I flights rather than a direct par-I ticipant in the flight phase of the program . Under the Jan. 22 agreement , a " Gemini program planning , board , " with Air Force and NASA co-chairmen. was established to develop plans assuring that the project would be " utilized in the over-all national interest . " The recently approved pro-. gram submitted by the board : calls for about a dozen Air ; Force experiments to be in eluded in later flights of the " Gemini capsule . The experi-1 ments are primarily designed to ! obtain preliminary technical information on the potential development of manned and unmanned inspector satellites capable of rendezvousing with and disabling " hostile " satellites . Work Behind Schedule The Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight program has tended to subside as the project has slipped more than a year behind schtdule . According to the present timetable , it would probably be 1966 before any Air Force pilots could fly in the capsule , and by that time it hopes to be ready for flight tests of its DynaSoar space glider and to be engaged in a much more ambitious project of developing an orbital space station . After the January agreement , Mr. raised the possibility that Air Force participation in the Gemini project might make it possible to terminate the Dyna-Soar program . For the moment , the Air Force is being permitted to proceed with the Dyna-Soar program . But its flights are to be limited to ballistic shots designed to test the capability of the winged spacecraft to reenter the earth 's atmosphere and to maneuver to an airport chosen by the pilot . The Air Force is also beginning to press for management responsibility over the next big step in manned space flight ? the development of an orbital space station . Its argument is that NASA would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to overcome some of the jurisdictional rivalry already developing , the Air Force has switched from talking in terms of a military orbital development station ( MODS ) to a " national orbital space station . " It would meet , the service says , the scientific and techfiological requirements of both the military and NASA .                     