@@721537

txt AREAS IN ALGERIA TESTED FOR TRUCE French Designate Zones as Models for a Cease-Fire Throughout Territory By THOMAS F. BRADY Spodal to Ttztr Hew York Times . ALGIERS , Nov. 14 ? A spokesman for the Algerian civilian Government disclosed tonight 1 that a number of localities had been designated as models of what Algeria as a whole would ' I be like after a cease-fire agree ment . He said the zones selected by the Government were ones where the " people are no longer threatened . " The spokesman , Jacques Coup de ' Frejac , information director lof the Delegation General , said an effort was in progress to create an Algeria that would be something between the " French Algeria " demanded by European Right-Wing elements and the independent Algeria for which the rebel nationalists have been fighting . " If a cease-fire comes , we have the impression that things swill move very quickly , " he said . " We will have no time to prepare the voters . So we are working now where we can . " The Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out where such an experiment could be carried out and began operations in peaceful sectors before Gen. de Gaulle 's speech of Nov. 4 . " In that speech , the French President said that the time // might come when the French Army could cease to use its arms except for " legitimate de- t fense . " His statement provoked speculation on the possibility of a " unilateral truce " in the six - year - old Algerian war . French officials denied such a project was in view . M. Coup de . Frejac declined to identify the localities where the political experiment was being carried on . His comments followed the publication of an article in the French newspaper Le Monde saying that the Delegation General 's survey had shown that there were " six or eight sectors " in western Algeria where it was judged that the movement of persons was safe day and night on all roads and some fifteen sectors throughout Algeria where " Pacification " was 80 per cent effective . Le Monde 's dispatch specifically named the sector of Nemours , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pacified regions involved in the Delegation General 's program . The disclosures by M. Coup de Frejac and the article by Le Monde followed reports Friday that Nemours was under study by Defense Minister Pierre Messmer as a possible zone for the experimental , localized " unilateral truce . " These reports were denied yesterday by civilian and military authorities . The newspaper said that not a shot had been fired in the Nemours area in " several days " and that no arrests of nationalists had been recorded in the last week . " Friendly " contacts between French fusilier marines who guard the area and officers of the Royal Moroccan Army across the frontier had been used by French officers to broach the idea of a truce , or " modus vivendi , " with the nationalists , Le Monde said . The Moroccans are in close contact with Algerian nationalist guerrilla forces , whose headquarters for western Algeria are reported to be on Moroccan territory . M. Messmer , who has spent the last three days visiting military areas in western Algeria is expected to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news . conference in Oran tonight , but he issued a statement declaring that no changes were envisaged in the military command it Algeria . The statement was seen her ( as-a denial Of persistent rumors that ' Gen. Fernand Gambiez would replace Gen. Jean Crepir as the French commander it chief in Algeria . General Crepin , who had the reputation of being a faithful supporter of President de Gaulle when the general took over command last winter , is now said in some quarters to have doubts about the wisdom of the President 's liberal policy of an " Algerian Algeria . "                     