@@726392

txt Having won on the battlefield , Israel now is concentrating on a single question : How can it secure peace with the Arab states so that this third war should become a last one . It is too early yet to speak of Israel 's peace terms . The transition from a gravely threatened , besieged fortress , as Israel viewed itself until June 5 , to overwhelming victor over its three neighboring states has been too swift and sudden . Neither the government nor political parties have had time yet to define policies for the long-term future . This is the more difficult since the Israeli Government now is responsible for 1,500,000 additional Arabs who inhabit the conquered territories . This has brought the number of Arabs under Israeli administration to about 1,800,000 , compared with approximately 2 , - 500,000 Jews . At the same time , Israel 's territory has increased from 8,000 square miles before the war started to about 30,000 by the end of last week . Despite the enormity of the task in coping with such a rapid aggrandizement , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointers as to how the main trends of thought are shaping up . Here are the salient elements : Premier Levi Eshkol summed up the general feelings in Israel when he told the Knesset ( Parliament ) June 12 , " To the nations of the world I want to say : be under no illusion that the State of Israel is prepared to return to the situation that reigned up to a week ago . ... The land of Israel shall no longer be a no man 's land ; wide open to acts of sabotage and murder . " Protection vowed Similarly the chief of staff , Maj. Gen. Yitzhak Rabin , said at a ceremony at the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem 's Old City the same day : " Just as we went out to fight for these achievements so will we know how to protect them in the future . " An insight as to why such a statement was made was indicated by Defense Minister Gen. Moshe Dayan , who warned : " Those who sought to destroy us are defeated , but have not accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep them sharp and ready , for the day has not come yet to put them away . " Despite these reservations , numerous appeals have been made to Arab leaders to start a new , more peaceful chapter in Arab-Israel relations . Premier Eshkol said in the Knesset : " We did not take up arms in any joyful spirit . We acted because we had no alternative if we wanted to defend our lives . " He called for Arab-Israel cooperation " for economic and social progress " instead of " squandering valuable resources on weapons of war . " Similar statements were made by Foreign Minister Abba Eban and Shimon Peres , secretary general of former Premier Ben Gurion 's Rafi Party . Both called for direct negotiations with the Arab states . No formal statements have been made so far by Israeli leaders in responsible positions regarding territorial demands if and when peace is negotiated . 1948 siege recalled Since , however , the principal Israeli objective is stated as preventing a repetition of border violence liable to . lead to war , the following territorial adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum demands . ? Retention by Israel of the Gaulan Mountain ridge , east of the Sea of Galilee , from where the Syrians shelled repeatedly Israeli towns , villages , and kibbutzim . ? Keeping the Egyptians out of the Gaza Strip , where about 250,000 Palestine Arab refugees and 100,000 original inhabitants of the area have been repeatedly involved in anti-Israel violence . ? Israeli possession of the habitable parts of northern Sinai so as to make the 100-mile stretch of desert which lies between this area and the Suez Canal a natural border // Associated Press Israel 's Raphael . . . supports Israel 's occupation of war-torn Arab territory . By John Littlewood , staff photographer Egypt 's el-Kony . . . seeks UN support for return of Sinai Peninsula . Associated Press Syria 's Tomeh . . . wants return of border areas under Israel 's control . Asiociated Press Jordan 's el ? Farra . . . asks assurances on Arabs in Jordan ' west bank and the Old City in Jerusalem . * Eshkol calls for changes // between Israel and Egypt . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a jumping board for their armed forces in all three Arab-Israeli wars so far . ? Sharm el-Sheikh , dominating the Tiran Strait and access to the Israeli port of Elath , is also likely to form part of Israel 's demands ? unless other satisfactory arrangements can be made to secure unhampered passage for Israeli ships . ? Incltision in Israel of those former Jordanian localities on the west bank of the Jordan River from which shelling or sabotage frequently paralyzed normal life in central Israel . These include the towns of Kalkilya and Tulkaren , the mountain top of Latrun , and possibly the town of Hebron . ? Most important  --  incorporation of Jerusalem 's Old City in Israel . This last demand is based on two points : security and religion . Militarily , this was the place from where the Israeli parts of Jerusalem were held under protracted siege in the 1948 war and from where heavy fire originated also in this war . The Old City includes the holy places of three world religions ? Judaism , Christianity , and Islam . Free access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkish rule in this region . The British administration between the years 1918 and 1948 followed the same practice . The Israel-Jordan armistice agreement of 1949 divided Jerusalem between the two countries . It established Jordanian authority over the holy sites in the Old City and solemnly reiterated the principle of free access to these sites . This principle has been meticulously practiced for Moslems and Christians . But the Jews have not been allowed to pray at the Wailing Wall ? a right they had enjoyed throughout the ages ever since the temple was destroyed by the Roman armies in A.D. 70 . The only similar exclusion of Jews was practiced by the Crusaders in the 12th century A.D. To prevent the possibility of a renewal of such banishment from the most sacred place of their religious tradition , Israelis widely agree that they should keep the Old City . But access to the historic sites and freedom of worship for all religions would be guaranteed . Senior officials of the Israeli Ministry of Religion have already given formal assurances to the apostolic delegate in the Old City Monsignor Sepinski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli governor of the former Jordanian territories , Gen. Chaim Herzog , son of a former Chief Rabbi of Israel , told newsmen Zune 13 that a special Israeli military unit has been assigned to protect the holy places and preserve respect for the " status quo " of the sacred sites . The unit is headed by Maj. Akiva Saar , who in the Sinai war of 1956 was in charge of the Saint Catherine Greek Orthodox Monastery on Mount Sinai . Israeli view stressed Now that the military phase of the conflict has ended , Israelis believe the big powers could contribute to the atmosphere in which the Arabs are approaching the problem of their future attitude toward Israel . This was stressed by Premier Eshkol in the Knesset Monday . He held that the big powers " must address their demands , not to Israel , which has sought peace since it came into being , but to the Arab states which have turned the Middle East into a focus of tension and a hotbed of ceaseless hatred during the past two decades . " The great powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations charter obligates them , just as it obligates every other member state , to solve their disputes by peaceful means , " he said . While elated at victory , Israelis are saddened by the figures of Israeli casualties . To military experts 679 killed appears a small price for such an achievement . But the figure is a high one considering the size of the population  --  some 2,500,000 . It would be the equivalent of about 60,000 killed for a country with a population of the size of the United States . However necessary the war has been for the survival of the remaining Israelis , this is a painful loss .                     