@@722763

txt Washington , Nov. 9 ? Five Russian merchant ships were checked by American warships at sea today and at least three were found to be carrying what were believed to be missiles back to Russia from Cuba , the defense department announced . Assistant Secretary of Defense Arthur Sylvester told reporters " responsible people of the United States government " were satisfied that the objects observed on the decks of three of the ships were missiles . " But the photographs which were taken , " Sylvester said , " will be returned here for examination by the expert analysts who first identified the presence of the missiles on the now dismantled sites in Cuba . " Four More Ships Awaited American naval parties did not board the Russian ships . The observations were made by helicopter and from the decks of warships as they steamed close alongside the merchant vessels . Four additional intercepts were expected momentarily , Sylvester said . The defense department , thru aerial reconnaissance of ship loading operations in Cuban ports , is well aware of the ships that have sailed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The three ships with missile cargoes which the navy reported intercepting today were identified as the Dvinogorsk , Labinsk , and Volgoles . Last night the defense department released pictures taken Nov. 6 of the . Dvinogorsk under way with what were repot red to be missiles lashed to its deck . In all cases , Sylvester said , the American ships pulled alongside the Russian freighters . The Russian crews removed heavy tarpaulins from the missiles but did not strip from them the skintight covers which protected the weapons from sea exposure and corrosion . Observe Shape of Objects The blockading ships , Sylvester said , were able to observe the missiles ' shapes and take the pictures which are to be used to determine whether the Russians are carrying out their agreement to remove the missiles from Cuba . The contact with the Dvino ? gorsk was made early today , the defense spokesman said , by the destroyer Blandy . The exact time was not reportd but presumably it was shortly after daylight . The Labinsk was intercepted at 6:30 a. in . Chicago time by the cruiser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyer Learn . Photographs were made Dy helicopter sent up by the NewI port News . The Volgoles was intercepted also at 6:30 a. m. by the destroyer Vesole , which reported taking photographs . The Russian ship Homsomol was intercepted this morning by the destroyer leader Norfolk but early reports did not say what was found . The fifth ship reported intercepted was the Alapayevsk , which was photographed late yesterday by a helicopter from the carrier Wasp in an encounter marked by gift exchanges and other evidences of good will . The Wasp 's helicopter was relieved by the destroyer Holder which made further observations of the Alapayevsk but Sylvester could not say whether the destroyer 's check was made late yesterday or this morning . Bombers Still There While Russian missiles apparently were being moved out of Cuba . there were no reports of similar disposition of the 20 or more Russian 1L-28 jet bombers known to he in Cuba . The state department continued to insist the bombers were classified as offensive weapons which Khrushchev has agreed to remove . But Lincoln White , department spokesman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a time and was concentrating on the missile question at present . In addition to the bombers , the Cubans are believed to have about 100 Russian MIG jet fighters . The two classes of planes could be dangerous if Fidel Castro decided to take offensive action against the United States , but American air defenses would be able to contain such a threat mor e readily than a missile attack from Cuba . Two More Latins Join Fleet Two more Latin American naval vessels joined the blockade fleet today . They were frigates of the Dominican Republic navy , which also was invited to send an officer to join the staff of Rear Adm . John A. Tyree , commander of the interAmerican quarantine force . Two days ago it was announced that two Argentine destroyers were joining Tyree 's fleet . They were reported last at Trinidad en route to the blockade area . The Dominican Republic has made its airports , naval bases , and other military installations available to all members of the organization of American states participating in the blockade action . President Kenne ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee which he has seen daily , except last Sunday , since the crisis erupted . Pierre Salinger , White House news secretary , told reporters the President kept track of Cuban developments during the day thru conferences with Secretary of State Dean Rusk and other officials . Salinger said the next meeting of the President 's crisis committee is scheduled for Monday .                     