@@721115

txt The Rockefeller Administration bill setting a new measurement of 1 a , driver 's safe-drinking capacity Was passed by the Assemby today and sent to the Governor for his signature . The bill , a key part of the Governor 's highway safety program , sailed through the Assembly with surprising ease . Only last week a number of Assemblymen had indicated opposition . Today , however , 125 members voted for the bill after a brief debate and only four I opposed it . The " safe-drinking " bill would make it easier for law-enforcement officials to obtain convictions of persons who drive while under the influence of alcohol , supporters of the bill contend . Alcohol Level Cut State law now makes .15 of 1 per cent alcohol in the bloodstream evidence of drunken driving . The new law would hold a person guilty of a traffic inrfraction if found to be driving with .10 of 1 per cent alcohol in the bloodstream . The . new law , which would become effecI tive on Oct. 1 , would not disturb the drunken-driving test . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would have to be made within two hours after arrest . Conviction under the bill would count against the operator in considering . suspension or revocation of his license . Penalties for drunken driving are stricter . The amount of alcohol a person must drink to produce the critical level in the blood varies with the weight of the person and the time consumed in drinking . Rockefeller Bills Gain The passage of the bill came on a . day that the Governor 's program picked up momentum generally : The safe-drinking bill was one of three key Adminis- , tration measures to clear the ! Assembly this afternoon . Observers here feel that ) the Governor 's program has been getting a better reception in recent days partly because of frequent conferences by administration officials and Republican legislative leaders With . - Republican legislators . Another . factor is thought to // be a pledge to Republican Assemblymen by Speaker Joseph F. Carlin that ? the relief-residency bill would come up for a floor vote next week . Many upstate Republicans favor this bill , which has already passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but has said he will not use his influence to keep it in committee . It would require 0.1 year 's residence in the state before a person can apply for home relief . One important administration bill passed by the Assembly and sent to the Senate was one that creates the New York State Finance Agency . The administration seeks to encourage the building of private middle-income housing by setting up the agency to sell bonds and make loans for middle-income housing . The Assembly also approved I bill giving the Governor and the Office of Atomic Development authority to determine sites for atomic development and for storage of radioactive materials . Other developments in the legislature today included these actions :                     