@@722660

txt Senator Barry Goldwater assailed today President Kennedy 's handling of the Cuban issue and asserted that " the American people will not be satisfied with the President 's reiteration of a ' do nothing ' policy toward Cuba . " The Arizona Republican charged that President Kennedy , in his policy statement on Cuba yesterday , " virtually promised the Communist world that the United States will take no action ' to remove the threat ' of Soviet armed might in the Western . HHemisphere . " At his news conference yes ' terday , the President criticized " rash talk " on Cuba . He said that the United States would move swiftly against Cuba if it should be necessary to defend its security , but that military action now was neither required nor justified . Bill Backed Unanimously The President 's proposed reserves mobilization bill was approved unanimously today by the House Armed Services Committee .. This action cleared the way for final passage in the House . The Senate passed the measure yesterday . The bill would empower President Kennedy to muster 150,000 military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active service tours for a year , if he finds it necessary , during the period when Congress will ' not be in session . Secretary of State Dean Rusk testified on the Cuban situation at a closed session of the House Foreign Affairs Committee . The meeting , called suddenly in the late afternoon , dealt with the draft of a resolution proposed by Democratic leaders in the House and Senate yesterday . The resolution , clearly intended to supplant those proposed by some Republicans , would support the President in the use of force , if necessary , to cope with the situation in Cuba . The House is scheduled to take up the resolution on Monday . The Democratic version of the various " force-if-necessary " resolutions on Cuba underscores the President 's existing authority to take military measures in defense of United States security . Senator Goldwater 's attack on President Kennedy was the sharpest by any member of Congress in the intensfying debate over United States policy on Cuba . Policy Criticized The Republican leaders in the House and Senate also have criticized the . Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a mole to postpone Congressional debate until next week . Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois and Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana proposed last week that Congress adopt a joint resolution , similar to the Taiwan statement of 195 , warning of the United States ' readiness to use military force against Communist aggression from Cuba . Administration spokesmen said the proposal was unnecessary and possibly unwise . They indicated their belief that the Cuban danger was being overstated in this country . When some Republicans sought to attach Cuba " action " riders to the reserve mobilization bill , Senator Dirkson cooperated with Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana , the Democratic majority leader , in disengaging the two issues . The reserve mobilization measure then received unanimous Senate approval . As part of the bipartisan agreement , a Senate debate on Cuba was scheduled for next Thursday . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the meantime set a closed hearing with Secretary Rusk and Secretary of Defense for Monday . There was no immediate indication whether Senator Goldwater would attract the support of other Republicans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Goldwater , in his statement said : " We have before us today this humiliating picture : The Soviets pushed a huge military build-up on our Southern doorstep . Khrushchev warned the United States not to interfere . And President Kennedy holds a news cpnference and says military intervention by the United States can not be either required or justified . " The conservative Republican has often been mentioned as a candidate for his party 's Presidential nomination in 1964 . He issued his attack after Senator Mansfield expressed confidence that the Senate would " close ranks in support of the President . " " To say the least , " Senator Goldwater observed , " President Kennedy is a very poor poker player . Even if the thought of invading or blockading Cuba is completely repulsive to him it did us no harm to keep Castro and his Soviet masters guessing . " Senator Goldwater continued : " There is still the question of what has happened to the Monroe Doctrine . The President did n't mention it in his latest statement . " Senator Hubert H. Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy 's statement of yesterday as one that would ultimately become known as " the Kennedy Doctrine . " Senator Humphrey said it was in many respects a modernization of the Monroe Doctrine . Senator Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of New York , said he was still concerned over the weapons build-up in Cuba .                     