@@727537

txt Two Arab gunmen opened fire on a New York-bound Israeli jetliner as it prepared to take off from the Athens airport today . One of the 41 passengers was killed , the Boeing 707 's port engines were wrecked and the plane caught fire . One of the bullets that riddled the winnows killed Leon Shirdan , a 50-year-old Israeli maritime engineer and ex-naval officer . A 28-year-old Israeli hostess , Hannah Spira , suffered a fractured leg and serious spinal injuries when she jumped out of the plane . She was taken to a hospital . Israel warned Arab governments backing commandos that Arab airliners were as vulnerable as Israeli planes , Reuters reported . Premier Levi Eshkol called the attack " insane terrorism . " Page 3 . Chased on Runway The two suspects were caught and disarmed by the Greek police after a chase on the runway while fire squads put out the fire on the El Al plane , preventing the explosion of the 30-ton fuel tanks . The suspects were later identified as Maheb H. Sleiman , 19 , of Tripoli , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mahmoud M. Mohamad , 25 , a Palestinian Arab who said he was a teacher . They are to appear before the Athens public prosecutor tomorrow . Witnesses said that the El Al plane , scheduled to complete regular Flight 253 from Tel Aviv to New York via Athens , was warming.up its engines when the attack came at 11:50 A.M. Athens time . Two men posing as passengers approached . One of them , carrying a bag , pulled out a submachine gun and opened fire on the plane 's engines . Grenades Thrown at Engines The other hurled what was described as incendiary grenades at the jet engines . As one engine caught fire , the aircraft 's doors were thrown open and the crew prepared emergency slides for the passengers to reach the ground . One of the inflatable slides was hit by , a bullet and put out of action . As the passengers slid out of the plane they had to duck bullets to run toward the buildings . Greek policemen converged on the gunmen , who continued to fire , scattering leaflets at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Liberation of Palestine . The handbills gave in question-and-answer form in English " our aims and objectives . " They said that the front was not anti-Semitic " because the Arabs are Semites . " The two suspects were questioned by Deputy Premier Stylianus Patakos , who had hurried to the airport . They told him that they were Arab commandos with " orders to destroy an Israeli plane and kill Jews . " Later the men were interrogated by Greek intelligence and taken to Athens Security Police headquarters for the night . The Athens public prosecutor said he would charge them with murder , illegal possession and use of arms , and damage to foreign property . The police said that the machinegun bore no identification marks but others said it was a Soviet-made weapon . 25 Bullet Holes Seen About 25 bullet holes were seen . Experts said that four incendiary grenades had been thrown . Two more were found still in the bag . The two suspects arrived in Athens at 10:34 A.M. , from Beirut aboard an Air France jet . They were paged in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off for Paris at 11:22 A.M. Twenty-eight minutes later the El Al plane was attacked . They were traveling on the type of passports used by refugees or stateless persons . They are to be tried before a Greek criminal court unless . in view of martial law in effect in Greece , the military authorities ask that they be tried under the summary procedure of a special military court .                     