@@721409

txt deleted first page CITY WILL TIGHTEN POLICE SICK RULES // been on the sick list earlier reported back yesterday . After being examined by police surgeons they were ordered to duty . A spokesman for the department said that forty-five was a normal number . The Commissioner . also emphasized that his investigation was designed to dismiss men who were proved to be malingering , whether or not they were doing outside work , which is prohibited . The press conference supplemented a conference Thursday in which the Commissioner had said he was conducting an investigation of all patrolmen sick or on light duty and of police surgeons . A policeman was dismissed Thursday for doing outside work while he was supposed to be sick . It also has been disclosed that Patrolman Salvatore J. Messina , who reported sick 366 times in the last five years , earned $40,811 in private work . Patrolman Messina , 36 years old , of 148 East Drive , North Massapequa , L. I. , has been suspended , pending a departmental trial , Standards Criticized Mr. Kennedy , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgeons in Manhattan . He also criticized what he called inadequate standards of medical and physical examinations of candidates for the force by the Department of Personnel , and a failure to adhere closely to the rules governing sick reports . The Commissioner said that seventeen of the , twenty-five police surgeons have offices on Manhattan 's Upper East Side , although only 1,904 members of the force live in Manhattan . Two of the surgeons are inactive . This concentration of police surgeons in Manhattan adds to the difficulty of checking policemen who report s ( ck , he said , and imposes an added hardship on the men who may have to travel long distances to report to a surgeon 's office . Mr. Kennedy said he had urged the Personnel Department to change the method by which eligibility lists for police surgeons are compiled so that he could select surgeons in areas where they are needed . He said the lists were now compiled on a city-wide numerical ' rating basis after competitive examinations . Private Practices Allowed Under Civil Service regulations , police surgeons may practice privately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duties . The surgeons are paid $9,031 to $9,611 a year . Commissioner Kennedy said he was requesting money for two additional police surgeons and for funds to establish a post of department psychiatrist. , He also said he was seeking money to call in private psychiatrists as consultants in cases where the department might try to dismiss members in mental cases . Policemen on sick leave get half pay for the first three days and full pay thereafter . They ' get full pay from the beginning if hurt on . duty . A police surgeon must examine a policeman within thirtysix hour 's after he reports sick.l The man must be examined every three days thereafter , or every seven days if he cannoti leave his home . Mr. Kennedy acknowledged that he was looking specifically into the.procedures of Dr. Theodore M. Saunders , who had been Patrolman Messina 's ? surgeon since 1951.                     