@@722357

txt handbook operators . The Englewood commander , John Braband , 51 , whose detectives were charged with notifying gamblers in advance about police raids , was stripped of his commander 's rank by Wilson . Braband was dropped to his civil service rank of captain and sent to the Town Hall station , on the north side , as the supervisor of one watch . The reduction in rank cut his pay by . $2,600 a year . District cornmanders are paid $12,384 a year . Hurley Succeeds Braband In a transfer order which included the shifting a Braband , the police superintendent named Lt. Joseph Hurley to succeed Braband as the Englewood district commander . Hurley had . been district commander of the Chicago Lawn station . Wilson announced that a six week probe by the police internal investigation division had disclosed alleged tipoffs to gamblers by Braband 's men . " Our investigation revealed that Englewood personnel disregarded flagrant violations of the prostitution and gambling laws and that vice officers , appointed by the district commander Braband , are reputed to have- notified gamblers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Braband 's vice officers , Richard Attreau , 30 , and Michael Bolton , 35 , were excused from duty at Englewood by Wilson . The detectives were ordered to keep themselves available for questioning . The investigation which led to Braband 's transfer , THE TRIBUNE learned , centered on a bookmaker who operated in a tavern near 69th street and ' Normal avenue . He maintained two nearby " sneak " locations , one in a vacant store and the other in a residence . Other Scrutiny Made The internal investigation detectives were reported to have trapped some Englewood vice detectives at meetings with the bookie and his agents . They were said.to have sent a complaint about the bookie to the Englewood station and then looked on while vice officers of the district appeared to tell the gambler to shut down to avoid a raid . The district detectives ' handling of other complaints against the bookie also was reported under scrutiny . No raids were made by the district men on the tavern base or the " sneak " places of the 69th street bookie , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action last week , however , by raiders from the organized crime division of the police department . The identities of four men seized ill the raid were kept secret by Englewood police last night on the orders of Assistant Deputy Police Supt. Timothy J. O'Connor . The records of the raid cannot- be disclosed until the Englewood investigation is completed , O'Connor said . Take Lie Tests Some of the Englewood vice detectives were required to take lie tests , it was learned , after they had been followed on their tours of taverns in the district . The action against Braband was the first move by Wilson to discipline one of the district commanders he appointed last year with orders to shut the rackets down tight . The commanders can be deposed at the order of the police superintendent . Braband was removed from the Englewood district , Wilson said , " in consequence of an investigation of vice conditions " there . " I want it to be clearly understood that this action is not to be construed as questioning the integrity of Braband , " Wilson said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police operations in a district in the manner I desire . " Braband has been a policeman for 29 years . He joined the force in 1932 , became a sergeant in 1938 , a lieutenant in 1943 , and a captain in 1955 . He was appointed Englewood district commander in August , 1960 . In his new post , Hurley is the first lieutenant Wilson h a s placed above a captain in a police district . Captain Under Hurley Capt . Jerome McCarthy will serve as a watch commander under Hurley at Englewood . Another captain , John Northern , was transferred from the Town Hall station yesterday to the post of watch chief under Lt. Thomas Ryan , district commander of the Summerdale station . Wilson picked Lt. Thomas Hoban , of the patrol division , to succeed Hurley as the district commander of the Chicago Lawn station .                     