@@722983

txt France 's striking coal miners will double their pickets around pit heads tomorrow in anticipation of possible Government action . Union leaders apparently feared that the Government might attempt to enforce the requisition order it issued last week after the strikers ' rebuff to . Premier Georges Pompidou 's request that they return to work . More than 170,000 miners are idle in the 19-day-old strike , 1 which has offered President de Gaulle his most serious industrial challenge since he re turned to power nearly five years ago . A high proportion of the mayors in the mining communities-have agreed not to assist in carrying out the requisition order if it is authorized by the Government . Violation of such a return-to-work order normally means dismissal , fines or imprisonment for strikers who ignore it . General Strike Threat Union leaders in the northern coal field , France 's largest , have declared that the strike will continue until the miners get complete satisfaction . They will call for a general strike if any action is taken by the Government against the coal strike leaders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic unions were circufated today . The plight of the Miners has awakened widespread sympathy in the industrial working class , and the Government 's issuance , but not implementation , of the requisition order has provoked resentment . A strike of workers in the natural gas , industry at Lacq in the southwest has reduced production to about 50 per cent of normal . Industries there and elsewhere in France are reducing production from lack of fuel , and the chemical industry is reported to be " in serious difficulties . ' ; Will Pursue Strike A committee - representing all unions of Lacq personnel announced today their intention of pursuing the strike - " indefinitely . " The coal miners are asking for an ' increase of 11 per cent in wages and a 40-hour work week . The Government , which runs the nationalized mines , has offered an increase of 5.7 per cent over twelve months , claiming that anything more would contribute to inflation . I The miners ' average pay is $3.60 a day and the work week is between 47 and 48 , hours . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 per cent I in 1962 and that prices climbed higher in France than elsewhere I in , the European Economic Community . The miners argue that this is a consequence of the Government 's economic policy Production has lagged behind domestic consumption and imports have exceeded . exports . The foreign trade surplus has // Striking French Coal Miners Awaiting a Tay of Decision ' // also contributed to inflation . As the strike hardens and the sympathies of other industries are , committed to the , miners , the Government 's dilemna increases . If it abandons restraint and tries to enforce the requisition order with the help of riot police who have been sent to mining areas , it could provoke a general strike . But if the coal mines remain idle , then industrial production and all it ( means to France 's economic and Ipolitical role in Europe will suffer . Mr. Pompidou 's television address Friday night was criticized today by Desire Berthellin , secretary of the Socialist Federation of Labor in Lens , in the northern mining area . He characterized it as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a comedian . " Another sharp reaction came fom Lorraine in the form of an open letter entitled " No , Mon ' sieur Pompidou . " The letter delmanded an immediate response to the miners ' claims through ' the reopening of.negotiations . " Do n't push the geules Noires ' ' Black Faces ' beyond the limit , " the letter concluded . " They are conscious of their duties , but also of their rights . " The Lorraine strike committee rejected the " specter of inflation " it asserted Mr. Pompidou had raised , as reason for rejecting the miners ' demands . The cause of the inflation , the committee said , lies not in wage rises , but in France 's balance of payments . The strikers also said that the Government 's fuel policy had reduced coal production in Lorraine from 15,500,000 tons to 14,000,000 tons a year and that by 1965 production will be down to 13,500,000 tons . Elsewhere in France the remainder of the country 's 170 , - 000 miners  --  there are about 31 , - 000 in Lorraine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work . Demonstrations of defiant solidarity were held in the great northern coal basin , with leaders urging strikers to continue " the battle . " In Somain , 1,000 miners paraded through the streets , local railroad workers struck for two hours in sympathy , and shopkeepers closed ' their shops for the same period for the same reason . The " failure " of Mr. Pompidou 's attempt to mobilize public opinion against the miners was the theme of many of the speeches . Representatives of mine engineers , many of whom are striking to show solidarity with miners , discussed the situation with Premier ? Pompidou here yesterday . Spokesmen for the engineers said they thought that chances for a solution had increased slightly as a result of their talk with Mr. Pompidou . Three senators and three deputies wrote Mr. Pompidou to withdraw the requisition order and renew negotiations with the strikers . They said that otherwise , they feared that already deteriorating industrial relations would suffer still more . Gaston Defferre , head of the group of Socialist deputies in the National Assembly , sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament to discuss the strike . The Communist party parliamentary group also asked for a recall of Parliament . Well-informed sources in Paris thought this unlikely . They said they thought that the Government 's next move would be a formal television appeal from President de Gaulle to the strikers , and if that failed  --  Government enforcement of the requisition order . That , almost everyone agrees , would mean trouble .                     