@@725335

txt Rubella is a trifling disease , hardly more bothersome than a cold to those who contract it . But this illness , commonly known as German measles , is now at the very center of a raging dispute over a major medical , legal and social problem  --  abortion . Contracted early in pregnancy by a motherto-be , rubella can damage the embryo and result in the birth of a child with serious defects . This has long been known , but only in , the past year has research begun to uncover the full extent of its impact : Rubella mothers have been giving birth to children with damaged livers , spleens and bones as well as with such previously known defects as blindness , deafness , mental retardation and damaged hearts . Much of this information has been gathered in the wake of rubella epidemics that have been marching across the country from East to West during the past three years . Dr. John Sever of the National Institutes of Health estimates that 30,000 defective babies may be born in the U.S. before the epidemics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ babies born on the West Coast and Hawaii . Uncertainty Till Birth The risk of some damage is high . Normally , about 1% of all babies born are defective . But one study Indicates that more than 33% of those mothers who contract rubella in the first three months of pregnancy will give birth to damaged children  --  and there is no way to be certain whether a child will be abnormal or snot until it is born . Most mothers , of course , are going ahead and having their babies . In many cases , even if the baby is damaged , the damage is slight , or if it is serious , it can be repaired by an operation after birth . But to more than a few fearful women , abortion seems the only answer , and in many of these cases their doctors have been abiding by their wishes . This , however , flouts the law , for In 44 states abortion Is legal only when performed to save the life of the mother . The conflict between what the law says about abortion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more force and urgency to demands for revision of abortion legislation . The groups demanding changes want to make abortion legal wheh there is a relatively high risk that a baby will be deformed , but they do not atop there ; they also want abortion legalized in cases of rape , incest , and in order to preserve a pregnant woman 's mental and physical health  --  not just her life . There are many , too , who want to make abortion legal in any and every case in which a pregnant woman requests it , whatever the reason . The impact on the controversy of medical research , improved treatment , and new drugs has been profound . There are , of course , the recent rubella findings . Also , three years ago , Thalidomide became the , first drug ever proven to cause deformities in the unborn , whipping up an earlier storm of protest over abortion laws . And medical advances through the years have sharpened debate by nearly eliminating legal grounds for abortion under today 's laws . Moral Questions Loom In New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother had tuberculosis dropped to 3 per 100,000 live births in 1960.62 from 33 in 1951.53 . Similarly , abortions performed because the mother had rheumatic heart disease dropped to 7 per 100 , - 000 live births from 25 in that same period of time . Thus the only excuse for legal abortion in most states is disappearing  --  while other reasons , morally ticklish ones not covered by the laws , have arisen on every hand . Frequently , then , parents and doctors who favor abortion face a classic dilemmaobey'the laW and risk the , birth of a deformed child , or remove that risk by abortion and In doing so break the law . Supporters ' of more liberal legislation suggest that a fetus with a great chance of being defective could easily be aborted and , they say , could be followed by another , more risk-free pregnancy . This would save many mothers and children years of anguish , they say . Their opponents express compassion for mothers faced with the possibility of giving birth to defective children , and say that society should help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother 's difficulties should not be solved by snuffing out the life of an innocent human being .. This , they say , amounts to murder . Dooming Normal Babies A Los Angeles obstetrician , Dr. A. C. Mietus , notes that although rubella often leads to defective children , the majority are born normal . To legalize abortion in rubella cases ; he adds , would doom more normal fetuses than abnormal ones . Even if a baby is destined to be born with defects , say those , who oppose changing the laws , what man should judge what is an acceptable or unacceptable level of fitness . Thus , they argue , who can take the responsibility for ending the life of , say , a man such as Charles Steinmetz , a hunchback who discovered some of the basic laws of electricity ? The mothers and doctors who make this decision themselves are playing God , say those who oppose changing abortion laws . Faced with these alternatives , a number of doctors and hospitals have made a choice . Quietly and consistently , they are breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has surveyed records at two hospitals in Buffalo , N.Y. , reports that a total of 24 abortions in each of the past two years were performed on no. bells mothers . There were only two rubella abortions at the same hospitals in 463 . Like most states , New York permits abortion only to save a mother 's life . In New York City , the Academy of Medicine 's public health committee reports : " An examination of existing practices in New York City , reveals that reputable staff physicians in reputable hospitals have been performing therapeutic abortions " when the health of a mother or the possibility of an abnormal birth is involved . The committee adds : " This practice does not conform to the letter of the law . " The academy supports changes in abortion legislation . On the other side of the country , two Stanford ? Law School teachers who also favor broadening of the law surveyed 29 hospitals in the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas a few years ago . Of 24 that responded to one of the questions , 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not " strictly " permitted by California law ( the same as New York 's ) . The investigators also framed a series of hypothetical medical cases and asked the hospitals to decide whether or not they would permit abortion . In clearly legal cases , 88% said they would . In the questionable cases , 64% said they would . And in cases clearly illegal , 35% said they would . Enforcement Lax There has been no attempt to enforce abortion laws when procedures are carried out with proper safeguards . An article in a recent issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association , written by attorney Zad Leavy and Dr. Jerome Kummer , says : " It is an accepted fact that pregnancies are terminated by reputable physicians in licensed hospitals for reasons other than to preserve the life of the mother , e.g. , on health , humanitarian , and eugenic grounds , and thus in open violation of the law . But if these interruptions are performed with concurring written opinions of other physicians and with approval of the hospital 's therapeutic abortion committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have found no recorded prosecution under such circumstances . " Many doctors and hospitals likely will continue to wink at the laws unless they are changed . This , in itself , is used as an argument by those who are pressing for liberalization . Look at all the abortions being performed illegally at hospitals , they say . Is n't this evidence that the laws are unworkable and that public and medical opinion is in favor of less stringent legislation ? Their opponents argue that since it is fundamentally wrong to terminate a pregnancy , except to save a mother 's life , then the laws should prohibit it even if actual enforcement is lax . The very existence of the law , they say , creates a moral climate that deters many , if not all , attempts at abortion . Reform Efforts Fail Nevertheless , advocates of change have been pushing hard to get the laws broadened  --  with little success so far . In New York , a bill allowing abortion to preserve a mother 's health , or in cases of rape , incest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state legislature last year . The first such bill to be introduced in 20 years , according to its sponsor , it never even got a hearing . A number of similar measures have been submitted to California lawmakers over the past few years , but none has passed . Last year the Assembly Committee on Criminal Procedure reported out one such measure favorably , the furthest any abortion liberalization bill has ever gotten in the state . However , it was buried , in mother committee . Proponents of change had no better luck with the American Medical Association , although many of its individual member physicians favor more liberal laws . Last November the AMA committee on human reproduction urged that the parent body speak out in favor of loosening abortion laws in all states . It was the first time the AMA has ever considered such a proposal . But it decided merely to consider conferring with other organizations about the abortion problem . The advocates of change remain undiacouraged , and are pressing their efforts on many fronts . " We 're still working like mad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association for the Study of Abortion , which backed the New York state bill that failed . To obtain support for abortion to preserve a mother 's mental health , the association is now polling 15 , , 000 psychiatrists across the U.S. The results will probably be presented to legislators . Dr. Russell 's Crusade The battle to broaden the legal grounds for abortion is reaching its highest pitch in California . There Dr. Keith Russell , a Los Angeles obstetrician , is spearheading an effort to obtain support for easing the state laws . Dr. Russell 's group has been circulating letters arguing for liberalization among clergymen , psychologists , social workers , doctors , and lawyers . So far more than a third of the state 's obstetricians and gynecologists have signed petitions supporting the Russell position . The idea also is backed by the state medical association , the state board of public health and the deans of five California medical schools . The drive has divided church leaders . Catholic clergy and some Protestant ministers oppose easing the law , but other churchmen , including Episcopal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so . At legislative hearings held in 1984 , Bishop Pike 's representative said abortion should be permitted even for 12 and 13 year old girls who were rape victims , and warned of the dangers of venereal infection to children sometimes born of such atrocities . He condemned " our archaic abortion law , which forces even the youngest rape victim to produce a baby which may be born blind with gonorrhea or permanently ravaged by syphilis . In the name of God , is there any sanity or decency in such a law ? "                     