@@724609

txt Washington , March 4 ( AP ) - The commerce department today approved the sale of $1,476,000 worth of American soybeans to communist Bulgaria . BY WILLARD EDWARDS Washington , March 4-Republican leaders of Congress today urged President Johnson to reject communist overtures for increased east-west trade pending settlement of the Viet Nam crisis . Led by Senate Minority Leader Dirksen Ill. and House Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford Jr . Mich. , the 11 members of the joint Senate-House G. 0 . P. leadership emphasized the absurdity of considering broader trade and diplomatic relationships while communist agents foment guerrilla wars and anti-American riots around the world . Gets Solid Viet Backing The critical statement had added significance because congressional Republicans have voiced solid support of the President in his announced policy to refrain from negotiations on the Vietnamese issue so long as communist nations promote aggression against South Viet Nam . Johnson has announced his appreciation of this support and lamented that all the criticism of his foreign policy has come from Democratic senators . But Dirksen and Ford suggested that the President should now go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States by exacting concessions from Russia as the price of any trade agreements with the United States . It 's Unwelcome Advice The President was not expected to welcome this advice which runs counter to his own proposals for an increase in trade with the communist bloc nations . T h e administration contemplates expanded trade as a softening influence on communist hostility in Viet Nam and elsewhere . Dirksen said the Johnson administration , by its readiness to consider expanded trade with communist countries , was espousing the policy of " peaceful co-existence " invented by the Soviet Union . " The only thing peaceful about ' peaceful co-existence ' is the title , " he remarked . " ' In any relaxed relations , it is the United States that is supposed to do the relaxing . If we are not going to negotiate the Vietnamese question until the aggression against South ? Viet Nam stops , an equally necessary step would be to stop entertaining the overtures of the communist nations for broader trade and diplomatic relations and to intensify our efforts to persuade our friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union and other communist nations had made " measurable gains " in trade and displomatic concessions in the United States while offering little or nothing in return . Cites Consular Treaty He cited an agreement for the establishment of a New York-Moscow air route long sought by the Soviet Union , and a treaty now awaiting Senate approval that would give the Russians consular offices in New York , Chicago , and San Francisco , in exchange for similar American consulates in Russia which would " only give the Communists more targets for mob violence . " The United States " backed down completely " on its call the Soviet Union to pay up its assessments to the United Nations , Ford noted , and then compounded the retreat by lifting a three-month freeze on voluntary contributions to the U. N. out of the treasury . " Until we adopt a ' no concession-no deal ' policy , meaning that the Communists must be ready to make concessions as the price of agreements with the United States , we can only expect more Koreas and Viet Nams and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Ford asserted .                     