@@722821

txt Mayor Daley announced yesterday his candidacy for a third term . The mayor wept in a closed meeting of Democratic ward committeemen as he disclosed that it was the question of leis wife 's health which delayed his decision . The meeting was called suddenly after Mayor Daley was informed yesterday by physicians that his wife has been given what he described as " a clean bill of health . " Mrs. Daley was in a hospital for 10 days recently , and became ill again in Palm Springs , Cal. , on their vacation trip after the Nov. 6 election . Support Is Pledged Unanimous support was pledged by the ward leaders to City Clerk John C. Marcin and City Treasurer William G. Milota for reelection . No opposition is expected in the Feb. 26 Democratic primary . Gov . Kerner , in Chicago for a conference of governors , told reporters , " Mayor Daley has been a great mayor , and I wish him the best of luck . " Hayes Robertson , Republican county chairman , said the issues for a campaign against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The people have to decide whether to vote approval of Daley 's tax policies and political machine , and the effect these have on their pocketbooks , " Robertson said . Adamowski Vows to Run Republicans will have a primary fight unless the G. O. P. organization indorses Benjamin S. Adamowski , former state 's attorney who has said he will run in any event . Several potential rivals of Adamowski will be considered at a meeting Monday by G. 0 . P. slatemakers . Three lists of prominent citizens , some of them Republicans , had been released as Daley supporters in the last week . The third list was rushed out in the expectation that Daley would n't wait until his scheduled target date to say he is a candidate . Mayor Daley moved from the rally of ward leaders to party headquarters one floor below . There he stepped up to a lectern and read a statement . Pledges ' No Small Plans ' " There is no assignment that could bring greater satisfaction . " " We will make no small plans , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan for a better Chicago in every field . " He was referring to the proposed 50 million dollar school bond issue that will be submitted to voters at the city election April 2 if the legislature approves . There have been 200 million dollars in bond issues for school construction in recent years . Last April 10 the Chicago voters rejected 66 million dollars in bond issues for various civic purposes sponsored by Daley  --  the first such action in modern history here . Bonds No Help to Daley The planned April 2 bond issue is not regarded as helpful to Daley 's candidacy by some politicians . " I have strictly maintained my pledge not to interfere or to permit any outside influence to bear on the Chicago board of education , " Daley read from his statement . " As chief executive , however , I will enthusiastically support every proposed program that will give to the children of Chicago the greatest educational opportunity . " Daley , the Democratic county chairman , said he is proud to be a Democrat but if reelected " shall be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of no better way to contribute to my party , " he said . He said great progress has been made . The police department " is on its way to becoming the finest in the nation , " he said , and he will continue to support Police Supt. 0 . W. Wilson . " Nothing must be permitted to disrupt this progressive program , " he said with reference to attacks upon the Wilson regime . Served as Secretary Daley , 60 , a product of the Bridgeport neighborhood in the Back of the Yards district , where he still lives , has been in Chicago politics since 1927 when he became secretary to Ald. Joseph B. 13th . When later became county treasurer , he made Daley his administrative assistant , a position Daley retained under three other county treasurers  --  Thomas D. Nash , Robert M. Sweitzer , and Joseph L. Gill . Altho Daley won his first elective office  --  state representative by a write-in vote as a Republican , he has never been anything except a Democrat . In that election , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican column after David Shanahan , G. 0 . P. House speaker for years , died just before election and after the printing of the ballots . When the legislature convened , Daley was granted permission to transfer to the Democratic side of the House aisle . Within three years , he was the minority floor leader in the House and , in 1939 , was elected to the state Senate , where he became the youngest floor leader in Senate history in 1941 when he was 39 . He remained in the Senate until 1946 , serving as liaison man for the late Mayor Kelly and the Kelly-Nash-Arvey machine , and holding the post of deputy county controler . In 1946 , Daley passed up assured reelection to the Senate to be a candidate for sheriff in the general election of that year , but he lost to Republican Elmer Michael Walsh , his only political defeat . He retained his deputy county controler job , however . In 1948 , Gov . Stevenson appointed him state revenue director , a post he relinquished in 1950 to win election as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central committee in 1953 after seven years committee membership . Elected Mayor in 1955 Daley was elected mayor in 1955 after he was chosen by a party committee of his own selection as the candidate to oust Mayor Kennelly . He was reelected in 1959 . Daley attended Nativity parochial school , De La Salle High school , and De Paul university , where he received a bachelor of laws degree in 1933 . In 1934 , Daley married a neighbor , Eleanor Guilfoyle . They have seven children and live at 3536 Lowe ay .                     