@@727209

txt In a day of celebration in which hundreds of thousands of Chicago area citizens commemorated the birth of the nation , a Bellwood man was killed when a dud aerial bomb struck him on the head . A crowd estimated at 20,000 persons was watching a fireworks display in Bellwood 's Memorial park last night when the foot-long cartridge of an aerial bomb fell on Dennis P. Chrzas , 28 , of 124 Hyde Park ay. , Bellwood . He was 125 feet from the point where the bomb was launched , according to Chief Arthur J. Volini of the Bellwood park district police . Big Fireworks Displays In Chicago 's Soldiers ' field and in virtually every suburb and municipality fireworks displays were sponsored in efforts to celebrate the Fourth safely . An estimated 25,000 persons celebrated the 192d anniversary of the Declaration of Independence in Soldiers ' field . It was an evening of stock car racing , aerial acrobats , performing dogs , and a climactic fireworks display . There also was a pretty girl , Miss Karen Ann Zupko , 18 , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourth of July queen . A court of eight girls attended Miss Zupko , a journalism student in the University of Kansas . Present Heroism Awards Police and fire department heroes shared the spotlight as the Cook county council of the American Legion , sponsors of the celebration , presented its annual awards for heroism . Patrolman Howard Jachimowski received the distinguished peace officer award for breaking up a robbery last Oct. 4 . Lt. George Tannehill and Fireman Henry Hoppe were named distinguished firemen for rescuing two persons from Lake Michigan . Both are with the fire , department 's air rescue unit . " Salute Armed Forces " Theme of the extravaganza was " Salute to Our Armed Forces . " It was marred by the injury of James Crowley , a Chicago stock car driver whose car smashed into a retaining wall . A spectator , Arthur Gunderson of Chicago , also was injured in the crash . His son , Kenneth , was a winner of one of the five stock car races . Elsewhere in the Chicago area , thousands celebrated the midsummer holiday attending parades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doused some festivities with intermittent showers and forced some picnickers to abandon their charcoal burners in favor of the kitchen stove , most activities went on as planned . More than 500 persons.gathered for an old-fashioned Fourth of July celebration at the Chicago Historical society . They tapped their feet as the band played " Yankee Doodle " and listened attentively as Paul M. Angle , secretary of the society , read the Declaration of Independence . Listen in the Rain As Angle neared the end , a light rain began to fall . Up went the umbrellas and everyone stayed to hear the reasons why the colonists chose to risk their lives to escape the rule of the king . No old-fashioned celebration would be complete without an oration . It was delivered yesterday by Emmett Dedmon , editor of the Chicago Sun-Times . " Rarely , since the Writing of the Declaration of Independence have Americans been more aware or concerned about the nature of the government which evolved from that declaration , " Dedmon said . " The United States , for one of the few times in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as from without . And because we are aware that we have not done those things we ought to have done , we are disturbed about the justice of the complaints . " Listeners Applaud The listeners applauded as he told them to remember the words of the Declaration of Independence " which suggest . no reason for any American to participate less fully in the good life of this country than any other American . " Meanwhile , in the suburbs and in neighborhoods thruout the city , residents held celebrations to mark this Independence , day . Flags were flying everywhere from the windows of high-rise apartment buildings , from permanent flag poles in front of homes , and from lamp standards along city and village streets . Oak Lawn 's " Mile of Flags " flew along 95th street from Cicero avenue to Crawford avenue . Dolton flew flags along Lincoln avenue from the village limit to Chicago road and along Chicago road to 143d street . Shopping plazas in Park Forest and elsewhere were bedecked with flags . " Rededication Week-end " Illinois political leaders and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state to observe this I Independence day as " Rededication Week-end . " A proclamation by Mayor Daley urged all citizens " to give their interest , cooperation , and support so that we may rededicate ourselves to the principles that made AMerica strong . " E. Stanley Enlund , president of the Illinois Chamber of Commerce , called for a " spiritual attack " on mounting violence and lawlessness in the nation . " To preserve our heritage , and in fact to survive , the American people must rededicate themselves to the principles which created this nation and made it strong , " Enlund said . Thousands of spectators lined the streets of Brookfield for the annual Fourth of July parade . The parade featured Elaine ' Latzke , Miss Brookfield , as well as floats , bands , flags and clowns who delighted children along the route . Suburbs Hold Ox Roasts In addition to dozens of parades and fireworks displays , suburbs held tug-of-wars , water fights , ox roasts , and softball games . Evanston held a major celebration which included a morning " Bells on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rear Adm . Henry A. Renken , commandant of the 9th naval district at Great Lakes , was the principal speaker . At Northwestern university 's Dyche stadium , 21,000 persons assembled to watch the 47th annual fireworks display sponsored by the North Evanston Fourth of July association . The fireworks were preceded by a day of footraces and contests , climaxed by a parade to the stadium . Brookfield Holds Parade A 44-car soapbox derby was one of the highlights of the Highland Park celebration . Niles gave up fireworks this year in favor of a special program in Mill Run playhouse . The program , " A Rededication to the Ideals That Made America Great , " was sponsored by the chamber of commerce . Brookfield 's Fourth of July parade was held in connection with the village 's Diamond Jubilee celebration .                     