@@726553

txt Moscow has issued a new warning that intensified United States bombing of Hanoi may cause the Soviet Union to escalate its own aid to North Vietnam . Soviet newspapers Thursday carried a Tass statement condemning the latest American bombing attack on Hanoi as " barbaric " and warning that " every new step of the United States to escalate the war in Vietnam . inevitably leads to the necessary steps of reply . " The Tass statement , which ranks one step below official government communiques in the hierarchy of Soviet pronouncements , said that " Soviet official quarters are drawing corresponding conclusions from the new criminal actions of the American imperialists against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam , against the Vietnamese people . " The warning did not specify what steps the Soviet authorities had in mind . There has been speculation here that ground-to-ground missiles , or additional Soviet planes , possibly including pilots , might be under discussion . A North Vietnamese economic mission headed by Deputy Premier Le Thanh Nghi has been in the Soviet capital discussing aid for over a week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such defense leaders as Marshal Ivan Bagramyan , who heads the Soviet military supply system . Bombings not listed The Tass statement referred to the upcoming Sept. 3 presidential elections in South Vietnam as a " farce . " " What elections can there be in a country against the people of which the transoceanic occupationists are waging a cruel war together with a handful of corrupt Saigon generals and politicians ? " the statement asked . The statement did not mention United States bombings near the Communist China border . The downing by the Chinese of the two American planes which overflew China Monday was briefly reported by Pravda Wednesday . But Soviet press comments on these bombings reflect no sense of alarm that Peking might thereby become embroiled in. the war . Instead , they suggest that Washington and Peking actually are in collusion . Isvestia , the government newspaper , asserted that a secret agreement exists between Washington and Peking in which the Chinese have pledged not to interfere with the United States in Vietnam . For its part , Washington has agreed to a " hands-off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Johnson 's comment that Peking knew the United States did not intend to attack it was cited in Isvestia as proof of this alleged collusion . Soviet newspapers Thursday also carried . North Vietnam 's own denunciation of American air raids on Hanoi . Hanoi reiterated its hard-line conditions  --  that the only way out for the United States was to immediately stop its war against North Vietnam , withdraw its troops and allow the Vietnamese people to settle their own internal affairs . The Tass statement contrasted with the Hanoi declaration in that it contained no mention of conditions under which the war might be brought to an end .                     