@@723011

txt Prosecution of some top crime syndicate hoodlums may come in the next year as the result of an intensified federal drive against organized crime , Atty . Gen. Robert F. Kennedy said yesterday . At a press conference in the federal building , the attorney general said the drive would be stepped up in the next 12 months and that some indictments might be expected . Kennedy spoke after meeting with Marlin Johnson , special agent in charge of the Chicago office of the federal bureau of investigation . Later , he consulted James O'Brien , United States attorney here . FBI Powers Widened The justice department head said the federal agents , acting under laws broadening jurisdiction of the FBI , would concentrate on interstate gambling and internal revenue law violations . Kennedy lashed out at public officials and business and labor leaders who cooperate with the crime syndicate . " Organized crime in the United States is far stronger now than it was in the Kefauver committee investigation era , " Kennedy said . " Organized crime is having more success in getting the cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and lawyers , not only in the Chicago area but in other major metropolitan areas as well . " Praise for Los Angeles Kennedy said the only exception to this pattern was on the west coast , where , he said , local law enforcement has been good . He especially praised Los Angeles as doing the best law enforcement job of any major area in the nation . But he emphasized that the crime syndicate problems of Chicago are common to virtually every large metropolitan section of the United States . " in Chicago , we have an excellent relationship with the mayor of this city , " Kennedy continued . " I am impressed by his honesty and his cooperation , but this is not always the case in other cities . " Aitho dwelling mostly on the subject of crime , Kennedy had little to say in response to questions about the Feb. 2B murder of Aid . Benjamin F. Lewis 24thl , whose relations with crime syndicate policy operators have been disclosed . " We now understand the nature of organized crime in Chicago and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Kennedy said . " We are changing the center of our focus  --  that 's all I can say at this time . " Kennedy would not identify the targets of the government 's intensified efforts against organized criminals . But , he add-ed : " Matters will be presented before the federal grand jury in Chicago within the next 12 months in regard to organized . crime and there should be some indictments forthcoming . " Other topics which Kennedy indicated he discussed with O'Brien and other justice department aids here included investigations of corruption in union labor and management . Quizzed on Bombing The attorney general said the wave of 27 bombings and arson cases in the Chicago area , involving restaurants and business firms , could not be blamed entirely on organized crime elements , altho he said some apparently stemmed from those " who head the heirarchy of organized crime in Chicago . " Kennedy was greeted at O'Hare International airport on his arrival yesterday morning by a delegation of federal officials headed by Agent Johnson and O'Brien . He flew here from similar meetings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to New York City .                     