@@724190

txt The warning sounded some months ago by Jacques Barzun , dean of faculties and provost of Columbia University , that the liberal arts college tradition may be dead or dying was like a rock tossed into the midst of the academic pond . After the first big splash of reaction , the ripples are still spreading out in all directions . The most recent demonstration of concern with the problem is a two-year program just launched by the Council for the Advancement of Small Colleges . It is designed to broaden and deepen the curriculums in the liberal arta of its 71 member institutions spread out over 30 states . The council was founded in ally accredited , non-tax-supported colleges of arts and sciences improve their academic programs , strengthen their financial resources , achieve accreditation and advance quality education . " Alfred T. Hill , executive secretary of the council , said last week that 50 of the 52 charter members have achieved their goal of accreditation . Thirty of these colleges are still active in the council as senior members . The council 's annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other key faculty members of the colleges was devoted this year to " SelfRenewal in the Liberal Arts Curriculum . " Regional Meetings As an outgrowth of the workshop , Dr. Hill said , five regional meetings are being set up to bring together college leaders and consultants in the liberal arts to discuss problems that may be peculiar to the geographical area . After these meetings , teams of consultants will visit individual campuses to discuss specific local programs with administrators and faculties . il'he small college provides a fertile ground for nurturing the liberal arts , Dr. ** pointed out . " The major universities , both public and private , are geared to handle major research but the small college is not equipped financially for such tasks . The small college is by nature forced to deal with the intellectual arts ? the humaniBei . " As Dean Barzun described the plight of the liberal arts program , it is slowly being squeezed by the arrival in the colleges of students who are better prepared and more advanced than ever before and who are eager to begin work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This has tended to make the undergraduate college merely an ante-room to graduate or professional school . The smaller colleges are somewhat removed from the gravitational pull of the graduate schools that is so strongly felt in the university colleges . The current emphasis of many of the small colleges , however , is on such programs as teacher education , training for religious service , and similar " vocational " courses , Dr , Hill said . One of the aims of the current project is to convince these colleges that " students should become people first " and technicians later , he explained . The keynote for the project was sounded by Mark Van Doren , professor emeritus of English at Columbia University , who addressed the summer workshop . " The liberal arts are the best means we have for producing a community such as ' education dreams of : an intellectual community in which good argument goes on forever , towards the end either of agreement or of disagreement that in some sense is intelligible to all concerned , " Mr. Van Doren said . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience . " On the subject of specialization , branded by Dean Barzun as a major threat to the liberal arts tradition , Mr. Van Doren said : " Only cultivated persons are equipped to specialize in the studies which are the end of education rather than its beginning . Specialization sometimes has a barbarous look , a savage sound : but that is only when the specialists lack liberal education , and to that extent can be supposed not to know what they are doing , or to realize what they are saying . " Albert E. Meder Jr. , chairman of the Federation of Regional Accrediting Commissions , who also addressed the workshop , explained that the base of liberal arts studies required for accreditation " does not prescribe or proscribe any particular program or proportion of the program that must be devoted to liberal studies ; equally firmly , however , it takes the position that a base of liberal studies is essentially the hall . mark of higher education . " Dr. Metier emphasized that " liberal education is a climate , not a curriculum , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but desirable . " In addition to his position with the federation , Dr. Meder is vice provost and dean of the University at Rutgers . Although the council was originally designed to lose its members as they gained accreditation , its purpose has now been broadened , Dr. Hill said . Many of the services it performs ? including research , coordination of activities and information , public relations to present the voice of the small college and consultation on fund raising ? have proved useful after accreditation . Large-Scale Projects Cooperation among the institutions has also made possible large-scale projects , like the current program to strengthen the liberal arta curriculum , that the individual colleges could not have undertaken alone , Dr. Hill added . Next summer 's workshop of the council will include an interim report ? on the curriculum project , to be followed the next year by an evaluation in depth . Membership in the council Is open to colleges with enrollments of less than 1,000 students , with present members averaging 500 students . Dr. Hill noted that enrollments at the small colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their facilities to meet the demand for educational opportunities .                     