@@726290

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 42 Letters to the Editor of The Times Aid to Poor To the Editor : Your May 10 editorial " Early Battle Fatigue " seriously misrepresents both the facts and the philosophy of the war on poverty . I urge you to clarify such mistreatments as early as possible in the interest of the successful prosecution of this effort . You say that " . . . the touted crusade against poverty basically remains a series of disguised and undisguised welfare handouts . . . . " This is not so . No Office of Economic Opportunity program is a handout . Not Head Start . Not Upward Bound . Not Job Corps . Not Neighborhood Youth Corps . Not Foster Grandparents . Not Legal Services . Not Health Services . Not Vista . Not Community Action . Every O.E.O. program gives new opportunity rather than a welfare check . Job training , jus4 tire , health , education  --  the real deprivation afflicting America 's poor . Neither President Johnson nor I claim O.E.O. programs are panaceas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on poverty is not fought on any single , simple battlefield and it will not be won in a generation . There are too many enemies : lack of jobs , bad housing , poor schools , lack of skills , discrimination . That is the vicious circle we must break . " As the President said , " we are staying for the long pull . " There is no battle fatigue in O.E.O. I believe The Times has a serious responsibility to clarify the fact that O.E.O. 's innovative programs represent a hand up ? not a handout  --  a new . and better way of equalizing opportunity for America 's ' poor . SARGENT SHRIVKR Director Office of Economic Opportunity Washington , May 10 , 1967 ? Findings on Smoking To the Editor : Dr. George E. Moore in his letter to The New York Times of April 27 misstates and misinterprets the address I made to the stockholders of the American Tobacco Company on April 5 . He charges that my remarks ' regarding smoking and cancer " are not consistent with biological and clinical evidence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific research . " Dr. Moore 's accusatory letter in itself demonstrates the way in which , as I stated to our stockholders , " the problem of smoking and its relationship to health is aggravated by persons who do not seek scientific and factual answers but instead ' unrelentingly and often hysterically seek to implicate smoking in almost every ailment known to man . " Causal Relationship He also asserts my comments " do not stand up " in the face of " clinical and biological evidence " by citing statistical associations between smoking and the incidence of cancer of the lung . My point is and was that " statistical studies can show association but can not prove cause-and-effect relationship . " Even the Report on Smoking and Health of the advisory committee to the Surgeon General states that " statistical methods can not establish proof of a causal relationship in an association . " Ls this statement to be labeled an attempt " to discredit scientific research " ? As to statistics , a well-known pathologist was reported on Feb. 28 as saying : " The plain fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not die of lung ' cancer . " The actual figures in the " nationwide study " cited by Dr. Moore do not contradict this , but in fact show that more than 99.5 per cent of the heavy cigarette smokers in this " nationwide study " did not die of cancer of the lung . There are many other statistical findings Dr. Moore does not mention , as , for example , the many countries with lower per capita consumption of cigarettes than the United States but higher mortality from lung cancer . As to animal skin cancer produced by smoke condensates , an eminent pathologist at recent Congressional hearings stated , " skin cancer in experimental animals can also be produced by a number of other substances , such as sugar , beef , etc . " A researcher at Roswell Park , Dr. Moore 's own institution , has stated , " The chemical causes of 99 per cent of the biological activity of tobacco are still unknown . " As to Dr. Moore 's comments concerning his " methods and results of assaying smoke retrieval , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , formally filed with the Federal Trade Commission a 31-page scientific critique of the most recent Roswell Park report ( bearing Dr. Moore 's name ) of " tar " and nicotine comparisons of 56 cigarette brands . In brief , the critique documents the serious deficiencies in the Roswell , Park test sample , in their methodology and in their reporting procedures . ROBERT B. WALKER President and Chairman of the Board The American Tobacco Company New York , May 5 , 1967 ? Soviet Troop Cuts To the Editor : The suggestion made in The Times May 1 editorial that the Soviet Union should reduce its troop strength in Central Europe in response to the United States and British redeployment of three brigades , the equivalent of one division , is most instructive . Were the Soviet Union to do as The Times suggests it would conform to the accusation of the Chinese that the Soviet Union was collaborating with the United States in its " aggression against the people of Vietnam . " - Such a mutual withdrawal would facilitate a buildup of United . States troops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would " expose " . to all the revolutionary forces of the world that the Soviet Union was playing " footsy " with the United States in policing . the world against the developing forces of National Liberation . JOHN H. REYNOLDS St. Augustine , Fla. , May 3 ; 1967 ? Junta 's Appeal to U.S. To the Editor : Your correspondent 's report from Athens , issue May 6 , reveals that the junta in Greece is moving from dictatorship to gangsterism . The suggestion front the junta that the United States might better bargain for the life of Andreas Papandreou if it supplied the usurping government with aid is blatant blackmail . It is equally clear that the junta 's cry of having saved the country from Communism is a familiar species of red herring . The elder Papandreou was elected by a very solid majority of the whole electorate , and he rejected Communist support in governing the country . In any case , one wonders what terrors even Communism might hold for the , Greek people beyond the deprivation of constitutional liberties which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped that this cynical appeal to a supposed American interest in combating world Communism will not in any way alter our Government 's determination to withhold both economic aid and moral support until full restoration of constitutional rule to Greece , Contrary to Colonel Makarezos 's myopic view , foreigners do not go to Greece only " to see the Greek sky and landscape . " If he had known the full significance of Greece to the world , he would not have joined in the attempt to destroy that spirit of freedom which is the very essence of , it . JOHN D. YOHANNAN Professor of English The City College New York , May 6 , 1967 SPINDRIFT Always these unknowing Birds , released in arca From their beginnings , Mindless of a swift Trajectory , shrill perorations Through untroubled light . Always these unknown , Unknowing birds Will utter wild Summations from their depths , Soaring scattered skies Of their bleak being , cleaving The ocean with . cold cries . Time wanders . On damp curbs By beach-lamps I have chanted Bird-songs , gone to sort The drift-wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wing to wing unending , A rehearsal of beginnings . DAVID LAWSON Mitchel College ( now discontinued ) , at Southampton College and at C. W. Post . put it should be clearly understood that Dr. Hoxie 's responsibility was limited to the latter campus only . I am sure Dr. Hoxie would agree that the success of Long Island University during these years was the result of the cooperative effort of Many loyal and hard-working faculty members and administrators . And if any one man is to be singled out for his leadership at this time , it is Adm . Richard L. Conolly , with the backing of his colleagues , and not just R. Gordon Hoxie , " with the backing of Adm . Richard L. Conolly . " RAT- C. LONGTIN Associate Dean Richard L Conolly College Long Island University Brooklyn , May 4 , 196 ? ? Draft Board Tokenism To the Editor : Suddenly the President calls for better representation for minorities on local draft boards ? when it is too late , when the damage has been ' done . This , typical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to correct an injustice but to forestall criticism and out off dissent . It is in ' keeping with his instinct for political manipulation . The " democratic faith " he refers to in this pronouncement he himself long since undermined when , as Senator Fulbright indicated , he stampeded the Senate into giving hint the Tonkin Gulf resolution ? the blank-check authority for all of his actions in Southeast Asia . Mr. Johnson is now fighting a war that is worse than unpopular ; large and well-informed segments of the electorate have turned squarely against his war policy . As Tom Wicker put it , this is a policy " that has produced the most profound and dangerous divisions within American society . " In desperation now a Pentagon-oriented President gambles on a military victory , and the price seems not to matter . Not the least significant part of that price is the continuing erosion of the democratic process and the consequent alienation of the minorities , the poor and the young men of conscience who will not fight in Mr. Johnson 's war . It is time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : that in a life-anddeath war situation , with a clear threat to human survival , we have allowed a remorseless politician to become a quasidictator . ? MITCHELL GOODMAN Stanford University Stanford , Calif. , May 4 , 1967 ? Dr. Shapiro for Post To the Editor : When the Board of Education finally finds someone who is creative and sensitive enough to gain the respect of his pupils , teachers and community , why is it so difficult . to place him where he can do the most good ? I am speaking , of course , of Dr. Elliott Shapiro as the only logical choice for Superintendent of District 3 in Harlem . RICHARD D. Pram= New York , May 8 , 1967 ? L.I.U . ' s History To the Editor : While I , together with most other members of the Long Island University academic community , want more than ? anye. thing else to settle down to our primary task of education , I feel I can not let Prof. Kenneth Colegrove 's gross misinterpretation of Long Island University 's history go unchallenged letter May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1954 as dean of the parent college , Dr. R. Gordon Hoxie found a small , struggling university without accreditation . And , Professor Colegrove adds , " his first task was to raise standards and win the recognition of other colleges . In this effort , with the backing of Adm . Richard L. Conolly , he succeeded . This accomplishment required educational leadership . " To set the record straight , it should be pointed out that Dr. Hoxie remained as dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Science in Brooklyn , the parent institution , for one year only and was then transferred to C. W. Post at Brookville , which at the time had only a handful of students . During the years of growth Which followed , Dr. Hoxie was dean of C. W. Post College and not an administrator of the university , the headquarters of which remained on the Brooklyn campus , with Adm . Richard Lansing Conolly as president .                     