@@722130

txt Democratic pressure is building 11p a strong sentiment in the Legis- , lature for transfer of rent con ; trol administration in New York . City to Mayor Wagner . Senator Walter J. Mahoney of Buffalo , the n:aiority leader , told the Senate today it should give serious consideration when ! it reconvenes in January to turning rent controls over to the city " in toto . " Referring to the recent mayoral campaign in New York City , the Republican leader accused the Democrats of " dema- ' gogic " attacks and " making a political football " out of rent control . Mahoney Explains In putting his support behind a proposal by Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz for local administration of the rent law , Senator Mahoney said he was I speaking only for himself and not for the Republican party or for Governor Rockefeller . Mr. Lefkowitz , who was de-I feated ' in the election by Mayor Wagner , said on Wednesday he , would press Governor Rockefellerand the Legislature to let , the city take over the rent-. control problem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rent issue came up on the floors of the Senate and Assembly today as Democrats moved to discharge a series of rent bills from committee . The minority , in a move patently for political purposes , intro- , duced the bills yesterday notwithstanding a constitutional . bar against the consideration of any subjects at a special ses ! sion not placed on the agenda ( by the Governor . One of the bills would repeal a provision of the 1961 law permitting landlords to use presI ent equalization rates , insteadI ' of 1954 rates , in applying for ! hardship rent increases . The equalization rates represent the ' ratio of assessed valuation to market value . Rates Aid Profit The effect of the present , rates is to increase the base for calculating a fair return on property . After Mayor Wagner charged ' , in his recent campaign that the new rates would lead to thousands of rent increases , Governor Rockefeller ordered a temporary freeze on increases pending , a study of the impact of the pro-vision by Rent Administrator Robert E. Herman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of committee were promptly declared out of order . Senator Joseph Zaretzki of , Manhattan , the Democratic leader , said a suit challenging ' , the Governor 's freeze order was being started . " If the Governor is really serious about halting rent raises before the next session , " he said , " he should immediately add this repeal to the agenda . " The minority leader declared that Mr. Rockefeller had nc authority to " repeal a law we passed . " Mr. Zaretzki said later he understood the legal action was being started by the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee , an organization of property owners . However , in New York City , Robert S. Fougner , counsel to the committee , said no consideration had been given by the committee to such an action . An East Side realty concern filed a suit in Supreme Court in Manhattan on Friday challenging the Governor 's right to halt refit increases . Mr. Mahoney said after the session that " as far as I 'm concerned , since the City of New York says we never do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ' " At least we would never have to worry about it , " he said . " I 'm sick of worrying . " The majority leader explained that he favored giving the Mayor " any law he wants on the assumption that he . would administer it equitably . " However , he said there was a question in his mind whether the Democrats would be willing to assume rent control administration in New York City . " They might rather have it as an issue than to solve it , " he commented . Assembly Speaker Joseph F. Carlino of Nassau County indicated sympathy with the proposal to transfer administration to the city , but he said he would want to think about it more before making a decision . He predicted , however , that the shift would win support of a majority of the Assembly Republicans . " It 's a big decision and we do n't want to do anything irresponsible , " - the Speaker said . " We would want to be sure that the city enforced it . " Mr. Carlino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city the power to draft its own rent law on a legislative finding that - there was an emergency in housing . Governor Rockefeller said at a news conference yesterday that he would have no comment on the  --  proposal for local rent administration until the study by Mr. Herman had been completed .                     