@@725918

txt ATLANTA , Nov. ** legal tangle surrounding Georgia 's gubernatorial race grew knottier again today . Twelve supporters of Representative Howard H. Callaway , the Republican candidate , filed suit in Federal District Court here in an effort to have the election decided by a statewide run-off between Mr. Callaway and Lester G. Maddox , his Democratic opponent . The suit challenged a provision of the Georgia Constitution that requires the State Legislature to decide elections in which no candidate received a majority of the vote . Meanwhile , Mr. Maddox continued to hold a slim lead in the race , but had no chance of getting the majority of votes necessary for election . With all of the state 's 1,892 precincts in , Mr. Maddox had 445,359 votes , or 47 per cent . Mr. Callaway had 442,871 votes , or 46.8 per cent . Former Gov . Ellis G. Arnall , a write-in candidate , had 57,699 , or 6 per cent , enough to prevent Mr. Maddox or Mr. Callaway from getting a majority . In today 's suit , the Callaway // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voters , held the run-off , it would violate the one-man , one-vote principle enunciated in recent years by the United States Supreme Court . The suit alleged that the legislature was malapportioned to the extent that 42.3 per cent of the state 's population can elect a majority of the House members and 48 per cent can elect a majority of the Senate . Another argument made by the Callaway supporters was that the Georgia constitution was in conflict with the state election code , which provides for run-offs . The suit argued , too , that the overwhelming majority of the legislature was Democratic and , thus , bound by a Democratic loyalty oath requiring Democratic party nominees to support all party candidates . Earlier this fall , the same loyalty oath became a matter of nationwide interest when Representative Charles L. Weltner of Atlanta gave up the party 's nomination for another term in Congress rather than ) abide by the loyalty oath , Representative Wenner said his conscience would not permit him to support Mr. Maddox , who once brandished a pistol and sold ax handles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Days Today 's suit was the second in two days governor until it reapportions itself . ? Hearinas on that suit are scheduled to begin here tomorrow before a three-member panel of Federal judges . Although Representative Callaway , an economic conservative and outspoken foe of civil rights legislation , did not join the suit , he made it clear today that he supported it . " I feel we are on strong ground , " he said , " whenever we let the people choose their own leaders . I know there are many citizens who waited in long ' lines to vote Tuesday . And I think they would like to know that they will have a chance in choosing their governor . " But Representative Callaway added that he would " play the . game under the rules , whatever . the rules are . " Mr. Maddox said , meanwhile , , that he has no objection to let- , ting the legislature decide the , election . " I am not claiming victory , " he went on , " but I am glad that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a majority in the legislature . I am hopeful I will get in . " A group of Negroes and white liberals , who were disenchanted with both Mr. Maddox and Mr. Calaway , blocked a victory by either candidate in Tuesday 's election by organizing the write-in campaign for Mr. Arnall . Wenner Interprets Results Mr. Weltner said yesterday in New York that the results " somewhat redeems the electorate of our state in the eyes of the nations . " " It is quite apparent to me that the majority of the people in Georgia were not willing to have either as governor , " he said . " The vote was in some measure a rejection of both of them . "                     