@@726315

txt Sen. Mike Mansfield ( ID ) of Montana proposes that a world peace drive be initiated at this time " by means of an all-out effort by the Security Council of the United Nations . " " It appears to me , " the Senate Majority Leader said in an interview , " that the best possibility for moving to the negotiation table at this time would be through the United Nations . An all-out effort should be made by the Security Council . This would bring the whole world in to help assess the Vietnam situation . " The Senator said that the Security Council should act on the United States resolution on the Vietnam conflict that was placed before it in January of 1966 . " The council has been dodging this issue , " he said . " It is time it faced up to its responsibilities . " Extension opposed The Senator said he felt that the five-day bombing pause during Tet , the Lunar new-year celebration in early February , " should have been prolonged indefinitely in the hope that any groundwork @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he does n't think that extension of the " likely " one-day truce on May 23 would be a good idea . " If such an extension were to be put into effect , and nothing were to happen , " he said , " I 'm afraid of the reaction here at home . It would likely whip up the war spirit at home , increasing the demand for further escalation , and making our chances of getting negotiations even more doubtful . " What did he think of the possibility that the Soviet Union might provide some initiative toward getting the combatants in Vietnam to the conference table ? " There is no guarantee that there is a strong Russian interest in this , " he said . " Also , we 've reached the stage where we need more than strong Russian interest . So the thing to do is to take this to the United Nations . " Conditions considered In this same vein he said : " I do n't feel we can hope for much from the Russians at this point . I feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asked what kind of requirements should be placed upon Hanoi as a prerequisite for a bombing halt , the Senator said : " If there was some signal ? . such as the withdrawal of a regiment into the North . . or word from official quarters in Hanoi that this the bombing halt would be a prelude to negotiations : anything that would give us an indication that if this were undertaken there would be ' a possibility ' of some reciprocity. "                     