@@722512

txt Despite reluctance to supply fresh ammunition for charges that the Administration is anti-business , Attorney General Robert Kennedy will issue soon a 480-page document which could land with explosive impact on the uneasy business community Barring an eleventh-hour change in plans . Mr. Kennedy will make public this week or next a detailed report showing that several hundred of the nation 's top corporations have been submitting to Government agencies sealed bids which turned out to be identical -- sometimes to the fourth figure beyond the decimal point  --  with those submitted by competitors . While such bids do not constitute evidence of illegality , as the report will stress , they do arouse antitrusters ' suspicions of possible collusion . Efforts at punishment and prevention of any wrongdoing are sure to result . Sensitive to the seeming shakiness of business confidence just now , high Justice Department officials have been laboring to edit out of the staff-prepared report any language which might " unnecessarily " inflame critics in the business community . For a while there was some serious thought of delaying issuance of the report  --  ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " more propitious time " when businessmen might be less nervous than now . But fearful that this would be interpreted as a retreat in the face of determined sniping , - Government strategists have decided instead to fire off the report , though muting its wording . Regular Series Planned The report , the first in a regular series to be published either quarterly or annually , will comprise about 20 pages of introduction and analysis and 480 pages of statistics . There will be a listing of companies covered , an industry-by-industry breakdown of the number of identical bids , and a complete showing of all identical bids on an item-by-item basis . Actually the report may disconcert those who believe the Government has been the victim of an epidemic of non-competitive pricing . For the seven-month period from July 1981 through January 1982 the Justice Department study shows that only about 1f ; - , of all contracts advertised by Federal . state and local agencies elicited identical bids , though the dollar amount involved does run into tens of millions . The proportion seems even smaller when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal . state and local governments for goods and services : this sum of course includes many negotiated transactions as well as sealed-bid deals But the report does record industry after industry in which identical bids appear to be the rule rather than the exception . Some of these can be easily explained away , as in the dairy products industry where the Government itself through the Agriculture Department plays a mighty role in " stabilizing " prices . Other data , however , are being studied by antitrust probers at the Justine Department for leads to possible price-fixing and bid-rigging prosecutions . In some instances , material turned up in the study has served to bolster cases already under active investigation ; officials wo n't specify just which cases are affected and how . Speech Heightens Concern Official concern over timing of the identical bid report was heightened by unexpectedly severe business reaction to the recent speech of Solicitor General Archibald Cox . Mr. Cox suggested some formal mechanism will eventually be needed to inject Government influence into wage and price decision-making in innocuous " and voiced no objections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a mild stock market rally turned into a retreat . And numerous editorials described the speech as evidence of the Administration 's anti-business bent . To get a foretate of the kind of material likely to show up in the first comprehensive report , Congress ' Joint Economic Committee last summer asked the Justice Department to prepare a sample report based on a random selection of identical bids in its antitrust files . This report , submitted over tire signature of Antitrust chief Lee Loevinger , covered the fiscal years of 1955-80 . It showed identical bids on a diverse range of goods and services , including rock salt , yeast , filing cabinets , detergent . dry ice , weed control chemicals , cement , alumininn bars , copper cable , hydraulic turbines , transformers , batteries , microscopes , photographic paper , towel service and care of the remains of Navy dead . Mr. Loevinger drew no conclusions , but the Joint Economic Committee emphasized that Goicrnment regulations alloy . procurement officers little leecca ! . in reacting to identical bids They may reject all bids and e.ther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or they ma. : make the award tr. di as.ng thewinner 's name out of a hat No 1-11exiblitt  --  Permitted It IN in 1.1 . s area among others that remolial legislation be attempted . As an indication of the kind of thinking that could lead to legislation the committee stated " No flembility is permitted the procurement officer to e pertinent with procedures which might break up the identical bidding practice . suih as asarding the bid to the smallest bidder in terms of net worth . " It ss as among the Economic Committee 's Democratic leaders . rather than in Administiation councils , that the idea for the identicalbid study ccas born Early last year Rep. Pat- man of Texas and Sen Douglas of Illinois became convinced the taxpayer was not receiving the benefits or price-cutting competition which sealed competitive bids were meant to promote . They persuaded the President that only an exhausuce compilation and anal , Isis of such bids would enable corrective steps . While man ! . Government agencies since the late 1940$ had been forwarding to the Justice Department those bids which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance . six were forwarded to 1948. 3.965 in 1950. 29 in 1953. 85 to IMO . They declared that if all identical bids. not Bust those which struck certain officials as being suspicious , were made public . the re , ulta.nt glare of publicity might " embarrass " into more determined price competition those companies whose bids showed frequent identity with competitors . Aid for Top Executh ea ' Such information . Mr Patman maintained . would also aid " the top corporate executives who really wish to keep their corporate houses free of conspiracy . " He presumably had in mind testimony of top electrical industry officials who told Congressional probers they bad no idea their underlings were meeting with competitors to fix prices . President Kennedy not only agreed to issue an Executive order but also took the unusual step of alloeing the two lawmakers to announce in ad ... nee that he v. , x.ad do so . The order issued on Apr.1 24 1961. declared toe ' precalence of identical bidding is harmful to the effect.Ne functioning of a system of compet:uve bids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added . should " discourage future submissions aid in antitrust enforcement and " reduce the costs of Government . " It took sec eral months to draft and distribute suitable reporting forms not only to all Federal procurement agencies , but to state and murusapal authorities as well Special procedures were developed to process this flood of data through electronic computers at the Census Bureau Responses started to trickle in during the summer of 1961 building up to a flow of about 500 a month .                     