@@722567

txt A Federal judge ordered today the reopening of the Prince Edward County public schools next September " without regard to race or color . " The schools have been shut down since 1959 in a controversy over segregation . District Judge Oren R. Lewis directed the Prince Edward School Board to submit plans for operating the schools to all lawyers in the case by Sept. 1 , and to the Federal court by Sept. 7 . He ordered the board to consider applications from pupils " at the earliest practical date . " The Board of Supervisors in the county , a tobacco-growing area seventy miles southwest of Richmond , has refused to appropriate funds for public schools rather than obey a previous Federal court order to desegregate . The county 's 1,400 white pupils have been attending private schools operated by the Prince Edward School Foundation . The 1,700 Negro pupils in Associated Press Judge Oren R. Lewis the county have , for the most part , been without formal schooling . Judge Lewis ' decision will be appealed by the Prince Edward School Board and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals . There was no indication today whether such an appeal would delay the reopening of the schools past September . The case has long been in litigation . It was one of the cases before the United States Supreme Court when it handed down its historic school desegregation ruling in 1954 . Negro leaders were generally jubilant about today 's decision . The Rev. L. Francis Griffin , integration leader in Prince Edward , said the decision " certainly is a move toward what we 've been seeking . " S. W. Tucker , chief counsel in Virginia for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , said , " I am very happy that we have a decision and happy with the way it seems to be . " Governor and Aides Meet Shortly after the decision was made public in the district court here , Gov . Albertis S. Harrison Jr . ' conferred across the street at the capitol with State Attorney General Robert Y. Button and two of his assistants . Later the Governor said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Prince Edward School Board and Board of Supervisors . Members of the Board of Supervisors declined to comment until they could meet with their Lawyers . Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , a stanch opponent of school desegregation , could not be reached at his Washington office for comment . Judge Lewis , in his opinion , said local school boards in Virginia had been given the responsibility by law of establishing , maintaining and operating the school system along with the State Board of Education , the State , superintendent of Public Instruction and the Division Superintendent of Schools . " Thus it is clear the public schools of Prince Edward County are not under the sole control of the county , " the judge said . He continued : " In these circumstances true focus is not on the Board of Supervisors but on the abovenamed school officials , all of whom directly or indirectly are state officials . " They can not abdicate their responsibilities either by ignoring them or by merely failing to discharge them , whatever the motive might be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the schools was a local action beyond the purview of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution . He said the Constitution recognized no government units except the Federal Government and the State . " A contrary position would allow a state to evade its constitutional responsibilities by carve-outs of small units , " the judge said . He declared : " At least in the area of constitutional rights , specifically with respect to education , a state can no more delegate to Its subdivision the power to discriminate than it can itself directly establish inequalities . " Judge Lewis said that if Prince Edward reopened and maintained its schools in accordance with a Federal court order entered on April 22 , 1960 , it would not be necessary for him to enter a more formal order . " If , however , the said schools are not reopened prior to Sept. 7 , 1962 , " he said , " this court will on that day consider any and all proposed orders tendered by counsel of record . " Negroes Win Admission RICHMOND , Va. , July . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Butzner Jr . today ordered ten Negro children admitted to two predominantly white schools in Richmond . But he turned aside a bid by Negroes to require the city to formulate a formal desegregation plan . A total of 127 Negro children will be attending formerly allwhite public schools in Richmond in the coming school year .                     