@@725244

txt If President Garcia Godoy of the Dominican Republic is able to carry off his exiling of top military and rebel officers , he may have paved the way toward next June 's presidential elections . There has been growing concern in Santo Domingo , the Dominican capital , that the election might have to be postponed because of the continuing dispute between the traditional military establishment and the rebel forces which began last April 's revolt . Now the decision of Mr. Garcia Godoy to send 34 top officers from both groups to diplomatic and military posts abroad would remove from the Dominican scene many of the major voices in opposing camps . Leaders listed The list of those ordered abroad reads like a roster of top leaders on both sides of the April revolt . It includes : ? Commodore Francisco J. Rivera Caminero , Armed Forces Minister , was named naval attach ? in Washington . Commodore Rivera Caminero was a top leader in the government of Brig . Gen. Antonio Imbert Barreras which the United States set up in early May as opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; rebel chieftain , was named military attach ? in London . Colonel Caamalio was leader of the rebels almost from the start of the revolt , and he has remained the symbol of rebel resistance in the months since Mr. Garcia Godoy came to office . The list of those being sent abroad included 22 to Israel on an " indefinite study tour . " This group is composed of military officers who represent a second echelon of command and are not well known outside the Dominican Republic . But the group includes many military men who were opposed to the rebels and have expressed themselves vocally on the subject . Originally , Commodore Rivera Ca minero agreed to obey the President 's order . Later he appeared to change his mind . Pressure on President Neither group wants to see its members go into exile . But the possibility that President Garcia Godoy would order top leaders of both camps out of the country has been considered likely for weeks . The President only a week ago said he was preparing the step . Both sides are putting pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garcia Godoy is firm . Moreover , he has the backing of the Inter-American Peace Force ( IAPF ) , an 11,000-strong unit of troops , mainly from the United States and Brazil , to back him up . The Organization of American States leace-keeping team , headed by United States Ambassador to the OAS , Ellsworth Bunker , was informed of the list before it was announced . Mr. Garcia Godoy said the OAS team fully supported the move .                     