@@721827

txt Senator Jacob K. Javits asked Governor Rockefeller and state and city Republican leaders last night to remove his name from consideration as a possible Re- , publican ? candidate for Mayor , this year . The five county leaders in the city announced that they would respect the Senator 's wishes " to continue his important work in the Senate of the ! United States . " Senator Javits cited the im-1 portance of national issues in ' asking that his name be re-i moved from the list of possible candidates . After a three-hour meeting with the Governor and the five county leaders at the Roosevelt Hotel here , the Senator made // his request in a statement that was interpreted as eliminating him from the race . Asked whether his decision was irrevocable , Senator Javits referred to Gen. William T. Sherman 's often-quoted telegram to a Republican nominating convention : " I will not accept if nominated and will not serve if elected . " Senator Javits said : " I do not wish in any way to qualify my statement . I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meeting at the Roosevelt , besides Governor Rockefeller and Senator Javits , were L. Judson Morhouse , state chairman , and the county leaders , Bernard Newman of Manhattan , Frank Kenna of Queens , John R. Crews of Brooklyn , James Flood of Richmond and Representative Paul A. Fino of the Bronx . Also present were William L. Pfeiffer , former state chairman , who has been acting in a liaison capacity between the state committee and New York city ; Carl Spad , appointments secretary to the Governor , and Harry O'Donnell , press assistant to Mr. Morhouse . The statement by the five county leaders indicated that they accepted Mr. Javits ' position as final . They had requested the meeting . " He reaffirmed his position , " they said in a statement , " and we respect his decision to continue his important work in the Senate of the United States . " We are continuing our discussions and meeting with other potential candidates who are also equipped with positive qualities of competent , courageous leadership so critically needed today in the government of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate for Mayor , " the county leaders continued , " we are firmly encouraged by growing evidence that the people of this city are ready and anxious to replace the present easygoing , inefficient handling of their municipal affairs with aggressive , progressive leadership . Resists Pressure " We are determined to offer a candidate who will be an emi nently acceptable alternative to Mayor Wagner , whose failures in executive leadership and administrative discipline have burdened the people with a depressing , often disgraceful , se- ' ries of crimes and problems in every area of municipal responsibility . " In asking that he be removed from consideration , Senator Javits resisted strong pressure brought by Governor Rockefeller and by national leaders of the party , including former Vice President Richard M. Nixon . Mr. Nixon told the Senator at a recent meeting here that he had a duty to the party . to run . The former Vice President sought to impress upon him the importance of a Republican Mayoral victory in rebuilding the party nationally . Recent statements by Senator Javits , including one to Alex Rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the belief that the Senator might be getting ready totrevise his position against running . Yesterday 's development returned the situation to about where it was a week ago . Senator Javits recalled last night that he had made it clear some time ago that he did not wish to be considered for the city election . He said he had agreed to renew consideration out of respect for friends and political associates who recently had urged him to reconsider . After reconsidering , he said , he adhered " to the view I had expressed some time ago . " Says He 'll Help Mr. Javits said he felt the , party had a number of excellent candidates for Mayor . He said he would do what he could to work for a Republican victory . The Senator reiterated that he felt the great national issues of peace and war , prosperity and depression , of justice and civil liberties were as critical to the people of New York as its city government . He has said he believes he can be of greater service to the people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' statement did not state him in the last week . The view of Republican leaders is that he would be their strongest candidate and would have the best chance to get Liberal party and independent backing . Governor Rockefeller left the meeting , which started at 5 P. M. , at 6:12 P. M. , saying he had an appointment . He refused to make any comment . The Governor twice before had urged Mr. Javits to consider the mayoral nomination , the last time at a private dinner Friday night . Mr. Newman , who acted as spokesman for the county leaders when the meeting broke up shortly after 8 P. M. , said : " We recognize and respect the Senator 's decision . "                     