@@727502

txt The Czech crisis , which shook the world last August , now can be labeled as " completed business " and be pushed into the pages of history . It is not forgotten . The meaning of it will long continue to be a factor in the calculations of all major foreign offices . But it is finished business in the sense that the changes it caused have been sorted out and a new " status quo " is the order of the day . The sorting-out process has involved a complex set of bargains and deals in which the problems of Czechoslovakia itself have been isolated and contained , Moscow has done penance , and , in effect , the Soviets have promised not to overrun any more Communist neighbors  --  at least for a while . The evidence lies in several related facts : 1 . Most  --  not all -- of the Soviet Army which invaded Czechoslovakia  --  has gone home and into winter quarters . 2 . This relieves the immediate threat to Romania , Yugoslavia , and Albania . It also relaxes the tension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were just over their frontier in full battle gear . 3 . As a reward for removing the threat to Communist neighbors the Western Communist parties agreed in Budapest to allow plans to go forward for the long-deferred Communist gathering in Moscow . It was to have happened on Nov. 25 . It now is planned for next May . 4 . In Washington the White House is , at ? this writing , working on tentative plans for President Johnson to meet Soviet Prime Minister Alexei N. Kosygin somewhere in Europe , perhaps Vienna or Geneva , on his way back to Washington from Thanksgiving dinner in Texas . Of course this plan could be canceled again by events as it was by the invasion of Czechoslovakia on Aug. 21. 5 . The Johnson-Kosygin " summit " presumably would coincide with resumption of the Paris peace talks . It also should mark the beginning of long-deferred talks on a slowdown in missile weaponry . In other words , normal business has been taken out of the deep freeze into which it was thrust by the Czech crisis . This applies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Red ' consensus ' // camp and to relations between MOFCOW and Washington . Some very hard bargaining went into the shaping of this many-cornered deal . The Communist parties consented to the spring gathering in Moscow only after they knew that the bulk of the invading Soviet Army had pulled back from take-off positions and been sent home to winter quarters . Also , at the time they agreed to the spring meeting , the Russians had refrained from doing the worst they might have done in Prague . There is still no blood bath . And Alexander Dubcek still heads the Czech Communist Party . And the consent of the Communist parties was only tentative . There were three holdouts ? those of Britain , Switzerland , and Reunion Island . In other words , in order to get the desired conference Moscow has had to dismantle its posture of menace toward Romania , Yugoslavia , and Albania  --  and also refrain from doing all that it probably intended in Prague . High price paid Czechoslovak reformers have paid a heavy price for their own survival . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in control of the party . They themselves made the complex deal possible by asserting in their communiqu ? last week a confession of some guilt during the preinvasion period . This admission gives Moscow the legalistic sanction it demanded for its deed , and saves the Moscow face , a little , in the Communist community ? not in Western countries . One of the curious facets of all this business has been the silent and entirely acci dental partnership between Washington and the Western Communist parties . Moscow has been squeezed between these two forces which shared two common interests . Both sought to avoid any more Soviet invasions . And both sought to salvage what might be saved of the Czech Communist reform movement . Inside the Communist world there are two important consequences of the Czech crisis . The first is the further attenuation of the influence of Moscow on Communist parties which it does not control either by fear or money . The " loyal " parties are those under the shadow of the Soviet Army , or dependent on the Russian treasury . Those which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear umbrella " feel completely free now to differ with Moscow over policy , and bargain with it over anything Moscow wants . Changing positions seen The second big change is in the lineup of East European Communist countries . Before the reform movement gained control in Prague , Czechoslovakia was the " most loyal " of the satellites . Now , the Czech party lives almost in a Soviet prison . The new favorite is East Germany . Walter Ulbricht is the man who apparently called the signals for the invasion . Some think he is the most influential single person in the Communist hierarchy today . If and when President Johnson and Prime Minister Kosygin talk together one of their most " top secret " sessions might well be devoted to the Arab-Israel problem . Moscow could balance off a lot of past misbehavior if it became really helpful about the Middle East .                     