@@726384

txt The Government declared an oil emergency today because of the Middle East crisis . It called on the United States oil industry to draft plans to overcome the disruption of petroleum from the Middle East , The major immediate problem is the mobilization of a tanker fleet to move alternate available supplies , mainly to Western Europe initially . The closing of the Suez Canal and the shutdown of pipelines that terminate in Lebanon and Syria cut off most of the oil from Arab countries , which feed supplies to Western Europe . The canal and pipeline shutdowns disrupted the flow of oil equivalent to the capacity of 1,350 T-2 tankers that hold about 150,000 barrels of oil each . The Middle East supplies 10.3 million barrels of oil a day to non - Communist countries . This is one-third of the world 's daily oil consumption . J. Cordell Moore , Assistant Secretary of the Interior , who issued the emergency declaration , called a meeting of represents : tives of major oil companies here next Tuesday to begin Work on plans that will assure a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets less than 5 per cent of its oil needs from the Middle East and would not be affected unless the crisis stretched into several weeks . The Department of Defense has moved to assure sufficient supplies for Vietnam and other defense installations abroad . The department will add 35 tankers to the fleet of 25 ships to carry supplies from the West and Gulf Coasts and the Caribbean if the disruption of supplies from the Middle East continues . A Defense Department spokesman said , however , that there were no immediate plans to add the 35 tankers . The Persian Gulf area accounts for 65 per cent of the 120 million barrels the Defense Department moves annually for Southeast Asia and the Western Pacific . The cost of this supply is about $240-million . The added cost in the emergency would be about $21-million a month . Mr. Moore said that the " disruption of Middle Eastern oil supplies , particularly the availability of tanker capacity , has led me to conclude that a petroleum emergency exists which threatens the broad security interests of the United States . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Planning and the Department of Defense concur in this view , " he said . " If the present shutdown continues for more than a few weeks a critical transportation and supply problem will develop Which can not be solved by individual efforts of oil companies . " Today 's action is taken to prepare for that possibility . " He said that this would enable the United States to participate in joint programs with other governments , including governments in the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development . " The organization consists of 18 Western European countries , the United States , Japan and Canada . Yugoslavia is an associate member . Japan , Australia and other countries in the Western Pacific and Southeast Asia would be seriously affected by a continued disruption of Middle East supplies . They get the bulk of their requirements from the Middle East . Before the war in the Middle East broke out , reports from London indicated that no crisis would result from a cutoff of Arabian oil . Mr. Moore sent telegrams to the 21 American oil concerns that make up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This committee found that an emergency existed in a meeting here last Thursday . Subcommittee Named A subcommittee named by Mr. Moore to draft plans for combating the Middle East disruption is made up of representatives from the Atlantic Richfield Company , the Gulf Oil Corporation , the Frontier Refining : Company , the Marathon Oil ' Company , the Mobile Oil Corporation , the Sinclair Oil Cor- ? poration , the Standard Oil Corn-i pang ' of California , the Stan- ' dard Oil Company of New Jersey and Texaco , Inc . John Ricca , Deputy Director of the Interior Department 's , Office of Oil and Gas , is the ' chairman of the subcommittee . The draft plan will be submitted to the full committee . Before becoming effective , the plan will require the approval of Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall or Mr. Moore , the Office of Emergency Planning and the Department of Justice . The Justice Department must approve it to assure the oil companies of immunity from the antitrust laws in the pooling of information , tankers and other matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan is approved , the committee will be authorized to take such actions as the following : cMake arrangements among its members and with others for the most efficient use , without regard to ownership , of petroleum terminal and storage facilities and tankers , pipelines and other transportation facilities . CPurchase , sell , loan or exchange crude oil and petroleum products for the maximum distribution to areas affected by the emergency . The committee would also be authorized to change the rate of production of crude oil and the manufacture of refined petroleum products in foreign areas .                     