@@721858

txt United States Naval units on the Eastern seaboard have been placed on an " increased alert " status , it was learned early today . Naval task farces , including Marines , have been advised to be ready to evacuate United States citizens from the Dominican Republic if this should prove necessary . There are about 2,000 to 5,000 Americans in the Republic , according to various available estimates . Nearly forty American ships are patrolling the Carribean in the vicinity of the Dominican Republic , prepared to take part in any emergency action . Reports as to the situation in the Dominican Republic since the assassination Tuesday of Generalissimo Raphael Leonidas Trujillo Molina have been confusing , While the regime has ' asserted conditions were quiet , other reports indicated the pos-I sibility of growing strife . Ship Leaves Norfolk Yesterday , the United States asked the Organization of American States to send a special investigating committee to the Dominican Republic in an effort to prevent repressive measures by the Goevrnment . Shortly after news of the assassination of the Generalissimo ' at Atlantic Fleet headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fleet , set sail from Norfolk , Va . The Northhampton is a communications ship as well as the flagship of Vice Admiral Claude Ricketts . In the meantime , the Randolph , an anti-submarine carrier , equipped with helicopters , left Quantanamo Naval Base in Cuba to join the emergency fleet at sea . The attack carrier Intrepid sailed yesterday from Norfolk . The Intrepid ostensibly is on a routine " shakedown " operation for its officers and crew . Most of the Navy 's ships involved have been on " alert " ' patrols in the area since last winter . However , increased readiness orders were dispatched two days ago with word of the Trujillo assassination . The purpose of these instruc- tions , according to authoritative : sources , was to insure that if hostilities developed , United States naval units , including Marines , would be at hand toi help Americans . About 2,000 Marines that were engaged in amphibious training operations on the beaches of Vieoques , off Puerto Rico , were loaded aboard five amphibious type vessels . These ships are now afloat with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic if evacuation orders are dispatched . The United States request for the investigation on the Dominican Republic by the 0 . A. S. was made by Arturo MoralesCarrion , a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for InterAmerican Affairs . It was presented to Augusto Guillermo Arango of Panama , who is chairman of the so-called Dominican Sanctions Committee . This committee was established after the Inter-American Foreign Ministers Conference in San Jose , Costa Rica , last August . The meeting condemned the Dominican dictatorship of Generalissimo Molina on charges of complicity in a plot to murder President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela . The conference voted to break relations with the Dominican regime and to impose limited economic sanctions . The Sanctions Committee of seven members was directed to keep watch on the situation in the Dominican Republic . Police Actions Reported The United States ' request was delivered soon after it learned of the Dominican announcement that one of the group that assassinated Generalissimo Trujillo last Tuesday had been shot . Dr. Morales-Carrion was said to have told the committee that the United States was deeply concerned by reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day , Lincoln White , State Department spokesman , said that unconfirmed reports had been received of " extreme measures of unwarranted repression " by the Government , which is under the control of President Joaquin Balaguer and Lieut . Gen. Rafael Trujillo Jr. , son of the slain dictator . General Trujillo was named head of all Dominican armed forces last night . Mr. White said the repression was reported to he directed " against anyone who is felt not to be loyal to the regime . " He added that there were no reports of " any molestation " up to this point of any of the 5,200 Americans in the Dominican Republic . Mr. White added that rumors had reached the State Department of fighting along the border of Haiti , but there was no confirmation of this . Officials belie that the possibility of a power struggle within the army may have been increased by the appointment of young General Trujillo to the top command of all three services . The 32-year-old son of the dictator is not a favorite of ! some elements in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration had any intention of making any gesture toward the Trujillo group in power . Yesterday the State Depart-1 ment expressed the hope that the Dominican people would finally , after thirty-one years of dictatorship , be governed by a democratic regime . This hope , it is agreed here , is unlikely tol be fulfilled while the Trujillo group is in power . Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , proposed that the Organization of American States send an observation commission to the Dominican Republic . There was considerable doubt here that the dictator 's son would permit the sanctions committee to enter the country .                     