@@727901

txt President Nixon arrived home tonight and declared that his trip to Midway had " opened wide the door to peace . " He invited North Vietnam to " walk with us through that door . " Facing a festive , flag-waving audience of high officials , staff aides , Congressmen and Government secretaries gathered on the south lawn of the White House to welcome him , Mr. Nixon challenged Hanoi either to begin withdrawing its forces , " as we have withdrawn ours , " or to begin serious negotiations in Paris , or both . " If they fail to act in one direction or another , " he declared , " they must bear the responsibility for blocking the road to peace and not walking through that door we have opened . " Back From ** Journey The President returned to the White House after a journey to the Pacific that lasted eight days , carried him 12,940 miles and took him to Midway , where he met with President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam and announced plans to withdraw 25,000 American troops . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's present strategy for achieving a settlement in Vietnam  --  a strategy with a built-in device designed to hold public support for the long negotiating process ahead . The central principle is to find a mechanism on which all sides can agree and one that will reflect the existing balance of political forces within South Vietnam . May Speech Recalled The President sketched the strategy in his speech May 14 . The Midway meeting served to demonstrate Saigon 's general adherence to the idea and gave both sides the opportunity to thresh out in private several alternative means of achieving a political settlement . The preferred method , according to authoritative White House sources , is free elections , with guarantees to the other side that the elections will not be weighted against it . White House sources said that the allies had devised several plans for organizing elections and that they would be revealed by Saigon when the other side agreed to move into serious negotiations . These sources told reporters in San Clemente last night , a full day after the meeting with President Thieu on Midway , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietcong participation , and the idea for special elections before 1971 were possible . Special elections would require amendment of the South Vietnamese constitution . The search for a mechanism that would allow participation by all sides and would fairly register the existing distribution of power in South Vietnam represents one of two major elements in the Nixon strategy . The other is military . Militarily , the President seems to have embarked on a course of steady withdrawal of American troops at periodic intervals consistent with the ability of the South Vietnamese to assume a greater share of the burden of fighting the war . Would Placate Opinion The purpose of this part of the strategy is , in part , to placate American public opinion without seriously damaging the Allied war effort , and thus to purchase the time that Mr. Nixon thinks is necessary for negotiations on the political side . While the final decision has apparently not been reached , the trend of the Administration 's thinking is apparently to pull out 70,000 troops in all by the end of the year . The White House is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to careful review and is annoyed at reports suggesting that further withdrawals this year are inevitable . The Administration 's preference for free elections was made clear in Sunday 's joint communiqu ? on Midway , and in conversations with high Washington sources last night in San Clemente . But both the communiqu ? and the sources were sufficiently ambiguous so that , in time , the allies could devise other means of reflecting , in the words of the communiqu ? the " will of the people " of South Vietnam . Obviously , Mr. Nixon would like a properly supervised national election that would give the various competing forces in South Vietnam representation in a single , conventional national government . But some of those close to Mr. Nixon have hinted that they might accept a form of political settlement in which the Communists would retain political power in areas in which they now dominate , while the non-Communist forces , including Saigon , would retain control over areas they dominate . Such arrangements have been made in Laos . In his remarks this afternoon , the President did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three general accomplishments of his Pacific meeting with Mr. Thieu . First , he said , the meeting " brought home the message " that the South Vietnamese were now sufficiently trained and equipped to " take over a substantial portion " of combat from American troops . Second , he said , " the meeting means that President Thieu completely approves and supports the eight-point peace program " set forth by Mr. Nixon on May 14 . " There is no disgreement between us on that program , " he declared . Third , he said , it signaled that " after five years in which more and more Americans have been sent to Vietnam , we finally have reached the point where we can begin to bring Americans home from Vietnam . " At the same time , however , he cautioned that the first troop withdrawals did " not mean that the war is over . " " There are negotiations still to be undertaken , " he said . " There is fighting still to be borne until we reach the point that we can have peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California this morning . Just before he hoarded the Presidential jet ' for the return to Washington , a Continental Airline charter jet was being loaded with hundreds of soldiers in green fatigues hound for Vietnam . Following his remarks on the south lawn of the White House , Mr. Nixon briefed a group of Congressional leaders of both parties on the Midway talks . W. Averell Harriman , the chief United States negotiator at Paris peace talks in the Johnson Administration , told a group of Massachusetts state and local officials that he was disappointed that Mr. Nixon ' planned to withdraw 25,000 men . He also expressed disappointment that there had not been more progress in the Paris talks . " Every discussion since last year has dealt in terms of a reduction of at least 50,000 troops , " he said . The meeting was sponsored by Massachusetts ' Senator Edward M. Kennedy , a Democrat , and Edward W. Brooke , a Republican .                     