@@721924

txt Mayor Wagner declared yesterday an " all-out war on the forces of crime , slum blight and poverty that have infected Manhattan 's West Side . " A spokesman for the Mayor said the crackdown had been planned for some time and did not result directly from last week 's street fights that embroiled 400 Negroes and Puerto . Ricans . The fights occurred on West ; Eighty-fourth Street between ! Columbus and Amsterdam Ave-1 , Hues . In the attack on slums some ' buildings on the West Side may have to be evacuated , Mr. Wag ner said . " In others , " he explained , " we shall use every available means to take over-1 crowded families with children out of the hell of single-room : occupancy . " " I mean to get rid of all the rats ? slumlords , pushers and ' true rodents , " the Mayor declared . Mrs. Gabel Heads Project Mr. Wagner announced he had appointed his assistant for housing , Mrs. Hortense W. Gabel , as field commander for the West Side clean-up . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubled area " and will have a direct telephone connection with the Mayor at City Hall . A board of strategy named by the Mayor for the project will consist of Deputy Mayor Paul R. Screvane ; James Felt , chairman of the City Planning Commission , and J. Clarence Davies Jr. , chairman of the Housing and Redevelopment Board . Mr. Wagner directed the Police , Buildings , Real Estate , Welfare , Health and other municipal departments to give Mrs. Gabel " immediate and total cooperation . " The program is planned for the areas bounded by Seventyninth and 104th Streets between Central Park and Riverside Drive . Mrs. Gabel said West Eightyfourth Street would be the pilot block for undertaking the accelerated program . The first action will be taken east of Amsterdam Avenue . In a few weeks the program will be extended west of Amsterdam Avenue She said she would advise Mayor Wagner of her staff needs by Friday . While the details of the program were not given , previous conservation districts designated by the city have been areas of sound but decaying tenements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with municipal agencies to stem the spread of blight . The conservation program has been under way since August , 1959 . It differs from slum clearance and urban renewal as its purpose is to preserve and improve buildings rather than demolish them . Mrs. Gabel directs that pro'gram . She has described it as a " carrot and stick " project . The " carrot " phase includes low-interest , municipal loans to landlords for improvements to buildings and free advice to property owners . The " stick " phase includes frequent inspections by the Buildings , Fire and Health Departments and vigorous prosecution of landlords whose buildings have persistent code violations . Mrs. Gabel has sought to persuade banks and other lending institutions , normally reluctant to pour funds into such properties , to make loans . On May 19 the Board of Estimate appropriated $300,000 for an expanded neighborhood conservation program . The forthcoming West Side operation will be financed from that fund . " With Mrs. Gabel 's field command and the city and Federal Governments ' fast actions to implement long ' - range goals , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the West Side Story , " Mayor Wagner asserted. , Mrs. Hortense W. Gabel City officials are understood ; ; to have felt that an intensified ! conservation operation is called for because the situation on the ; West Side has been deteriorating even while the city has been waiting for scheduled urban renewal programs to get started . In his announcement Mayor Wagner reviewed his administration 's attack on the slum problem . " In the neighborhoods where crowded housing , low incomes and a lower level of social consciousness was apparent on the part of some portion of the population , " he said , " my administration has trebled the program of new street lighting to prevent crime . " It cracked down on landlords who violated their trust . ! We installed the tactical police ' force . We set up the new and highly successful neighborhood conservation programs , starting with three and working ; toward a short-time goal of twelve . "                     