@@727312

txt The Democratic Presidential candidates and their aides believe that the national convention , which opens in Chicago Aug. 26 , is being set up in accordance with orders from President Johnson . The only point they differ over is whether the White House , in its alleged managing of convention plans , is favoring the candidacy of Vice President Humphrey , as charged by aides of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy . Senator George S. of South Dakota , the latest entry in the race , said earlier this week that he thought President Johnson , through the Democratic National Committee , was directing arrangements for the convention and was not favoring Mr. Humphrey . " My impression is that the McCarthy people are being // treated the same way the Humphrey people are , " Senator said in an interview on Monday . Lawrence F. O'Brien , former Postmaster General , who is working for Mr. Humphrey , said in an interview today that he shared this view on equal treatment . Mr. O'Brien said the Humphrey staff was having ? the same difficulties as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephones , gallery tickets and floor passes . He said , for example , that he had been trying for a week to find out what the convention program would be but had not been able to . Mr. O'Brien was one of the President 's top political advisers before he resigned earlier this year to join the campaign staff of Senator Robert F. Ken nedy . After the Senator 's as sassination he joined Mr. Humphrey 's staff . The former Postmaster General , who is one of the top political strategists in the country , said he believed President John son would remain " totally neutral " through the convention and then endorse the party nominee . Instrument of Presidency The convention is being set up through the auspices of the Democratic National Commit tee , which traditionally has been an instrument of the Presidency when the party controls the White House . It is customary also for the committee to make , arrangements for the national convention . John B. Criswell , treasurer . of the committee , is executive director of the convention . Mr. O'Brien , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that he worked for Mr. Johnson and Marvin W. Watson , former White House aide and successor to Mr. O'Brien as Postmaster General , before the convention planning started , and he assumed that he still did . " And it 's apparent to me , " he said , " that Criswell 's instructions are , ' Everything is even . ' " By even , he meant everything was eqtial . Mr. O'Brien said Mr. Criswell seemed to be going so far to keep things equal that , for example , were he to telephone and ask for 150 balloons , Mr. Criswell would say , " I 'll call you back , " then do so and say , " I 'm giving you 100 and McCarthy 100 . " As to the convention program , Mr. O'Brien said he was becoming a little worried . If the convention receives . the same bad reviews that the Republican one did , he explained , then Mr. Humphrey , as the front runner , would be blamed , just as Richard M. Nixon was criticized for long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Another member of the Hum phrey staff , who declined to be identified , said he was certain President Johnson was calling the signals . Mr. Criswell , he said , never makes a decision on , his own and the Humphrey people assume that he checks first with Mr. Watson , who , although now a Cabinet officer , remains a top political adviser to the President . In a telephone interview tonight from Chicago , Mr. Criswell said that the White House and Administration personnel of Cabinet level  --  and even below  --  were playing no role in setting up the convention . " From the top down , " he said , " the . President and his men have pulled back . " Mr. Watson , who is traveling in the Middle West , was not available for comment . The Humphrey people say they are not getting nearly what they want at the convention . Some ' Role ' Earlier A White House aide said that prior to Mr. Johnson 's withdrawal from the race last March 31 the President did play " some role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hand in the planning for a short time thereafter . But recently , the aide said , he has seen " no evidence of any Presidential role " in the planning . There was considerable evirdence of the President 's hand in the planning in mid-June when the convention officers were named . Top aides to Mr. Humphrey , authoritative sources said , wanted to name Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine as chairman of the platform committee . Instead , these sources said , the selection was vetoed , presumably by the White House , and Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana was named . Mr. Boggs has been a strong supporter of Administration policies in Vietnam , while Senator Muskie has not been closely identified with either side in the Vietnam dispute . Aide to Humphrey Charged Stephen A. Mitchell , who represents Senator McCarthy at the convention , charged at the time that all of the committee officers , had been selected to help Mr. Humphrey . " It 's obvious the President is back in the saddle and leads the national committee like a mule under halter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that facilities at the convention are being allotted without favor , the McCarthy forces say they are still being slighted . They cite facilities at the Conrad Hilton Hotel , where convention headquarters are , as an example . There , the McCarthy people have 151 rooms and 151 telephones compared with 132 of each for the Humphrey staff . But the only delegations at the Hilton , the McCarthy people say , are Texas , Oklahoma and Minnesota . Texas has 260 rooms and telephones , Oklahoma 137 and Minnesota 134 . The McCarthy people say virtually all these delegations are Humphrey people ; hence Mr. Humphrey has a heavy advantage in communications ? a vital factor in keeping in touch with wavering delegates .                     