@@724526

txt Charges that criminals have been gaining control of banks and may have been responsible for some recent bank failures were made today in both the House and Senate . Investigations were called for in both houses and it appeared likely that at least two , and possibly three , would be made . A charge was also made in the Senate that dissension among the three Government agencies that share responsibility for supervision of banks has contributed to the recent rapid rise in the number of bank failures . There have been 9 such failures in the last 13 months . The most recent , that of the San Francisco National Bank , which had deposits totaling $41 million , was the largest bank to fail since the end of World War II . The allegations that criminal elements are moving into control of banks were made by Representative Wright Patman of Texas , chairman of the House Banking Committee , and Senator John L. McClellan of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate 's Permanent Investigations subcommittee . Both asked for funds to investigate . Mr. Patman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " lock , stock and barrel " as respectable fronts into which to put their money . He did not specifically link criminal control of banks to recent bank failures . Senator McClellan did assert that there might be a link , however . He said his committee ! wanted to investigate the failure of banks that had fallen into the hands of " persons of unsavory character . " The issue of dissension among the Federal banking agencies was raised by Senator Frank J. Lausche , an Ohio Democrat . He said that the Controller of the Currency , James J. Saxon , who supervises the op-. erations of national banks , had refused to turn over copies of his examination reports to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which pays depositors in banks that have failed up to $10,000 per account . The controller is required by law to make these reports available to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and to the Federal Reserve Board , the third Government agency that ! is involved in bank supervision ! Instead , Senator Lausche said , 1 Mr. Saxon imposed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charge was necessary to cover costs of reproducing the report- The Senator said that he had been informed of this requirement by Joseph W. Barr , the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation . In addition , it was learned , Mr. Saxon nas refused outright , to make certain examination reports available to the Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  --  at any price . This was true , specifically , of the examination reports on the San Francisco National Bank , officials said . The Federal Reserve has been buying what reports Mr. Saxon made available and passing them along to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , to save payment of two fees to Mr. Saxon . The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to examine any bank it thinks may be in financial difficulties . It does not use the authority , however , because it fears that word of its examination would leak out and cause a run that could force the bank into failure , even if it was initially in sound condition . Rumors have been widespread that illegal transactions contributed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Brighton National Bank at Brighton , Colo. , since the banks were closed by Mr. Saxon late in the evening of Jan. 25 . The Justice Department , as well as the Federal Deposit In- : surance Corporation , which is the receiver for both banks , is ! ! investigating both failures . Both banks were b originally ! established with Mr. Saxon 's approval . He has granted charters for hundreds of new na- ! itional banks  --  his office said to- ! ! day that it " could n't lay hands ! on " the precise number  --  since ! he became controller in Novem- ' ber , 1961 . Mr. Saxon 's new charter ) policy also came in for Congressional criticism today . Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah , the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee , said that many of these charters had " been handed out as Democratic Administration favors . " He called for an investigation by the Senate Banking Committee , as did Senator Lausche . Previous charges of political influence in the granting of charters by Mr. Saxon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the activities of Robert G. Baker , the former Secretary to the Senate majority . Mr. Baker was alleged to have been involved as ' intermediary in a payment of a $5,000 fee by a group in Redwood Calif. , that was seeking a national bank charter , which was subsequently granted . Charges of political influence were also made in connection with the granting of a national bank charter to a group here , which included Max R. Kampelman , a former assistant to Vice President Humphrey . Mr. Saxon recently stated that this bank , the District of Columbia National Bank , should be merged with another bank , although he said its financial condition was sound . Allegations that political influence was used to obtain other national bank charters have long been common in banking circles . Of the nine bank failures in the last year , three have involved banks chartered by Mr. Saxon . The third was in Marlin , Tex . Most of these failures have involved the use of a relatively new financial instrument known as a negotiable certificate of deposit or " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stated period of time and paying a premium rate of interest compared with some other types of deposits . Their use can be illegal , if a special bonus is paid , as it sometimes apparently has been . In effect , such a bonus violates the Government ceiling on bank interest payments . In the usual case , there is nothing illegal in the use of " C.D. 's , " but there can be an unusual risk , especially for , a small new bank , because the interest payment required from the bank is so high . This forces the bank to seek to make loans at even higher rates of interest  --  and these are by definition risky loans  --  so that it can earn enough to pay the premium interest rate on the " C.D. 's . " Mr. Saxon has been a center of controversy from the day he became controller , when he attacked long - standing Government policy concerning branch banking . He has since been publicly at odds with the former Attorney General , Robert F. Kennedy , over bank merger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bank activities in the securities field and other matters , and with the other two banking agencies on scores of issues . He ! lis also currently involved in a battle the New York Stock Exchange over bank stock trad- ! Exchang Mr. Saxon has generally taken the view that existing restrictions of almost all kinds on bank activities should be loosened .                     