@@722848

txt The county grand jury will open soon an investigation into the sanitary district 's real estate department , hit by charges that district officials , solicited huge bribes and received illegal payments for the use of district land , it was disclosed yesterday . It was learned that the jury has issued four subpenas for witnesses to testify and plans to issue a number of others soon . The January jury and the state 's attorney 's office , which has been conducting a highly secret investigation of the charges , had planned to hear the first witnesses on Thursday , but canceled the hearings when it was found that several key witnesses were out of the city . Assigned Fall Time The investigation by Clyde 0 . Bowles , an assistant state 's attorney , and two investigators assigned full time to the case by Roswell Spencer , chief investigator , was touched off on information supplied by THE Mum= and ' the Better Government association . Vinton W. Bacon , district general superintendent , also has started an investigation of the real estate and law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been working with Bowles . Bacon has ordered the district law department to compile a complete report on all district leases . Bacon suspended Earl Derx , real estate manager of the district , and William R. Gilbert , assistant real estate manager , last month and ordered civil service charges filed against them . Derx and Gilbert later resigned . THE TRIBUNE disclosed that squatters who have lived and operated businesses on district property without leases had paid bribes to district officials for the use of the land . Shakedowns Charged The investigation also developed charges that district officials had attempted shakedowns of up to ; 17,000 from business men who wanted to lease district property . In ' one instance , a business man charged that he notified a district trustee of a huge shakedown attempt but the trustee , who earlier had bragged that he was going to " clean up " the district , refused to do anything about it . In the meantime , Bacon said that he has received permission from a federal grand jury probing district electrical conttacts to examine the records of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts for the district . Bacon had demanded that Northern States turn over its books to the district for examination , but company officials pleaded that the federal grand jury had subpenaed the books and they were unable to get them for the district . Company to Get Books Federal officials notified Bacon . that they will retnrn the books to Abe company at the company 's request for a 30-day period so that Bacon can proceed with his investigation . Bacon said that ' Northern States is the low bidder on four contracts and that he is holding up the bids until he finds out whether the company will cooperate with him in the investigation . He indicated that ' he would reject the multimillion dollar bids ff the company fails to give him the books and records .                     