@@725320

txt Beirut , Lebanon Both Western and Communist nations are continuing their contributions to the precarious balance of weapons in the Middle East . The war of words has become at least as resolute as the actual stockpiling of arms . Israel and most of the Arab countries each try to depict their own arming as essential to defense . In Amman , the speaker of the Jordan Parliament has voiced " regret " over American sale of an undisclosed number of Patton tanks to Israel . Jordan had earlier received some of the same Patton tanks from the United States and turned over 40 older model British Charioteer tanks to Lebanon in exchange for apples . In Cairo , Palestine Arab refugee organizations protested the tank sale to Israel . Egyptian newspapers and Radio Cairo noted a possible connection with West Germany 's cancellation of an arms deal with Israel last year . They denied stories of Soviet nuclear defense guarantees to Egypt as " a tissue of fabrications . " The newspaper Al Goumhouriyah editorialized Feb. 6 that the tank sale to Israel was the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts for peace in Vietnam . Lebanon announced Jan. 4 an accord with France under which Paris will supply " technical assistance in the military field . " Officials here said reports about Lebanese purchase of 12 Mirage 3 fighters were " distorted in the details . " In i fi eel plan adopted Jordan is also reported to be purchasing a squadron of 12 United States F104 jets and seeking to buy French ones . Israel says its Western-supplied arms buildup is needed in the face of Soviet-bloc supplies to the Arabs , which began to flow in large quantities in 1956 ? The Arab armaments program is supposed to follow a unified plan worked out at 3 Arab summit conferences in 1964 and 1965 in cooperation with the Arab unified command . This plan was originally conceived to bol- ' ster defenses of the three Arab states directly concerned in diverting tributaries of the Jordan River against Israeli retaliation . These states are Syria , Jordan , and Lebanon . The first two Arab summit meetings in 1964 reportedly allotted a budget of S420 million for arms purchases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 10 years under a secret quota system . Arms outlay raised After the third Arab summit in Casablanca last September . Cairo disclosed that the 10-year arms budget had been raised to $560 million . Budgets of most Arab states have showed a marked increase for military expenditures since then . Whether they buy from the East or the West , Arab states are supposed to clear their arms purchases with the unified Arab command in Cairo in advance . Since November , 1965 , Saudi Arabia has announced purchase of a S400 million air defense system , including British jet fighters and United States ' Hawk missiles . Cairn newspapers disclosed that the unified Arab command was developing an intra-Arab missile project . The New York Times disclosed French sales to Israel of ground-to-ground missiles , probably capable of carrying nuclear warheads . Israel warned During a visit to Tokyo , the United Arab Republic Vice Premier for Information , Dr. Abdel Kater Hatem , then indicated his nation would develop nuclear weapons if Israel did so . On Jan. 6 President Salem Aug of Iraq said an Iraqi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the mission was postponed . Moscow was evidently reluctant to receive it during suppression of Iraqi Communists and the present violent phase of the Kurdish rebellion , On Feb. 6 , the Iraqi Cabinet announced Iraq would improve ties with Islamic eou.A. tries " without committing it to any pm:WI or alliances , " Baghdad Radio said . But Iraq is nominally committed to union with Egypt . The joint U.A.R.-Iraq " political command " was due to hold a long-postpaned meeting in Cairo Feb. 12 to discuss union .                     