@@726041

txt If nothing else , Communist China 's so-called cultural revolution has achieved the dubious distinction of making Chinese publications and radio broadcasts incredibly dull . It also has forced a number of periodicals to stop printing and has botched up publication schedules of most others . The situation was accented by notices sent to subscribers recently by two monitoring organizations in Hong Kong . The first , which surveys publications widely , announced that 19 of 60 Chinese-language periodicals normally received had gone out of business . The others were all printing the same articles to a great extent . The organization indicated it considered monitoring radio broadcasts instead . Magazines fade But the other organization , which does monitor broadcasts from Communist China , announced it has the same kind of trouble . It appears that every station broadcasts identical information . Regional news has virtually vanished . Among foreign-language magazines printed in Peking , two have announced they are no longer in business . One is Women of China and the other , Evergreen , a youth magazine . Another , Kexue Tongbao , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication in mid-May  --  but an issue dated May 30 did get distributed in October . Only two of China 's foreign-language periodicals have kept regular schedules : Peking Review , a weekly magazine of Chinese " news and views , " and China 's Foreign Trade , a bi-monthly on international trade , with a bit of politics thrown in . Mao printing pressure Peking 's publication problems stem partly from " cultural purges " and staff reorganizations . The editor of Women of China , for instance , is known to have been purged . The magazine 's Chinese edition has resumed publication but not the English version . Major changes in editorship and format of many newspapers have taken place , and some newspapers have even changed name . Aside from political problems , the publications face physical - obstacles . Tens of millions of copies of the " Selected Works of Mao Tse-tung " and " Quotations from Chairman Mao " are being rush-printed . Presses are probably too busy to bother with other matters . The experience of the monthly Chinese Literature suggests many factors may cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it was finally circulated in September . The June and August issues were missed but also were distributed in September . July was on time . September copies came out in early November , October issues in late November . But the November issue has n't made it yet . China 's Sports has had some peculiar problems . Its May edition appears to have been taken apart and reassembled at least twice before distribution . A pasted-in picture of Chairman Mao apparently was cut by hand from some other printed matter . China 's Sports last met a deadline in June and now is three months behind . The September issue was distributed just before Christmas . China Reconstructs and China- Pictorial , major Peking propaganda efforts printed in many languages , are two months behind . Editors of all the publications play it safe by reprinting articles that obviously have the blessings of Peking powers . All of them , for instance , used almost identical reports of Chairman Mao 's famous Yangtse River swim of July 16  --  but not until the official version was set . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           