@@724534

txt Saigon " Our commitment a three-day , fact-finding tour . Mr. Bundy said his visit had nothing to do with Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin 's trip to North Vietnam . The Soviet Premier , accompanied by high-ranking diplomats , military officers , and aid officials , is scheduled to arrive in Hanoi Friday . Mr. Bundy said his own itinerary had been arranged before he had any knowledge of the Soviet Premier 's plans . Speculation Lively Among the Vietnamese , however , the juxtaposition of the two visits has caused lively speculation . If Poking is encouraging Hanoi to stand firm , perhaps the Soviets are trying to persuade the North Vietnamese that now is the favorable moment to negotiate with South Vietnam and its American allies . But Saigon seems scarcely in a position to treat effectively with the north . despite reports of , - rpreliminary contacts in Paris . The South Vietnamese are still trying to put their own political house in order . This effort , punctuated by swift coups and noisy demonstrations , has been going en ever since the fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no individual or group can claim to speak with final authority for South Vietnam . Celebrations of Tot , the lunar new year , have given military , religious , and political leaders a welcome respite this week . But the nation 's three best organized and most powerful pressure groups ? the armed forces , Buddhists . and Roman Catholics  --  are still far from achieving a real consensus . Each now knows it can not hold power singlehandedly . But many a slippery step lies between this recognition and a genuine sharing of power . Questions Ready Mr. Bundy is likely to ask two main questions , both of American Embassy officials and of Vietnamese civilian and military leaders whom he meets . First , how soon can . you achieve effective government in South Vietnam ? Second , if political instability is to be the fact of life for some time to come , can you insulate the war effort from the rise and fall of governments in Saigon . at least to the degree necessary to prevent a Communist military victory ? No End Visible After failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian government the American Embassy here seems resigned to the prospect of continuing political instability in this nation 's capital . At the same time , the military picture this month has been distinctly encouraging . In a series of eight major battles , government forces lost 37 killed and 122 wounded compared to 426 killed and 133 captured fur the Viet Cong guerrillas . An American military spokesman attributed this improved military situation to quick action and better coordination , especially between ground and air on the part of South Vietnam commanders in the field . If unrest continues over a long period of time and entails too rapid shifting of key com manders. this picture could change . Mr. Bundy is likely to look into all the variables in this complex equation . A ranking United States civilian aid official was feared kidnaped by Communist guerrillas Thursday on the eve of Mr. Bundy 's arrival in Saigon , the Associated Press reported . As United States officials prepared to greet Mr. Bundy and a team of advisers , they were jolted by the news that Gustav C. Hertz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was missing . Kidnaping Hinted I Mr. Hertz left his home Tuesday on a motorbike and never returned . If he was captured by the Communists he would be the most important American to be held captive . I His wife , who lives here with their three children . reported Mr. Hertz missing when he did not return two hours after he had left the house . A search failed to find any trace of him . This is the second disappearance of a United States aid mission official . Last August Joseph W. Grainger , a field representative , was kidnaped and still is missing.                     