@@725509

txt Mayor Lindsay has bowed to Democratic demands and removed all mayoral veto powers from his transportation unity plan for New York City . Nevertheless , there were increasing signs today that the plan was facing serious trouble in both the City Council and the Legislature . Mr. Lindsay , who had already scaled down the plan considerably because of strong criticism , has now amended the legislation to strike out his proposed veto power over the operations of the Transit Authority and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority . Assembly Speaker Anthony J. Travia , the Legislature 's top Democrat , had warned the Republican Mayor that if he did not scrap the veto , the entire plan might be scuttled . Little Left in Plan However , reports both here and in New York City today dispelled the belief that once the veto right was discarded , the Lindsay bills would have clear sailing in the City Council and the Legislature . The reports indicated that many Councilmen and legislators of both parties here now consider the plan to be so emasculated as to be meaningless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oust Robert Moses , the sharpest critic of the Mayor 's transit ideas , from his post as chairman of the Triborough Authority . As one source put it : " The plan does n't consolidate anything any more . It makes no significant change in the transportation structure and it The only element of the oridoes n't provide any significant ginal plan still intact is the I financial assistance to the city . Mayor 's power to remove the lIt looks like all that 's left is an present members of the two aueffort to get rid of Bob Moses . th I One official close to the City orities . Council reported a In addition to dropping the growing veto power , the plan has also feeling among members that the transit plan would be re been amended so that the trans -- jected when it came up for a portation administrator would vote , possibly in two weeks . not be chairman of both auThe Democratic - controlled thorities , but only a memCuncil must endorse the plan ber . There would be a separate full-time chairman of each auwith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serving a fixed , fourit up . year term and removable " only its gives Council the if for cause " after a public hearEven approval , one observer contended , it would probably do so " in the expectation that the clock will run out in Albany " and the whole idea will have to be put over until next year . In the Legislature , the leaders of both parties have never shown any particular enthusiasm for the Lindsay plan and their attitude seems even cooler now . The Lindsay bills need the leaders ' blessing even to get to the floor of both houses for a vote . Under the original Lindsay plan , the Mayor would have had the power to replace all the members of the present three member Triborough and Transit Authority boards with his own appointees . A transportation administrator , appointed by the Mayor to serve at his pleasure , would have been the chairman of both authorities and would have been in charge of all the city 's transportation activities . The Mayor would have had a veto power over the entire operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been efforts to meet the strong criticism that the plan would put too much power in the Mayor 's hands . g ? Also , the mayor would have only two , instead of all three , appointments on each authority  --  the chairman and the transportation administrator-member . The third member would be picked by the Governor , also for a fixed four-year term . There have been recent reports that the Republicans in the Legislature have told Mr. Lindsay that his transit package " might " have a better chance of passage if he let Mr. Moses stay on as Triborough chairman . However , Lindsay aides denied knowledge of any such proposal , and ' Mr. Moses , his aides said , had not been approached on the matter . The transit plan is one of the major pieces of problem legislation holding up adjournment of the Legislature . The others include the Lindsay tax package , also awaiting action in the City Council , and Governor Rockefeller 's promised revision of the Condon-Wadlin Law , which bars strikes by public employes . The legislators will start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of today , as a gift from the leadership for having worked an unusual five days last week .                     