@@726618

txt Washington , Sept. 24 12P  --  The western hemisphere foreign ministers voted tonight " to condemn forcefully " Castro-communist subversion and to impose limited sanctions against noncommunist ships sailing to Cuba . By a 20 to 0 tally , the ministers of the Organization of American States approved a 15-point resolution including the denunciation of Cuba 's " acts of repeated intervention and aggression " in Latin America . Mexico Fails to Vote Only Mexico , the sole OAS member still maintaining relations with Fidel Castro 's regime , failed to join with other American republics in the resolution concluding a three-day conference on the Cuban threat . The OAS called on all friendly countries to halt trade with Cuba until the Castro regime abandons its policies of aggression . The organization also recommended that sanctions be imposed against ships engaging in Cuban trade , including boycotting them and denying them fuel . However , the OAS countries shied away from proposals to blacklist ships carrying cargo to and from Cuba . Agree on U. N. Hearing The ministers earlier condemned Cuba for acts of intervention and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations . The U. N. would be asked to judge whether Cuba 's acts constitute " intervention " by the official U. N. definition . The agreement was reached in prolonged closed sessions . It must , however , be formally approved by a vote of the OAS . 3 Nations Sponsor Move The U. N. motion was sponsored by Chile , Colombia , and Venezuela . Aitho the plan to take the Cuban issue to the United Nations had encountered opposition earlier in the day , the I decision later was made unanimous . Countries that earlier op , . posed the U. N. presentation included the United States , Brazil , Ecuador , and Bolivia . Secretary of State Dean Rusk was reported to have spoken briefly in opposition to giving communist nations the opportunity to use the U. N. as a forum in support of Cuba . American diplomats pointed to the 20 to 0 over-all vote on the final conference product as the biggest accomplishment . They said it showed hemisphere solidarity against Castro . Of the specific provisions , United States forces named those dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 0 margins , Mexico again abstaining , the foreign ministers also approved a dozen other proposals ranging from tightening frontier vigilance against Cuban infiltration to expressing concern to the Russians over their aid to Castro . The actions of the OAS conference amount to recommendation to the hemisphere republics . They are not compulsory . Britain , France , and Spain are among west European naI tions that have continued Cuban trade despite earlier OAS urgings for a cutoff . The members of the Organization of American States , in addition to the United States , are Argentina , Bolivia , Brazil , Chile , Colombia , Costa Rica , Dominiclan Republic , Ecuador , El Salvador , Guatemala , Haiti , Honduras , Mexico , Nicaragua , Panama , Paraguay , Peru , Trinidad , Tobago , Uruguary , and Venezuela .                     