@@722090

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 ? The Atomic Energy Commission : ' has begun a survey into how : much time and money it would take to restore the Eniwetok ! proving grounds for atomic tests : ' in the atmosphere . The study is in line with al conditional decision reached by ' the Administration to resume : atmospheric testing if no favor- ! ! able action is taken on the test ' ' ban issue at the current meeting , of the United Nations General , Assembly , At his news conference today , : Secretary of State Dean Rusk declined to discuss the Adminlistration 's position on resumption of atmospheric tests on the ! ground that any statement should come from the President . Inspection Key Feature The Secretary clearly indicated , however , that the United States would not be satisfied with another voluntary , uninspected moratorium that would not prevent a nation from making secret preparations for resumption of testing or from conducting clandestine tests . While Mr. Rusk did not state so flatly , the inference to be drawn from his comments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a United Nations resolution calling for a voluntary moratorium on atomic testing . Such a resolution has been introduced by India and was approved today by the United Nations Political Committee as the first agenda item in its discussion of the atomic test ban issue . Mr. Rusk pointed out that the Soviet Union twice in the past had Voted for an unpoliced moratorium in the United Nations and was now about to conclude an intensive test series that apparently was in preparation during the moratorium // from Oct. 31 , 1958 , to Sept. 1 , 1961 . The Soviet actions , he said , raise the possibility that Moscow may conclude its present test series and then support another uninspected test moratorium until it is desirous of testing again . Not Productive Enterprise ' That would not be a " very productive enterprise , " he observed . Echoing the White House ' statement issued last night , Mr. Rusk expressed hope that the Soviet Union would not go through with its plan to conduct a fifty-megaton explosion . He argued that such a test , was not necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain it would " cause people all over the world to think a great deal about this event . " Officials concede the United States has been caught at a disadvantage because it was not so prepared as the Soviet Union to resume atomic testing . The lack of preparation was laid by ' officials to the desire to negotiate in " good faith " at the Geneva test-bank talks and to the restrictions imposed by an open society on making secret preparations . The result was that the commission was not prepared to undertake an intensive test series once the go-ahead was received from the President on Sept. 5 . The United States thus far has announced three underground explosions in Nevada , while the Soviet Thion has conducted more than , twenty explosions in the atmosphere . The Eniwetok Proving Ground , which in the past has been used for the testing of large atomic weapons , was maintained on a " stand-by sta. = tus " until July , 1960 , when it was turned over to the Pedal ! , missile range for use by missile tracking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be resumed at Nevada within a matter of weeks , since the problem is not much more complicated than suspending an atomio device from a balloon and setting up instruments to record its explosion . It would probably take several months , however , to staff and prepare the Eniwetok site for testing . It is the Eniwetok site , however , that is of greater importance for the atmospheric shots now planned by the United States . Only at the Eniwetok site can some of the planned explosions be conducted , such as testing larger warheads for the Polaris and Minuteman missiles ; testing warheads for the Nike Zeus anti-missile missile and conducting explosions in outer space to determine their physi- , cal effects , such as jamming communications and radar .                     