@@722269

txt After seven bitter , bloody years of struggle over Algeria 's future , the French government and its Moslem rebel foes are on the brink of agreement on Algerian independence . Now diplomats here are beginning to ponder the deep changes that would come to France " after Algeria . " There are , of course , plenty of barriers to be cleared before any Alegrian peace accord is implemented . The long-awaited peace settlement now being negotiated will itself be a sure signal for turmoil . A third force in Algeria , the Secret Army Organization ( OAS ) , which wants to keep the land in French hands , almost certainly will try to grab control of Algeria 's major cities and very likely will make a bid to topple the de Gaulle govern . ment . Some serious observers , French and foreign alike , do n't even discount the possibility of an Algerian settlement triggering civil war here in France ; this country has moved to the edge of chaos enough times since World War II to keep almost anything within the realm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound up in the turn of events following announcement of an Algerian cease fire . At the worst , the de Gaulle government could be overthrown , plunging France into such turmoil that both the North Atlantic Treaty Or : ganization and the Common Market would be jeopardized At best , France would be freed of a weighty political , military and psychological burden that often has held back the whole Western alliance . Confidence In Paris Despite the hurdles ahead , there 's an increasing confidence here that when the Algerian settlement comes  --  almost everyone regards an independence agreement as only a matter of time , and not too much time at that  --  the French army will side with the government . an OAS uprising in Algeria will be beaten down and any attempt at coup d'etat in Paris will be foiled. - ? The full impact of a settlement on France and Algeria  --  assuming it can be made to stick ? can only be guessed at so long as the precise peace terms remain shrouded in secrect . But the outline of the agreement now being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make possible some educated speculation about longer-range developments , as well as about the turmoil that seems ordained to precede them . Post-Algerian France would be likely to see at least a partial revival of the often irresponsible . sometimes vicious politics of the pre-de Gaulle era . Ironically , an Algerian settlement might reduce the general 's personal political power and stature fairly soon after it went into effect  --  since some large political groups support the general now only because of his Algerian peace efforts , but oppose his other policies There very likely would be some problems with the French army , though some political analysts now doubt they would be the familiar Algeria-oriented ones . The economic impact of peace in Algeria probably would be less in France than has been anticipated , particularly if a politically independent Algeria retains some special economic links with Paris . Different Story in Algeria But before any of these things can come about there obviously must be peace in Algeria This still is far from assured , no matter how much the de Gaulle government and the Moslem leaders ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted to stopping Algerian independence at any cost , probably has only the slimmest chance of seizing power in Paris unless it can assassinate General de Gaulle This ca n't be ruled out completely : at least two assassination attempts have been made and one failed only by a quirk of fate . In Algeria . however , the story is different . There the OAS has a strong organization , great power and a rabid following among most of the million Europeans in the country . When a peace settlement is announced , or perhaps even before the formal agreement is reached , the OAS is almost certain to strike Specialists in Algerian affairs think that at the minimum the OAS will try to take over the largest cities  --  Algiers , Oran and Bone . French government forces may try to bottle them up and starve them out there . But OAS seizure of the cities would raise immediate and serious dangers of an open clash between Europeans and Moslems , and on a last-ditch basis that could make past violence and bloodshed seem only a preliminary . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it help Moslem forces drive European diehards out of their fortified cities , to implement a peace pact between Paris and the Moslems ? Would French officers fire on former colleagues who have gone oNer to the OAS ' Or would the army attack the Moslems to protect the Europeans ? The danger is that fighting between Moslems and Europeans could become so savage that the French army would have to intervene This could start the Algerian war all over again or . even worse . turn Algeria into another Congo . So in many ways assessments about changes a settlement in Algeria would bring to France are subject to modification or even reversal by the sometimes split personality of the French army . Guarding the Eiffel Tower Despite these grim possibilities , there 's an unmistakable increasing confidence in the French government that the Algerian millstone can and will be put down . Still . few needless risks are being run General de Gaulle is slated to make one of his rare television speeches to the nation tonight and tensions are at a peak . Thousands of extra security forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halting cars and sometimes even pedestrians in a search for weapons and the feared plastic bombs , the Eiffel Tower , which houses the city 's TV transmitters , is under heavy guard . As usual , President ( le Gaulle . who came out of self-imposed retirement more than three and a half years ago amid wide expectations that only he could " solve " France 's seemingly unsolvable Algerian problem . is keeping his own counsel about what he 'll say tonight There seems little chance that it will be a dramatic announcement of an Algerian peace settlement : too many strings still are untied for that . But he must talk about Algeria . He probably will say as much about the future as about immediate negotiations . Best guesses are that General de Gaulle will appeal for calm in terror-ridden Algeria and assure Europeans living there that they will be protected in any settlement with the Algerian Moslem National Liberation Front ( FLN ) . The simple fact that a settlement now is taken so much for granted also is shifting interest , and some concern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post-Algerian France . New Elections Likely An end of the Algerian war is sure to release strong pent-up political pressures in France . President de Gaulle has long recognized he would have to face sharp challenges after peace had been restored . For one thing , some of his strongest support on Algerian affairs has come from left wing leaders who violently oppose almost everything de Gaulle stands for in domestic policy The expectation of challenges to come is doubtlessly behind a reported plan to dissolve parliament and hold new elections shortly after peace is proclaimed , providing the peace can be informed . " It 's probably a good tactical move , " observes an allied political specialist there " Whatever the ultimate reaction to the terms of the agreement with the FLN , the French public probably will be in a better mood right after the shooting stops than after a few months when people start reading the fine print . " President de Gaulle also reportedly is anxious to revitalize his own Union for the New Republic party by getting rid of some national assembly members who 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For this reason , if he calls elections anytime soon it is almost certain he will take a strong personal role in the campaign , which he disdained in the 1958 elections that put him in the president 's office . Voters Prove Unpredictable Although to most Americans it might seem inconceivable that the French could fail to give General de Gaulle a landslide election victory in return for peace in Algeria . many analysts here rate new elections a risky business for him . The UNR. they note , has never been an impressive or effective party . Its reason for existence has been to back de Gaulle on Algeria ; with that unifying force gone many members might disagree to the point of mutiny on other issues . French voters in the past have been highly unpredictable and often ungrateful . In addition , there would be much stiffer opposition from numerous political leaders who never dared challenge General de Gaulle on Algeria but vk Is , are Milling to ** luni on other grounds . The Communist Party , despite its apparent numbers , is n't rated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pact triggers widespread violence led by right-wing extremists . The party 's leadership is aging and , according to some specialists , unable to mount much of a campaign on its own . In past elections the Communists have benefited from many " protest " votes cast by people who simply wanted to register their disapproval of France 's other parties , frequently for the way they were handling , or failing to handle , Algerian affairs . Independence for Algeria obviously would mean changes for the French army , though just what the changes would be is anything but obvious . At times during the Algerian war the military has seemed determined to take over in France ; at other times officers have proved staunch defenders of democracy One observer here with close ties to many top officers insists the French army now represents no threat to French democracy . Today this man says , aside from a tiny handful of officers who are well known to civilian authorities , the French officer corps is resigned to the loss of Algeria . Many Officers Resign There are , however . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1.000 officers have resigned in the past year and others are expected to quit or retire soon after an Algerian settlement . Many of those who quit , regardless of what they thought about de Gaulle 's Algerian policies , were rated outstanding professional officers . Their departure has had a definite effect , for the worse , on army leadership . according to persons ttho work closely with the French military . Moreover , army morale now is at its lowest point since the defeat of 1940. perhaps even lower than at that time , some observers reckon . The army must be reorganized. its esprit de corps restored , a new cause for its existence furnished and new means to carry out its functions provided . To make matters worse , only a few officers now are represented as having any real respect for de Gaulle as a military man . He last wore a uniform in combat in 1940 , they point out , and has shown an inflexible mind on the subject of modern warfare . " He could n't even see the importance of an integrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French air force officer " And instead of spending to build tip a modern military force geared ' to play its part in NATO . , he wants to waste billions on a nuclear strategic striking force that we all know is just a lot of foolishness . " The overwhelming majority of officers , according to some foreign analysts here , believe France 's military role today should be that of a leading member of NATO bearing a full share of the burden of defending Western Europe  --  but demanding in consequence a strong voice in the NATO organization . These officers are enthusiastic about plans to make NATO itself a nuclear power , and hope to see France then equip its own army with modern tactical nuclear weapons . In all these matters the army 's hopes probably will run afoul of de Gaulle 's intentions and it is in this area rather than the ancient history of the Algerian settlement that military observers foresee trouble . May Not Sac Money Economically , peace in Algeria may mean relatively little saving for France , particularly if the Algerian rebel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former mother country . This now is n't as remote a possibility as it once seemed . During the long peace negotiations the rebel leaders have come to realize how economically dependent Algeria is on France . This may be enough . according to some diplomats , to offset their political distaste for any " special " relationship with France after independence . Provided an Independent Algeria does n't destroy all its ties to Paris , France 's present claimed outlay of about $800 million a year in Algerian aid probably would continue on about its current level . General de Gaulle already has indicated his willingness to continue economic aid if relations do n't deteriorate completely . Algeria obviously would need vast amounts of assistance to keep its economy going after the French forces pull out and ninny Europeans leave , as they undoubtedly would after a peace settlement . Most of the money would have to come from governments ; there 's almost no private investment in Algeria now and there would be even less in the years immediately after independence Eventually , of course , all French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would n't mean much saving for France either . In fact , French military budgets may rise after a peace settlement . If the army performs as de Gaulle hopes it will in the months to come it will have to be rewarded for its faithfulness . Many observers believe this reward would come in the form of a costly modernization program . This . of course , would be a plus for NATO but perhaps not for French taxpayers . Sahara 011 Future " Any French taxpayers who are waiting for the war to end so the budget will go down are in for a big disappointment . " predicts a political analyst in a Western embassy . The French never have revealed just what the Algerian war costs them . though $500 million a year in military expenses alone is considered a reasonable estimate by some well-informed diplomats Present expectations are that the end of the Algerian war would mean only about a 200 000-man reduction in the size of France 's armed forces The remainder of the troops now in Algeria would be reassigned within France or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerations not only on aid-and-trade ties but also on the future of the oil fields in the Sahara which would be part of an independent Algeria France 's investment in oil operations there is well over $1 billion , and it was expected that the Sahara would make France self-sufficient in oil by 1965 . Current Sahara output is running about 130 million barrels a year The cost per barrel actually is running a little above currently-depressed world market prices but payment is in francs , two facts which have impressed both French and Algerian peace negotiators . The French want to continue saving foreign exchange and the Algerians want to sell the oil . This is why the rebels apparently have agreed to a long-term concession  --  the details still are being worked out  --  which recognizes Algerian political sovereignty in the Sahara but protects French financial interests and the oil supply .                     