@@726284

txt The Greek Army coup of April 21 is echoing through the Middle East , far beyond Greek borders . Greece 's neighbors are nearly all hostile toward it . Judging from weekend newspaper and broadcast comment , this is as true in Ankara as it is in " Socialist " Arab capitals like Cairo and Damascus . There also is a somewhat more . vague but widespread uneasiness that United States involvement in the eastern Mediterranean is going to grow as a result . The Greek crisis already is regarded in Lebanon , for instance , as a possible ? excuse to postpone a politically ticklish visit of the United States Sixth Fleet in late May . Reports differ Mideast commentators recall that Greek opposition leader Georges Papandreou , whose resignation under pressure from King Constantine in 1965 began the events that led to the coup , had wanted to reduce emphasis on Greek ties with NATO and the United States . The Cyprus crisis and resulting tension with Turkey in 1960 through 1964 helped build in Athens a feeling of frustration . It sprang from big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the United States . ( At the risk of his crown , King Constantine is reported refusing to suspend Greece 's Constitution and give the country 's new military junta his public approval , according to the Associated Press . ( Sources in Athens said the young King signed the proclamation supporting the military coup last Friday after Army officers told him they would dethrone him if he did n't . ? ( But diplomats in London said Monday their embassies in Athens reported the King swore in the new government only to avoid executions of political leaders . They said he still is resisting military demands that he declare a state of emergency and endorse the junta in , a broadcast to the nation . ) Turks ease ties The Athens coup came after many observers had predicted a landslide electoral victory next month of Mr. Papandreou 's liberal and anti-American forces . Now it is questionable whether the May 28 elections will be held as scheduled . The coup also closely followed the recent visit of Turkish President Sunay to Washington . Since Turkey 's own military coup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its American ties . Washington 's opposition to Turkey 's projected invasion of Cyprus in 1964 reinforced this tendency . Turkish diplomacy has moved closer to Moscow and Cairo . The unreserved commit ments to the United States made in the 1950 's are more openly questioned in Turkey than before . Larger portions of the Turkish budget are spent on national development . Soviet participation in this development is growing fast . Moscow 's comment on the Sunday visit to Washington noted that revision of the United States-Turkish military accords and other sensitive subjects were not Mentioned in the final communiqu ? . This looked like greater intransigence toward Washington . President Johnson 's administration re . cently reiterated the continued importance of both Turkey and Greece to Western de . fense in public messages . In specific military terms Greece 's First Army and 28th Tactical Air Force Group , based at Larissa under NATO command , are of special interest to the Pentagon . Greece 's new masters , if they can remain in power , are therefore certain to play heavily the tune of " Atlantic solidarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   