@@721828

txt Secretary of Defense Robert S. promised the Senate Armed Services Committee at a recent closed hearing that he would reduce the disclosure of military information " of benefit to our potential enemies . " The Secretary revealed that he already had taken some measures to cut the flow of military information , but he did not say what they were . " I do not think you would want me to tell you what the area is , " he observed . According to the 603-page transcript of the hearings released today , the committee members were greatly agitated over security disclosures . Secretary said he was " heartened " by their attitude . Secretary ' Shocked ' The Secretary said he was " shocked " when his own statement to the committee on aircraft , missile and ship requirements had been cleared for publication with details that would be " of great value " to a " Soviet planner . " Mr , revealed that although his statement had been cleared by security officers , who noted that the material had been published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ release . In his testimony Mr. also called attention to his recent assignment of Lieut . Gen. Joseph F. Carroll , inspector general of the Air Force , to the problem of preventing leaks of information " of benefit to our potential enemies . " Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , the chairman of the committee , raised the question of press discloz-:re of military information at the committee 's opening hearing on procurement authorizations held April 5 . This was a month before President Kennedy discussed the problem in connection with the Cuban affair and appealed to the nation 's press for self-restraint in handling security information . Russell Is ' Riled ' Senator Russell concentrated ' his fire as much on officially released material as on so-called ; mofficial , unauthorized " leaks . " " This thing has gotten to a point where we practically have no secrets , where we practically have told the Russians ) in advance where everything is , where every detail to the last bomb , the last missile , is lo-1 cated , " Senator Russell said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some years over excessive disclosure of military information . He apologized for having " exploded " during the hearing to complain about it . Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts , the ranking Republican on the committee , interjected to tell Mr. " that this is the biggest ' explosion I have heard from the chairman in fifteen years and I hope it , has made an effect on you . " ? The committee chairman termed " absolutely ridiculous " the suggestion that the public has " a right to know the most highly secret of our defense plans . " Few citizens , he continued , would want to know " even the fact , Mr. Secretary , that Charleston , S. C. , is the only place where we can load . a Polaris submarine . " " Was that pri-Ited ? " asked Senator Francis Case , Republican of South Dakota . Senator Russell advised him that the information had been printed " time and again . " Secretary , explaining his attitude , . said he obje:ted particularly to publication of possible weaknesses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . anti-missile developments may not be satisfactory ? " ' the Secretary demanded . " What we ought to be saying is that wd have the most perfect anti-ICBM system that the human mind will ever devise . Instead the public dom : ? a is already full of s* --  " : rents that the Zeus may not be satisfactory , that it has deficiencies . " The Secretary 's next comment was deleted , but this observation was allowed : " I think it is absurd to release that kind of information for t ' . : e public . " Doubt Raised on Midas In another passage of the released testimony , Secretary erelained that there was " considerable uncertainty " as to the technical feasibility of the Nike Zeus , that even if it were developed there wee " many serious operating problems yet to be solved , " and that one of its apparent weaknesses was that it could be rendered ineffective through " saturation " by the ballistic missiles it was designed to knock down . Secretary also raised doubts , for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " spy in the sky " satellite could be " pursued to a successful completion . " Senator Saltonstall called attention to an article in The Evening Journal of Wilmington , Del. , with the headline , " United - Lieut . Gen- Carroll States Has 59 Hydrogen Missiles Ready to Go , ' which he said " goes into some detail regalling the Atlases and Polar-I Ilse ; and so on . " " We ; get disturbed in this cenEinittee sometimes because we take something in utter secrecy and then we read it in the paper the next morning , " Senator Saltonstall said . Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , told holy he had visited Adana , Turkey , , in 1959 and was given- a briefing by the base commander , who referred to a project of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration run by " a Colonel Shelton . " When he asked why a colonel should run such a project , Senator Symington continued , the commander responded that he could not answer the question . When he persisted , the Senator went on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not disclose his mission . " The next time I heard Colonel Shelton 's name was in a speech of Mr. Khrushchev who announced he was the commanding officer of Captain Powers . " The Senator referred to Col. William M. Shelton and Capt . Francis Gary Powers . Captain Powers , the pilot of the 11-2 plane that was downed over the Soviet Union on May 1 , 1960 , is now in a Soviet prison .                     