@@724053

txt The House Republican leadership was setting the-stage today for a party-line vote on a $500 million cut in the $3.5 billion foreign aid program requested by President Johnson and authorized by the House last week . The authorization bill last week set the ceilings on the aid categories proposed in the Administration 's program . The Republicans will seek to cut this amount in the appropriations measure , which must be separate from the authorization . The demand for party loyalty on the issue has been limited thus far to Republican members of the House Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee on Foreign Operations . The subcommittee is headed by Representative Otto E. Passman , Democrat of Louisiana , architect of the proposed $500 million cut . But many Republican members readily acknowledged that these overtures were but a forerunner of a leadership demand for a straight party vote for the cut . This demand would mean an end to the bipartisan approach to foreign aid that began under Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican of Michigan , in 1947 . Doubt on Effectiveness The leadership effort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority leader ; Gerald R. Ford of , Michigan , chairman of the Republican conference , and John J. Rhodes of Arizona , may not be so effective as it was last year , when Republicans voted almost solidly for a recommittal motion that cut $585 million from the authorizing legislation . One reason for this view was the formal establishment today of the National Committee for International Development with Sol M. Linowitz as chairman of its Executive Committee . Mr. Linowitz is chairman of the board of the Xerox Corporation . The nonpartisan organization 's executive group , which was completed today , includes leaders in business and industry , banking , education , labor and foreign economic development . The purpose of the organization is to conduct a quiet educational program to promote effective foreign aid by exposing the many criticisms about // the program , such as its supposed adverse effect on the nation 's monetary problems . The chief objective of the ex. ecutive group and a national committee of 100 still being completed is to tell of the importance of United States economic and military aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the executive group was selected to apply his own special knowledge to the over-all objective of re kindling public acceptance and support for the aid program and to carry out quiet missionary work with members of the Senate and House . In announcing the executive - group , Mr. Linowitz was noncommittal about the bitter behind-the-scenes struggle in the Passman subcommittee over the aid appropriation bill . With his prestige already on the line in demanding " every dollar " of the $3.5 billion authorized , President Johnson called in Democratic members of the House Appropriations Committee yesterday to drive home his conviction that nothing less tha nthe full authoriza -- tion voted by the House would suffice to carry out even a " bare-bones " program in the year ahead . - His arguments were echoed by Secretary of State Dean Rusk and David E. Bell , foreign aid administrator , during a closed session of the " Senate  --  Foreign Relations Committee today . Others in Group Besides Mr. Linowitz , those named to the executive group of the development group today were Eugene . R. Black , former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chase Manhattan Bank of New York ; Thomas D. Cabot , head of the Boston investment banking firm that bears his name ; Daniel Kimball , president of the Aerojet General Corporation and former Navy Secretary ; Mrs. Oswald B. Lord , former ' United States delegate to the United Nations ; George Meant ' , president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress - of Industrial Organizations ; - Jesse W. Tapp , chairman of the Bank of America ; and Mrs. George Bell , long connected with international economic-de , velopment organizations .                     