@@722143

txt A United Nations investigation commission said today that " in all probability " Patrice Lumumba and two aides were killed " in the presence of " Moise Tshombe . A report by the commission said that Mr. Lumumba , deposed Premier of the Congo , was murdered about a month before the date of his death given by the Government of Katanga Province . It added that Mr. Lumumba was a prisoner of Katanga when he was killed . The commission said that " the weight of evidence " was against the official version issued by Mr. Tshombe 's Katanga Government . Hatanga 's Version According to this version , Mr. Lumumba and his companions were killed Feb. 12 by tribesmen after they escaped from the house in which they were held . This was after they had been turned over to the Katanga Government by President Joseph D. Kasavubu of the Congolese central Government . The report said that Mr. Kasavubu " and his aides " had knowingly thrown Mr. Lumumba , Joseph Ekito and Maurice Mpolo " into the hands of their bitterest political enemies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Government of the Province of Katanga , " it declared , " in turn not only failed to safeguard the lives of the three prisoners but also had , by its action , contributed , directly or indirectly , to the murder of the prisoners . " The report said that the record " bristled with evidence indicative of the extensive role " played by Godefroid Munongo , Katanga 's Minister of the In- terror , " in the entire plot leading to the murder " of the three prisoners . The four-man commission , which was established by the General Assembly last April , complained that it had not been allowed to go to the Congo . It produced no eyewitnesses of the alleged murder , relying for the most part on nearsay evidence by witnesses it did not name . The commission declared that " it accepts as substantially true the evidence indicating that the prisoners were probably killed on 17 January 1961 . " Justice Aung Khine of Burma was chairman of the commission , and Ayite- d'Almeida of Togo was rapporteur . Other members were Ato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mexico . The commission met in New York , London , Brussels and Geneva after the Congolese central Government failed to give it permission to make investigations in the Congo . Council Dispute Likely The timing of the report is expected to produce a storm tomorrow when the Security Council resumes its debate on a demand by Ethiopia that it take prompt and decisive action to " insure the reintegration of Katanga into the Congolese nation . " The Soviet Union , the United Arab Republic , Ethiopia and other foes of the Katanga Government are expected to insist that the report justifies military action by the United Nations force against Katanga troops . Ceylon , Liberia and the United Arab Republic made public tonight a draft resolution authorizing Secretary General U Thant " to take vigorous action , including the use of requisite measure of force if necessary for the immediate apprehension , detention pending legal action and/or deportation of all foreign mercenaries and hostile elements . . . " Justin Bomboko , Foreign Minister of the Congolese Government , said today that he had not been shown a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A United States spokesman declined to comment and added that the United States would not speak in the Security Council debate tomorrow . A spokesman for Paul-Henri Spaak , Belgian Foreign Minister , and chief delegate to the United Nations , said that he would have no comment pending a study of the report . The report attacked alleged discrepancies in the Katanga Government 's contention that Mr. Lumumba and his companions had been killed while attempting to escape , Belgians Named The report did not name anyone as the slayer , but said that " a great deal of suspicion is cast on a certain Colonel Huyghe , a Belgian mercenary , as being the actual perpetrator of Mr. Lumumba 's murder , which was committed in accordance with a prearranged ' plan and that a certain Captain Gat , also a Belgian mercenary , was at all times an accessory to the crime . " The commission said the evidence was not clear " as to who actually murdered " Mr. Ekito and Mr. Mpolo but that there were indications that " they were murdered about the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lumumba , who had been under the protection of United Nations forces after being deposed from office , fled from his home in Leopoldville at the end of November , 1960 , and was captured by Congolese forces a. few days later . It said that the former Premier and his companions were " beaten up " in a plane in which they were being taken to Elisabethville , the capital of Kaat nga , and it detailed subsequent attemps by the United Nations to assure their safety . In its attack on the Katanga1 Government 's version , the com-1 mission emphasized that it had not been allowed to go to Katanga or to examine the bodies . It said also that the " tone used by Mr. Munongo " when he announced the death of the prisoners in terms savoring of personal spite , was such as to confirm the impression that the version given by the Provincial Government of Katanga was false . " Other points included these : ( lit was improbable that the prisoners , who had arrived in Elisabethville in what Mr. Tshombe called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dig in one hour the hole in the wall through which they allegedly escaped . lit was " strange " that only two soldiers , out of an escort of fifteen , were assigned to guard the three prisoners during the night . ilTo the commission 's knowledge , the officer in charge of the guard detail , was not punished . Accounts of Witnesses The commission cited statements by three witnesses in support of the theory that Mr. Lumumba had been murdered . It said that all three had asked that their names not be used for fear of reprisals . Their accounts were as follows : According to the first witness , Mr. Munongo himself plunged ' a bayonet into Mr. Lumumba 's chest and " a certain Captain Ruys , a Belgian mercenary serving in the Katanga army , ended his sufferings by putting a bullet through his head . " The commission said the wit ness ' account had been based on a report from the Katanga police to the Belgian Depart ment of African Affairs , a pho tostat of which he claimed to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain the report from the Belgian Government . A Belgian spokesman said tonight that no such report existed , and that there was no reason why the Katanga police should have submitted one to Brussels . The second witness , said to be a " British mercenary captured by the United Nations in Katanga and evacuated from the Congo , " was quoted as having said that Colonel Huyghe had admitted to him " that he had shot Mr. Lumumba and his two companions with the assistance of a certain Captain Gat , another Belgian mercenary , and a few other volunteers serving with the Katanga gendarmerie in the area of Elisabethville , in a villa garden , where a few men had gathered for drinks to " celebrate " the arrival of Mr. According to the witness , Mr. Lumumba and ins companions . " Tshombe , Mr. Munongo and some other Katanga ministers " were present at the time of the Murder , " as was " Mr. RussellCargill , " not otherwise identified . The third witness , " another British mercenary , " quoted Colonel Huyghe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr : Ekito and Mr. Mpolo were killed first by bullets in the back of the head , and Mr. Lumumba , who then walked into the room , " fell on the ground and started rolling and screaming for mercy , and Huyghe said he shot him as he rolled on the ground . " The British witness said , however , that he wanted to stress " that we had both been drinldng and Huyghe at that time might have been bragging , though I would not personally put it past Huyghe to have carried out this action . " The commission conceded that there were " slight discrepancies on minor points " but said that the three accounts " of the facts of the murder " were essentially the same .                     