@@727265

txt Springfield , III. , July 21 ? In a burst of anti-crime actions , the legislature today sent a I stop-and-frisk bill to Gov . Simi piro , The Democratic governor has indicated to THE CHICAGO THIBUNE that he will accept the changes in his proposal of July 15 to eliminate a 20. minute time limit on detention and eliminate the requirement that the questioning be done where the suspected person was stopped . The new police powers will apply whenever anyone is 1w-Hued to have committed , to be about to commit . or to be committing either a misdemea-. nor or a felony . Vital to Future Laws Proponents said the measure is vital to make effective present and future laws to control firearms . Concealed weapons found under the stop-and-search provision may be used as evidence in court . The Senate today voted , 50 to 2 , for the Ifouse  --  passed bill . The only votes against were by Sen. Charles Chew and Sen. Fred J. Smith , Chicago Democrats , who fear that Negroes will be harassed . Former Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Appeals on May 21 , vetoed Republican stop  --  and-frisk bills after the 1965 and 1967 sessions . Penalties for Assault Also sent to Gov . Shapiro today was a bill increasing the penalties for aggravated as ? sault and making them apply to any assault committed in a public place . Ordinary assault conviction carries only a S100 fine but the top punishment for aggravated assault is being boosted from one year in jail to 1 to 5 years in prison . Sen. Robert F. Cherry D. , Chicago was the chief sponsor of the 1968 aggravated assault bill . He said that the definition of the crime should be extended to any assault in a public transit vehicle or depot . Rep. Jack Cassidy D. , Peoria had the Cherry bill amended to go much further , to cover any assault happening in any public place . The act of assault should be the crime , not the place , Cassidy said , as the House concurred in Senate passage of the measure . Today the Senate agreed , 51 to 1 , with the House that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make arrests away from the transit property , as when they pursue offenders . Ask Insurance Coverage The Senate also approved a House-passed bill to assure the continuance of property damage insurance in areas which suffer from riots or other disturbances . Gov . Shapiro called for this measure in his message July 15 when the summer session of the legislature was convened . Approaching the end tomorrow of the two-week session , the legislature showed no indication of grunting Gov . Shapiro 's request for a state law to require registration of " each and every firearm . " Chicago has registered 359,000 guns under a new city ordinance , Instead , the Senate today concurred in House passage of a bill to eliminate the 72-hour waiting period under a 1967 state law for purchasing a firearm if one gun is being traded in for a new weapon . There is a question whether Gov . Shapiro will let this measure become law , altho its chief sponsor is the Democratic whip of the House , Rep. Clyde Choate of Anna . Final legislative approval was given by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pardons and paroles to notify by letter the state 's attorney , judge , and complaining witnesses when a convict is deemed eligible tot a parole hearing . " This goes back to the Summerdale police scandal in Chicago , when the crooked cops were released from prison without notice to anyone , " said Sen. Joseph Krasowski , Republican nominee for Congress in Chicago 's southwest aide 5th district . Backed by Ogilvie Facing possible veto are bills sent to Gov . Shapiro today by the Senate to merge the Cook county jail with the Chicago city House of Correction the Briciewell . Sen , James Loukes of Chicago 's north side was the only Democrat joining G. 0 . P. senators in the 38 to 17 roll call . These bills are supported by Richard B. Ogilvie , Republican nominee against Gov . Shapiro in the Nov. 5 election . " Today 's action in the Senate was a significant contribution toward improvement of government in Cook county and Illinois , " said a statement from Ogilvie . " I hope Gov . Shapiro will place his responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daley of Chicago in considering these vital bills . " Puts Thru Ogilvie Bilis Sen. Arthur R. Swanson R. , Chicago handled these Ogilvie bills . He had great difficulty but finally won out for other House-passed Ogilvie bills , The second batch would authorize the issuance of revenue bonds for Cook county forest preserve district recreation facilities for skiing , golfing , and other sports . Sen. Swanson taunted the Democrats for opposing this revenue bond program after he helped them pass a bill to enlarge the Chicago park district bonding powers . Passed today by the House , 153 to 0 , the bill will permit the Chicago park district to issue bonds up to one-half of one per cent of Chicago property valuation . It means that 13 million dollars in bonds may be sold without referendum next year .                     