@@727031

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam ? While the world talked of peace last week , 30.000 American soldiers and marines were advancing steadily , under a hail of artillery and rocket fire , toward the marine garrison at Khesanh . It was one of the war 's most dramatic developments . For more than two months , the marines at Khesanh had been surrounded by the enemy . Expecting an attack at any instant , they slept when they could in cramped bunkers and trenches , without once getting a hot meal or bath . Mortar and rocket shells fell around them with monotonous regularity and the enemy tunneled closer and closer . But by week 's end , the enemy siege was officially declared lifted . The 30,000-man relief force reached the base and then fanned out in search of the enemy troops which , according to American intelligence reports , were withdrawing rapidly . U. S. Army helicopter units entered the base . These developments , of course , caused a wave of relief to break over the American Embassy in Saigon . No one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary peace talks , with the enemy poised to strike at Khesanh . Any successful attack on the garrison while talks were under way would greatly improve the enemy 's bargaining position and make it difficult  --  to say the least  --  for the Allies to come away from the negotiating table with anything approaching a satisfactory settlement . Move Toward Laos Few military officials here ? either American or Vietnamese ? thought that the North Vietnamese withdrawal meant the enemy would stay permanently on the defensive . Tentative intelligence reports indicated the withdrawal , which began even before the American relief force started moving toward Khesanh , was toward Laos and to nearby parts of South Vietnam  --  not back to North Vietnam . This would leave the enemy with several options in trying to win a victory that would help their negotiators if peace talks start in earnest . They could attack one of the many American installations within 50 miles of Khesanh , or they could march south along the Laotian border and swoop in on targets in the central highlands  --  perhaps around Dakto where they fought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could use the troops for a " second wave " offensive on South Vietnamese cities . " They will attack somewhere . You can be sure of that , " said Gen. Cao Van Vien , the commander of the South Vietnamese army . " They need a big victory . " American officers were not making their predictions publicly , but many felt the same way . However , the Americans thought the next major attack would come against an American installation , while the South Vietnamese tended to think it wawa come against the nation 's citief It was normal , said one Aiverican officer , for both the Americans and South Vietnamese to be especially concerned about their own areas of responsibility . And he thought it was a good thing . " That way everyone will stay on his toes , " he said , " and make it harder for the enemy to catch any of us by surprise . " For its part , the United States is becoming increasingly ags .. essive in South Vietnam , Vying hard to regain the initiat 're it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy at tacked the nation 's major cities .. And it was pressing hard spite all the talk of peace . Relief Drive The relief forces were getting their drive under way , for example , just as President Johnson was going on television to tell the world he was invoking a partial bombing pause in an effort to bring North Vietnam to the bargaining table . But long before , the Americans had been hitting the enemy hard around Khesanh with massive bombing raids . About 90,000 tons of explosives  --  more than fell on Europe in all of 1942 and 1943 ? were dropped on enemy positions near Khesanh over a two-month period . This , many American officers think , is what prompted the enemy to start withdrawing . Although the United States stopped bombing North Vietnam north of the 20th parallel last week in accordance with Mr. Johnson 's order , it stepped up its bombing in North Vietnam south of the 20th parallel , especially in the area closest to the demilitarized zone . American planes were flying as many bombing missions , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been flying over all of North Vietnam . The United States wanted to make doubly sure , American officers explained , that the enemy did not take advantage of the ' partial bombing pause to rush more troops and supplies intoSouth Vietnam . " The war is not over yet by any means , " said one officer , " and until it is , we are not going to be lulled into a false sense of security and jeopardize the lives of our men . " RC-3.33 ? . - 1.11:1-5                     