@@725876

txt With his instinct for hyperbole , President Johnson has termed this " the best Congress in the history- of this nation . " If the record is confined to domestic affairs , the 89th Congress can ' certainly be judged one of the most constructive and socially responsible in . the ' twentieth century , ranking with its predecessors of 1933-34 which launched the New Deal and of 1913-1914 which created the Federal Reserve System . The first session last year passed the more - historic laws  --  the voting rights act for Southern Negroes , Medicare , Federal aid to elementary and secondary schools , repeal of the national origin quotas in the immigration law . But except in civil rights where the Senate failed badly , the second session also produced important legislation . Viewed as a whole , the 89th has been an exceptionally constructive Congress . The four areas in which Congress made outstanding progress are education , transportation , urban affairs and the physical and social environment . This has been an " education Congress . " Last year , it enacted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's schools ; this year , it expanded that program and authorized the expenditure of approximately $6 billion for the next two fiscal years . Programs to construct buildings for colleges and universities and to assist their students as well as a Teacher Corps for hardship neighborhoods and a " Cold War G.I. Bill of Rights " to educate veterans were also enacted . At last , the nation is making the financial investment in education that has so long been needed . Congress 's excellent record is marred only by its curious squabbling over funds for the modest Teacher Corps . Congress created a Cabinet-level Department of Transportation , started a program of improved railroad passenger service in the Boston-to-Washington corridor and expanded aid for mass transit . The . Maritime Administration was unwisely left out of the new department , no action was taken on the President 's request for airway user charges , and much more needs to be done to achieve a coherent transportation policy ; but , after years of stalemate , these modest advances in the transportation field are encouraging . The cities and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally succeeded in capturing the serious attention of Congress . The Cabinet-level Department of Housing and Urban Development was established , a promising " demonstration cities " program started and rent supplements authorized . Similarly , environmental issues came more to the fore as Congress improved the Clean Air Act , prodded the states to establish clean water standards for lakes and rivers and greatly expanded Federal funds to build sewage treatment plants . Federal laws regulating the manufacture of automobiles , the grading of tires , and the frequency of billboards as well as encouraging driver training and other safety programs were enacted . But Congress again shamefully surrendered to the gun lobby and took no action to regulate the sale of firearms . The 89th Congress can not rank with its predecessor of 1963-64 for its achievements in conservation of natural resources , but it did authorize a new national park  --  Guadalupe Mountains in Texas  --  and saved four waterfront areas , including the long-disputed Indiana ' Dunes . It did not pass the wild rivers bill or protect the California Redwoods but , fortunately , neither did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social welfare measures were passed , including an increase in the minimum wage , reform of Federal bail procedures , civil commitment rather than prison terms for narcotic addicts , a rather weak truth-in-packaging bill , and proper standards for the care of animals used in medical research . The Congress , aside from the creation of the two new Cabinet departments , was at its most conservative on questions of Government structure . It took no positive action on reform of the Electoral College , four-year terms for members of the House , reorganization of Congress or home rule for the District of Columbia . The most serious weakness in the record of this Congress was in foreign affairs . At last , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee exercised its prerogatives and opened up a useful national debate on Vietnam ; but the Senate killed the resolution for a committee to supervise the Central Intelligence Agency more effectively . Both houses joined in passing a scandalously inadequate foreign aid bill . Frustration over the course of the war in Vietnam and confused anxieties over Negro-white relationships have clouded the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the war has held down spending on necessary domestic programs ; racial tensions caused the defeat of this year 's civil rights bill and have undercut support for the war against poverty . Notwithstanding these distorting influences , this Congress has , in the maid ' , labored wisely and constructively in the national interest .                     