@@723081

txt From Canada The recent Canadian election , though it failed to give any party a majority in Parliament , has cleared the way for a new attack on the stubborn international problem of the Columbia River . Premier W. A. C. Bennett , of British Columbia , dardly waited for the votes to be counted on election night before he demanded that a new Liberal government , under Lester B. Pearson , should seek immediate ratification of the Columbia hydroelectrical treaty between Canada and the United States . The whole Columbia River plan involves gigantic volumes of new electricity to be shared by Canada and the United States . Meeting Sought Before the new Canadian Parliament meets , Mr. Bennett intends to meet Mr. Pearson personally and discuss the future of the Columbia 's huge but unused power potential within Canada . Mr. Bennett failed , in two years of argument , to reach a Columbia agreement with the Progressive Conservative government of Canada under Prime Minister John G. Die- fenbaker , but he hopes to secure it from a Liberal government under Mr. Pearson . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , B.C. of Howard Green , Minister of External Affairs , who had long opposed Mr. Bennett 's design for the development of the Columbia and had refused to submit the Canadian-American treaty to Parliament . Roadblocks Remain Mr. Green 's surprising departitre from politics removes one roadblock to a Columbia agreement . But there are others . Mr. Pearson regards the Columbia treaty as unfair to Canada and promises , if he forms a government , to renegotiate it . on more satisfactory terms , with the United States . He has never indicated in detail what concessions be would ask , but renegotiation , on any terms , would take time , perhaps many months . It appears unlikely , therefore , and perhaps impossible , that the new Canadian Parliament can consider the Columbia problem at its first session , expected to open late in May . After negotiations between Ottawa and Washington , a re vised treaty ? if it can be arranged to suit Mr. Pearson  --  could not be submitted to Parliament before autumn at earliest . Since Mr. Bennett supports the Columbia treaty as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be easy . But Mr. Bennett is moving quickly to achieve them .                     