@@724920

txt Charles A. Buckley , the Bronx County Democratic leader , threw his support yesterday to the mayoral candidacy of Controller Abraham D. Beame . Clubs lcd by the former Representative began circulating petitions on behalf of Mr. Beanie and his two running mates , District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor of Queens for Council President and Civil Court Judge Mario A. Procaccino of the Bronx for Controller . Mr. Buckley called it " a very capable ticket . " The 75-year-old Bronx chief added that he would be willing to have his supporters also circulate petitions for Council President Paul R. Screvane . Wants to Beat Screvane " I want to make sure he 's on the ticket so we can give him a good beating , " Mr. Buckley asserted , Asked for comment , a spokesman at Beanie campaign headquarters replied that the Controller had frequently said " he will accept support from anybody as long as they adhere to his principles . " The Bronx action was taken through the district clubs supporting Mr. Buckley-11 of the county 's 12 clubs  --  rather than through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Beame 's candidacy an army of election district captains to bring out votes for the Sept. 14 Democratic primary . Usually less than a third of enrolled voters turn out for such a vote . On the other hand , there was a question as to how much political capital could be made by Mr. Beame 's rivals of the endorsement of Mr , Buckley , The Bronx leader was defeated for his seat in - Congress in last year 's primary and is likely to face Reform Democratic challenges to some of his borough candidates , In Mr. Beame 's home borough of Brooklyn , Assemblyman Stanley Steingut , Kings County Democratic leader , said the county organization was keeping away from endorsing any candidates except for borough offices . He said he had taken the position that the district leaders " Can do what they want as leaders . " Of the other county organizations , the New York rind Queens County executive committees by majority vote have endorsed Mr. Screvane 's bid . The Richmond organization 's district clubs , led ' by Councilman at Large Robert ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ticket over the weekend . Daniel P. Moynihan and Orin Lehman are the Screvane choices for Council President and Controller respectively . Harlem Decision Awaited Harlem 's Negro district leaders , including Representative Adam Clayton Powell but excluding Councilman J. Raymond Jones , the New York County Democratic leader , were reported " leaning " toward the Beame slate . Their decision was reported to have been delayed , at least until tomorrow , Another Democratic mayoral aspirant , Councilman Paul O'Dwyer , rallied his campaign workers at the Henry Hudson Hotel last night . He pictured himself as a " liberal Democrat " who had had sharp differences with both Mr. Screvane and Mr. Beanie . Mr. O'Dwyer said he had urged a ' crash program " ' against narcotics , a city lobby in Washington for Federal aid , a full-time City Council to enable more careful scrutiny of the budget , the elimination of the Board of Estimate and the expunging of the $4 million local civilian defense program . Further , Mr. O'Dwyer said he had voted against the current budget with its $255 million borrowing program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales taxes here and voted against " raids on our vanishing parklands " and new Cadillacs for Borough Presidents . Mr. O'Dwyer 's running mate for City Council President , W. Bernard Richland , last night challenged the other candidates for the Council post to a debate " anytime , anywhere . " Ryan to Name Slate The fourth Democratic mayoral candidate , Representative William F. Ryan , called a news conference for 10 A.M. today at the Sheraton-Atlantic Hotel to name his running mates . License Commissioner Joseph C. DiCarlo was understood to have declined an invitation to lake the . Controller 's spot. : Mr. Beanie charged the Re-1 publican-Liberal mayoral ilcsigH nee , Representative John Lindsay of Manhattan , with " au ! , affront to the people of Brook- ' lye . " This was in a statement yesterday aimed at comments on a Lindsay helicopter tour last Friday during which a Lindsay companion , the architect Philip Johnson , said that " the only green we saw in Brooklyn was for the dead  --  in the cemeteries . " Mr. Beanie charged that " Lindsay 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own Silk Stocking Park Avenue , MsDict . " For himself , Mr. Beame sched  --  I tiled a night out in Prospect Park to attend last night 's performance of " A Raisin in the Sun " bY the Brooklyn Festival Theater . His associates said lie had helped get a $25,000 appro. , priation in the Board of Estimate for the theater 's season . G , O , P. Units to Meet On the Republican side , Vincent F. Albano Jr. , New York County chairman , called the party 's five county executive committees to a joint meeting at 5:30 P.M. tomorrow at the Roosevelt Hotel for the formal designation of Mr. Lindsay 's fusion running mates . These are Timothy 1V . Costello , Liberal , for Council President , and Milton Mullen , Democrat , for Con-troller , Deputy Police Commissioner Joseph Martin confirmed that Mr. Lindsay has hail an aroundthe-clock police bodyguard since July 2 after " five or six " threats against his life by a male telephone caller to Ins Roosevelt Hotel campaign headquarters . Since no threats have conic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No other present candidate has had such a police guard . Dr , Costello staged a Bronx walking tour , and proposed locating polling places in all Monies for the aged and other institutions whose residents " can not go out to vote . " The Conservative party , which is backing William F. Buckley Jr . for Mayor , named Brooklyn candidates , , including Lars Ekwurzel , an industrial advertising specialist , for Borough President , and Mama Magnani , a custom decorator furniture manufacturer , for district Councilman . Mr. Magnani would run against the present Republican minority leader , Councilman Angelo J. Arculeo . Vito P. Battista , insurgent Republican candidate for Mayor , obtained an order from Supreme Court Justice Gerald P. Culkin in a suit to force the Board of Elections to let him inspect election maps and voter lists . The order is returnable at 9:30 A.M. tomorrow .                     