@@728045

txt Two American prisoners of war recently released by the North Vietnamese gave a picture today of brutality at the hands of their captors and of torture of their fellow prisoners . Lieut . Robert F. Frishman of the Navy , saying that he was determined to " blow the whistle " on Hanoi 's declarations of humane treatment , looked thin and drawn while speaking into massed microphones before television canteras . He appeared with Seaman Douglas B. Hegdahl at a news conference at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center . The two men , together with Capt . Wesley L. Rumble of the Air Force , were released last month . Secretary of Defen  --  a Melvin R. Laird , who has Dressed Hanoi repeatedly for nrisorer exchange and Red Cross verification of prisoner treatment , issued a statement today that was made public at the news conference . " There is clear evidence that North Vietnam has violated even the most fundamental standards of human decency , " he said . Both Pentagon and State Department spokesmen emphasized that the public statem-nts had been the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nn appearing because they wanted to expose conditions to which they had been subjected . The State Department spokesman said that the United The New York Time I - Lieut . Robert F. Frishman telling of treatment by foe . States already had evidence of such conditions , but he noted that the disclosures today were " the most direct and dramatic testimony that we have had . " At one point Lieutenant Frishman displayed his limp right arm , the elbow of which had been removed by North Vietnamese doctors . Lieutenant Frishman 's arm was shattered at the elbow by . fragments from - an antiaircraft missile while he was on a mission over Hanoi on Oct. 24 , 1967 . " If an elbow had to be removed , I guess they did a good job . " the lieutenant said . But he said the North Vietnamese doctors had not removed missile fragments from his arm and had let the wounds fester . They also left string embedded in his leg after . they administered serum , and the leg , too , became infected , he added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he had been trussed up with rope before being given medical attention . Covered By Heat Rash When first captured , he said , he was kept in a 10-by-11-foot cubicle with brick walls and a tin roof that turned the room into an oven when the tropical sun beat down . He was covered from head to foot by heat rash , he said . Lieutenant Frishman said he had also been forced to sit on a stool exposed to swarms of - mosquitoes until his legs swelled and he eventually lost consciousness . Seaman Hegdahl spoke only briefly at the news conference . He had been captured after falling overboard from a Navy ship in April , 1967 , and being picked up the North Vietnamese . The seaman said that he had been kept in solitary confinement for more than a year . Lieutenant Frishman reserved his most severe denunciation for the treatment given to two fellow officers . Lieut . Comdr . Richard A. Stratton , he said , had been trussed up with rope so tightly that he got rope burns , which festered . Lieutenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had dis  --  ayed cigarette burns . Wounded and in Solitary Lieut . Comdr . John S. McCain 3d , son of Adm . John S. ' McCain , the American commander in the Pacific , was described by Lieutenant Frishman as having been kept in solitary confinement for more than a year despite severe injuries . with " many broken bones . " " It 's hard enough just being in solitary confinement , " Lieutenant Frishman said , " but when you 're wounded like John it 's harder . " Lieutenant Frishman said Commander Stratton , in an appearance before newsman in Hanoi &; had acted like a robot to give the appearance of . having been brainwashed in order to cast doubt on statements he had made about humane treatment by the North Vietnamese . Lieutenant Frishman said he himself had used a similar techrtlaue , when asked about ' his treatment by an interviewer for an article published in Look . While describing his treatment as humane , he said , ? he had kept an obviously fearful gaze turned on a North Vietnamese who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could watch American bombing flights , which were " real morale bonsters , " from their quarters . He said that after the bombings stopped , prisoners ' spirits declined . " I 'm speaking for my buddies back in camp , ' he said , adding that he hoped to force his former captors to live up to their claims of humane treatment .                     