@@726821

txt VATICAN CITY , Dec. 25 Monday im - Pope . Paul VI celebrated midnight mass for diplomats from all parts of the world to mark the start of Christmas day . In the splendor of the Sistine chapel , the pontiff said mass for envoys from more than 50 nations and told them that the church was able to give to each man what he was lacking to be perfect . In contrast with two major statements of the last few days , the pope 's sermon lacked any references to Viet Nam or to other international conflicts . Asks Bombing Halt In presenting his greetings to the college of cardinals Friday , the pope had asked the United States to suspend bombing in Viet Nam and offered to mediate in the conflict . In his annual Christmas message to the world Saturday , he called for a new moral order as a requirement for world peace and urged a halt to the arms race . This time , he spoke of the birth of Christ . He called it " a seed destined to become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human mass . " Speaking in French to the diplomats accredited to the Vatican , Pope Paul said : " Man in our age can not fail to notice that there are immense zones on the map of the earth where this seed of Christianity appears to be suffocated and has not succeeded in penetrating and laying down roots . " Calls Message Universal He addcl that " the message of this child is truly universal " and should not remain the priv ' ilege of some nations but be accepted by all . " The message of the church comes forth not as an enemy or a competitor , but as a friend of e- ? er. -t ' ? 7g big , beautiful and true produced by the human spirit in all fields and in all countries . " Its richness is such that it the church is able to give to every man , to every nation , to every civilization what is lacking for its perfection . " The diplontat .. at the mass came mostly fran western countries , almost all of Latin America and much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and the communist nations , which have no diplomatic relations with the Vatican , were not represented . The pope concluded his traditional Christmas mass for the diplomats with a wish : " May our modern world , tormented with such distressing problems - this world where one works , suffers and sighs for peace - walk toward the child in the manger and listen to His message . " Yesterday , an anti-American demonstration erupted as the pope appeared at his window to give his regular Sunday blessing . About 50 young leftists , chanting and holding signs , protested the pope 's meeting with President Johnson .                     