@@721790

txt Premier Khrushchev told President Kennedy today that the Soviet Union would render the Castro regime " all necessary assistance " to beat back the rebel attacks on Cuba . In an urgent message to Mr. Kennedy the Russian leader called upon the United States to halt the attacks so as to avert the danger of " a conflagration which it will be impossible to cope with . " He placed responsibility for the air bombings of Cuban bases Saturday and the landings in Cuba on the United States . Premier Chou En-lai of Communist China , in a cablegram to Premier Castro , pledged Peiping 's support to " the Cuban people " in resisting the attacks , The Associated Press reported . Embassy Is Attacked Two and one-half hours after Mr. Krushchev 's message was handed to the United States ) charg ? d'affaires , thousands of organized students and workers carrying anti-American banners and hurling stones and ink bottles converged on the United , States Embassy in a protest demonstration that continued until late tonight . Hundreds of Soviet-militiamen backed by mounted police and unarmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were led at times by African , Asian and Latin-American students of the Friendship University . The demonstrators were allowed , however , to drape a Cuban flag and pro-Castro banners on the front of the defaced building . Will Aid . Fight on Rebels Without making clear in his message to President Kennedy what form Soviet aid to the Castro forces might take , Mr. Khrushchev stated : " As to the Soviet Union , there should be no misunderstanding of our position : We shall render the Cuban people and their Government all necessary assistance M beating back the armed attack on Cuba . " We ate sincerely interested in a relaxation of international tension , but if others aggravate it , we shall reply in full measure . " Premier Khrushchev 's message contained no reference to what he has described as his " symbolic " warning of last July that the Soviet Union might support the Castro Government with rocket fire in the event of an invasion by United States armed forces . In view of the logistical problems involved in any Soviet operations in the Caribbean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do much fibre in conventional military terms than increase its already large shipments of Soviet-bloc arms to the Castro forces . U. S. Aide Summoned Edward L. Freers , the United States Charg ? d'Affaires , was summoned at noon to the Foreign Ministry to receive the Khrushchev message and a Soviet Government statement demanding United Nations aid to the Castro regime and condemnation of the United States . The two documents were simultaneously distributed to all other embassies and legations in Moscow . " While the United States Embassy was under attack , thousands of other demonstrators paraded before the Cuban Embassy in a sympathy manifestation . Faure Chomon , the Cuban Ambassador , carrying his national flag , joined the demonstrators in the streets and delivered a speech to them denouncing the United States . In his message to President Kennedy the Soviet Premier referred to their common desire for " joint efforts to improve relations between our countries and avert the danger of war . " Mr. Khrushchev indicated that the settlement of East-West issues in other parts of the world might be dependent upon the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military techniques and the world political situation now are such that any so-called ' small war ' can produce a chain reaction in all parts of the world , " the Premier said . Laos Allusion Indicated In what might have been an allusion to efforts to achieve a settlement in ' Laos , he added that it was hardly possible to " extinguish the conflagration in one area and kindle a new conflagration in another . " Both Mr. Khrushchev 's message and the Soviet Government statement ignored the assertion by Dean Rusk , the Secretary of State , that the United States was not directly involved in the Cuban military operations . i - The statement on Cuba contended it was clear that the United States was " the inspirer and organizer of the present bandit-like attack against Cuba . " It added : " The Soviet Government demands the urgent study by the General Assembly of the United Nations of the question of aggressive actions of the United States , which has prepared and unleashed armed intervention against Cuba . " The statement concluded : " The Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs of the Cuban people is not cut short , to take , together with other countries , all steps to render the necessary aid to the Republic of Cuba . " Embassy Is Tipped Off The United States Embassy here was tipped privately by a newspaper man at 11:15 this morning that a student demonstration could be expected before the ten-story yellow-stone chancery on the broad avenue of the Sodovo Ring , About an hour before the warning came , the United States Ambassador , Lewellyn E. Thompson Jr. , left the chancery for the airport . He took off aboard a United States Air Force transport plane for Frankfurt , West Germany where he was to join his family for a short holiday arranged some time ago . Hundreds of Soviet militiamen hurried from adjacent assembly areas and took up posi- ' tions before the embassy as the first wave of several hundred students carrying banners hailing Premier Castro and denouncing " United States aggression " surged up before the embassy . Members of the embassy staff and their families who live on the upper stories of the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floors were closed earlier and Russian women employes were sent home . As inkpots began to splatter against the embassy walls and rocks smashed through windows , hundreds of unarmed Soviet soldiers were brought up in trucks to reinforce the lines of police b tryina to control the swelling mob unruly students shouting " Get out of Cuba ! " The police and military sought to halt the hurling of rocks and ink bottles . The tall iron gates of the embassy were slammed shut at 4 P. M. as foot and mounted militiamen and soldiers fought off a mob attempt led by Asian , Afridan and Latin - American students to carry a Cuban flag into the embassy courtyard . A Soviet Army major general took command of the'operations before the ambassy , and lines of soldiers pushed the demonstrators out of the avenue before the building . Numerous fights broke ' out and the militiamen and soldiers showed no hesitancy in man'handling recalcitrants . By 4:30 P. M. a large square before the ? embassy had been cleared , and lines of militiamen land police held off the milling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                