@@723767

txt President Johnson renewed today his appeal to Congress for a program of hospital and nursing home care for the aged to be financed through Social Security . He also asked that Federal funds be channeled toward the renovation of " obsolete and inefficient " hospitals in the major cities , These were the highlights of the President 's special health message to Congress . Mr. John , son said he would define other ' requests in the health . field in subsequent messages on poverty and drug abuses . Describing his program as a " vigorous and many-sided attack on our most serious health problems , " the President said : " There is no need and no room for second-class health services . " Creating a Commission He disclosed that he was creating a commission on heart disease , cancer and strokes to make a study and report to him in a year on how best to reduce the incidence of these diseases . The President asked for a program of grants for construepyon of schools of nursing . The rogram is somewhat similar to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He proposed a Federal scholarship program for nurses , too . Mr. Johnson also recommended a five-year program of Federal mortgage insurance and loans to help build and equip group-practice medical and dental facilities . President Kennedy had also sought such a program . Administration officials estimated that the major programs outlined in the message  --  exclusive of the program of medical care for the aged  --  would call for new obligational authority totaling $297.9 million in the fiscal year starting next July 1 . Mr. Johnson 's request for the program of health care for the aged had been expected . He told Congress in his State of the Union Message in January that he would seek enactment of the program , a holdover from the Kennedy Administration . His health-care program , like the Kennedy program , is embodied in the King-Anderson bill , pending in Congress . Hearings on this bill were completed two weeks ago by the House Ways and Means Committee . No action has been taken . In an attempt to appeal to ' critics of the health-care program , the President suggested that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversial KerrMills program of free aid for the medically indigent . He urged all states to adopt " adequate programs " of medical assistance under the Kerr-Mills Act . " This assistance is needed now , " he said . " And it will be needed later as a supplement to hospital insurance . " Critics of the Admiiiistra tion 's health-care plan have said that Federal officials have attempted to make the KerrMills program ineffective in order to get through the newer ' program . The Federal-state program of free medical assistance to the medically indigent was sponsored four years ago by the late Senator Robert S. Kerr , Democrat of Oklahoma , and Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas . Mr. Mills is chairman of the committee now considering the Administration measure . The President spelled out in his message details for financin the health-care program : One-quarter of 1 per cent would be added to Social Security contributions paid by both employer and employe , and annual earnings subject to Social Security taxes would be increased , from $4,800 to $5,200 . The benefits under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all persons over 65 who are covered . For those that age who are not covered by Social Security , the cost of similar protection would be provided from general funds . The cost to the average worker , Mr. Johnson said , would be about $1 a month during his working years . In asking for a five-year extension of the Hill-Burton Hospital Construction Act , the President urged that emphasis be shifted from hospital construction in rural and suburban areas to renovation of older facilities in the big cities . City hospitals , he said , have become " more and more obsolete ' and inefficient " while rural and suburban areas have been acquiring modern hospitals . Administration officials said today that Mr. Johnson hoped to channel $340 million into hospital renovations , principally in the big cities , in the next five years- . Additional funds would be made available under the HillBurton Act for area , regional or local plans for health facilities .                     