@@727819

txt Gen. Charles de Gaulle 's absence from the French presidency  --  one week after his resignation  --  is coloring many facets of life in this nation from the biggest to the smallest ; politics to muguet ( lilies of the valley ) . A man bowing to a cleaning woman in an office building as he presented a sprig of muguet was only repeating an old French custom . But on the day after May Day , 1969 , the gesture seemed somehow specially French to the non-French observer . A Frenchman said of it : " That only means the lilies of the valley preceded de Gaulle and are still there after him . " The leader who appears most likely to succeed without trying too hard in the French presidential campaign has also given a " bow with muguet " to some things old and some things new in post-de Gaulle France . Position indicated This man is Georges Pompidou , former Gaullist premier who now is a presidential candidate in his own right . Mr. Pompidou has said that he will preserve most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration . But at the same time he has admitted more need for flexibility in foreign affairs and in the attitude of the government toward the French Parliament . He has added to his own Gaullist aura an independent reputation . And he now has the solid support of the Gaullist parliamentary majority plus the approval of former Finance Minister Valery Giscard d'Estaing , leader of the Independent Republicans in the National Assembly . In firming up his present position Mr. Pompidou has given a " bow with muguet " to some things that were there before the Gaullist era . This gesture was required to win the clear support of Mr. Giscard d'Estaing . After a meeting with Mr. Pompidou , Mr. Giscard d'Estaing said that he had assurances that the former premier would take a more flexible position toward British Georges Pompidou " A bow with muguet " membership in the European Common Market and toward the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) . General de Gaulle 's so-called " anti-NATO " and " anti-British " positions were the two most striking features of his effort to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import , the new-style presidency of France which General de Gaulle brought into being remains after him . And the debate which now is beginning over the future role of a French president could be more vital to France 's future than any amount of argument about mere personalities for the office . When the French people come to choose between Mr. Pompidou and an opposition candidate , however , they may well face a choice in types of presidencies . Role assessed On the one hand they will see Mr. Pompidou hewing to the Gaullist line for a strong presidency . This will differ from General de Gaulle 's concept of his own role , which was that he was " above politics . " Mr. Pompidou will aim to be a president of the majority in Parliament . And that means that he would be in effect a party president . His role would be somewhat similar to that of an American president The Pompidou concept of the presidency would probably make it more responsive to public opinion without weakening it too much in relation to the French Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Page 13 rDe Gaulle 's departure comes home to Frenchmen // dency emerging in this election campaign . It is that the president should be an arbiter , remaining above politics but not in the powerful sense that General de Gaulle remained above politics . The proposed arbiter-president would received appeals from contending forces in Parliament . As in the Fourth and Third Republics he would remain a center of stability while Cabinets might shift . However , under the present Constitution these shifts could not be nearly so frequent as in what some Frenchmen remember as the " bad old days . " An arbiter-president seems to be the aim of the centrist parties . Acting President Alain Poher would seem to personalize the idea very well , if he should become the centrist candidate . Confusion described Like the bouquets of muguets , some political things that were very French before General de Gaulle came on the scene are still here now . One of them is the genius of the leftist parties for causing divisions within themselves . The confusion in the leftist ranks is being ascribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He now has returned to the presidential battlefield after having made a bid for a candidacy before the 1965 race . He announced his candidacy before his party colleagues knew of his intention . As of this writing , the Socialist Party has gone so far as to say he is the only Socialist candidate who has presented himself . But this is not regarded as his party 's official endorsement . Francois Mitterrand , who came second in the 1965 presidential race against General de Gaulle , is another potential leftist candidate . The Communist Party is expected to put up a candidate of its own . This could mean that the combination of leftists which supported Mr. Mitterrand in 1965 would probably not develop again . But last-minute election strategy under the two-round French voting system can throw weight about in very unexpected ways .                     