@@723327

txt The United States , after 52 years , has announced it will honor the principle of a settlement recommended by an international arbitration corn-mission in the Chamizal border issue with Mexico . The announcement in Washington that the presidents of the two countries had reached an agreement is an indication of how far the United States has traveled since the early years of this century when an expansionist penchant dominated foreign policy . Mexicans have felt for the last half century that the United States was exceedingly callous in disregarding the arbitration commission 's findings and recommendations . Complications Arise in the meantime , houses and business establishments have been erected , and complicated questions of property ownership have arisen . The United States did not accept its decision on grounds that one could not determine the border exactly at this location because of the difficulty of pinpointine the original channel of the Rio Grande River which had shifted course . For the Mexicans , this was just another way of saying the United States , as the " colossus of the North , " simply did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size and power of the two nations held the question in stalemate for 52 years , Many to Relocate The area in question is a 437-acre piece of real estate in/ or between El Paso , Texas , and Ciudad Juarez , Chihuahua , called El Chamizal  --  the Spanish word for brush . It had been in Mexico until 1864 when the Rio Grande escaped its banks , changed course , and left the land on the " United States side " of the river . Today , the land , largely a stockyards district , is worth an estimated $28,000,000 , and many of the 3,750 persons now living there will have to be relocated and sell their houses . Prime mover behind the successful settlement has been United States Ambassador to Mexico Thomas C. Mann , a Texas man himself , who has dedicated his tour of duty in Mexico to , among other important duties , the settlement of the Chamizal dispute . He has worked on it persistently for the last two years . Some of the settlement details include restoring the 437 Chamizal district to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will be considered the border line at all points . The channel project will cost an estimated $6,000,000 , and both nations will share costs . Mexico is to turn over to the United States an untenanted peninsula , half of an area named Cordova Island , which contains some 396 acres of pastures and fields . Both governments will turn over their properties free of private claim . Six Bridges Needed The Chamizal area will become a federal zone , and Mexican leaders have expressed the hope that it might become the campus for a large international university . It is anticipated that it will take about four years to complete the legal and other paper work of transferring all the properties in the Chamizal area . Six new bridges must also be built . Under the terms of the agreement , a Mexico mortgage bank will pay the United States Treasury $4,676,000 for structures now in the United States area . Some 382 buildings are involved , including residences , apartments , office buildings , and a meat-packing plant . The United States will use this money , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States owners for their land and buildings . President Lopez Mateos hailed the settlement in a nationwide radio-television address from Mexico City and said , " There is nothing left except to congratulate ourselves on this victory of law and reason . " Presidents Lopez Mateos and Kennedy roughed out the general intent for the settlement during the latter 's visit to Mexico in June , 1962 . The conservative Mexico City newspaper , Excelsior , hailed the decision with front-page headlines " Mexico Obtains the Greatest Diplomatic Triumph of its History , " giving some idea of how Mexicans have regarded the issue about which most people in the United States knew practically nothing . Many standard textbooks on Latin America do n't even mention the Chamizal question .                     