@@721676

txt PARIS , Feb. ** heads of government of six European states ended their meeting here tonight with questions as to the degree and kind of political unity they want apparently still unresolved . Under the chairmanship of President de Gaulle , the chief executives of France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg agreed to meet again in Bonn May 19 to consider a report by a six-nation commission on the various proposals for extending ; their political cooperation . But it was clear that there had been no very general ac- of the proposals of President de Gaulle for a formal political confederation with a ! permanent secretariat . Strong Resistance Met This formula , involving the coordination of policies at the ' top level among sovereign states Without any supra-national aspects , has encountered resistance from virtually all of France 's partners . It has failed to satisfy orthodox advocates of European integration who seek a real fusing of sovereignties in something approaching a United States of Europe . It has appeared also as an effort to make Europe more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States than the other Continental states are willing to contemplate . General de Gaulle has made , great efforts to dissipate these fears and , in meetings yesterday , apparently had some suc cess in convincing Chancellor Adenauer that his aim was not to set up a third force . No Communiqu ? Issued They agreed , according to West German sources , on a " realistic " assessment of the " potential of the United States " and that President Kennedy 's definition of the North Atlantic alliance as the " only means of common defense " was one of the " basic realities " that were the foundation of the talks . But there were indications that the other countries still were unwilling to adopt an organizational framework for political cooperation that would tend to " freeze " the " little Europe " of the six countries allied in the Common Market to the exclusion of Britain . The clearest of these indications was the fact that the heads of government met tonight until after 8:30 and did not issue the communique that had been virtually promised an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the decision to meet again in May and the fact that the six Foreign Ministers would meet // again tomorrow morning to complete drafting of the communiqu ? . President de Gaulle 's original proposal for a " grand confederation " included regular meetings of the heads of government and defense , economics , cultural and foreign ministers . It envisaged the establishment of a permanent secretariat to prepare these meetings and supervise the carrying out of the decisions taken . It was presented as the logical extension to the political sphere of the economic cooperation of the six states already in effect in the Common Market , the European Coal and Steel Community and the European Atomic Energy Community . According to non-French conference sources , there was general agreement on the desirability of frequent consultation in ail of these , fields except that of defense . Motivation for Stand The consensus among the ' other Continental states involved is that such formal defense activity by the six would tend , to set up a bloc within ' NATO that might appear to be a declaration of independence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's five partners , according to one conference source , was that it was desirable to avoid any " institutional " approach to political cooperation at this time . This attitude was apparently motivated by a desire to keep the door open for British participation in political consultations that would be shut if a formal framework , tied to existing economic communities of which Britain is not a member , were adopted . There was a tendency on the part of some of the states , notably the Netherlands , to resist the establishment of a permanent political secretariat for the six unless this were closely tied in with the authorities governing the three existing six-nation economic communities . Otherwise , it was held by those advancing this view , the political secretariat would gradually dominate the scene to the detriment of the authority and prestige of the economic bodies . It was indicated tonight that General de Gaulle would go to Bonn a day ahead of the sixnation summit meeting for advance talks with Dr. Adenauer , paralleling the Chancellor 's advance visit here yesterday . The other leaders taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amintore Fanfani of ' tali , Premier Gaston Eyskens of Belgium , Premier Jan E. de Quay of the Netherlands and Premier Pierre Werner of Luxembourg . The six men also saw each other at a luncheon at President de Gaulle 's Elysdes Palace .                     