@@727136

txt Senators Eugene J. McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy resumed ? campaigning today in the California Presidential primary , after an apparently inconclusive debate last night on a national television network . Both sides claim to have won on points but both conceded privately that the questions and answers mattered less than the impact on the millions of viewers who watched the American Broadcasting Company program  --  and particularly the impact , on the three million or more Californians who are expected to vote in the Democratic primary Tuesday . 1960 Reaction Recalled What that impact was , no one in either candidate 's camp could be sure . Neither contestant stumbled obviously , neither appeared at a physical disadvantage , neither sprang a surprise , both appeared calm from start to finish  --  at least as far as studio viewers could tell . It was being freely recalled , however , that it was several - days after the celebrated debate between John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon in 1960 be , fore it became clear that the ' general public considered Mr. Kennedy the winner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most po  --  litical analysts believe , was that ; he was given equal exposure and debated on equal terms with Mr. Nixon , then the Vice President and a better-known candidate . Mr. McCarthy undoubtedly gained a similar advantage , , ' which the Kennedy forces had steadfastly denied him during three previous primary contests . On the other hand , the initial reaction of many in the press and staff entourages of both candidates was that the debate had disclosed few significant differences between the two men . If the viewing public shared that impression , it could prove costly to Mr. McCarthy . He has worked hard to differentiate his campaign from Mr. Kennedy 's and is believed to have won in Oregon primarily because of his claim to have been first to oppose President Johnson on the war in Vietnam  --  a war for which he charged Mr. Kennedy with a share of the responsibility . Mr. McCarthy did not turn his caustic wit on Mr. Kennedy during the hours of questions and answers broadcast from a virtually empty sound stage at KGO-TV , the A.B.C . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three A.B.C . reporters , William H. Lawrence , Frank Reynolds and Robert Clark  --  did not allow for many direct exchanges between the candidates . Each answered questions from the reporters , then each had the opportunity to comment on the other 's answer . Officials of the network said the candidates spoke for total amounts of time that were only four seconds apart . The only thing approaching a general exchange ? or a heated one  --  came when Mr. Kennedy accused Mr. McCarthy of publishing an advertisement charging him with participating in the decision to intervene militarily in the Dominican Republican in 1965 . Movement From Slums Mr. McCarthy conceded that Mr. Kennedy had resigned from the Cabinet before that decision was taken by President Johnson , called the ad a mistake and said he had ordered its publication stopped . That , he said , was more than Mr. Kennedy had done about ads that Mr. McCarthy said had distorted his voting record in Congress . " I do n't know to what he is referring , " Mr. Kennedy said . Ads that Mr. McCarthy says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college press . They have been sponsored by groups supporting Mr. Kennedy . The same material has appeared in numerous direct mailings . There were few California references in the debate , but at one point Mr. Kennedy did raise a local matter , the politi- , cal effect of which remains to , be seen . Mr. McCarthy had criticized ) Mr. Kennedy for overconcen-1 tration on improving living conditions in the Negro slum* and had advocated the dispersal of those living in the slums to avoid " a kind of apartheid in this country . " Mr. Kennedy replied : " When you say you are going to take 10,000 black people and move them into Orange County . . . putting them in suburbs where they ca n't afford the housing , where their children ca n't keep up with the schools , and where they do n't have the schools or the jobs , it 's just going to be catastrophic . I do n't want to have them moved . " Some observers speculated that these remarks might cause alarm about Mr. McCarthy 's views in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California that he had not mentioned . Others contended that Negro groups might resent Mr. Kennedy 's words , and some felt that both effects might be forthcoming . Generally speaking , the Negro vote in California is considered highly favorable to Mr. Kennedy , while Mr. McCarthy is thought to be stronger in the white suburbs . Under questioning by Mr. Lawrence , Mr. Kennedy evaded a direct response to allegations that , as Attorney General , he had authorized a telephone tap on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . Mr. McCarthy seized this opportunity to criticize wiretapping generally , as well as the retention by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of irrelevant material gleaned from , wiretapping . He called once again for the resignation of F.B.I . Director J. Edgar Hoover . Even though the debate produced little excitement , it was in many ways the climax of the California campaign , in which Mr. Kennedy is a somewhat uneasy favorite . Mr. McCarthy 's victory in Oregon last Tuesday helped him considerably , and most analysts now consider the California race close . Some point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " voters ( as disclosed by the candidates ' canvassing operations ) as a threat to Mr. Kennedy , since in Oregon most of those who had been " undecided " voted ultimately for Mr. McCarthy . I Nevertheless , the Kennedy forces believe that the large minority group and urban vote in California will deliver a victory to them , and keep their candidate in the race for the Democratic Presidential nomination . More than California 's 174 convention votes are at stake . Mr. Kennedy needs to win here by a large margin to redeem his Oregon loss and to be able to present himself to Democratic leaders in the nonprimary states  --  particularly to the influential Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago  --  as the party 's best vote-getter . Without such a smashing victory in California , most analysts give Mr : Kennedy little chance in the nonprimary states . Vice President Humphrey appears at the moment to be collecting most of the delegates from those states . Mr. McCarthy , by winning California with even a small Debate Participants Sena-tor Eugene J. McCarthy . tursocuatcsa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to the convention with impressive credentials as a giant-killer . He could claim to have eliminated both President Johnson and Mr. Kennedy  --  who has said he will withdraw if he loses here ? and to have established . his ability to win Republican and independent as well as Democratic votes . Mr. Humphrey is untested in any primary , except for relatively unimpressive write-ins . A third delegate slate , headed by California 's Attorney General , Thomas C. Lynch , is generally considered favorable to the Humphrey candidacy and is expected to receive a sizable vote here Tuesday . There are 7.9 million registered voters in California , including 4,347,406 Democrats and 3,197,185 Republicans . About two-thirds of the total are expected to vote . Crossovers are not permitted . That is , a voter registered in one party can not vote in the primary of the other . Polling hours vary from place to place . The earliest , opening is at 7 A.M. The latest , closing is at 8 P.M. ( 11 P.M. , , Eastern daylight time ) . Paper ballots are used throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the most part , either voting machines or a new system of computer cards . Size of Audience The debate between . Senator Kennedy and Senator McCarthy was viewed by 38 per cent of the available national TV audience , according to the American Broadcasting Company . The national Arbitron ratings , A.B  --  C. said yesterday , showed that the audience averaged 25.5 million during the hour-long program and that 32 million persons viewed the program at some time during its presentation .                     