@@726419

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 36 Letters to the Editor of The Times To Found a Republic of Palestine To the Editor : In your July 6 editorial about the Arab refugees you express concern for " peace and reconciliation " in the Middle East . At the same time you commend the plans of Zionist invaders for the West Bank of Jordan and the Gaza Strip regarding " settlement of the Arab refugees . " You also noted the much discussed plan of creating a Zionistsatellite Palestine state . The Times wishes to forget that the 2,500,000 Christian and Moslem indigenous population of Palestine have a right to selfdetermination in Palestine , their ancestral homeland . Under what rule of law , morality or decency can the transplanted alien Jewish minority ( 650,000 ) acquire 80 per cent of Palestine in 1948 , expel the Christian and Moslem indigenous population and proclaim a Jewish state ? , Under what rule . of international law or the United Nations Charter can the Zionists in occupied Palestine invade three Arab states and the Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , decide their fate and create for Palestinians a satellite state , a Jewish colony ? Outlawed Under Charter The United Nations Charter and the principles of international law and justice recognized by civilized nations outlawed war , conquest , foreign domination and exploitation of peoples . The temporary success achieved by Zionist invaders through their sneak " Pearl Harbor " - like attack intoxicated them and the Jews of the world into believing that they have become a " world colonial power . " Jews of the world must come to their senses . We are in the age of the rule of law and not rule of the jungle . Colonialism and foreign occupation have been eradicated from Asia ' and Africa and will be eradicated from Palestine . The only way to " peace and reconciliation " in the Middle East is to put an end to the Zionist military regime in Palestine , and the establishment under United Nations guidance of a democratic , government for the Republic of Palestine elected by the indigenous citizens ? Christians , Moslems and Jews ? with full guarantees for freedom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews should be given the choice to be repatriated to the countries of their origin or other countries which will accept them . Palestine will again become the peaceful Holy Land for all faiths and the land of inspiration for the world . ISSA NAKHLEH Director Palestine Arab Delegation New York , July 7 , 1967 ? Parades in City To the Editor : In regard to H. H. Nordlinger 's recent suggestion for alternate parade routes , we wish to bring to the attention of your readers the circulation of a petition by Community Planning Board No. 8 , Manhattan , requesting the following : Establishment of alternate significant routes for parades ( such as Central Park , West End Avenue and Riverside Drive ) . ; Termination of all parades along Fifth Avenue before , the evening rush hours on week days and Saturdays , and by 7:30 P.M. on Sundays . Borough President Percy E. Sutton , after reviewing the existing situation with our board 's parade committee , is. lending his support to our effort and has stated that he is " deeply concerned " with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Side area during the parade season in Manhattan " . . . the restrictions on the length and time schedules of parades suggested by Community Planning Board No. 8 are both just and sensible . I believe that full consideration is needed of change in routes and staging areas . ' FELICE K. SHEA Chairman , Parade Committee DULCIE L. SCHACKMAN Chairman Community- Planning Board No. 8 New York , July 3 , 1967 ? Demands for More Welfare To the Editor : As an individual born and raised in a long standing poverty area of New York , I was appalled at the demonstrations held on June 30 by welfare recipients demanding more benefits and attempting to dictate the ways they should be administered . I was raised to believe that welfare is charity , offered to and accepted by people who have no other immediate recourse . On the contrary , the demonstrators seemed to feel that what they receive is something owed to them by ' the city and its administration . This action only shows how far our present welfare system has deteriorated . These people no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was meant to be , but wish to improve themselves by using and directing the system . If the organizers of these demonstrations would put as much effort into organizing these individuals to help themselves by seeking jobs and education , there would be no welfare problem in New York . D. ELDAN JEROME ? Brooklyn , July 1 , 1967 ? Preserving Parks To the Editor : The recent controversy over the proper use of a historic metropolitan public garden between the curator of Central Park and former and incumbent Parks Commissioners resolves itself into two , viewpoints focused on the past and the present Editorial , June 30 . The controversy need not be limited to Central Park , because New York City has another great natural landscape garden sharing similar problems . The second is Prospect Park in Brooklyn , likewise created by Olmsted and Vaux and far su perior in design to Central Park . Prospect Park , in fact , is considered the finest park of its kind in America . Old photographs prove that both parks have suffered from time and use ; but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use . Happenings are no recent innovation . They may have changed slightly in form , but there have been crowded public functions in both parks since they first came into being . This is one of the things parks are for . Deterioration of the parks set in when maintenance began to subside but use did not , and when acres began to be carved off for specialized purposes . The latest encroachments are the indoor polo field proposed for Central Park , to he larger than the arena of Madison Square Garden and as attractive as a battery on the Mannerheim Line ; and the " farm " in Prospect Park , a fake version of what the city spent millions to get rid of in order to have a park : This one is a blatant advertisement for the Brooklyn division of Federated Department Stores , to be mostly financed and wholly maintained by taxpayers ' money , amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars . The foremost park problem is not concerned with past or present so much as with the future . Temporary happenings do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be obliterated little by little by covered polo fields and play " farms , " where will happenings be held in the years ahead ? The real threat is permanent constructions , that deface parks and are a drain on manpower and budget that could be applied better to maintaining greenery . For a natural park is greenery ; and if we are to continue to have any parks , this element must be given priority now . Either this , or we shall have to wait for , a more enlightened administration to spend additional sums Uprooting the encroachments on which shortsighted , wrongly motivated officials . squander the city 's resources . CLAY LANCASTER Curator of Prospect Park Brooklyn , Jury 3 , 1967 ? . Investment Tax Credit To the Editor : The Administration 's drive to increase personal-income taxes to finance the Vietnam war while at the same time maintaining the 7 per cent tax credit for big business is sheer economic nonsense . Since a tax hike represents a leakage from the income stream and the investment tax credit is an injection into one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve to pit two opposing economic forces against each other . It would accomplish no more than a redistribution of income out of the pockets of the consuming public and into the hands of the very same business sector that is profiting from increased Government expenditures ? at a time when inflationary pressures are threatening the consumer 's purchasing power . The 7 per cent investment WOMAN OF A CERTAIN AGE The smiles or frowns pass over her face like shadows Over a sleeping pond , where in the depths Great shapes stir idly , thrust , then grip . She Will raise one eyebrow at your latest catch Deprecating superlatives . Beneath The passions of a lifetime poise themselves To raise her young , to guard her home , to stay Compact and unencroached . She knows your verse Is bylines merely , that you 'll never make A poem as living and free as her own child . Let her alone . Do not cross her ? you 'd as well Cross the path of a tigress in the clearing , Shadows rippling like smiles over her hide . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary vehicle to stimulate economic growth . Once that growth was realized and inflation began to threaten ; this artificial stimulus was wisely dropped . The business community ; however , had come to regard the tax break as something to which it was permanently en7 , titled as a matter of right ; rather than regarding it prop ; erly as a tool by which the direction of the economy might be regulated . Consequently , the tax credit bits been restored , , at a time when the economy is at the peak of the business cycle . This is contrary to the fundamental logic of economics .. Unwanted Stimulus If the President deems it es ; sential to ' the national security to devote more of our resources to the wasteful and pointless war in Vietnam , why does he not do so by first eliminating . the 7 per cent investment tax . credit ? This will provide an . additional $1.7 billion for defense expenditures from fiscal 1967-70 , while at the same time disposing of an unnecessary and unwanted stimulus to the economy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous Government war contracts , and the consuming public will be asked to endure no more than its already unfair share of the war effort . It does not seem right that the Government continues to consume more than ever to , the detriment of the private ' sector and to the ' profit of the business ' sector . LARRY R. NATHAN Washington , July 6 , 1967 ? Plight of Nonsmokers , To the Editor : The nonsmoker daily fights . his little skirmishes ? in the ' taxicab , in a crowded elevator .. or in his own office  --  to pre serve some measure of clean ' air in his immediate surround- ' ings . He has a few sanctuaries : the ' subway , a designated railway car , sometimes his own ' home . In most public places , however , the nonsmoker is at the , , mercy of the smoker . Whether , for health or esthetic reasons , , the nonsmoker should be able to expect a nonsmoking section set aside for him in , for example , restaurants , airplanes ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but some start , somewhere , might set a welcome trend . An enterprise making this modestprovision for the comfort of ' some of its clients would certainly receive my preference , ' ' if I had the choice . FRANK LEWIN Princeton , N. J. , July 3 , 1967 ? Tshombe 's Role To the Editor : I know that the Congo situption is very confused . But I hope that we shall be able to help Tshombe in his present . mortal , confrontation . I have followed Congo developments sufficiently to have the opinion that he is the single constructive twentieth century influence that has emerged in that troubled land since its independence . BURNETT WALKER La Jolla , Calif. , July 6 , 1967                     