@@723564

txt Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona is the runaway choice in a nationwide poll of Republican Presidential preferences for 1964 , taken by The Associated Press among Republican state and county leaders . Of the 1,404 who answered a questionnaire , 1,194 , or 85.1 per I cent , voted Senator Goldwater the party 's " strongest candidate " against President Kennedy xs of today . Fewer , however , believe that Mr. Goldwater will be nominated . Here his vote was 901 , or 64.2 per cent of those who replied . Governor Rockefeller received 56 votes as the " strongest candidate " and former Vice President Richard M. Nixon received 44 . See Nixon as Compromise On the outlook for the nomination , Mr. Nixon had 72 votes to 65 for Mr. Rockefeller . Moreover , a sizable number of those who favor Mr. Goldwater for the nomination predicted that , if a deadlock should develop in the nominating convention , Mr. Nixon would emerge again as the candidate . The convention , scheduled to open in San Francisco July 13 , has a tentative apportionment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early last month . Correspondents in every state polled by mail and telephone 2,961 Republicans , including some city and town leaders . In Alaska , which has no counties , the national committeeman and committeewoman participated in the poll . More than 47 per cent of those questioned replied . Republicans in New Jersey and Hawaii declined to participate . The questionnaire asked opinions on two points : " Who is the strongest potential G.O.P. candidate against ' president Kennedy on the basis of present conditions ? Why ? " " Whom do you think the Tarty will nominate in 1964 ? Why ? " Three Republicans besides the three leaders were named several times in answers to both questions  --  Senator Thrukon B. Morton of Kentucky , Gov . George Romney of Michigan and Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania . Cited as potential " dark horses " were Henry Cabot Lodge , Ambassador to South Vietnam , who was the Vice-Presidential nominee in 1960 , and Milton S. Eisenhower , brother of former President Dwight D. Eisenhower . Mr. Goldwater led all the potential candidates on both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller received 13 votes to the Senator 's 4 on the strongestcandidate question , and 10 to 2 on the probable nominee . Only 20 of 62 who received questionaires in New York returned them . The response in California also was inconclusive , 19 out of 58 polled . Most of these , 16 , went to Mr. Goldwater . Mr. Nixon , however , reportedly still has considerable support in his home state even though he now lives in New York City . New York has 92 delegate votes and California 86 . Unanimous Returns On the strongest-candidate question , Mr. Goldwater was the unanimous choice of those , who replied in Alabama , Ariiona , Louisiana , Mississippi , South Carolina and Texas . His vote in Oklahoma was 50 to 1 . The vote was lopsided also in Florida , Georgia , Idaho , Illinois , Indiana , Iowa , Minnesota , Missouri , Montana , Nebraska , North . Caolina , North Dakota , Oregon , South Dakota , Tennessee , Virginia , West Virginia , Wisconsin and Wyoming . In some of these states , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onethird of the total polled . In a Presidential year , New Hampshire and Wisconsin hold the first primary elections ? March 10 and April 7 , respectively , next year ? and therefore are closely watched as potential political weathervanes . General Eisenhower , although he was still stattoped in Europe , won a smashing victory in New Hampshire in 1952 . In 1960 , Wisconsin , often called " the graveyard of candidates , " gave Senator John F. Kennedy a powerful boost by choosing him over a middle-Westerner , Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , of Minnesota , in the primary . What do they say in New Hampshire and Wisconsin to , day ? Of 39 New Hampshire County committeemen , 32 replied to the questionnaire . Of these , 22 picked Senator Goldwater as the strongest candidate , and 17 said they thought he would be nominated . Two others said they leaned toward Mr. Goldwater . Mr. Nixon and Mr. Rockefeller each received two votes as the strongest candidate , and Mr. Romney had one . Three said they thought Mr. Rockefeller would be the nominee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cited As to the basis for Mr. Goldwater 's popularity , Creeley S. Buchanan of Amherst , N. H. , said : " Mr. Goldwater will give us a , real choice between liberal and conservative philosophies for the first time since Alf Landon ran on the Republican ticket . " This reason ? the " clear choice , " the belief that Mr. Goldwater would not be a " me , too " candidate  --  was expressed in hundreds of replies . It was far and away the most frequently cited statement in every state for supporting the Senator 's candidacy . Some New Hampshire committeemen said that , while they believed Mr. Goldwater would be the strongest candidate and would be nominated , they were not necessarily among his admirers . " I 'd like to think there is a third man somewhere , " one said . " The worst thing about Goldwater is his friends . " Two others ? one for Mr. Goldwater , the other for Mr. Rockefeller  --  frankly said they did n't think either could defeat President Kennedy . A number of committeemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken him out of the race . Mrs. Edna White , co-chairman in Portsmouth , N. H. , said : " It 's really none of our business what Rockefeller does in his personal life , but I think women , voters will make it their business . " However , a number of chairmen said their primary reason for not favorting Mr. Rockefeller was the belief that his policies did not represent a clear hoick for the vote/ s . A Kansas chairman disagreed . Said Richard A. Swallow , of Oskaloosa : " I prefer Rockefeller because of the splendid record he has made as Governor of New York , because of his grasp of governmental affairs and his business ability , and because of the vote-getting ability he has shown in New York and his requirement for financial responsibility in New York . " In Wisconsin , 30 of 72 county chairmen replied to the questionnaire . Of these , 26 named Senator Goldwater as the strongest candidate . Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Romney each had one vote . As to the probable nominee , 25 picked Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sam M. Hay said Mr. Goldwater would generate enthusiasm among party workers . " If it 's Goldwater , it 's going to be a crusade neXt year , " Mr. Hay said . Similar opinions about the Senator came from Florida and Indiana . Tom Fairfield Brown , head of the Florida Republican Executive Committee , said : " Even if Goldwater did not beat Kennedy nationally  --  and I think he can  --  the Republican party in Florida would be in much better shape than if someone else were the candidate . " An unusual feature of the survey was the high percentage of persons questioned  --  nearly half -- who permitted the use of their names . Generally , at this stage , eight months before the convention , politicians are wary of speaking for publication about their choices . Most of them prefer to wait to see which way the prevailing political winds are blowing .                     