@@723675

txt An ex-convict who used another name to get a Cook county job at a time when he was sought by police as a robbery suspect was freed in Felony court yesterday on a charge of obstructing justice . Judge Daniel J. Ryan ruled that the state had to prove that Milton Golden , 36 , of 7123 Normal blvd. , filed a false name to avoid apprehension and said , " There is no evidence in this case that he tried to avoid anything . " Offers to Delay Case Ryan offered to continue the case for a week , rather than to free Golden , to enable the state 's attorney 's office to take evidence directly to the grand jury to seek an indictment . However , Lawrence Genesen , assistant state 's attorney , said the case was up to the court . Golden , who once served a prison term under the name of Charles , was an employe of the Circuit Court clerk 's office on Aug. 30 when he and five other persons , four of them employes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators of a bookmaking operation in the county building office . Prints Are Discovered After Golden was finger printed before being released on bond on the gambling charge , it was discovered that his finger prints matched those of the ex-convict . W h e arrested , he carried identification ' papers in the names Golden , , and George Morgan . He also carried copies of the Criminal court orders of December , 1957 , committing Charles to prison for armed robbery . During the investigation after Golden 's arrest and the discovery of his criminal record under the name , sheriff 's investigators charged that Golden escaped detection by having another man m a k e out the application for him or w a s finger printed in Golden ' s name . Differ on Prints Sgt. Thomas Laffey , head of the sheriff 's finger print department , which - takes the prints of all applicants for county jobs , said Golden could not have escaped detection if his own finger prints had been taken and imprinted on the job application . However , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application made out Nov. 11 , 1962 , and identified Golden as the man who made out the application and signed Milton Golden . A policeman testified that at the time he was searching for Charles as a robbery suspect . Golden , a Democrat who was fired from his county job after his arrest and who was freed Sept. 25 in South State Street court on the gambling charge , called his arrest and prosecution " just one big political mess . I was a Democrat and the Republicans were in power . "                     