@@722695

txt President de Gaulle and France 's political parties burned their bridges today and left themselves nowhere to go but toward an all-out fight for survival . As the National Assembly convened after a summer recess , a motion of censure of the Gaullist Government was introduced . It will come to a vote Thursday . The result can be only a bac kdown by the united Opposition , with a consequent loss of face in the country , or a vote of censure that would produce a government crisis , dissolution of Parliament and new elections . The President immediately picked up the challenge . He advanced an already scheduled broadcast to the nation from 8 p.M . Thursday , well after Parliament would have begun the final debate , to 1 P.iVf. , two hours before the Assembly session . The purpose was unmistakable . General de Gaulle was saying to the Deputied , in effect : " I am going to appeal to the country against you . If you have the courage to meet me in open battle , go ahead and vote censure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It appeared to most observers that this represented an offer to administer the final humiliation to Parliament . For four years the legislators have backed away from any final showdown with the popular President that would , bring about a clear-cut test of strength before the electorate . President de Gaulle , these observers believe , can have no illusions about the reaction of the party representatives in Parliament . He must know , the observers feel , that a failure to vote censure after such an open defiance would be interpreted as the most craven surrender . Therefore , they conclude , the President . has decided that the time has come to crush , once and for all , the traditional political formations  --  all ten of them  --  and clear the ground for , a new regrouping of political forces on economic and social lines rather than ideologies or doctrines . Such a regrouping , the Gaullists believe , would promote development of a smaller number of parties and favor the operation of a true presidential system . Climactic Nature of Fight The specific issue was almost overshadowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provoked . It is General de Gaulle 's plan to ask the voters , on Oct. 28 , to approve by referendum the election of future Presidents of the Republic by popular vote instead of by the limited college of about 80,000 political " notables " that chose the general In December , 1958 . Only by such popular sanction , General de Gaulle believes . can a President of less personal stature that his own maintain executive authority against the inevitable assaults of Parliament . He could eventually have achieved the same results by employing the conventional procedure for amendment of the Constitution . involving consultation of Parliament before submission of the proposal to the electorate . The fact that the President deliberately chose instead to bypass Parliament and appeal over its head to the electorate was interpreted as evidence that he was spoiling for a fight to the finish . The President 's Argument Against the nearly unanimous judicial opinion of the country that only the Parliamentary channel was Constitutional , he has advanced the argument that since the people , in a referendum , approved the present Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure . The motion of censure presented at the Parliamentary opening today was signed by representatives of the Independent ( conservative ) , Liberal , Popular Republican and Radical parties ( all centrist ) and the Socialist party . It will be supported also by the Communists and various right-wing fringe groups . In all , these parties represent well over the 241 votes needed to bring about the downfall of the Government of the Gaullist Premier , Georges Pompidou . If their nerve holds , they can easily bring down the Government Thursday and precipitate dissolution of Parliament and a straight electoral fight with the President . Parties More Combative Noteworthy today was the atmosphere of improved nerve and combativeness on the part of the traditional parties . This was apparently based on good news from the rear . Throughout the country local federations of the several Opposition parties were voting resolutions urging a " no " vote on the referendum and , presumably , an affirmative vote on the censure motion . To increase their chances against the President 's prestige , the parties already were negotiating a proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition candidate  --  instead of half a dozen ? to oppose the nominee of the Gaullist Union for the New Republic . But there was skepticism in political circles on the ability of the parties to observe such a truce . Opposition to President de Gaulle 's proposal was marked today in the French Senate , which is immune from dissolution . Gaston Monnerville , who three days ago delivered a violent attack against the President 's proposal , was re-elected President of the Senate for the seventeenth time by a vote of 212 to 3 for other candidates and 29 blank ballots . M. Monnerville 's acceptance speech reviewing the main lines of his previous indictment of the President received an ovation.                     