@@724161

txt Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy announced yesterday the creation of an Office of Criminal Justice to take a broadly critical look at the fairness and effectiveness of Federal law enforcement . The new office , Mr. Kennedy said , will help " insure that the department over which I preside is more than a Department of Prosecution and is in fact the Department of Justice . " As its first head he named Prof. James Vorenberg of the Harvard Law School . No attempt was made by Mr. Kennedy to define precisely the duties of Professor Vorenberg and his staff . They will have a free-ranging assignment to improve handling of such matters as Federal arrests , the provision of counsel to the poor and psychiatric examination of prisoners . The Attorney General disclosed the plan in a talk to the Criminal Law Section of the American Bar Association . The section met at the Americana Hotel in connection with the association 's annual meeting here . Speaks Extemporaneously Then Mr. Kennedy rode across town to the Waldorf and spoke briefly and extemporaneously to the association 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a valedictory address , with emotional overtones . " I am sure this is going to be my last appearance here as Attorney General , " he said in a subdued , almost somber voice . He spoke several times of his brother , President Kennedy , and he thanked the bar for its help to him in the Justice Department . The appearance before the bar delegates was a quiet island in a turbulent day for Mr. Kennedy in New York . During much of it he was surrounded by reporters and photographers who were trying to get some new statement from him about the possibility of his running for the Senate in New York . Denies Senate Decision He said repeatedly that he had not made up his mind . But some who heard him at the bar meeting had the impression that he did not think he would be Attorney General much longer  --  perhaps no more than a few weeks . He has said that he will not stay beyond the end of the year in any case . The new Office of Criminal Justice will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to be a voice inside the department and a forum outside , " Mr. Kennedy said . " We intend that this office will deal with the whole spectrum of the criminal process , from arrest to rehabilitation . We intend that it deal with social problems that affect the criminal process , from arrest to rehabilitation . " The idea of the office is to have some official group that is not concerned with day-today law enforcement and can take a more dispassionate and perhaps more skeptical look from outside , It will be open to comment and complaint from persons not in government . Mr. Kennedy said he hoped it would be especially valuable in trying to bridge the widening gulf between law enforcement officials concerned about the rising crime rate , on the one hand , and those legal authorities concerned with protections of individual rights . Better Understanding Sought Too often , he said , " emotional obstacles " block intelligent discussion between professors and prosecutors about the problems of the criminal law . He expressed the hope that the Office of Criminal Justice would enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of the other . " Professor Vorenberg will continue teaching at Harvard . He will head the new office on a part-time basis , with a staff of five or six full-time lawyers . Mr. Vorenberg is a 36-year-old graduate of Harvard College and Law School , where he was presi-1 dent of The Law Review . He ' teaches criminal law among other subjects , is working . on ai criminal law study for the American Law Institute and arranged a New England conference on defense of the indigent last fall . In addition to the office in the Justice Department , Mr. Kennedy suggested the creation of a commission to study law enforcement comprehensively all over the country . He gave high praise to James V. Bennett , director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons , who is to retire soon . He said Mr. Bennett was a " man of rare compassion , intelligence and skill . " At the session of the House of Delegates , the Attorney General commended as one good example of bar activity the work of the A.B.A. committee on the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philadelphia . The committee passes on the qualifications of Federal judicial nominees . He also spoke warmly of the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights Under Law , headed by Harrison Tweed of New York and Mr. Segal . Mr. Kennedy said his brother would have wanted to thank the bar , and he knew President Johnson would . Then , his voice low , he said that he must leave and that he was reminded of the lines from one of his brother 's favorite poems , Robert Frost 's " Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening " : The woods are lovely , dark and deep , But I have promises to keep , And miles to go before I sleep .                     