@@725460

txt The Lindsay administration , as a result of the city 's deepening fiscal crisis , is studying the possibility of seeking higher payments on tax-exempt properties of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority and the Port of New York Authority . Such payments , in lieu of taxes , are made by the authorities in some cases where their properties are rented for commercial purposes . These " in lieu " payments are considerably less than if regular real estate taxes were assessed , according to the city 's fiscal experts . The Triborough and Port of New York Authorities are exempted by law from regular taxation . The matter of tax-free property held by foundations and educational , charitable and religious institutions and used in part for commercial purposes is also under study by Mayor Lindsay 's tax advisers . The advisers noted that although in some cases such properties were ) largely commercial , they were , under present regulations , entirely exempt from taxation . Valued at $4-Billion The total value of tax-exempt property in the city is now more than $4-billion , twice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public or publicly assisted housing and property owned by the city or by the Transit Authority . " Our purpose in bringing this whole subject under consideration , " said Murray Drabkin , the Mayor 's chief fiscal adviser , " is to try to apportion the tax burden as equitably as possible . Our needs are great . " Mr. Drabkin said the Lindsay administration 's approach to the matter of the tax-exempt properties was conservative , and did not go " half so far " as have some groups that have been examining the city 's tax structure . After four years of study . one of these ? the Women 's City Club of New York , a civic organization - said in a final report yesterday on the city 's tax and fiscal practices : " Since new sources of revenue to defray rising city costs are increasingly difficult to find , the city appears to be approaching a point of conflict between City Is Seeking an Increase in Payments Made by 2 Authorities Suggested Revisions Some of the approaches suggested by the study include : 9Narrowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gReducing the exemption to a specified percentage of the real estate tax . qExcluding future property acquisitions by tax-exempt organizations or future increases in value . Wistinguishing between ordock facilities that the authorities own . Mr. Drabkin , concurring with the Women 's City Club report , said that the authorities ' payments in lieu of taxes on property they rent commercially were " significantly " below what the city would collect if these properties were subject to the real estate tax . The report said that in fairness to the city the authorities should make larger payments deleted 18 lines two social objectives that have ' hitherto co-existed peaceably . " In the-future , continuance of the present generous policy of tax exemptions for charitable , religious and educational organizations may be possible only at the expense of deteriorating public schools , less adequate fire , police and health protection and a decline in other essential public operations . " The Women 's City Club recommended that the state Constitutional Convention , which will meet in April , 1967 , " might consider , for example , either a gradual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a limitation upon the kinds and amount of property to which such exemption would be extended in the future . " Mr. Drabkin said that he and his advisers were preparing recommendations to the Mayor on this subject . Mr. Drabkin explained that the continued shrinkage of the tax base as tax-exempt properties grow placed a heavier bur-j den on the properties remaining on the tax rolls and compelled the city ' to replace the lost revenues through other taxes . As for the Lindsay administration 's approach to the question of the tax-exempt status of foundations and religious , charitable and educational institutions , Mr. Drabkin said that the studies were limited to properties that , while uied in part for commercial purposes , obtained total tax exemption because some part was used for eleemosynary purposes . ( Properties owned by foundations or religious , charitable and educational institutions that are used entirely for commercial purposes are subject to regular real estate taxation . ) The exemption of eleemosynary properties from the tax rolls dates from colonial times and , in general , rests on the theory that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Government . Increased Values Noted While in the colonial days and up to : the turn of the centurl. institutions exempted from the tax rolls were of modest proportions , they are now burgeoning , with vast educational , religious or charitable complexes. , Indeed , because of high taxes , many wealthy individuals turn over properties to tax-exempt institutions to avoid further payment of taxes themselves . This practice plagues those responsible for the financial structure of municipal government , not only in New York but also in communities throughout the country . In New York 's case the gap between the city 's skyrocketing costs of operations and its income from real estate is being widened increasingly by the withdrawal of More and Wire real property from the tax rolls . As an example , the taxexempt property of colleges and schools 10 years ago was valued at $164,487,000 ; it is now valued at $621,497,000 , an increase of 278 per , cent . Churches , synagogues , monasteries and convents , valued 10 years ago a t $443,889,000 , are now judged by the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an increase of 46 per cent . Those studying the situation foresee an accelerated growth of the tax-exempt properties because of greater need and also because , with higher taxes , more grants of property and money to buy property will be made . " Neither the great growth of governmental functions and revenue needs nor the great proliferation of tax-exempt properties could have been foreseen centuries ago when the exemption of religious , educational and charitable organizations was instituted , " the Women 's City Club report said . " An objective re-evaluation and modification of the practice in the light of contemporary realities arrears inescapable . "                     