@@724647

txt Civil rights marches in Selma , Ala. , will be continued this week , despite threats by local officials that the demonstrators will be arrested , the Rev. Martin Luther King said yesterday . Dr. King made his remarks during a press conference at O'Hare International airport shortly after his arrival here . He said also that he expected Alabama Gov . George Wallace to " resist the aspirations " of Negroes despite Wallace 's conference with President Johnson . Wallace eventually will be forced to give Negroes their voting rights , he added . " We will continue to march , " he said at O'Hare International airport . " We still hope to complete our march from Selma to Montgomery and now are in federal District court , seeking a court order restraining Gov . Wallace from interfering with the march . " Under Close Guard Dr. King was closely guarded by Chicago police during his visit here . In a sermon last night before more than 2,850 persons who jammed Orchestra hall , the Rev. Mr. King said : " White and black men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together as fools . " Dr. King left Chicago on a flight at 10 p. m . Shortly before takeoff , Dr. King spoke for about 15 minuates with President Johnson from the office of Police Lt. Harry A. Smith at O'Hare field . He thanked the President for his remarks concerning the guarantee of voting rights for all . Plan Arrests Today Early yesterday , Selma officials said that civil rights marchers will be arrested starting at 8 a. m. today . Thousands of persons from thruout the nation , including many clergymen from Chicago , will take part in the march on the Alabama capital , Dr. King said . " We will continue to demonstrate no matter how many persons are arrested , " he said . The ipv . Dr. King said he plans to return to Selma this morning and to deliver the eulogy for the late Rev. James Reeb at a memorial service in Selma this afternoon . The Rev. Mr. Reeb , of Boston , died last week of injuries he received when he was beaten in Selma following a civil rights march . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baptist church , 49th street and South Park way shortly after his arrival yesterday , told reporters that " strong federal action on the local level " is needed to insure voting rights for Negroes in Selma . He said he has not studied the details of Presdient Johnson 's proposed legislation to insure those rights but said that doing away with literacy requirements , which is part of the proposed bill , " will go a long way toward solving our problems . " He said he believes Wallace realizes he has made " grave political errors " in his actions concerning the marchers and is attempting to find some way to save face . Concerning the over-all civil rights movement , the Rev. Dr. King said : " I 'm optimistic . I see a real awakening of consciences on the whole issue . "                     