@@722573

txt Letters to The Times pg . 11 Letters to The Times Unionized Hospitals Employes Said Now to Work Less for the Patient 's Benefit To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent editorial you applauded the settlement of the ' hospital strike and supported unionization for certain hospital employes .. Your editorial and the statements of Leon Davis . implied that with collective bargaining in the offing , employes could return to the task of helping the patient . All would approve raising hospital employes ' wages to reasonable levels . However , unionization is at best a mixed blessing . for the patient . It may be that the better paid and therefore happier employe works harder for the patient . But in some hospitals in New York City which currently are unionized the results of unionization have been somewhat different . The union has defined the duties of employes such as porters and nurses ' aides , and these employes have refused to perform necessary tasks not strictly wider the provisions of these work rules . For example , a porter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter how much cleaning is needed . Not only are dirty wards undesirable from the esthetic point of view , but they also permit bacteria to grow . If the nurse irt charge objects to the way a porter is cleaning or requests extra cleaning she is told she can not give orders directly to the unionized employe , and must talk to the union steward , supervisors or to the hospital administration . The administration-union talks inevitably solve nothing since the burden of proof is on the administration to prove negligence . As a result , the nurse eventually accepts the fact that she is powerless to run her own ward . This single illustration could be multiplied many times , involving not only porters but also nurses ' aides , elevator operators , etc . Inadequate Supervision The shift of allegiance away from the patient , nurse , ward and hospital administration to the union also means that the nonprofessional workers have inadequate direct supervision . Since these workers are scattered throughout the hospital , only the individual ward nurses can oversee their work for any length.of time each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less , not more , for the benefit of the patient . Obviously these undesirable changes in ward authority are harmful to the morale of non-unionized but overworked nurses . It is virtually axiomatic that no hospital operates at peak efficiency in patient care if the nurses and physicians do not have control of the activities of all ancillary personnel permanently or temporarily assigned to any ward . The nursing shortage is so acute that in a significant number of hospitals one nurse is available to cover two to five wards for sixteen out of the twenty-four hours . It is currently difficult toecruit n young women into the nursing profession , and equally difficult to keep them there . If unionization and collective bargaining are introduced without safeguards which guarantee that the union will in no way interfere with the right of the nurse to decide what must be done for the good of the patient on her ward , then unionization in this particular area will continue to work in some ways to the detriment of the hospital and the patient . It might be far wiser to pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscribe to and follow the recommendations of the Permanent Administrative Committee for Hospitals , a group which has recently made major strides in increasing the wages and benefits of nonprofessional workers in our voluntary hospitals . DONALD B. LouiuA , M. D. New York , Aug. 3 , 1962 . How ' to Run a Railroad TO THE EDITOR OF TAE NEW YORK TIMES : The proposal by planners to give us 200-mile-an-hour rail service on the East Coast is another of those romances that experts delight in , that we mortals dream of , and that are decades ahead of what present management could provide . In the meantime , there is no need for another expensive foundation re ; earch project to begin railroad recovery . . Any rider can provide expert advice , free of charge , to management . When it is cold , the cars should ' se heated ; . when it is warm , they should be cooled ; where it says " No smoking " the conductor should enf:irce it ; drunken and disorderly ; coups should be discharged ; where t says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where there is scenery , . t should be discernible through the window ; where there is delay , it should be announced factually , as if to adults . Where there are sandwiches , there should be meat inside genuine bread , at a cost in reach of the average American income ; where there are rest rooms , there should be sanitation somehow comparable to a wellrun stockyard : When these simplicities have been faced , we may then call in experts . preferably acquainted with the bet : ter American ' ' and European lints , to suggest what to do next . One difficulty remains ; to accomplish the above , the trains would require live human beings , with pride in their work , in attendance . Perhaps they could be hired and paid decently if featherbedding in the front office were reduced . JOHN H. Calm Washington , Aug. 1 , 1962 . Proposal for Territories Joining Guam and Virgin Islands to Larger Units Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The goal of self-rule for Guam and the Virgin Islands as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and The Times editorial of July 28 seems highly desirable in this age when Western colonialism is disappearing . However , , it is. most unlikely that Congress will ever vote to admit these territories as the fifty-first and fifty-second states , no matter how long their period of self-rule . in view of their small populations , limited natural resources and undiversified economies . For the same reasons it is unlikely that either Guam or the Virgin Islands could ever become viable independent nations . Let us not repeat the mistake made by the French of carving French Africa into small economically weak , nationalistic states . A better method of achieving self-rule and eventual statehood or independence for Guam and the Virgin Islands would be to join these small territories to larger units . The Virgin Islands could become a county or several counties of Puerto Rico . Such a union would benefit both present units . The Virgin Islands would gain the advantages of being part of a larger , diversified commonwealth which has the leadership know-how in development that is sorely needed in the Virgin Islands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large part of the population , especially on St. Croix , are of Puerto Rican culture and background . Puerto Rico would also gain from such a Union through further diversity for its economy and culture . Guam and the Trust Territory ; of the Pacific Islands should be merged into one territory with selfrule . The addition of the Trust Territory to Guam will make a unit with sufficient population and economic potential for eventual statehood or independence . Guam is the natural center for the scattered Trust Territory . There is precedent for the union of a trust territory with contiguous territory in the union of British administered Togo with Ghana . If these larger territorial units are created now , some day we will have the pleasure of seeing the birth of two new nations or of adding a fifty-first and a fifty-second star to the American constellation . DONALD GRUNEWALD . Boston , July 31 , 1962 . To Aid Deprived Children To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tim In your editorial of Aug. 6 on the tragic death of Marilyn Monroe you rightly point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Hollywood is reputed to be . However , I would like to add to this fact the even more distressing fact that the events you describe in your news . columns as having occurred in Miss Monroe 's childhood would ill prepare a child for living and working conditions of any kind . It would have been a miracle if the adulations of movie fans over the World could have made up for what must have been Miss Monroe 's basic feeling of lack of self-worth . There are boys and girls right here in New York City , and in all the cities over the nation , who have similar kinds of strikes against them . Miss Monroe 's : death should remind us all that in this land o f plenty and with the knowledge we neW have about the amelioration of human problems , we should feel responsible for providing the . leind of family and children 's services that can help to prevent such tragedies . MILDRED M. KILINSKI , Director , Department of Family Services , Community Service Society . New York , Aug. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               