@@723511

txt The feeling in Congress and in the country that the United States is bogged down in Vietnam ' has not been erased by the report . This has been made plain by the assertion of Senator Frank Church of Idaho that the Administration 's optimism about a possible end of . the war in two years is " designed to snuff out the spreading Congressional revolt against the Diem regime . " If there is a new plan to improve the military effort and the " deeply serious " political situation in South Vietnam , the President ought to tell the country what it is . There is a hint in the White House statement that , come what may , a target date has been . let for American military disengagement from South Vietnam by the end of 1965 . It is , if nothing more , a warning to the Diem-Nhu regime to change its ways . Perhaps Mme. Nhu on her visit here this week will get from this an understanding of the unhappiness Americans feel about being allied with so tyrannical a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any event , it is useful for the world to know that the United States has no intention of keeping troops or bases in South Vietnam any longer than is absolutely necessary to prevent a Communist takeover . Washington should now take the next step and define in some detail the nature of United States peace aims in Vietnam . It is time we clarify for ourselves , as well as the Vietnamese , exactly where we think we are going . President de Gaulle of France , whose Foreign Minister will be calling on President Kennedy today , believes it is illusory to seek a military solution in Vietnam ? in a war of attrition against guerrilla forces , which benefit from a privileged sanctuary in Communist-held North Vietnam . France has gone through that experience twice , in Indochina and Algeria . De Gaulle 's recent public statement suggesting , in typically cryptic terms , an independent , neutral Vietnam , was ill-timed , if not designedly unfriendly to the United States . Yet it points a direction that should not be excluded from the Administration 's current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist camp could open the way for a political settlement in Vietnam . North Vietnam is in the grip of an economic crisis . Its Communist party , split between Moscow and Peking-oriented factions , has been thrown into confusion by the intensified SovietChinese conflict . Ancient fears of Chinese domination remain strong . These fears have benefited the pro-Moscow faction , headed by Ho Chi Minh and Premier Pham Van Dong , which still seems on top . Both leaders recently have made mysterious " cease-fire " overtures which have aroused interest in Saigon  --  both inside the Diem Government and among its anti-Communist opponents . The war in Vietnam is a costly burden for Hanoi . Its continuation is bound to strengthen the influence of Peking , not only in North Vietnam but also in Laos . Premier Khrushchev has resisted a Chinese takeover in Laos . It may be possible to encourage him to take an equal interest in keeping Vietnam out of Peking 's grasp .                     