@@726253

txt President Johnson left tonight for Punta del Este , Uruguay , for a three-day conference with 17 other American heads of government , the first such , meeting since 1956 . The Presidential jet plane took off at 11:32 P.M. from Dulles International Airport in nearby Virginia , the only airfield in this area with runways long enough to permit the plane to carry a full load . of fuel for the 10-hour nonstop journey to Montevideo . The President will transfer to a helicopter for the trip to Punta del Este , a. beach resort 65 miles ; from the Uruguayan capital . The conference members are expected to ratify a long-term plan for the establishment , - of a common market of the countries of Latin America . This is a difficult 15-year project that seeks to generate economic development by abolishing tariffs in the trade among the Latin nations . - U. S. Aid an Inducement Mr. Johnson is prepared to hold out the promise of additional economic aid to the members if they adhere to their commitments . ' In addition , the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modernization of Latin-American agriculture , improvements in education and health and a limitation on the acquisition of arms by the Latin-American governments . For their part , the Latin leaders plan to seek further help from the United States in the removal of discriminatory trade barriers ? that now severely limit their sales to the industrial nations of Western Europe and North America . No major new decisions are expected from the well-prepared conference , whose proceedings are said to be largely prearranged . Its main purpose is to reinforce through personal meetings of the Presidents the commitments ' to the common market project , which has evoked serious political end economic opposition iii many countries . It is hoped that schedules for gradual tariff reductions will be negotiated in time for a start on integration in 1970 . The first agreements may involve only a few countries at a time to encourage logical divisions of labor and industrial production , supplemented by international road and communication networks and other joint ventures . The objective is to achieve complete integration ? that is , the elimination of all internal tariffs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On most of the other subjects on the conference agenda , the American delegation expects only a number of general statements , without concrete agreements . There is , however , a further symbolic significance in the meeting , in the view of many United States officials . Having long advocated a serious attack on the hemisphere 's economic problems , these men are delighted to see the Presi'dents convening to discuss only these difficult issues and not the more negative subjects of Cuba and communism or the politically troublesome but relatively minor problems of fishing rights and border disputes . Still further sources of satisfaction to the Johnson Administration are the many signs of political and economic independence now being shown by the Latin nations . They are said to be abandoning the " tin cup " diplomacy of the past in. which their major - interest was in North American'aid and investment . The common market project has been described by some as a Latin-American initiative , and Mr. Johnson is delighted to let it stand as such . His aides have talked of their desire to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Latin Americans andoffering . help rather than leadership . Some of them still find it hard to believe that the President will really stay out of the spotlight - or avoid - the many other Presidents who hope to confer with him . Most of to-1 morrow and many ? other nonconference hours have been set aside for such bilateral discussions . Nonetheless , all the United States officials agree that the politics of The Latin America countries has begun to reinforce the spirit of independence from Washington , of self-help and of pride in independence . President Johnson takes particular pride in this concern of the Latin Americans with independence and productive issues only two years after his controversial military intervention in the Dominican Republic . At ' that , time , many officials and commentators throughout the ' hemisphere predicted that he , would never recover from what was said to be a loss of prestige among the Latin Americans and would never again be welcome in their councils . To the contrary , Mr. Johnson now contends that events in the hemisphere have vindicated his firm action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba and Communists in general have suffered a rapid loss of prestige throughout the hemisphere , that many mom American ? nations now have the stability needed for economic development and that thus United States interests are threatened less in the hemisphere than at any other time in the last decade . Stopover Planned Communist-led agitators are said at the White House to be planning demonstrations and other moves to discredit or disrupt  --  the conference . But Punta del Este is relatively isolated and the police should be able to keep hostile crowds at a distance . Mr. Johnson briefly investigated the passibility of visiting other Latin countries on this trip , but he found that anything less than a tour of all 10 countries on the South American continent would have offended those whose capitals were left off the itinerary . The President 's plane must make one refueling stop on the return flight Friday , but the White House has refused to say where it will be . Officials have declared only that Mr. Johnson will be back on United States soil Friday night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weekend in Puerto Rico or the Virgin , or , at his Texas ranc , before returning to Washington . ' The trip to ' Uruguay Is the President 's second major foreign journey since he moved into the White House in November , 1963 . He visited seven East Asian and Pacific countries last fall- during a trip made primarily to attend the Manila conference of allies fighting in Vietnam . His last long overseas journey was a visit to Guam three weeks ago for a strategy conference with his top aides in the war and meetings with the leaders of South Vietnam . Mr. Johnson has visited Mexico twice as President , but he has not traveled before in South America .                     