@@723943

txt TAN HIEP , South Viet Nam , May 5 Tuesday IIPI ? A big United States army Caribou transport plane burst into flames a few seconds after taking off today and crashed south of Saigon . It was the worst American military air disaster in Viet Nam . All 15 persons abroad  --  nine Americans and six Vietnamese military personnel  --  were killed . The crash occurred 25 miles from Saigon . The plane had taken off from the Tan Hiep military airfield bound for the South Viett Nam capital . Washington , May 4 - The navy announced today that five sailors were killed at the Guantanamo naval base in Cuba when they accidentally strayed into a field of land mines . The mine field was on American property which apparently was being used as a buffer zone between communist Cuba and the base . The tragedy occurred Saturday evening , apparently in darkness , but the news was withheld until this afternoon . The sailors , four of them teenagers , were on liberty from the Boxer , an amphibious assault ship , and apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The victims were identified as Richard Garrett , 19 , of Oceanside , N. Y. ; Steven C. Knight , 19 , of Cranston , R. I. ; Arthur-H . Orr , 21 , of Hendersonville , N. C. ; Henry J. Pazdan Jr. , 19 , of Trenton , N. J. , and David N. Pyle , 19 , of Crofton , Ky. , all seamen on the Boxer . The victims were carrying swimming trunks and towels when they apparently wandered into the restricted area . Three explosions were heard . Rescue parties did not enter the mined area until the next day but a helicopter flew over the scene and determined that all five of the sailors were dead . The explosions occurred about a mile from a main road which leads to one of the base 's recreational beach swimming areas . Surrounded by Barbed Wire " It is possible , " the navy said , " that the men may have become disoriented in the darkness while walking along the main road to or from the beach and strayed into the wellmarked restricted area . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enter without climbing a barbed wire fence and is surrounded . by warning signs . As an additional precaution , all fleet personnel are fully 1-riefed on restricted areas of the base prior to leaving their ships for liberty . " The personnel also are instructed to walk on main roads , the navy said .                     