@@724325

txt Robert F. Kennedy and Senator Kenneth B. Keating reached the end of their bitter , costly , melodramatic campaign for the United States Senate yesterday after nine exhausting weeks . Today , the state 's voters ? about seven million of them , according to the estimates of most politicians  --  will choose between Mr. Keating , the 64-yearold Republican incumbent , and Mr. Kennedy , the 38-year-old former Attorney General . " The corn is in the silo , " one of Mr. Kennedy 's associates said yesterday . " Now all that 's left to do is to take it out and count the ears . " Although the partisans of both candidates issued the customary election-eve victory forecasts , some of Mr. Keating 's aides conceded that their man seemed to be trailing . Paolucci Ruled Out Mr. Kennedy 's private polls showed him with a commanding lead . Mr. Keating 's indicated an extremely close race with a tiny advantage for his Democratic - Liberal opponent . The straw poll of The New York Daily News forecast a Kennedy landslide . Samuel Lubell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Keating had taken the lead , said in yesterday 's New York World-Telegram that Mr. Kennedy " should win , " but he conceded that Mr. Keating still had " an underdog chance . " Dr. Henry Paolucci , the nominee of the Conservative party , was given no chance by either the professional politicians or the polls . But he was expected to draw more than 100,000 votes , most of which would normally have gone to Senator Keating . ' The Senate campaign had at-1 tracted widespread attention ? not only because of the prominence of the combatants and their supporters , but also because of its implications for the national political situation . Mr. Keating , a liberal Republican , has refused to endorse his party 's Presidential nominee , Senator Barry Goldwater , and thus has come to be regarded as a symbol of the party ' % future . If Mr. Keating and Republicans like him win and Senator Goldwater loses , the theory runs , the Republican moderates will benefit . The outcome of today 's voting will affect the political futures of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will also have an impact on the careers of Mayor Wagner , and Governor Rockefeller , whose power and prestige are at issue . Mr , Kennedy concluded his campaign , which began on Sept. 1 in the Fulton Fish Market , with five afternoon and early evening appearances in New York City . Mr. Keating spent the day appealing to upstate Republicans not to desert him . The former Attorney General , apparently convinced that he d done all he could , put in a short day of campaigning that began at 4:05 P. M. and vas over by 5:40 . But not Senator Keating . Appeals by healing From early morning until midnight , the white-haired Republican flew doggedly from one airport to the next , telling small groups of party workers in nine cities how much he needed every Republican vote . For the first time since he began his campaign , Mr. Keating frankly told Republican audiences that he might be swept out of office by what he implied was a combination of Mr. Goldwater 's unpopularity and Mr. Kennedy 's appeal and ambition . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own making , " he told audiences that ranged in size from to 3011 people . " I need the support of every single Republican . I need your understanding of my position . " The whole day was a tacit acknowledgement of the fear among Republican leaders in the state that Mr. Keating 's majority outside New York may fall so short of normal party strength that his re-election will be difficult . The Senator 's appeal pointed up a dominant theme of election-eve speculation  --  that President Johnson would win by such an overwhelming margin that he would carry Mr. Kennedy into office despite ticketsplitting on an extraordinary scale . Mr. Keating made his lastditch effort in a great counterclockwise sweep from Albany through the Adirondacks to Glens Falls , Plattsburgh and Ogdensburg , then on to Syracuse and West Buffalo , then Jamestown and Olean and Binghamton . Final Trip Stressed " This is a very close contest , " he said at Glens Falls , " one that could he won or lost on this day , on this trip we 're setting out on this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few votes in a close contest , Mr. Keating recalled the gubernatorial election of 1954 , in which W. Averell Harriman defeated Senator Irving M. Ives by a. margin of less than 12,000 votes . The Senator repeatedly named his opponent . apparently in an effort to isolate Mr. Kennedy from the personal popularity of , other leading Democratic figures . " My opponent is Robert Kennedy , " lie declared . " He is not Lyndon Johnson or Hubert Humphrey or John Kennedy or Herbert Lehman or the late Robert Wagner or anybody else whose mantle he has sought to wrap around himself . He must stand or fall as Robert Ken-I nedy . " In a television broadcast shown on 11 stations last night , : Mr. Keating said : " Sending a stranger to represent New York makes ebout as much ! sense as sending a . Frenchman to represent the United States at the United Nations , " Mr. Kennedy 's first stop of the day was at Fordham University , where he was booed as well as cheered . Smiling , he told ' a crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grateful " for the reception . From Fordham he moved on to four rallies  --  at 187th Street and Arthur Avenue in the . Bronx , at 116th Street and Lexington Avenue and at 103d Street and Lexington Avenue , ' both in Harlem , and at Fulton ) Street and Nostrand Avenue in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn . At the Bronx rally , policemen extricated his motorcade with great difficulty from another of the crowds of scream-I ing , shouting , pushing children ) who have besieged him in every corner of the state . " It makes me feel like a Beetle , " he once said after a similar Incident . Mr , Kennedy also spoke on an election-eve telecast , in which he carefully avoided attacking Mr. Keating . He described " leadership in finding the solutions " to state and national problems as the dominant theme of the campaign . During the day , Mr. Kennedy picked up his first New York City newspaper endorsement from The New York Post . And he promised to return tomorrow , win or lose , to Glens Falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in the early days of the race . Where the candidates could , not be present , stand-ins made final appeals for them , Governor Rockefeller , Senator Jacob K. Ievits and Attorney General Louis J , Lefkowitz ! campaigned in Manhattan , Brooklyn , the Bronx and Queens and at the Staten Island Ferry terminal . The Governor , standing under Christmas decorations at ' Hearn 's Department Store in the Bronx , spoke in Spanish . ' Riding down Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn , he ate a bagel . And everywhere the three Republicans pleaded for Keating votes . Former Governor Harriman , now the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs , spoke for Mr. Kennedy from a sound truck on the Avenue of the Americas near 35th Street . " It 's time to explode the great myth that Keating is a man of the people , " said Mr. Harriman , who was wearing a battered fedora reminiscent of Franklin D. Roosevelt 's campaign hat . " We need a man in the councils of the Democratic Senate majority who can see to it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign director , Herbert Brownell , forecast that the Senator would be re-elected " by a close margin against the most formidable odds " because " the voters of New York resent being taken for granted by a gate-crasher , " Stephen E. Smith , Mr. Kennedy 's brother-in-law and the key figure in his campaign , said in an interview : " We do n't make the decisions for the voters . They do that for themselves at the polls . But we are hopeful and confident that the result will be a victory for Kennedy . " A poll taken by the Republicans showed 68 per cent of the voters committed-34 to .. ktr , Kennedy , 31 to Mr. Keating and 3 to Mr. Paolucci . It showed 18 per cent leaning one way or another , with half favoring each major-party nominee . That left 14 per cent undecided , an unusually high figure , and the Republicans have con-. eientrated their polling since 1Saturday on this group . Ali Keating source said yesterday that the Senator seemed to be getting more than two-thirds of the undecided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point as if we 're not going to make it , " this source said . " But , if this really is a late trend to us , it 's Just barely conceivable that we could pull it out , the way Goldwater did in the California primary . " Given 52.5 Per Cent The latest Kennedy poll showed the former Attorney General with 52.5 per cent , Mr Keating with 45.5 and Mr. Paolucci with 2 . The undecideds had been pro-rated between the three candidates , a source disclosed . On the basis of a total vote of seven million , these figures would indicate A Kennedy plurality of 490.000 . The Daily News poll , whose final results were published yesterday , projected a victory for Mr. Kennedy by 1,143,000 . But this survey ignored the undecided vote , and few politicians gave the former Attorney General any chance of winning by so large a margin . Mr. Keating is scheduled to vote at 8:30 tomorrow morning in Rochester , returning to New York City in mid-afternoon . He will receive the returns at the Roosevelt Hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , was scheduled to have breakfast before the polls open at 6 A.M. with Democratic captains and inspectors of West Side Democratic clubs . Candidates from the area were also planning to join Mr. Kennedy at the Esquire Restaurant , 86th Street and Broadway . He was then to return to the Carlyle Hotel and visit the Bronx Zoo about 10:30 A.M. He will hear the returns at the Carlyle and at the Democratic headquarters at the Statler-Hilton Hotel .                     