@@725169

txt A new service for television viewers that is guaranteed to ' improve reception , both in black and white and in color , will be introduced here within weeks under three franchises unanimously approved last night by ' the Board of Estimate . Opposition by the New York Telephone Company failed to block award of the franchises to Sterling Information Services , Ltd .. the TelePrompter Corporation and CATV Enter ! prises , Inc . ! These companies , under terms of the franchises will pipe tele ; vision signals by wire directly into the home . This will eliminate outside interference from tall buildings , bridges and other ! structures that either block or ' distort the signals that travel ' through the air . The service will cost . a 19.50 ' installation fee and a flat $5 a , month service charge . I Safeguards for both the user and the city are set up under the two-year experimental franchises . If profits exceed the 7 per cent maximum , the city has reserved the right to scale down charges both for installation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officially called Community An- tenna Television but better known as CATV , for Pay TV is barred . The service must carryall city channels but can not bring in others from elsewhere . All broadcasting stations must be treated on the same basis . City hospitals , the Police and Fire Departments will be given free service , while other city ' departments ' and agencies , as well as charitable , religious and educational institutions , will be entitled to a 20 per cent discount . Franchise holders will be able to maintain their service but can not engage in selling or ( servicing television sets . The CATV operators must also give " a warranty of qual , ity reception " with their service and take out a special $2 million insurance policy to protect the city against any suit for Infringement of copyright . Boroughs to Be Zoned Under the awards , service will be provided within the next few months only in Manhattan and the Riverdale area of the Bronx , where the need , because of the many high buildings , is great . The 9ther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bureau of Franchises with the understanding that , if exfi perimental operation is successful , other franchises may be let . Manhattan is divided between Sterling and TelePrompter with the latter concern getting everything north of 86th Street on the East Side and 79th Street on the Vest Side . CATV Enterprises got the Riverdale franchise . All three were found to be sound in finances , engineering and experience by the City Administrator 's office . Sterling 's president , Charles F. Dolan . said his organization would deliver pictures of " nearperfect quality " by April 1 . Time-Life Broadcast , Inc. , is a 20 per cent owner of the company . Other principal stockholders are William Lear of the Lear Jet Corporation , J. Elroy McCaw , former owner of Radio Station WINS ; Robert Anderson , former Secretary of the Treasury , and Sterling Movies U.S.A. , Inc . Irving B. Kahn , chairman and president of TelePrompter , said extensive surveys and preliminary plannin had been completed , and planning his service would be " operational within a very short time . " Allen H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start setting up its cable network almost immediately . Principal owners of this company are Ted Granik , the television producer , and Michael Rosen . The New York Telephone Company sought to delay the award of franchises on grounds that it , rather than the Empire City Subway Company , a wholly owned subsidiary of the parent American Telephone and Telegraph Company , should lay the distribution cables and make the house connections . Eric B. Nelson , associated general counsel for the New York Telephone Company , warned that letting another party use Empire 's facilities could disrupt Government and other communications carried by Empire . Political overtones , which marked the competition between eight companies for the franchises , continued until the end . Mr. Nelson said that Francis X. QuiInnen , a friend of Mayor Wagner , had been consulted though not retained in the telephone company 's protest . Richard M. Flynn , son of the late Democratic National Committeeman , Edward J. Flynn , represented Sterling while in latter stages , William A. Shea , another friend of Mayor Wagner , represented TelePrompter . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city legislative representative . Before Mr. Shea was retained in the early summer , TelePrompter had Justin Feldman , then Democratic law chairman in New York County , as its lawyer . He said yesterday that he withdrew ? after he learned that the Board of Estimate was treating the question as " political rather than a legal matter . " CATV is widely used across the country with 1,600 towns rand cities having the service . In most cases , the blocks to good reception are distance from stations or natural obstacles , , such as mountains .                     