@@723501

txt A plan to put high school students on an eight-hour day , instead of the present six hours , and give them an opportunity to complete the normal four years in two has been proposed for the city school system . The new concept was disclosed yesterday by a special committee of present and former principals who made a two-year study at the suggestion of the High School Division of the Board of Education . The committee is headed by Leo Weitz , principal of Lafayette High School , Brooklyn . It will meet with the board 's deputy superintendents on Oct. 18 in an effort to make plans for a pilot project . Among the revolutionary aspects of the plan is the abolition of grade levels and of the Carnegie unit system , which sets CURRIVAN the points and hours for each subject . Instead , a student would proceed at his own pace , completing the normal span of study in two , three or four years . He would not be permitted to move from one area of knowledge to another until he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His teachers would work 40 hours a week instead of the present 32 , and would be compensated by salary increases of about 33 per cent . There would be a cadre of ' regular staff members augmented by visiting teachers from colleges and other high schools . The curriculum would consist of English , speech , social studies , science , mathematics , creative and practical arts and physical education . All students also would be required to learn typing and a foreign language . Every student would have to participate in some extracurric1 ular , activities , such as student government or a French club , and in some form of athletics . There would be no distinctions between major and minor subjects , but ? there would be standards " which will state the competencies required for mastery of each phase of - each subject . " , As much as two hours a day would be set aside for independent , but not unsupervised , study . This and other aspects of the plan , it was explained , would allow the student to do research while introducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he went on to college . ; Every student would be re1 quired in his second year to develop a marketable skill through such pursuits as business education or laboratory coursesoand these would have tto be mastered before graduation . A guidance program also would be set up , and each teacher would be responsible for an advisory section . The guidance program would include a follow-up of dropouts as well as of graduates . The basic philosophy of the program , as stated by the com mittee , is to provide instruction " on three levels or tracks , for each of which a program will be formulated based on degrees of potential ability . " A student would be assigned to a " track " on the basis of his ability and ordinarily would remain in that track throughout high school . However , the committee said , it would be possible for a student to change tracks . " A body of knowledge will be organized in a succession of phases each containing a unit of content , " the committee said . " Progression from phase to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This philosophy was suggested to the committee by Dr. Calvin E. Gross , Superintendent of Schools , in a recent statement criticizing the Manner in which many students now go through high school . " He amasses a standard number of credits , " Dr. Gross said , " under a prescribed curriculum for each grade and subject , with . most of his electives coming from a sort of nonintellectual smorgasbord that somehow seems to detract from the main course . " Under the proposed plan the student would not be allowed to move forward on the basis of points acquired but would have to meet his teachers ' evaluations , which would be based on mastery , skill and understanding rather than a numerical rating . The evaluation might be based on written examinations , classroom performance or other , criteria . Examinations would be analyzed , rather than scored , as they are now . The teacher would look for errors in the student 's thinking , in his information and in his responses . A diploma would be granted only if all phases of each subject were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , each student would have to have a satifactory record of behavior , and have completed a research undertaking or an independent study in a curriculum area . The plan includes team teaching in some areas , television instruction and other audiovisual aids . There would be a teaching machine center , science projection rooms , a mathematics laboratory with computers , and a music suite .                     