@@721406

txt Detroit , Aug. 24 Special ? Vice President Nixon told the 61st national encampment of the Veterans of Foreign Wars here Wednesday that the United States has the power to unseat the Castro government in Cuba but that " getting rid of him is not enough . " Speaking before 11,500 cheering veterans in Cobo hall after a warm reception in the nation 's motor capital , Nixon said the United States must show the Cuban people a way to a better life without Castro 's dictatorship . Urges Goal of Freedom He said we must offer a constructive alternative to communism and can not be satisfied with a strategy of defense against it . He called for the United States , to set a goal of freedom thruout the world . He described the United States as " first in the world " militarily , economically , scientifically , and educationally and hailed American foreign policy as one of firmness without belligerence . While Nixon was speaking , word was received from Washington that Sen. John F. Kennedy , the Democratic Presidential nominee , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation to address the meetings , will make it after all.I Kennedy will speak Friday morning at the final session , it was said . Kennedy had originally been asked to speak Tuesday but declined because of Senate business . Nixon was accompanied by his wife on the Detroit trip . In addition to his speech he crowded political conferences land a press conference into a five hoar stay before returning to Washington . Would n't Solve Problem Nixon ' reminded the veterans that he had attended the last seven national encampments , adding , " This will be the last time I will speak to you as Vice President and , depending upon what happens in November , it may be the Last time as an elected official of the United States . " This brought a chorus of " No , no , " from the floor . Expanding at his press conference on his references to the Cuban situation , Nixon said : " If the l nited States wanted to use its full economic and military power , it could topple Mr. Castro any- ' time it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to go ahead on some of the legislative proposals in the 22-point package presented by President Eisenhower , conceding that the record of . i the bob-tailed session to date is " not satisfactory " either to the administration or , the Democratic leadership .                     