@@723028

txt Washington , March 24 ? For 21 years , he was an American Communist party leader , fighting to establish a communist government in the United States . Then , to avoid deportation , he went to Hungary , where he became a high-ranking communist official . Full of zeal , he entered into the way of life he had long advocated for Americans . Seven years later he fled to Vienna , revolted by the brutality of his communist colleagues and the misery of the Hungarian people . He had discovered " an inferno on earth . " Called Unique Document Accustomed to the legal protection and comforts of the capitalist system against which he had raged , he had found that a Communist is safer in the United States than ' behind the iron curtain . John Santo , 54 , former general secretary of the International Transport Workers union CIO , one of the most militant Communists in the labor movement in the ' 30 and ' 40s , told his story today in a remarkable document released by the House committee on un-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testified before the committee , but none- has held high rank on both sides of the iron curtain . Chairman Francis E. Walter D. , Pa. -1 called the book-length transcript of Santo 's testimony " a unique document of paramount importance . " Santo has just been readmitted to the United States after being a Stateless refugee in Vienna from 1956 to 1963 . In those years he passed the fivey ear waiting period during former Communist must convince the immigration authorities that he is an active opponent to communism . Former Chicago , Student The tale of his disillusionment , when he encountered the realities of communist existence , was told under oath at a three-day closed session this month attended by Rep. Edwin E. Willis D. , La . , Committee Director Francis J. , and Investigator Donald T. Appell . Santo came from Hungary to the United States in 1928 , a 19-year-old youth seeking to finish his education . He was a student for a time at Crane Technical High school in Chicago . He joined the Communist party in 1929 . Five years later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union and held that post until he left the country in 1949. 8 Year Legal Struggle . Immigration authorities began trying to deport Santo in 1941 as an alien communist who had illegally entered the United States . It took them eight yearc When he finally went back to Hungary in 1949 , Santo looked forward eagerly to tasting the delights of the Communist society which he deemed best fitted for the needs of the world . He was rewarded for his American services by appointment as a division chief in the Hungarian " people 's republic " ministry of food , a position of prestige in the communist hierarchy . Finds Fear Everywhere With enthusiasm , he took up his new duties . But he quickly discovered that fear was the dominating emotion in all those he met , both officials and workers . He stuck it out for seven years . Then , during the Russia crushing of the Hungarian revolution of 1956 , he saw tanks shell women standing in a breadline . He escaped to Austria . " In the , United States , " ne remarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that one gets arrested ; the policeman is very nice , even gives you a nickel to call your lawyer , and by the time you get to the police station your lawyer is there with a bail bond . Nikita Another Stalin " But not in communist Hungary . There , you simply disappear . " Santo told the committee that Russian Premier Nikita Khrushchev was as cruel and ruthless as his predecessor , Joseph Stalin . He scoffed at Khrushchev 's protestations of a desire for peace . " There are some people who might believe that the Soviet Union does n't want war because it has too many factories and cities and too many people to sacrifice in a war , " he said . " But if the situation warranted it , Khrushchev would not hesitate to destroy nine-tenths of humanity to keep one-tenth under his rule . " The post he was given in Hungary placed him in control of 12,000 workers in the meat and canning industry . The standard of living in Hungary in that year 1949 was relatively high by eastern European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed a new five-year plan upon all industry . Production quotas were set up . Each year , the quotas were increased 10 per cent and the wages of workers decreased 10 per cent . Santo expected the trade anions to protest . He found they had no power . When he and other division heads complained they could not meet the quotas , they were told to decrease the quality of the products . The result : The famous Hungarian salami , originally half beef and half pork , was gradually adulterated until it became horse moat and pork fat . A little tobacco was removed each year from cigarets until they were so wispy that each sufficed only for a few puffs . Leather became so scarce that poultry feet were skinned to make an imitation alligator leather shoe which fell apart in wet weather . Steal to Survive Workers were reduced to such straits , Santo said , that they resorted to thievery . He told of a worker who poured lard in his shoes and then boiled it out at night . The value of the lara @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was detected and imprisoned . " Workers and consumers were exploited at every turn , " he said . " Conditions in the factories were indescribable . " Santo discovered eventually that a police spy had been assigned to watch him from the beginning . The man was one of his trusted associates . Santo told of the rigged trials of Laszlo Rajk , once minister of the interior ; Janos Kadar , who held the job later , and Lajas Bebrits , minister of railroad and transport , all of them dedicated Communists like himself . " These affected me like a psychological sledge hammer , " he remarked . " I felt myself dissolving , breaking up , morally , mentally , intellectually . "                     