@@724552

txt London Military units aided from Dong Hoi have been attacking United States bases and people in South Vietnam . It is logical and rational in military and power-politics terms to retaliate in a carefully measured method and extent against Dong Hoi for the damage which drew its strength from that base . A A A The logic of the measured retaliation against Dong Hoi has been accepted among allies of the United States . Here in London a sympathetic British attitude was particularly appreciated by Americans . It was in such pleasing contrast to the response at the time of the Cuban crisis . On that previous occasion most London newspapers and journals of opinion doubted the reasons for Washington 's actions until those reasons had been confirmed in Moscow . This time the initial press reaction in London could be , and was , described at the American Embassy as " splendid . " Partly this was because some editors remembered with embarrassment their mistake over Cuba . They were careful this time not to repeat a so recent and visible fault . Partly also they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance and had itself accepted the American case as logical and rational . And British Government officials saw to it their own views were known to Fleet Street editors . A A Add a third reason . Britain is heavily committed nearby in Malaysia . The two situations are not directly related . British troops are defending Malaysia against Indonesian attack . Indonesia is not a Communist country . The Indonesian campaign against Malaysia is imperialism , not communism . But the two situations are alike in one respect . In both a Western country is trying to protect an Asian country against aggression . If the United States can successfully defend South Vietnam against Communist attack , the defenders in Malaysia will be encouraged . If the United States should abandon South Vietnam , the British task in Malaysia would be harder . The end result is that this affair is marked by almost complete Anglo-American solidarity . It is the best teamwork the two have worked out in Asia since the Korean war , A A A More interesting , of course , but not yet quite so clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrill , although it has been careful to avoid making any positive commitment to North Vietnam . It would be most interesting to know what thoughts went through Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin 's mind in Hanoi when he heard of the attack on Dong Hoi . The reasonable expectation is that Moscow will make much noise but do little . The Soviet case would be on very thin ground . Even among Communists a reprisal of this kind can not easily be made to look like aggression .                     