@@726530

txt Glacier National Park , Mont. , Aug , 14 Special )  - -  -  " Michele. get out of your bag , run . climb a tree . . . . " But Michele could n't get out of her sleeping bag before a marauding bear pounced on her , dragging bag and all into the woods . " My zipper is stuck . . . he 's tearing my arm off . . . 0 , my God , I 'm dead . " Mauled Body Found These were the last words Michele Koons , 19 , of San Diego , was heard to cry . Hours later rangers found her mauled body about 100 yards from the Trout Lake campground where she and four other campers had stopped for the night . Paul R. Dunn , 16 , of Edwina , Minn. , recounted the night of horror as park officials and rangers today sought an answer to the killing yesterday of two teen-age girls by bears in this rugged vacation spot . The deaths were the first such fatal attacks in the park 's 57-year history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three other campers climbed trees and screamed in the hope of scaring off the bear . Girl and Youth Attacked Twenty miles away , Julie Helgesen , of Albert Lea , Minn. , was killed and a youth , Roy Ducat , of Perrysburg , O. , was mauled while they slept near Granite Park chalet . Park officials are perplexed over why the grizzlies mauled and killed two girls in one night . One park official suggested the girls may have panicked when the bears came sniffing around theii camp sites . A scream or sudden movement might have been enough to bring on an attack . Another official said a lightning storm the night before might have spurred the attacks . Rangers Kill 2 Grizzlies The two camping areas were closed off as rangers patroled the areas with high-powered rifles . Two grizzlies were killed in the Granite Park and Trout Lake areas last night . Tonight the rangers were out again with orders to kill all bears in the area . Park Ranger Larry Dale said the bear that killed Miss Koons apparently came into the Trout Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' sleeping bag . " She screamed and that apparently infuriated the bear , " he said . Dunn , Ray and Ronald Noseck and Denise Huckler , of San Manuel , Ariz. , all climbed trees when the bear attacked . Ray Noseck recounted : " All kinds of thoughts ran thru my head . I told her to get out of her bag and run for it . I had nothing . . . what am I supposed to do , hit him in the face ? "                     