@@726645

txt The Senate , ignoring the most obvious of all opportunities to cut nonessential spending , has not only matched the $4.5 billion the House voted for space excursions but tacked on nearly $100 million more to start new programs after the first Americans land on the moon . The certainty that another huge space appropriation will come out of conference on Capitol Hill adds special interest to the fact that twice recently the leading space scientist of the Soviet Union , Prof. Leonid Sedov , has publicly stressed the importance of large-scale international cooperation for manned flights beyond the moon . Several weeks ago he told an interviewer that no single country could be expected to carry out by its own means a manned expedition to Mars . Then , more recently , in Belgrade he . stressed the " significance " of international cooperation in providing the " vast material and creative forces " needed for the " great interplanetary expeditions of the future . " These remarks point to a policy very different from that which Moscow has consistently exhibited in ignoring the appeals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of space . In part , no doubt ; this new attitude is the result of a reappraisal of the propaganda advantages of space feats , and a keener Soviet realization ? as compared with the era of the exuberant Khrushchev ? of the validity of conflicting demands for resources devoted to the space race . But the line Professor Sedov is taking also surely indicates an appreciation of the colossal costs of trying to send men to the planets . These costs would dwarf even the great amounts the United States and the Soviet Union are spending to try to send men to the moon . A round trip to the moon need cover only about a half million miles and can be accomplished in a week or so . A three-man crew is adequate for this journey . But a round trip to Mars would require traveling hundreds of millions of miles and would take substantially more than a year . The capsule sent on the latter journey would have to carry food , oxygen and other essentials for a minimum crew of six to ten , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blasting off from . Mars , which has a much greater gravitational force than the relatively tiny moon . When the first man lands on the moon , it will be the fruit of an effort costing tens of billions of dollars . The bill for duplicating that feat on Mars is likely to be measured in hundreds of ' billions of dollars , No wonder the Russians  --  or some Russians  --  seem to have decided that only a combined effort can accomplish the latter feat . This is a more sensible attitude than that of some Congressmen who dream of a United States post-Apollo program aimed at reaching Mars with American resources alone . Now that Professor Sedov has opened the door , the Administration has an opportunity to begin diplomatic explorations to see if the Russians really are serious about replacing senseless rivalry in space with rational international cooperation .                     