@@727667

txt Washington , Feb. 24 ? President Nixon today put the moral leadership and prestige of the White House behind a tough stand against campus violence . In a letter to the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh , president of the University of Notre Dame , Nixon applauded what he said was the " forthright stand " Father Hesburgh has taken . The letter was made public by the White House . The President prepared it just before leaving on his eight day trip to Europe . Rights are Abused " Violence and vandalism have marked many of these protests , and the rights of the majority of the students have been grossly abused , " Nixon wrote . " If the integrity of our universities is to be preserved , then certain principles must be reestablished and certain basic rules enforced . Intimidation and threats remain outlaw weapons in a free society ! ' The president told Father Hesburgh that he has directed Vice President Agnew to meet with state governors on the issue when they are in Washington later this week for the midwinter governors ' conference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the governors , consistent with the traditional independence of American universities , that might be taken at state and federal levels to cope with what the President termed " growing lawlessness and violence on our campuses . " Nixon also asked Father Hesburgh , a longtime friend , if he would take the time to forward his views on the matter to the White House . The President criticized university faculties and administrators as well as student protesters . " A fundamental governing principle of any great university is that the rule of reason and not the rule of force prevails , " wrote Nixon . " Whoever rejects that principle forfeits his right to be a member of the academic community . The university administrator who fails to uphold that principle jeopardizes one of the central piltars of his own institution and weakens the very foundation of American education . " Warns Students , Faculty Father Hesburgh on Feb. 17 issued a get-tough policy of suspension , expulsion , and arrest for violent or nonviolent disruption of normal operations at Notre Dame in a letter to faculty and students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to halt protest activities which disrupt the normal operations of the university or infringe upon rights of others . " I share your concern over the recent disorders that have paralyzed campus after campus across our country in recent weeks , and I want to applaud the forthright stand you have taken , " Nixon told Father Hesburgh . Are Major Concerns The issues raised by the protesting students include not minor campus reforms but major concerns of national policy , the President said . Nixon labeled the protesters " a small , irresponsible minority ? , He said the means some students have employed reflect an impatience with democratic processes , an intolerance of legitimately constituted authority , and a complete disregard for the rights of others . Nixon 's First Comment Herbert Klein , director of communications in the Nixon administration , said that Nixon in his letter set the tone the President hopes to pursue in connection with campus vio. lence . The letter to Father Hesburgh was Nixon 's first comment on the situation , which has spread across the entire country . Klein would not go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's views . He said Nixon was impressed , however , with Father Hesburgh 's comments . Charles B. Bud Wilkinson , former University of Oklahoma football coach and a special consultant to Nixon , will work on programs aimed at bringing campus dissidents more in line with peaceful channels of protest , said Klein . Klein said that it is hoped that some common viewpoints on handling campus disorders will emerge from Agnew 's meeting with the governors .                     