@@724314

txt Formal challenges of 1,500 names on voter registration lists of three traditionally strong Democratic wards were filed yesterday with the city toard of election commissioners by volunteer canvassers . A group of 17 volunteers members of the Republican party 's Operation Double Check - lodged the complaints at the election board offices in City hall . Check on Official Canvass Reginald Holzer , administrative aid to Sheriff Richard B. Ogilvie and boss of the volunteer group , said 2,500 more challenges will be filed today . Yes-1 terday 's filings challenged registrations in the 1st , 2d , and ' 25th wards . Those to be filed today will dispute the validity of registrations in the 24th , 28th , I and 29th wards . The challenge of 4,000 reportedly unqualified registrations ? many listed at the addresses of churches , vacant lots , and , even a psychiatric hospital ? is the result of a canvass conducted by the volunteers as a I test of the official canvass made Oct. 7-8 by election board personnel . Holzer , a G. 0 . P. candidate for Circuit judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those challenged by his teams would appear to prove the legitimacy of their registration . Summoned to Hearing Sidney Holzman , chairman of the election board , said notification of the challenges would be sent by registered mail to those challenged . The suspected voters will be told to appear at a bearing at which they will be confronted by the canvassers and will be required to produce proof of residency . Hearings will be scheduled between 9 a. m. and 9 p. m . Thursday , Friday , and Saturday at the election board offices on the third floor of City hall , Holzman said . Holzer 's volunteers have until 6 p. m. today to file the re , maining 2,500 challenges . Holzer said he was confident that those filing the challenges were legally qualified to do so . He said that many of the apparently fraudulent registrations had been discovered by other volunteers , but that those filing the complaints had rechecked the work of the canvassers . This , Holzer said , would satisfy the statutory requirement that challenges must be filed by persons living in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Face Prosecution If Wrong It will also meet Holzman 's warning that those making a challenge must have personal knowledge that the registration is phony . Otherwise , the challenger can be liable to prosecution . Holzman said he was accepting the challenges " at face value . " " I do n't question the propriety of any citizen making a proper challenge , " Holzman said . " But , I believe these chal- ? lenges are political charges . I believe that this is a political campaign to obtain publicity . " Holzman said his investigators bad looked into the work of the volunteer canvassers and had been told by residents of the wards being checked that the volunteers had admitted being from suburban towns . This , Holzman said , raised a question about the validity of the canvass . " Spurn Aid of Democrats " The election board chairman also said : " Two women , precinct workers of the Democratic party in the 24th ward , told us they offered their help to one of the volunteers and he refused it . " To this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canvassers refused the ' help ' of the Democratic precinct workers . " And , as for Holzman 's legal double-talk about whether our challenges are legitimate , the answer is that they are being filed by residents of the wards involved and the challengers do have personal knowledge . " As for Sheriff Ogilvie , he said : " It does n't surprise me that Holzman is prejudging the challenges . The election board has resisted everything we have tried to do to insure an honest election . " Business Men Challenge 34 Meanwhile , the Illinois Small Businessmen 's association filed 34 challenges with the election board after a canvass of the 51st precinct of the 4th ward . Ira Latimer , executive vice president of the association , said the challenges resulted from a check made by one of his group 's workers , Mrs. Georgia Isbell , 4735 Evans ay . At one location in the precinct , a store at 4640 Cottage Grove ay. , Latimer said Mrs. Isbell found a Benjamin Franklin registered . After a Democratic precinct captain advised her not to challenge Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mrs. Isbell checked with the store owner and was told no one lived on the premises , Latimer said . Other apparently improper registrations found by Mrs. Isbell included the name of a woman who had died before the election board canvass Oct. 7-8 and that of a man who had moved to Tennessee . Other registrations were found at nonexistent addresses , Latimer said . Few Answer Challenges Holzman reported that only 2,000 persons had responded to the 141,000 challenge notices mailed as a result of the election board 's own canvass . Thus , about 139,000 names will be stricken from the voter registration rolls . On election day , Nov. 3 , Holzman said , poll sheets would be posted in each polling place so that voters spotting fictitious or erroneous registrations could still complain to election officials . Mayor Daley called the volunteer canvass " an effort to make political capital of a worn-out issue . " " Insult to Vote Judges " " It is an insult to the judges of election , " Daley said yesterday . " How do you offset these constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lots . On the contrary , they 've all been challenged by the election board canvassers . It 's hard to overcome the damage of these charges , even tho they are n't true . " To this , Sheriff Ogilvie replied : " The way to answer these ' wild charges ' would be to cooperate with our volunteers and not to throw every roadblock in their path . If the Democrats did n't have anything to hide , they would n't work so hard to stop us. "                     