@@723718

txt FAYETTEVTTLF , N. C. , Jan. 18 ? Senator Barry Goldwater received a pledge from the manager of his Southern campaign today that he would deliver the votes of every Southern delegate to the Republican National Convention except one , that of Winthrop A. Rockefeller . Mr. Goldwater , making his first trip to the South since formally declaring his candidacy for the Republican Presidential nomination earlier this month , is still the commanding favorite of Southern Republicans . The Arizonan 's campaign strategists , however , are aware that the elevation of Lyndon B. Johnson to the Presidency raises serious questions about Mr. Goldwater 's so-called " Southern strategy , " or the contention that , if nominated , he could carry many Southern states in November . For this and other reasons , Mr. Goldwater 's political advisers are hoping for a big victory in New Hampshire 's primary election March 10 to offset nagging questions as to how much Mr. Goldwater 's political fortunes have suffered since the assassination of President Kennedy . Mr. Goldwater 's newly appointed Southern campaign director , John Grenier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of Alabama , said here today , " I can , deliver 278 of 279 Southern delegates to the Republican Convention . " He assumed that Winthrop Rockefeller would be a delegate from Arkansas and would support his brother , Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York . Other political observers agree that Mr. Goldwater remains the favorite of Southern Republican leaders . North Carolina 's Republican chairman , J. Herman Saxon , said Mr- . Goldwater had 85 per cent of the state 's Republicans solidly behind him . The North Carolina party is less pro-Goldwater than that of many other states . Nonetheless , the South confronts Mr. Goldwater with a serious problem . If it is thought nationally that he would not run so well in the South against President Johnson of Texas as he might have against President Kennedy of Massachusetts , this removes major base of the Senator 's power to convince national Republican leaders that he would be a winning candidate . Unknown Factor ' One of Mr. Goldwater 's advisers recently said that the Goldwater camp 's previous Southern strategy " was based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this has1 now been replaced by an unknown factor . " While Mr. Goldwater portrays President Johnson as " more liberal than Kennedy , " the Senator 's backers fear that Southern conservatives will consider Mr. Johnson satisfactorily conservative . " Johnson is going to get the benefit of the doubt from the Southern people , " an aide to Mr. Goldwater said . Mr. Grenier , who flew here to join Mr. Goldwater at a breakfast meeting with North Carolina Republican leaders , said that the " sense of deflation " of the Senator 's prospects in the South had been " overemphasized . " He said that Florida , Tennessee , Virginia and South Carolina were still certain to cast their electoral votes for Mr. Goldwater if he is the Republican nominee . Optimism Disputed Several North Carolina Republican leaders did not completely agree with Mr. Grenier 's assessment . One said that Southethers might accept a good deal of liberalism from President Johnson on the ground that " he is one of us . " Another said there was no question that Mr. Goldwater 's prospective strength against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls . of voters , which had Mr. Goldwater leading President Kennedy in September , now had him trailing Mr. Johnson in North Carolina . Mr. Goldwater is telling North Carolina voters to wait and see how Mr Johnson behaves this year . Here in Fayetteville he called the President a liberal who " ranks with the Hubert Humphrey and Wayne Morse brand of Democrats . " Senator Goldwater 's supporters know that arguments that he can not carry the South not only increase opposition to his nomination but also increase the Number of men willing to challenge him for the nomination . One source at the Goldwater campaign headquarters in Washington said he already regarded former Vice President Richard M Nixon as a candidate and Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania as a likely one . Neither has announced an intention to run . Mr. Goldwater 's ' advisers believe that a sizable victory over Governor Rockefeller in the New Hampshire primary would derail a stop-Goldwater movement . " If we get a big win in New Hampshire , " said one of them , " we will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senator 's camp that a large margin is needed in New Hampshire . His strategists hope to avoid an indecisive result and its possible consequences . Mr. Goldwater 's campaign workers still assert that the Senator , before winning a single primary , can . count on about 500 first-ballot votes at the Republican convention at San Francisco . They also contend that he still has a commanding lead over other Republican possibilities : Reaction to Assassination Some of - them ' believe , however , that the reaction to President Kennedy 's assassination hurt the " conservative movement " on which Mr. Goldwater 's campaign was based . One adviser said , " There has been a deliberate attempt to make hate and criticism of Kennedy synonymous . " Another source said that a mood of national " self-flagellaation " ? had , to some extent , tarred right-wing opponents of President Kennedy even though " the assassination was the product of a crazy mind and not of constructive opposition to Kennedy . " " Goldwater 's chances , " said one of his supporters , " rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . There is a resurgence of the movement , but whether it will reach the proportions it had before , I do n't know . " One of Senator Goldwater 's staff members commented that President Kennedy 's death had ' introduced a " tremendous amount of uncertainty " into the national political debate . ' " People had three years to make up their minds about Kennedy , " he said . " Some of them who were opposed to Kennedy are uncertain how they feel about Johnson . " However , Goldwater strategists profess to believe that Mr. Johnson ; would be easier to beat than President Kennedy . " Johnson 's popularity is as high now as it ever will be , " one of them said . " He can only lose ground from here on out . " Mr. Goldwater 's aides say they are confident of victory in New Hampshire . One argued that Governor Rockefeller " is in the position of a terrier attacking a- boxer , which is why he campaigns against Goldwater and not the Democrats . " A few Goldwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller in an underdog 's role . " It 's unfortunate , " said an official at Goldwater headquarters . " After all , it 's his territory . "                     