@@727320

txt Mississippi Democrats were formally charged with racial discrimination here this evening by an equal rights committee of the national party . The finding made it almost certain that a biracial group of insurgents would be seated in place of the Mississippi regulars at the party 's convention . . The equal rights panel did not , however , judge the integration efforts of other challenged delegations , thus leaving most racial protests and hundreds of other charges of improper procedure to the convention 's Credentials Committee , which starts taking testimony here tomorrow . The indications here this ' evening were that even the likely exclusion of the Mississippi regulars will be quickly eclipsed by other bitter credentials controversies , many of them being pressed by the followers of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy . Major Dispute Brewing In fact , a major brawl was developing here about the proper way to handle the credentials issue . McCarthy backers have hinted that they want to bar all challenged delegates until their cases are settled . Vice President Humphrey 's organization has denounced this as a formula to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,000 of the 5,611 certified delegates and alternates . Tonight 's move against the Mississippi regulars must still be ratified by the 110-member Credentials Committee after it hears testimony from both sides at the start of its hearings tomorrow . But both Senator McCarthy and Vice President Humphrey favor seating the insurgents , and leading officials of the national party appear to have cooperated in the exclusion effort . Report Planned Similar charges of racial discrimination were brought against the Mississippi party at the convention of 1964 , but its delegates  --  and some of its challengers  --  were seated after it had been agreed that more representative delegations would be required in the future . To monitor the integration efforts , the convention created a special committee on equal rights , headed by Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey . Governor Hughes has since become chairman of the full Credentials Committee , and he completed the preconvention work of the equal rights panel this afternoon to avoid a confusion of functions . The smaller panel plans to publish a report of its four-year effort to " assist " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But to aid the Credential Committee , Governor Hughes said , it had been decided to send a letter to the National Committee this evening anticipating its Judgment of the Mississippi sit uation . The letter will report , the Governor announced at a news conference , that the panel had , found no evidence that then Mississippi Democratic party " even now has complied either with the spirit or the letter " of the convention call pro-1 hibiting racial discrimination . Long discussion of the problems of fair representation in many parts of the country has produced integrated delegations in many Southern states , Mr. Hughes continued . He said that 100 of the more than 300 Negro delegates and alternates at the convention were from 11 Southern states . He refused , however , to interpret this report as an expression of satisfaction with all Southern integration efforts . Racial challenges to some Southern delegations raise too many other complicated issues that will have to be sorted out by the Credentials Committee , he said . The complicating issues , the Governor explained , are simultaneous challenges on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of delegates and the malapportionment of delegate seats . G.O.P. Convention Recalled These issues , variously raised in Northern as well as Southern states , are expected to ignite many quarrels here in the coming week , some of which will probably be fought out on the convention floor , providing an early test of the strength of the anti-Humphrey forces . The proposition that challenged delegates shall not participate until their status is resolved was accepted by the Credentials Committee four years ago and is being promoted this year by the McCarthy camp . But the staff of the Credentials Committee , fearing chaos if up to 1,000 delegates and alternates are denied first-day admission , prefer a rule that delegates be denied a vote only in their own cases . Virtually the same issue came before the Republican convention in 1952 in the contest between General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower and Senator Robert A. Taft . By losing the procedural arglment , Mr. Taft virtually lost the nomination , and Senator McCarthy 's lieutenants this year have dreams of a similar development . Findings Likely Today The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 40 members of the Credentials Committee are themselves members of the challenged delegations . Whether they will be allowed to function , and how , will be determined at a closed meeting in the morning , before the start of testimony in the Mississippi case . A special guest at the closed session will be Prof. Alexander Bickel of the Yale Law School . representing a small group of party liberals demanding convention reform . The group is led by Gov . Harold E. Hughes of Iowa  --  no relation to the New Jersey Governor . The group calls itself the Commission on the Democratic Selection of Presidential Nominees and denies any interest in a specific candidate . Rather , it contends that the " integrity of the convention system " is on trial and argues that some immediate as well as long-range reforms are necessary . The group wanted to testify in public and will probably make its findings known tomorrow . A summary indicates that it wants even stiffer requirements for integration by race , elimination of the unit rule of voting and the seating of newly elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has also suggested that big states be given proportionately larger votes on convention committees , as they are on the floor of the convention , and that challenged delegations be denied the vote on all matters pertinent to the issues in their own cases . Proposals to keep out challenged delegates were strongly denounced today by Representative James G. O'Hara , Democrat , of Michigan , who has been monitoring the credentials battle for the Humphrey camp . He said that this was merely an effort by which McCarthy followers intended to block " hundreds " of Humphrey delegates from exercising their convention rights .                     