@@725786

txt For President Sukarno of Indonesia , the final showdown with his critics seems near . In recent weeks a campaign to oust him has been snowballing . Now thousands of students are reported ready next week to give it a final , all-out push . The campaign is due to reach its peak by Oct. 1  --  the anniversary of last year 's abortive coup in which six top Army generals were murdered . During the year which has elapsed , President Sukarno 's power has been steadily whittled away . Until a year ago he dominated the Indonesian scene and few dared challenge him . Now , however , he is an object for scorn among many younger Indonesians . He is openly criticized , and anti-Sukarno cartoons which would have sent their originators hurtling into jail a year ago today flourish . The Army has at least permitted , if not encouraged , a campaign to discredit him . This has been climaxed by the recent trial of a former Cabinet minister , Jusuf Dalam , which implicated Mr. Sukarno in Mr. Dalam 's world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military leaders who have assumed power in Indonesia , there is a body of opinion opposed to the President 's forcible removal . Indeed some have welcomed Mr. Sukarno 's continuing in office because this has acted as a sort of political lightning rod , deflecting criticism from the public which might otherwise come the generals ' way . The new leaders have been working desperately to drag Indonesia back from the brink of economic catastrophe . But their patience has been sorely tested in recent Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . weeks by new militant outbursts from Mr. Sukarno , reasserting his Marxism , delaying Indonesia 's return to the United Nations , and even seeking to torpedo the peace agreement with Malaysia ? an agreement essential for Indonesia 's return to stability . But there are still regions where Mr. Sukarno 's popularity is untarnished , such as in central Java . In addition , Communist leaflets have reappeared in Jakarta itself , making it clear that the remnants of the battered Indonesian Communist Party are still active . Trial for coup complicity Thus , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go would still probably prefer it to be of his own volition , rather than by some sudden move on their part which might stir civil war . From their point of view , the ideal development would be for Mr. Sukarno himself to resign in the face of mounting public pressure , or to leave the country on an extended trip . Mr. Suhandrio. formerly Mr. Sukarno 's right-hand man until his arrest , will be tried for complicity in the coup attempt . In the past , military men have made no secret of their belief his testimony might implicate President Sukarno himself , whose role in the coup attempt has never been satisfactorily explained . At one stage it was suggested that any testimony which did implicate Mr. Sukarno would not be released to the public . But over the months the mood of the new leaders may have changed . The price of withholding or softening parts of Mr. Subandrio 's testimony may be the President 's " voluntary " resignation . Otherwise , if Mr. Sukarno fails to bow to currently mounting pressures for his departure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell all  --  and in the most public way . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     