@@721456

txt New York , Sept. 24 ? Premier Fidel Castro is expected to demand that the United Nations call for the immediate withdrawal of the United States navy from its Guantanamo bay base in Cuba when he addresses the 15th general assembly on Monday . Castro also is expected to join Nikita S. Khrushchev , Russian premier , in demanding independence for Puerto Rico . 4 Hour Speech Expected It will not be surprising if he also demands the delivery of the Panama canal to the Panamanians or its internationalization and the evacuation of all American troops from the Canal Zone . Lastro is expected to take four hours to make his speech attacking the United States . He has asked for the use of U. N. television facilities to telecast his speech to Havana . All Cuban television and radio stations will carry Castro 's performance . just as they did on Friday when Khrushchev spoke . President Eisenhower 's speech on Thursday was ignored by the stations . Castro , following his customary procedure , will not speak from a prepared text . Backs Red China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. membership . He will parrot pronouncements made Friday by President Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and Khrushchev . These include independence f o r Algeria and support of Patrice Lumumba , the pro-communist premier of the Congo . Castro 's Guantanamo b a y strategy is designed not only to embarrass the United States before the U. N. , nut to pursue a definite communist objective to drive the United States navy out of Cuba . Without mentioning Guantanamo bay or the Panama canal by name , Khrushchev made unmistakably clear that he meant them when he demanded Friday the elimination of " all strongholds of colonialism in the shape of possessions and leaseh ol d areas on the territories of other states . " Conferred with Nikita Castro undoubtedly discussed with Khrushchev at their five hour dinner meeting Friday the broad outline of his speech . It is certain that they exchanged views on future strategy for the survival of Castro 's pro-communist regime and for the extension of the Red revolution to the rest of Latin America . Castro returned from the Khrushchev dinner to his hotel in Harlem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro dictated or oders to an ? nounce the formal recognition of Red . China and North ' Korea . Castro will back Khrushchev in demandint , the removal of the U. N. from New York , and will denounce the security restrictions which have kept the Cuban confined to Manhattan . Plans U. S. Denunciation He will ask the U. N. to denounce the United States for economic aggression because of the slash of the sugar quota , and will attack the purchase of sugar from the dictatorship of the Dominican Republic . Other attacks will include a revival of accusations that the United States is harboring " war criminals , " and he will blame them for the fatal shooting of Magdalena Urdaneta , 9 , the Venezuelan girl who was shot in a fight between pro-Castro and antiCastropartisans in a New York restaurant . Heavy emphasis will be placed by Castro on charges that the United States is responsible for air attacks against Cuban sugar mills and plantations by planes based in Florida . One of his bitterest denunciations will be to accuse the United States of financing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard he will undoubtedly list the rebels fighting in the Sierra del Escambray in Las Villas province , the bombs that are exploding nightly in Havana , and hostile radio broadcasts by Cuban exiles from the United States and from Swan Island in the Caribbean . - Castro is expected to accuse the Organization of American States of being an instrument of the United States , and denounce the governments that condemned the Sino-Russian incursion of Latin America , at the San Jose conference last month .                     