@@726589

txt The United States Congress 's decision to bar the building of American naval vessels in British shipyards has been deplored here . Whitehall considers that the decision violates an Anglo-American understanding that the United States would allow British bids for the building of 16 minesweepers valued at about $180 million . However , it appears that the larger reciprocal defense spending agreement between the two countries ? of which the minesweepers were to have been a part ? is not necessarily invalidated . Under this , the United States agreed to purchase $325 million of British-made defense equipment to partially offset Britain 's proposed buying of 50 American F-111 aircraft and other arms , worth about $2,500 million . The United States has until 1977 to complete its side of the bargain . And Sen. John Stennis ( D ) of Mississippi has assured the Senate that " the agreement with Great Britain will be carried out in time . " But the question being asked here is : If Congress prevents Britain from earning dollars to pay for the aircraft , is Britain obliged to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this latest upset , the government 's commitment to buy American aircraft was a very controversial topic here . Some here , both in and out of government , now believe Britain has a legitimate reason for abandoning it . This , they say , would spare the country the necessity of spending such a great sum on planes for which it no longer has a pressing need . When the decision to replace aircraft carriers was made shortly after the Labor government gained power , the American planes were regarded by the government as essential to fill the military gap east of Suez . But more recently Prime Minister Harold Wilson 's government has radically modified its east-of-Suez commitment . Another threat seen This was the background to the acceptance by the United . States Senate of the House of Representative 's amendment to the defense appropriations bill ? the amendment which requires all United States naval vessels to be built in Ame.rican shipyards . There is another threat to the Anglo-American defense spending agreement . This is the Senate proposal which ? would ban credit from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to North Vietnam . The British Government might come under such a ban on grounds that it could be held responsible for the small amount of trade conducted with North Vietnam in British-registered shipping . Purchase of the F-111 's was to have been partly . financed under credit arrangements with the Export-Import Bank .                     