@@723322

txt Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Wagner took steps yesterday to end racial discrimination in the construction industry . Each warned that if discrimination were found on a construction job under his jurisdiction , contracts would be canceled . The Governor made his statement as he announced that the State Commission for Human Rights would take the initiative in investigating charges of discrimination by contractors and unions on state construction projects . He outlined the steps the commission would follow in its investigations and said that the procedure would provide " tor a more effective enforcement of the state 's laws and con- , tractial provisions prohibiting discrimination in employment at state construction projects and in the supply of services , materials , equipment and supplies under state contracts . " Unions Facing Action The Mayor said he would direct the city 's Commission on Human Rights to give preference to all complaints of discrimination by building trades unions . He said the commission 's investigation would determine if the city would cancel its contracts . At the same time , Mr. Wagner urged the unions to take immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ricans . He said the unions did not have to take formal steps as outlined by his " action panel " as long as they achieved results through " informal procedures . " " In simple terms , I want to see more qualified and competent minority members on the jobs and in apprenticeship programs in those unions in which there are none or a minimal number , " Mr. Wagner said . Building Unions Scored The Building and Construction Trades Council had rejected on Wednesday the panel 's recommendations on ways to open its 122-member unions to more nonwhites . A committee of civil rights groups declared yesterday that the rejection was " outrageous . " A spokesman for the Congress of Racial Equality called the Mayor 's statement " inadequate " in a reply last night . He said the pickets at the Mayor 's and Governor 's offices here would extend their sit-ins to " fast-ins " at 6 P.M. today unless both confirmed that discrimination had been " flatly rejected " in city and state-aided construction . He said 17 persons would participate in the fast and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , drinking only water and lime juice . The Governor announced the establishment of a three-man board " to supervise the policing " of contractors and unions to make sure they do not discriminate . The board will be composed of Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , Industrial Commissioner Martin P. Catherwood and the chairman of the state Commission for Human Rights , George H. Fowler . The commission has been under attack by civil rights groups for not taking the initiative in investigating charges of discrimination . Its function has been criticized as " an empty gesture in the fight against discrimination . " The Governor said that additional personnel would be assigned to the commission for investigative work . The Governor disclosed the commission 's new roleafter a meeting with eight civil rights leaders , including Roy Wilkins , executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ; James Farmer , national director of the Congress of Racial Equality ; A Philip Randolph , president of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters , and Dr. Edward S. Lewis , executive director of the Urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman for the Governor said the meeting was the latest in a series that began seven ' weeks ago . Yesterday 's was held in the Governor 's New York office at 22 West 55th street and lasted two hours . Earlier in the day , 80 Democratic state legislators from the city joined with a committee of civil rights organizations in an appeal to the Governor to call a special session of the Legislature to draft laws to force equal employment in the building trades . The legislators met with the Joint Committee for Equal Employment Opportunity for two hours at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel to discuss the situation in the construction industry . Frederick W. Richmond , president of the Urban League , said after the meeting that all had agreed that there was discrimination in the unions and that something must be done about it . Among those at the meeting were Assemblymen Stanley Steingut , Lloyd E. Dickens , Joseph Kottler , Thomas R. Jones , Ferdinand J. Mondello , Jerome Kretchmer , Orest V. Maresca and State Senators Seymour R. Thaler and Joseph E. Marine . Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens , arrived shortly after the meeting ended . Mr. Savarese , who is chairman of the Joint Committee on Industrial and Labor Conditions , ? said a special session of the Legislature was not needed to handle the discrimination issue at present . He reported that his committee was looking into the charges against building trades ' unions and " probably would recommend legislation " to tight ' en state laws against discrimination . The facts available to him , he said , " clearly establish " that some construction unions discriminate . A special session also was urged in Albany by State Senator Joseph Zaretzki , the Democratic minority leader . He and the Joint Committee called on the Governor to set into motion within 48 hours the steps necessary to call a special session . Otherwise , they said , they will meet again to consider legislation that will be introduced as soon as possible . The Governor replied later that it was his feeling that the state had all the legislation on the books that was required to handle the situation . In announcing the procedure for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I shall continue to exercise my full executive authority to see to it that the spirit as well as the letter of New York State 's anti-discrimination laws be fully implemented in order that we may achieve the goal of full equality of opportunity for all people . " Under the new policy , state agencies that let contracts will furnish the commission - With a list of major contractors and suppliers . The commission ' will then undertake a program of educational conferences and investigations " for the purpose of assuring compliance with the state 's laws and contracts . " If violation are found , and are not corrected through conciliation , the commission will refer the matters to the Attorney General and the Industrial Commissioner , who may then file complaints with the commission . The commission will hold public hearings , and if the contractors are found guilty , the state could cancel its contracts . In addition , the contractor would not be permitted to qualify for any future state contracts until there was satisfactory compliance with the state 's anti-discrimination laws . The Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights leaders to discuss the racial situation in the city . The Mayor also said he was planning a series of meetings with local labor leaders .                     