@@722349

txt Algeria in open defiance of President de Gaulle . With the creation of a National Committee of French Resistance in Algeria and a secret National Council of Resistance in ' France , announced today , the 0 . A. S. is in full rebellion against the de Gaulle Government . Both the National Committee and National Council presumably are led by the same clandestine group of extremist army officers and civilians who form qwq By BENJAMIN WELLES Special to The New York Times . MADRID , March . 18 ? Settlement of the long Algerian rebellion leaves France with the problem of reconciling the Europeans in Algeria to the ceasefire ? particularly the Secret Army Organization , whose avowed purpose is to wreck the agreement and keep the country French . Even before the cease-fire agreement , the Secret Army , preme Council have been publicly identified . Within Algeria the new National Committee appears to be preparing a Provisional Central Power to exercise French ' sovereignty over " liberated areas . " These areas presumably will include Algiers , Oran and other cities where the 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may become linked strong points or even a military redoubt along the Algerian coast in which the Secret Army Organization will wage guerrilla warfare against both the de Gaulle regime and the Algerian National Liberation Front . Inside the " liberated areas " the 0 . A. S. will probably attempt to assume all functions of government and suborn or arrest Gaullist . authorities . At the same time the 0 . A , S. will try to impose its rule over the entire population , including French citizens of both European and Moslem origin and foreigners . Whether the French Army can , or will , crush the Secret Army Organization in time remains to be seen . Every hour counts and the 0 . A. S. is rapidly extending its hold by means of terror and propaganda The names National Committee of French Resistance in Algeria and National Council of Resistance in France , for instance , have been chosen to evoke memories , respectively , of General de Gaulle 's World War II National Committee of the Fighting French in London and the National Council of the Resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such names reveal the constant preoccupation of the 0 . A. S. to portray its rebellion as a " patriotic " war against President de Gaulle 's alleged abandonment , of French citizens and French soil to the Algerian Moslem " enemy . " High French officials representing General de Gaulle in Algeria live in daily fear of assassination , guarded by picked ? troops behind sandbags and barbed wire . They have lost effective control of the situation and real contact with the population . A six-week study of the 0 . A. S. in Algeria , its organization , methods and aims - including lengthy conversations with its leaders-shows that the power of the movement . in Algeria is far greater than the French Government censorship has permitted to become known . Long-Range Campaign The 0 . A. S. appears to have emerged as a " third force " in Algeria ' whose existence can not be ignored . The Secret Army has mounted a long-range campaign of violence against the implementation of- the ceasefire . It maintains that the Algerian nationalists will repudiate their guarantees to Algeria 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Army . With this argument the 0 , A. S. has succeeded in " mobilizing " the large majority of the 1,000,000 Europedis in Algeria . The targets of the 0 . A. S. campaign of terrorism have ' been the Moslem Algerian Nationalist Liberation Front , the Algerian Communist party and any Europeans suspected of having worked for Algerian independence . Periodically the organization distributes lists of those shot for " treason " . or for " intelligence with the enemy . " The 0 . A : S. has reported the organization of guerrilla forces in the countryside and says that growing numbers of Moslems are joining it . Its seizure of arms , ammunition and uniforms lends - currency to its claims and indicates widespread complicity by the French civil administration and even among members of the French armed forces . Slogans Everywhere Slogans reading " The 0 . A. S. strikes where- it wants , ? when it wants , whom it wants " are seen on buildings everywhere in Algeria . Hastily-scrawled ters " 0 . A. S. " are even placed on French . police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and look away ; they are powerless to halt the terror and unwilling to risk a bullet in the back , It would be a serious mistake to brush off the 0 . A. S. as a mere handful of fractious generals , civilian " fascists " and waterfront thugs led by X , Salan . ? The organization represents the fanatic refusal of the majority of 1,000,000 Europeans in Algeria to be " abandoned " to the Algerian nationalists whom they fought for more than seven years . Only one force appears to have the power and prestige to break the 0 . A , S. : the French Army . However , until the ceasefire , it remained " neutral , " partly by its own wish , partly because President de Gaulle hesitated to test its loyalty until the truce was , signed . The 0 . A. S. tried to provoke violent Moslem reprisals and thus force the French Army , out of its neutrality and to the side of the-European dissidents . ' " When the Moslems come swarming out of the Casbah , to cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay neutral , " one 0 . A. S. leader predicted . " It can not stand by and see Europeans massacred , it will have to join us . " The 0 . A. S. calls itself a " revolutionary army " with the same mission as the French Army - to defend French territory and the French population . However , unlike the French Army , it has the revolutionary aim of overthrowing President de Gaulle for having agreed to Algerian independence and of replacing him with a " government of national unity " that will retain Algeria as part of France . Another Secret Army aim on achieving , power is to outlaw the French Communist party . 0 . A. S. leaders deny that they planned to assassinated General de Gaulle , though they do not rule out this possibility if all other roads to their victory are closed . The size and strength of the Secret Army is a closely guarded secret . It will only say that its strength comprises fulltime " cadres " plus a steadily growing number of Europeans and Moslems who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the armed forces . One 0 . A. S. commander estimates the movement 's potential strength at a total of 1 , - 000,000 Europeans , and 2,500 , - 000 Moslems . Independent observers believe the 0 . A. S. has a full-time strength of 3,000 to 4,000 . The French Government 's Delegation Generale in Algeria estimates that the Secret Army has 100 to - 150 killers In ' Algiers , with 1,500 to 2,000 agents in " shock commandos " for : executions , sabotage  --  and other violence throughout Algeria . Presumably the 0 . - A. S. could mobilize a ' large- number of the 400,000 ex-servicemen in Algeria , in the event of largescale fighting . Last Nov. 8 M. , Salan sent an order to all former officers of the . disbanded Territorial Units to organize their former subordinates and hold themselves ready within three hours of an 0 . A. S. call . On Jan. 4 M. . Salan decreed " total mobilization " of the Algerian population , proclaimed by wall-posters in French and Arabic . Control Extended Then the O. A , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ playing on the fears of the Europeans at being " abandoned " to the alleged Communist leanings of the Algerian Nationalist Front , In addition , the steadily rising list of Algerian killings of Europeans spurred a rush of the Europeans into the embrace of the 0 . A. S. The 0 . A. S. ordered all Europeans to stockpile enough food for three weeks . It forbade Europeans to leave Algeria-with their possessions without 0 . A. S. - permission . ' Several persons were executed for violating this order , some in France. - Between May , 1961 , and the middle of last month  --  the 0 , A. S. is charged with having killed 158 Europeans and- 183 Moslems in Algiers alone . It killed at least twelve army and gendarmerie officers and woundeel seventy-one . Throughout Algeria , the movement made 5,628 attacks , wounding 365 Europeans and 1,091 ' Moslems , Algiers , Oran , Bone , Constantine and other Algerian cities were shaken by unending violence .. A 9 P. M. to 5 A. M. curfew was ordered , all night life and public entertainments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all night . Economic life ground almost to a halt . Crime flourished because the police were too harassed or too weary with " po. litical " crime to act . In one day in Algiers five postmen-two Roman- Catholics , a Jew and two Moslems - were shot in broad daylight . Their terrified colleagues struck for police protection . A docker was shot and the dockers struck . An airline passenger bus was machine-gunned and the airline personnel struck . The 0 . A. S. has ordered entire professions or areas to strike , as a harassment of the increasingly impotent civil administration . The ' Secret Army collects funds by bank robberies , voluntary Contributions , and donations from oil companies and others doing business . in North Africa . When the French Government began investigating these companies ' tax returns , it found that 0 , A. S. " hold-ups " provided an effective dodge . The Secret Army appears to be aware of everything that takes place in the highest circles of the French civil and military administration . To fight the 0 . A. S. with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ network of anti-O . A. S. agents , reported to be made up of former Vietnamese commandos , underworld elements from Marseilles and Corsica , Algerian nationalists under sentence of death in French ' prisons and even-according to the 0 . A. S , - French Communists . These agents , dubbed " barbouzes , " or " phony beards , " , appeared to-take orders directly , from a membeof President de Gaulle 's immediate staff . They , had their own funds , villas , radio communications , vehicles , and interrogation centers . The methods they used to extract information from suspected 0 . A. S. agents they kidnapped was the subject of controversy even within French official circles . % The 0 . A. S. waged relentless war against them and claimed the killing of more than fifty agents . The Secret Army charged that " barbouzes " masquerading as the 0 . A. S. recently expelled twelve Italian newsmen from Algeria . The action provoked a violent anti-O . A. S. wave in Italy , with Rome expelling a number of well-known Secret Army agents . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " complained Georges R. , a French journalist who is the 0 . A. S. 's press relations officer . Because of the activity of the secret agents , top 0 , A. S. leaders were forced deeper and deeper into hiding . ? Nonetheless , the 0 . A. S. - appeared basically unscathed by the mounting French Government campaign against it . Salan and his aides are involved in a long campaign to " mobilize " the European and pro-French population of Algeria and to prepare far civil war to oust ? President de Gaulle . From their experience in the war in Indochina , the 0 . A. S. leaders have adapted Communist revolutionary . and propaganda tactics as the means of defeating President- de Gaulle 's plan for Algerian independence .                     