@@722434

txt The Administration suggested ' modifications in its tax bill today . Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon presented the proposals to the Senate Finance Committee , which is winding up hearings on the bill . None of the changes would be major . They would reduce the paperwork that would be involved in withholding on dividends and interest , sweeten the proposed incentive for business expansion and generally soften , in minor ways , the impact of other parts of the bill . Committee members criticized , and Mr. Dillon defended , the Administration 's position on the principal points of controversy ? withholding , the investment incentive and the taxation of overseas earnings . It became apparent during the three - hour session that the members were going to ask more questions than today 's schedule allowed . Mr. Dillon agreed to cancel an out-oftown engagement tomorrow so that he could testify again and the committee 's work would not be further delayed . Stalling Suspected There has been some suspicion that the committee has been stalling to win Administration concessions , if not to kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill right now is the withholding proposal . Mr. Dillon declared today that the amount of dividends and interest not reported on income tax returns was increasing . The Administration 's proposal is intended to meet this problem . Under this proposal , companies and financial institutions paying dividends or interest would be required to withhold 20 per cent for taxes . Heretofore the Administration has estimated that close to $4,000,000,000 of all dividends and interest paid in this country is not reported on tax returns , and that at least $3,000 , - 000,000 of the nonreporting is by people who would owe more taxes if they did report this income . Those figures are based onl the situation that existed ' in 1959 . Today Mr. Dillon said that a. preliminary analysis of the 1960 situation indicated that the amount of such unreported income had risen by $600,000,000 . The paperwork that would be reduced by one of today 's proposals is the annual filing of exemption certificates by persons who , for various reasons , do not owe an income tax . Mr. Dillon suggested that the certification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also suggested that the certificate procedure be extended to tax-exempt organizations , such as churches , colleges , charities and state and local governments . For taxpayers who would be overtaxed at the proposed withholding rate of 20 per cent , Mr. Dillon proposed liberalization of the quarterly refund procedure in the bill as passed by the House last month . But he said there would not be much overwithholding in any case . Proposal Explained Under the House bill , a taxpayer would use the standard 10 per cent deduction for charity gifts and such in computing his taxable income . The new proposal would let him use an estimate of itemized ? that is , larger  --  deductions . Mr. Dillon said that complaints about over-withholding were exaggerated . The Treasury has calculated that an elderly couple living on Social Security and interest from savings might have as much as 880,000 in the bank and still not be subject to withholding . The proposed sweetener for the investment incentive plan would let a company apply the bill 's benefits to earlier years ' income if the company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year at hand . The incentive plan would permit a company to subtract a part of what it spends for new machinery from what it owes for taxes . If it were entitled to subtract $10,000 in a given year , but did not owe enough tax to subtract that much , today 's proposal would permit spreading the difference over the previous three years ' taxes . Mr. Dillon said that this " carryback " feature would help in recession periods when earnings ? and therefore tax liabilities ? are low . That is , a company whose earnings were down could recoup some profits from earlier years . The House bill allows a 7 per cent credit  --  that is , 7 per cent of the cost of a new machine may be subtracted from the company 's Federal income tax . The Administration proposed , and still wants , an 8 per cent credit . Banker Answers Kennedy By EDWARD T. O'TOOLE Special to The New York Timm SEATTLE , May ** top spokesman for the nation 's 514 mutual savings banks took ex ' ception here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference yesterday that opponents of the pending bill for tax withholding on dividends and interest had " badly ' misinformed " many persons about the proposal . President Kennedy had said that advertising by opponents 1 : : 4 the withholding bill had led many persons to believe that the Administration was proposing ' a tax that was new or higher than present levies . Samuel W , Hawley , president of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks , said today : " In communications with depositors , it has been emphasized that interest on deposits is taxable . The only question we have raised is what is the best way to collect the tax due . " Mr. Hawley is president of the Peoples Savings Bank , Bridgeport , Conn . The National Association of ' Mutual Savings Banks has been holding its annual conference here this week at the Olympic Hotel . These institutions believe that the withholding bill would impose on them a burdensome cost because of added bookkeeping procedures and new accounting methods that would be required to take care of exemption claims by tax payers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that " full use of information returns , coupled with taxpayer account numbering and automatic data processing , is the real solution to the problem of assuring taxpayer compliance . " During the concluding sesT sion of the conference today , the 700 savings bankers in attendance elected John W. Kress , president of the Hoard Savings Institution , Newark , N. ' J. , as president of the National Association for the coming year . He had served as vice president last year .                     