@@724017

txt In Hawaii last week two score high-ranking American officials ascended a small volcanic mountain , site of the United States Pacific Command Headquarters overlooking Pearl Harbor . Two days later they dispersed , some heading for Washington , others for Southeast Asia where a figurative volcano has presented the United States with a baffling dilemma : How to prevent a Communist takeover without getting involved in a major war . The meeting in Hawaii was a wide-ranging reappraisal of that dilemma , and at its end  --  and after the Washington party had reported to President Johnson ? it was apparent that no dramatically new answers had been found . The main decisions reached were : First , to play for time , in the hope that an intensified effort along the present lines will eventually turn the tide . Second , to serve clear warning again that the United States stands by its commitment against a Communist takeover . The reaffirmation of the American course came at a time of intricate diplomatic maneuver over the question of international action on Southeast Asia . The maneuvering was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists ' immediate intentions there . But so far as Washington was concerned , there was no question that their longterm objective was domination of Southeast Asia . What prompted the reappraisal of American policy was the unfavorable turn of events on the fighting fronts in Southeast Asia . In Laos , where attacks by the Communist Pathet Lao have been largely responsible for Washington 's increased concern , there were new outbreaks of fighting last week on the fringes of the strategic Plaine des Jarres . Raids Continue In South Vietnam there were more of the brutal raids and counterraids between the Communist Vietcong and the Government forces with their American " advisers . " It was against this background of military pressure that President Johnson the week before last ordered his highest advisers to survey the whole scene and make recommendations . The 43 men who gathered in Hawaii last week included Secretary of State Rusk and Secretary of Defense ; Gen. Maxwell Taylor , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ; John A. MCCone , ditcctor of the Central Intelligence . Agency ; and Henry Cabot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place amid intense speculation that Washington was considering strong shows of force to impress the Communists , including the dispatch of American troops to Thailand and the enlargement of the war by striking directly at North Vietnam . The word after the Honolulu meeting , however , was that no such action was contemplated now . On his return to Washington Wednesday , Mr. Rusk said that the conferees had put together a number of proposals to be submitted to the President , and that they provided for a step-up in the antiguerrilla campaign in Vietnam . He emphasized the need to impress the Communists with the firmness of the American commitment in Southeast Asia . Mr. Johnson had spoken in similar vein at a news conference Tuesday , saying : " We will keep this commitment . " Diplomatic Sparring With the United States ' decision on its own course thus set forth in broad outline , attention turned to the international maneuvering brought about by the new tensions over Southeast Asia . The major diplomatic question has been what might be done in the framework of the 1962 Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laos under a tripartite coalition  --  the arrangement that now appears to have collapsed . The diplomatic sparring has been confused by conflicts on both sides  --  between Russia and China on the Communist side , between the United States and France on the Western side . In the present situation Peking , Paris , and  --  with some signs of reluctance  --  Moscow have called for a reconvening of the 1962 Geneva conference on Laos . The French favor that on the ground that Southeast Asia can not be stabilized without agreement with Peking , and that neutralization is the only solution both sides could accept . The Russians have backed the French , but they seem hesitant about getting into a conference , including the Chinese at a time of increasing bitterness between them , Anglo-American Position The United States and Britain oppose a full-dress conference on the ground that it would give Peking an opportunity to press for a " neutralization " in Southeast Asia that would Le only a prelude to a Communist takeover . The upshot is that another form of international meeting ( proposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland ) may be in the offing . The British proposal called for low-level " consultations " among the Geneva nations . They began last week in the Laotian capital , Vientiane , but no Communist nations showed up . In the absence of the Communists the talks are thought unlikely to lead anywhere . The Polish proposal calls for a six-nation meeting , perhaps as it preliminary to a full-dress confer dice . The six would be Britain tied Russia , as co-chairmen of the 1962 conference ; Poland , Canada and India , as members of the International Control Commission set up to oversee the Geneva accords ; and the Laotians , with representation for their three factions . Washington , London and Moscow support the Polish idea , but there is questioning whether the Chinese will accept an arrangement leaving them out . Cambodia 's Complaint While all this maneuvering over a meeting on Laos was going on , a side issue appeared to have been disposed of for the moment . This was the Cambodian complaint against South Vietnam and the United States in the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince Norodom Sihanouk , has been increasingly anti - Western , presumably because he believes Communism will win in Southeast Asia . Saigon accuses him of giving Sanctuary to Vietcong guerrillas who are pursued by the South Vietnamese and Americans , and acknowledges that Cambodia 's ill-marked borders have at times been violated . In the Security Council debate Russia and France backed the Cambodian complaint . But last week a compromise was reached . The Council unanimously , approved a resolution " deploring " the border incidents and establishing a threenation committee to Inspect the border and recommend ways to prevent incidents . The French attitude on Cambodia , coming on top of the disagreement over how to proceed on Laos and over the whole question of relations with Peking , was especially galling to United States officials . There was a feeling that the French were acting out of wounded pride because of their own defeat in Indochina a decade ago .. On Friday Under Secretary of State George W. Ball flew to Paris in an apparent attempt to clear the air . He talked with President de Gaulle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " interesting and useful . " But there was no apparent progress toward accord . General de Gaulle pointed up the disagreement with Washington by choosing yesterday  --  the 20th anniversary of D-Day in Normandy ? as the day to receive the credentials of the Ambassador sent from Peking in accordance with the January agreement between China and France to establish relations . He said peace was possible " only if a power like China makes up an integral part of it , "                     