@@727558

txt Washington , Jan. 9-Everything was going well on the American Airlines 4:40 p. m. flight 598 out of O'Hare field to the capital yesterday except one thing  --  it could n't get off the ground . I suppose it could be called the O'Hare blues . " I do n't know if this will be of any interest to you , " the captain 's voice spoke out softly over the intercom speaker , " but we have just taxied completely around O'Hare field . It was 8 to 10 miles and it took 45 minutes . " " Iley Now , Feeling " Despite the fact that we should have probably been over eastern Ohio at that moment , I had that sort of " hey now , feeling " as if I had hung up a record in my books . Even then , the plane did n't take off . In all , 3 hours and 27 minutes was s p en t taxiing around O'Hare . When it was finally wheels up , the time for the 589 air miles to wheels down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 minutes . Just after 7 o'clock , and still on the ground at O'Hare , the Russell Freeburg captain came on the speaker again , saying he had concluded that " it is just one of those days you write home about . " " There are now around 45 planes on the line ahead of us , " he remarked . " At one count I got up to 52 and gave up . It takes a minute or two for each plane to get off . So , we will be here on the ground another 45 minutes or an hour or so . " Really a Surprise This was a surprise since everyone still thought the plane would be taking off momentarily . By this time , the windows on the right side of the plane had iced up . But thru them could still be seen an occasional landmark ? a TWA neon in red , a North Central Airlines sign , or an Ozark sign , as the plane drove around on what in the air would be called VFR ? visual flight rules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis , I was in the far inside seat in the last row of the plane . The boxed-in corner was nice and warm , and I came to have a comfy , cozy feeling . It was especially reassuring and relaxing after the first lap around the field when the captain informed us that all American 's planes had been ordered back to the terminal ramp because of weather conditions . Going to Stay Put He said the combination of some sleet , rain , and the low ceiling had made take-offs hazardous and that American was going to stay put for awhile to await developments . There was a feeling that the plane was in good hands . The ramp stop was quick , however . Most of the time a maintenance man in a cherry picker outside was hosing off the plane in a deicing maneuver . Then the plane started moving again . I slept for awhile . Then I read an air line 's booklet from which I learned how to make succotash , roast a suckling pig to serve six to eight persons , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the land except in Oakland , Cal . Still Ca n't Be Beat Finally , at 8:07 p. m. , the big 707 jet began speeding down the runway and into the air . There was a round of cheers and applause by passengers who had been patient and well-behaved and taken the long , tedious delay in a grand style . Most of them said they felt that flying still could n't be beaten as a way to travel . I had left Washington at 7:55 a. m. that same day . I got on flight 598 because my Chicago business was over even tho I had reservations on the 7:20 p. m. flight 506 . I did wonder what ever happened to 506 since ? I arrived in Washington just 20 minutes after it originally was supposed to . American later canceled flight 506.1 When a person commutes 1,178 miles from Washington to Chicago , days like that have to be expected .                     