@@724674

txt Written for The Christian Science Monitor The Soviet Union 's local governing bodies  --  the soviets ( councils ) ? appear to be gaining in stature and importance . Voter revolts in recent elections to local councils would indicate that Soviet citizens are taking them more seriously . Party-picked candidates for deputies to the soviets are being challenged . In some 200 districts , in various parts of the country , rebellious voters recently rejected the local candidates selected by the Communist Party for unopposed election . New elections consequently will have to be held in these districts . Apparently this was the largest voter revolt.ever announced by Soviet Union authorities . All told , there are more than 47,000 local soviets , which are reelected every two years . They are supposed to usher in a new kind of grass-roots democracy in which the people and the state will be one . Idea retained This was Lenin 's original idea . As Nikita S. Khrushchev once put it , in substance : Historically the Soviet state Started with the local soviets . Through the local soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer is any need for a separate state bureaucracy . In the former Premier 's draft constitution , which was to be placed before the Supreme Soviet last December , the local soviets were given a key role . Mr. Khrushchev 's successors seem to have retained this idea . " The local soviets are our most comprehensive social organizations ; they combine functions of society and functions of the state , " wrote Pravda on March 5 . Recently more than 2 million people were elected into these local soviets . Most local soviets later form commissions in which millions more participate . In the past few years local soviets once again have been invested with limited executive powers . The controversial laws against " social parasites " gave them judicial functions . This development is to be extended , says the party . The deputies ( representatives ) have to report regularly to their constituents . If the people are not satisfied , a deputy can be recalled by an assembly of voters . This has long been on the statute book . Criticism encouraged In recent years the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place through initiatives from below . Who are these local deputies ? Mostly they are practical people , outstanding in their line of work ? farm officials , workers , foremen , school teachers , engineers . Candidates for the elections are supposed to be named by the various " social organizations , " such as trade unions , womens ' organizations , and the Komsomol ( youth organization ) . In principle these " social organizations " are obedient voices of the party . Actually the preelection meetings at which the candidates must be confirmed did not always go the way the local leaders wanted it . This year , for the first time , the party leadership itself encouraged criticism from below . On Feb. 7 Izvestia reported that in the city of Kostroma in central Russia three leputies to the town soviet were told they no longer enjoyed the trust of the voters and could not be candidates at the coming elections . There are other examples .                     