@@727418

txt Antipoverty setup jells All across America , state and local governments arc keeping hands off the poverty program  --  for now , at least . Last year , Congress gave local mayors and state governors a chance to grab up antipoverty programs in their areas . This provision was contained in the so-called Green amendment , sponsored by Rep. Edith Green ( D ) of Oregon , who wanted to make the local community-action programs answerable to the voter . She argued that if the programs were put under the direction of local governments they would be more responsive to the electorate . But out of nearly 800 programs so far reporting , only 22 have been taken over by local governments . Four others changed to private administration . Bertrand M. Harding , acting director of the Office of Economic Opportunity ( OEO ) , regards this record " a magnificent vote of confidence " in local programs . Intent thwarted ? " From the evidence we have at hand , " he said , " in the form of these designations , it is abundantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local governments . " And he concluded , " evidently , they must be doing something right . " Informed sources on Capitol Hill , however , are not so sure . " The congressional intent was thwarted by the OEO guidelines , " charged one source close to the legislation . " The guidelines did not encourage the involvement of local governments . The guidelines were written in every way and at every point to discourage local government control wherever it had an opportunity . " We objected to the way the guidelines made it impossible for local governments to respond by the deadlines . " It 's quite true , of course , that the guidelines were enormously detailed . And in many respects this very fact was discouraging . The instructions fill nearly 80 pages . And the dates , or deadlines , came- fast on one another . For example , by March 15 , of this year , a " statement of intent " was required ( the law was passed in December ) . Then , on May 15 , and June 15 , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applications for recognition had to be filed , should a mayor or a county board or other government level wish to take over a community-action agency . By Nov. 1 , OEO ex- pects to complete all action on the applications . The formal transfer takes place Feb. 1 . Added as a concession What makes this issue so loaded with controversy is that it was added to the legislation as a major concession to local mayors and state officials to get the bill passed . The " Green amendment " was credited with giving the poverty program last-minute // Antipoverty setup jells in federal mold // support in the House of Representatives when it appeared the members might defeat all efforts to keep the program rolling for another year . Many observers , inside and outside of the program , were concerned that this amendment spelled the end of the program 's independent base , that it would become threatened by local politics . The then OEO director , Sargent Shriver , regretted the decision of the House to include the provision , but ite admitted that without it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also added , mysteriously , that he did n't believe it would have much effect . Mysteriously ? because , almost everyone , especially its supporters in the House , believed it would have a profound effect . Well , Mr. Shriver must have known something . Because the final result is that not much has been changed by it at all . Out of the 26 changes , half were in the South . Guidelines defended CEO spokesmen defend the complicated guidelines . saying that the problems were enormous ? partiuclarly with " overlapping jurisdictions. " say Buffalo and Buffalo County , each having an option to take over local community action agencies . As it turned out , there were no changes in Buffalo . " We had to say , ' If you want to be the community-action agency , you have to do certain things ' like be able to enter into contracts with religious agencies , which certain local governments could n't do , " explained an OEO official . " While the guidelines were tough , our reasons for making it this way were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deemed to be the important abilities and capacities of the local program . " In fact , as a result of the state constitution or legal problems , many local governments could not consider seriously the prospect of becoming an administering agency for OEO . Also , it is believed that many local governments liked the . idea of having the community-action agency a private nonprofit corporation . New requirements OEO officials also say that they have been very flexible about the deadlines . They have allowed late applications to be processed in every case . OEO sources further insist that the guidelines were developed with the direct assistance of members of the House an Senate who serve on the drafting committees . At the same time these changes were taking place , other important ones were in the works . Last year 's legislation required that each community-action board be composed of not more than 51 members ? at least one-third of which should be representatives of the poor , up to one-third representatives of the local government , and the remainder from the private sector , business , labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far more than 900 of the slightly more than 1,000 community-action agencies have complied with this requirement . Some CSEO officials believe that this provision , which legally requires that local governments have up to one-third representation on the boards , helped to discourage more widespread take-overs under the Green amendment . One thing both CEO officials and Capitol Hill critics seem to agree on is that the exercise of getting the local politicians together to discuss the local community action agencies  --  whether or not they decided to take them over  --  was healthy indeed . " It represented a sort of thinking out , a clarification of misunderstandings in many cases , " said an CEO spokesman . " Basically , " said one House source , " we 're delighted . " " It was the first time local governments were given the opportunity to choose ? it 's the first chance . In that way , it was a success , " he concluded .                     