@@724387

txt Belgian paratroopers dropaed from United States military transport aircraft have made the final thrust to win Stanleyville for Congolese Premier Moise Tshnmhe But the rebels in Stanleyville apparently made good on their threat that if the city were attacked they would execute American medical missionary Dr. Paul Carlson whose parents live in Alhambra , Calif . Talks in Nairobi between a rebel representative and the United States Ambassador to Kenya aimed at ensuring Dr. Carlson 's safety broke down a few hours before the final assault on Stanleyville . As the paratroopers landed in the Stanleyville area , with Congolese troops ( led by white mercenaries ) moving overland behind them , the rebels reportedly killed indiscriminately as many as 50 other whites whom they had been holding as hostages . What Capture Means The capture of Stanleyville means the reduction of the last major rebel stronghold in the Congo . The operation was mounted with the cooperation of the United States and Belgian Governments . Last week came the first signs that the two governments had apparently decided on a bold but politically delicate move to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big rebel outpost in the Congo . United States aircraft were used to ferry Belgian paratroopers from Europe to Ascension Island  --  a British possession in the Atlantic ? which was to he a springboard for the final coup de gr  --  ce against Stant eyville . This was the first time Belgian troops had openly returned to the Congo since their descent on the country only a few days after the formal granting of independence to the land in the summer of 1960 . The reason given then for their return was the mutiny of the Congolese Army . It was a move which precipitated the upheavals which led to the breakaway of Katanga and the murder of then Premier Patrice Lumumba . Support Given Tile rebel leaders in Stanleyville ? prominent among whom are Christophe Gbenye and Gaston Soumialot  --  have claimed to be acting in the name of Mr. Lumumba . Both Peking and Moscow have given the dissidents political and moral support . The Chinese Communists , in particular . maintained close links with Stanleyville from their embassy in the neighboring kingdom of Burundi . Moscow Radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention in the Congo . There is little doubt that African nationalist opinion will also be stridently critical of what the Belgians and the Americans have done . In most African eyes  --  but not necessarily in those of his own people  --  Mr. Tshombe is an outcast because of his reliance on white mercenaries ( as well as on Belgian and American support ) recruited from Rhodesia and South Africa  --  lands which to most Africans symbolize outright hostility to the ' black man . Outside the Congo . charge and countercharge now are likely to fill the air . But if Mr. Tshombe does come out triumphant at home , his people might well back him up . In the Congo . as elsewhere , nothing succeeds like success .                     