@@722916

txt Governor Rockefeller has opened a serious drive for the White House with a strong bid for conservative Republican support . That is the interpretation being placed by Midwest political observers on the New York Governor 's day-long visit here yesterday . Mr. Rockefeller appealed to the right wing of his party by first contending that " liberal " and " conservative " were " meaningless , shopworn " tags and then by outlining to an audience of 1,500 a philosophy that stressed traditional conservative political philosophy . The reaction that the Lincoln Day dinner of the United Republican Fund of Illinois was on the surface , perfunctary . But political leaders reported today that the reaction from many businessmen who support the fund organization was this : His ideas " sunk in , " they liked his " fiscal responsibility " theme and they accepted him a 's " a man we could vote for . " the account the Governor gave of New York state 's bal- anted budget and reduced deficiet struck a responsive chord . Among Illinois Republicans there is now talk that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that he has shown a mastery of foreign affairs , especially in Latin America where he has business interests ; that he can win Negro votes and Spanish-speaking groups , and that with a running mate like Senator Thurston B. Morton of Kentucky , he could do well in the South . Almost as though he were writing a platform , Governor Rockefeller , in 42 minutes of extemporizing at the dinner last night and at a private luncheon earlier , spoke of the " fundamental issues " that " demarked " the Republicans from the Democratic party . He cited a belief in the " fundamental validity of private enterprise . " He listed " fiscal integrity " won applause when he said the Kennedy Administra ? tion had " budgeted a deficity ; they call it a new economic philosophy . " He said that he could see no no identifiable pattern in Mr. Kennedy 's policies that would stimulate the economy and that the tax-cut program would stimulate inflation ? " one of the most dangerous things we could have . " Ridicule And Laughter He ridiculed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with vigor . He drew laughter when he pronounced ' it " vigah . " The Governor urged that state assume more responsibility , citing a New York state college scholarship program . He said , too , that a Republican principle was " the right and need of people to know . " The Administration , he asserted , falsely fears that people will " panic " if they have the facts about Cuba and European problems . The Governor ended on a reference to Lincoln 's belief in the worth and dignity of man and the right of every human to equal opportunity . Associates of Senator Everett Dirksen , the Republican Senate leader from Illinois , indicated that Mr. Dirksen had urged Governor Rockefeller to make just such a general folksy speech to offset the feeling amon &; conservative Republicans , especially businessmen , that the Governor was things . Mr. Rockefeller was making his first Midwest political foray since late 1959 , when he decided , after taking soundings to leave the field to Richard M. Nixon . Next month he will visit Milwaukee . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warmly received by Senator Dirksen and the top leadership of the Illinois Republican party , Governor Rockefeller used this visit for a frontal assault on President . Kennedy as well as to lecture on the Republican credo . In a detailed criticism of Kennedy forign policy , he urged a " real nuclear defense partnership with Europe " that would leave to the Europeans the internal orgenization of Europe 's nuclear power . The theme running through the foreign-policy statement was that the Kennedy Administration was acting in highhanded unilateral way . On his arrival here yesterday , Mr. Rockefeller bitterly assailed the " disarray " that he said the Kennedy Administration foreign policy had created . He did so in a seven-page statement calling for a " re-examination of our processes of government in the internationa field " and a new " political body to set common goals and to develop common policies . " He charged that the course President Kennedy was following was " erratic and vacilliting " and leading to failure . In less than a year , the Governor said , the Administration has been " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . ' with Canada . . . and with France . " " In less than a year , ' he went on , " the American Government has also publicly quarelled with Chancellor Adenauer ... and has affronted the Netherlands by placing expediency over principle in West New Guinea . " In response to questions about his candidacy , the Governor took the line that there were many outstanding Republicans ' and that a strong one could win in 1964 . He intend to work meantime , he said to create unity , raise funds and discuss issues although he is not at this time a candidate .                     