@@726138

txt At least 12 books about Senator Robert F. Kennedy are being written , most of them to be published this year . The unusual interest in the Senator is attributed by some of the leading publishers to his controversial positions on national and international affairs , his appeal to youth , and a continuing public fascination with the Kennedy family . " It is a very rare thing that a political figure can generate so much emotion and attention as to have a dozen authors write about him at one time ? especially when it 's not even an election year , ' said Evan Thomas , vice president of Harper &; Row . Others in the publishing industry said the possibility that Mr. Kennedy might become a Presidential candidate and his recurring disagreements with the Johnson Administration on Vietnam and other foreign policy issues had heightened public interest . They pointed out that almost all of the books in preparation had been started long before the recent wrangle over the serialization of William F. Manchester 's forthcoming book " The Death of a President , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect on the other volumes . In explaining one of the reasons for the rash of books on the 42-year-old New York Democrat , an executive of another prominent publishing firm who asked his name to be withheld said : " Many writers and publishers are hitching their ship to the Great Restoration movement to bring the Kennedys back to the White House . They seem quite convinced it will come into port . " Some of the authors are planning long-range , scholarly studies of Mr. Kennedy 's political impact . Others are focusing on more ? specialized subjects ? such as his role as Attorney General . Still others are concentrating on his family life and the gossip surrounding the Kennedys , or his public statements , his epigrams and humorous remarks . There will even be a " Ladies Guide to Bobby Kennedy . " Two to Be Critical While most of the books are being written by authors con-1 sidered impartial or friendly to the Senator , at least two arc expected to be sharply critical . They are " RFK : The Man Who Would Be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has announced for publication in mid-April , and a biography being prepared by Victor Lasky for Trident , a division of Simon &; Schuster . Robert Gutwillig , vice president of the New American Library , has commissioned three works . They are an extensive political study by Andrew Glass , a writer on The Washington Post ; an appraisal of Mr. Kennedy 's role as Attorney General by Victor Nevasky , a Yale Law School graduate and publisher of Monocle , a journal of political satire ; and an illustrated book about the Senator and his family by Dick Schaap , a syndicated newspaper columnist now on a leave of absence from his home newspaper , The World Journal Tribune . William V. Shannon , an editorial writer of The New York Times , is working on a biography for Macmillan . The book deals with Mr. Kennedy 's political career and is due to appear in September . Penn Kimball , a professor in the Columbia University School of Journalism , has started a book for Prentice-Hall focusing on the New York Senator as an illustration of the changing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his Westport , Conn. , home that he was in no hurry to rush into print and doubted that ' his book would be completed before 1968 . As Political Phenomenon " I 'm ' interested in Robert Kennedy more as a political phenomenon than a personality , " he said . " By combining statesmanlike qualities with a practical sense of power he provides an instance of the qualities being developed by the New Politics , which I think will dominate the scene in the latter part of this century . " The traditional interest of publishers in the woman 's view is reflected in a biography that Coward McCann has commissioned from Margaret Laing , an English journalist , for next fall . This is the " Ladies Guide to Bobby Kennedy , " which is understood to discuss such subjects as college girls ' reactions to the Senator and his impact on the jet set . Random ' House has asked Jack Newfield , a 28-year-old political columnist on The Village Voice , to write a book reflecting Mr. Kennedy 's impact on the young generation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Left ? A Prophetic Minority , " said he had originally signed a contract to write a biography of Mayor Lindsay , but abandoned the idea " because we had no personal rapport . " Mr. Lasky , ' whose critical book about President Kennedy ? " J. F. K. : The Man and the Myth " ? was No. 1 on the nonfiction sales list in 1963 , expects his book about Senator Kennedy to be ready in July or August . Bow Kennedy Reacts Asked about the new work , he said with a laugh : " Somebody suggested the title should be ' R .. F. IC. : the Boy and the Myth , ' but I do n't think that the publishers will approve . You can say , however , that it 's not going to be , s. friendly book . " Mr. de Toledano could not be reached to discuss his book , but a source close to his publisher said it , too , would be critical . Asked to comment on the number of books being written about him , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the attitude of game of the authors toward n* , I nope people will be too bored to read them . " * : east two major publishing houses are known to have asked several former Kennedy aides to write an authorized biography , but thus far none has accepted . At least one book on the Senator is being revised for reissue . That is " R. F. K. at 40 " by Nick Thimmesch and William A. Johnson , which was published by Norton in 1985 , Droke Publishing Co. of Anderson , S. C. , is planning a " Quotable Mr. Kennedy , " a collection of witticisms and epigrams by the Senator , and Douglas Ross , a writer in Ann Arbor , Mich. , is compiling a selection of Mr. Kennedy 's speephes on major national issues for Parallax                     