@@727987

txt Senator Warren G. Magnuson said today that he would vote against deployment of the Safeguard antiballistic missile because the weight of scientific opinion suggested it " may never work . " Next Wednesday , after four weeks of debate , the Senate will vote on President Nixon 's proposal to deploy the Safeguard system . The first vote will probably be on an amendment by Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Kentucky , and Philip A. Hart , Democrat of Michigan , that would permit continuation of research and development but prohibit deployment in the coming year . Mr. Magnuson did not say that he would vote specifically for the Cooper-Hart amendment , but the influential Washington Democrat did not qualify his opposition to deployment . First Formal Statement The opponents of ABM had counted Mr. Magnuson among their number for some days , but this was his first formal statement . The opponents now believe they have 50 of the 51 votes needed to pass the CooperHart amendment . Two Senators  --  John J. Williams , Republican of Delaware , and Clinton P. Anderson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If they vote with the Administration , the amendment will be defeated on a tie vote under Senate rules . The opponents believe Senator Williams will vote with the Administration . But they have some hope of getting Senator Anderson 's vote simply because he is concerned that an issue of such transcendent importance should be decided by such a close vote . Even if Senator Anderson does vote with the AdminisZuation , the opponents have hinted that they will have the vote of one Senator the Administration is counting on . They decline to say who will provide this necessary 51st vote for fear he will be subjected to intense White House pressure . Senator Manguson said today that he " was even somewhat reluctant " to vote for the $760. million for continued research and development on the missile concept " because the great mass of scientific opinion on the ABM casts grave doubts on the likelihood that it will ever become a workable defense system . " Nevertheless , he continued , he is willing " to go the extra mile " and approve the huge sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is , " he said , " it will still be a fraction of what we might have wasted on premature deployment . " " The cost of deployment , with its inevitable overruns amounting to billions , is too high a price for the illusion of defense without substance , " he added . Opponents of the system have argued against deployment on two grounds  --  technical and policy . On the basis of scientific reports  --  some of them forced out of a reluctant Pentagon ? most of the members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have held that the Safeguard components , originally designed for the protection of cities under the Johnson Administration 's Sentinel program , are not well designed for the protection of offensive missile bases . Protection of the bases is the objective of President Nixon 's Safeguard program . Many scientists have said that far more radars are needed for the defense of missile bases than the one provided for each Minuteman missile site in the Safeguard system . Further , they have said that the radars should be " hardened " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the question of policy , Senate opponents have argued that deployment would alarm the Soviet Union , and the arms race would be escalated once again , thus impairing the prospects for a negotiated arms limitation . Administration 's View The Administration insists , again on the basis of what it regards as dependable scientific advice , that the system will work . On the question of policy , it argues that deployment would strengthen the President 's position in arms talks , and that defeat of his proposal would weaken his hand . On the technical question , Senator Magnuson sided today with the opponents of the system , saying that even if the system could he perfected , which he doubted , " it may not provide true defense against the weapons of tomorrow . " Furthermore , he said , the protected Minutemen may be obsolete in a few years . On the foreign policy question , Mr. Magnuson did not think much of the arguments of either the ABM opponents or the Administration . The Soviet Union , he said , will negotiate an arms settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not the ABM is deployed . If there were weapons that would affect Moscow 's willingness to talk , he said , they would be offensive ones . " There is nothing very compelling to negotiate over a defensive missile system that may not even work , " he said . Although America has a great many capabilities , Mr. rvragnuson said , " the over-burdened taxpayer can not afford poor investments . " A " no-think policy toward military spending  --  the type of policy that produced the TFX fighter-bomber , nerve gas , the Main Battle Tank , the C-5A Military air transport and countless others  --  will prevent us from solving both our military or our domestic problems , " he said .                     