@@724629

txt United Nations , N.Y . U Thant 's Vietnam negotiation proposal for seven-nation exploratory talks in Rangoon remains seed on unwatered ground . It has support from neither Washington nor Peking . This proposal for so-called " five plus two " ambassadorial talks has in fact brought no reply from any of the seven would-be participants . These are the Big Five ( the United States , Soviet Union , Britain , France , and China ) plus North and South Vietnam . Thus the whole . secret initiative begun by the UN Secretary-General last August has been for some time lying ungerminated . It is expected to remain so until the great powers decide to water it . Or unless some exploratory contacts between South and North Vietnam should force big-power activity . Only then could such steps leading to a formal negotiating conference begin . The facts mislead Mr. Thant 's suggestion of the seven-nation exploratory talks has just surfaced here after making a vague earlier appearance in Paris . The effect is therefore of a new proposal flying in the face of recent Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of exploratory peace talks . This gives a misleading impression . The following chronology indicates the real perspective : Last August Mr. Thant sent a message from Moscow to North Vietnamese leader Ho Chi Minh proposing bilateral exploratory talks between North Vietnam and the United States in either Cambodia , Burma , or Pakistan . The Gulf of Tonkin affair intervened . There was no immediate answer . In September Mr. Thant received a favorable reply from Hanoi . He oonveyed this informally to the United States . Again there was no immediate answer . Morale held factor When one finally came , diplomatic sources here report that Washington showed some interest but said even secret , no-corrunitment explorations between the United States and North Vietnam were out of the question . Reason : news of them would destroy morale in Saigon .. By January , however , Washington reportedly had checked on the indication of Hanoi 's willingness to hold preliminary talks and received a different answer . U.S. turns negative Where the original favorable response to Mr. Thant in September came via Moscow and was confirmed by French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Canadian member of the International Control Commission in North Vietnam . The difference is explained either as a result of a Chinese veto on Hanoi 's earlier reply , or as a sign of North Vietnamese suspicion that Canada was too close to Washington . It was then that the five-plus-two plan for exploratory talks emerged . This took care of the omission of Saigon from the earlier proposal . It also included Peking , although China has not been directly approached in this full sequence of diplomatic soundings . There the matter has stood in recent weeks . Annoyance traced There were public signs of sharp displeasure from Washington when news stories of the original two-nation proposal belatedly leaked out last month . There will doubtless be similar response to the belated surfacing of the second plan . The White House is obviously annoyed at any news that dents its appearance of determination not to negotiate until conditions change in Vietnam . For the present , then , the U Thant formula is near-dormant . Mr. Thant himself has drawn back from pushing any plan while a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking appears to be waiting and watching to see how far Washington will get tied down in Vietnam .                     