@@726584

txt Chicago 's water supply system will be in " extreme difficulty " in three years if the rate of increase in pollution of Lake Michigan continues , the city 's water purification engineer , James C. Vaughn , said yesterday . Meanwhile , some key public officials were joining Mayor Daley in his opposition to further extensions of the deadline of Dec. 31 , 1968 , for compliance by industry with provisions of the federal water pollution control act . Vaughn said that three years ago 10 to 20 pounds of chlorine per million gallons of water were sufficient to purify it . By last April , he said , the average demand was 25 pounds , with a high of 34.7 pounds in April and 35 pounds in May . Describes Danger Point He declined to say when he thought present purification facilities no longer would be satisfactory . But he expressed the view that if the requirement reaches 80 pounds of chlorine per million gallons , then the water probably would have to be put thru a dechlorination process after its original treatment . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chief water engineer , and James W. Jardine , commissioner of water and sewers , said they thought more than 80 pounds per million gallons , of water could be tolerated . Daley wired Stewart Udall , secretary of the interior , Wednesday opposing extension of the 1968 deadline for industry compliance with pollution control provisions . Daley Gains Support John E. Egan , sanitary district president , and H. W. Poston , Great Lakes director of the Federal Water Pollution Control administration , came to support of Daley 's stand after indicating earlier they would go along with further extension of the deadline . Both said they changed their minds after a tour Tuesday of steel plants around the southern portion of Lake Michigan . Egan said he issued a directive to Vinton W. Bacon , district superintendent , to " take immediate steps to assure the board and outside agencies responsible for water quality in this area that programs have been developed and are implemented so as to achieve effective control of lake pollution by December 31 , 1968 . " Bacon Vows Action Bacon said he agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original schedule , then we 'll do it , " Bacon said . He denied published reports that he thought the 1968 deadline could be challenged in the courts as unworkable . " What I advocate , " he said , " is court-stipulated agreement with the industries on dead-1 lines . Then , if they miss the deadlines  --  or if they refuse to stipulate to them ? we 'll go to court . " " I 'm not for penalizing industry , " Daley said . " But if they work 24 hours a day , they can accomplish what should be done . " Poston said he would urge legal action against United States Steel corporation for pollution of Lake Michigan from its South Works at 3426 E. 89th st . Asks for Stibpenas He said as much has been done as possible in this instance thru conferences , and the company still ca n't give a definite ? deadline for starting effective pollution curbs . He said he is asking Udall to subpena U. S. Steel officials for testimony before a special water pollution hearing board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Water Pollution Control administration , did not think hearings would be necessary . " When U. S. Steel says they will put in pollution control measures ' . by a certain date , they 'll do it . They have always cooperated in the past . " But he conceded meeting the 1968 deadline is remote in the case of U. S. Steel 's South Works , which he said dumps 17 million gallons of industrial wastes into Lake Michigan each day . Stein thought the deadline might be extended in individual cases , according to circumstances , but he preferred that U. S. Steel embark on the kind of crash program Mayor Daley advocated . " They work round the clock to make steel , so I there 's no reason why they ca n't also do it to abate pollution , " he said . U. S. Steel issued a statement pledging itself to abating pollution as soon as possible . " We have been making every effort in that direction , " the state-1 mennt said , " and we will work diligently to complete this water quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the waste being released into the lake will be brought under control " at or near the original target date , " and the remaining third as soon as possible thereafter . U. S. Steel 's Gary works along with Inland Steel company and Youngstown Sheet and Tube company have submitted plans for pollution abatement by 1970.                     