@@727466

txt Shortly after 6 o'clock on the morning of Tuesday , Oct. 29 , one of President Johnson 's closest advisers emerged from the White House feeling very good . " I was so exhilarated , " he said later , " to think that after all those months we had finally reached an agreement with Hanoi that could start us on the road to peace . " As he and the other aides went home to catch some sleep , , President Johnson 's staff began making plans for him to appear on television that evening and announce that the United States and South Vietnam had negotiated an understanding with North Vietnam . The allies would stop the bombing of North Vietnam , Mr. Johnson would say , in return for the start of expanded peace talks in Paris and agreement by Hanoi not to abuse the demilitarized zone or shell South Vietnam 's cities . The raids over the North would stop early the next morning ? Oct. 30 ? and the talks , at which Saigon and the I National Liberation Front would be present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bunker , the United States Ambassador in Saigon , was informed that at the predawn meeting at the White House Oct. 29 Gen. Creighton W. Abrams , the United States commander in South Vietnam , had recommended going ahead with the deal arranged secretly during the previous three weeks . Mr. Bunker was told that all that was lacking was the final concurrence of President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam on the joint announcement to be made 12 hours later . " Bunker had told us that Thieu had agreed to the plan in substance , " an Administration source said later , " so we did not anticipate any trouble at the last minute . " But about 7 A.M. , word was received from Mr. Bunker that President Thieu could not agree to the joint announcement . Mr. Thieu first said he did not have enough time to get a delegation together in time for the start of talks on Nov. 2 , but his objections lengthened . Finally he said that South Vietnam could not participate unless North Vietnam made a public statement that the National Liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entity at the talks . South Vietnam 's refusal to join in the agreement forced Mr. Johnson to postpone his speech two nights to Oct. 31 and created an open split between Washington and Saigon over the all-important Paris talks . The refusal also made impossible a meeting on Nov. 2 In retrospect , one knowledgeable Western diplomat in Paris suggested that the postponement " probably cost Vice President Humphrey the election . " That view was apparently shared by some members of the American delegation , most of whom are Democrats . It was thought in Paris that getting the expanded talks under way before the election was an important objective of the Johnson Administration . The President and others in the Administration have insisted however , that the timing of the b bombin , r halt  --  which was the product of months of extremely , difficult negotiation  --  was not related in any way to the election . The crisis between the two allies was unexpected . It has led some of the top men in the Administration in Washington to utter harsh words about the South Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a nationalistic campaign against the United States . In the beginning , neither South Vietnamese nor American officials in Saigon had reason to suspect , as they met , in quiet and harmonious ses-1 sions , that they soon would be pitted against each other . And in Parts , North Vietnam . ese negotiators , who long had refused to make any movement toward compromise , were scoring propaganda points by appearing to be the more conciliatory party while at the same time seeking to widen the gap between Saigon ' and Washington . As American officials have told the story in Saigon and Washington , they had firm agreements no fewer than four times that the South Vietnamese would agree , among other things , to support the United States in a bombing halt over North Vietnam and to send a delegation to Paris to join the United States in peace negotiations with both the North Vietnamese and the National Liberation Front . The South Vietnamese version is that there was agreement at times , but that each time , the agreement ? upon closer examination did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover . Why , if there ever was agreement , did President Thieu declare that President Johnson had acted unilaterally in calling off the bombing over North Vietnam ? Why did he refuse to join the Paris talks in a state ment that caused international repercussions and led to an indefinite postponement of peace negotiations ? Was Mr. Thieu constantly breaking his word and shifting his position ? Or did the United States Embassy read more into the agreements than he actually intended ? Were the South Vietnamese applying the brakes in an American drive for peace , in the hope that Richard M. Nixon would win the Presidential election and prove to be more sympathetic to their side of the quarrel than President Johnson ? Hanoi 's Motives Unclear And what led the North Vietnamese , who for years had said they would agree to nothing until the United States stopped the bombing unconditionally , to indicate suddenly in the early fall that they were now willing to modify their demands and move the Paris talks off dead center ? The search for answers extends back to May , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Paris . Ambassador at Large W. Averell Harriman , the chief United States representative at the talks , was instructed then , according to Washington sources , to say that the United States was prepared to stop the bombing over all of North Vietnam if the North Vietnamese would not take military advantage of the halt and promptly enter serious discussions . The bombing had been limited March 31 by President Johnson to the area between the 17th and the 20th Parallels . In practice , the bombing had been kept south of the 19th Parallel . Throughout the spring and rummer there were sporadic meetings between Ambassador , 13nniter and South Vietnamese officials in which they were hriefed on the developments in Paris . There were no serious disagreements with the United States proposals , because many of the issues and solutions seemed to be purely hypothetical , observers in Saigon said . The South Vietnamese were convinced that North Vietnam did not intend to bargain seriously . This view was reinforced by Washington reports that each side in Paris seemed to be talking past the other . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budging from their position that the hombing halt had to be total and without conditions . But while Saigon continued to believe that the Paris talks would be fruitless , the United States persisted in seeking a formula that might end the impasse . Finally a formula was devised and made known to the North Vietnamese in Paris . It said : The President simply could not maintain a cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam unless it was very promptly evident to him , to the American people and to America 's allies that such an action was indeed a step toward peace . A cessation of bombing could not be sustained if it were followed by abuses of the demilitarized zone and attacks by the Vietcong and North Vietnamese on South Vietnam cities . North Vietnam also had to agree to enter promptly into serious political discussions that would include the Government of South Vietnam . Mr. Johnson told Mr. Harriman on Sept. 17 , and Cyrus R. Vance , the deputy United States , representative in Paris , on Oct. 3 , that this , indeed , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States negotiators began in late May or early June to have secret talks with the North Vietnamese side apart from the highly publicized meetings at the former Hotel Majestic . The first contact was between William J. Jorden and Nguyen Thanh Le , the spokesmen for the American and North Vietnamese delegations . Not long after , Col. Ha Van Lau , the second-ranking Hanoi negotiator , and Mr. Vance , were meeting . Eventually the sessions were expanded to include , at one time or another , virtually all tiembers of the two delegations , including interpreters and notetakers . Both delegations took precautions to safeguard the secrecy of the private meetings . Different sites , almost all of them in the suburbs of Paris , were used . The two sides met at different times , sometimes fairly early in the morning , often late in the evening . The Americans rode in private and rented cars , rather than black embassy limousines , to avoid being conspicuous in their movements . Critical Moment of Talks From the American point of view , the most important North Vietnamese participant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation , but Le Duc Tho , a 57-year-old member of the North Vietnamese Lao-Dong ( Communist ) party Politburo . He is the seventh-ranking figure in Hanoi and an adviser to the Paris delegation . Washington sources said that the North Vietnamese in Paris began to " focus in " on the American formula about Oct. 9 . Apparently the key meeting took place , according to Paris sources , on Oct. 12 , when Mr. Tho asked Mr. Harriman : Would the United States stop bombing North Vietnam if it agreed to the South Vietnamese Government 's participation in the talks ? All sources In Washington , Saigon and Paris agree that that question was the critical moment in the talks . " Lights went on throughout the government , " a Washington official said . Mr. Tho left Paris two days later , stopping in Moscow and Peking for conferences , while the Johnson Administration went through the process of seeking agreement with both Saigon and Hanoi on terms for a bombing halt . Washington sources said Mr. Harriman told Mr. Tho that there had to he some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as on the expansion of the talks . He told Mr. Tho he would refer the matter to Washington . Mr. Johnson then sent messages to both Mr. Bunker and General Abrams and asked if they approved instructing Mr. Harriman to seek agreement with Hanoi along the lines of the formula decided earlier . They responded jointly in a telegram signed by Mr. Bunker that read : " General Abrams and I interpret the exchange with Hanoi as a fairly clear indication that Hanoi is ready for a tactical shift from the battlefield to the conference table . We concur in the instructions to Harriman and Vance . " Bunker Sees Thieu Mr. Bunker was then instructed to bring President Thieu up to date on developments . On Sunday , Oct. 13 , Mr. Bunker and Mr. Thieu met privately . This was the first of at least 18 sessions the men would have in the next 20 days According to diplomats close to the American Embassy , there were no problems during that Sunday meeting or during sessions on Monday and Tuesday . The diplomats said President Thieu asked questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got Mr. Thieu 's " concurrence . " At 1:30 P.M. on Monday , Oct. 14 , President Johnson met with all the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Gen. William C. Westmoreland , the Army Chief of Staff and the former commander in Vietnam , left Walter Reed Army Hospital to attend the session . ( Earlier reports said he had been represented at the meeting by a deputy . ) The Joint Chiefs , after receiving intensive briefings by Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Secretary of Defense Clark M. Clifford , agreed unanimously . All the countries with troops in South Vietnam  --  South Korea , Thailand , the Philippines , Australia and New Zealand ? also concurred . With this sign of support , Mr. Johnson instructed Mr. Harriman to put the formula to Hanoi . On Wednesday , Oct. 16 , Mr. Harriman put the package before the North Vietnamese . Because South Vietnam had indicated that it wanted only one day to pass between the bombing halt and the start of talks , Mr. Harriman asked North Vietnam to agree to this . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with South Vietnam began to develop , and sources in Saigon believe that much of the unhappiness was caused by the speed of communications . On that day , a message from the White House arrived before dawn in the communications center at the embassy . " Washington is always forgetting the time difference , " an American official grumbled later in Saigon . The White House wanted to get President Thieu 's concurrence immediately on a joint communique that could be released to the public if Hanoi accepted the package . The cornmunications center had Mr. Bunker awakened at his villa . The Ambassador rook the message at face value . It said , " immediately " and Mr. Bunker moved immediately . He called I President Thieu about 6 A.M. and arranged a 6:45 AM. meeting . The joint communique , ac- , cording to some diplomats whop saw it , was a " bare-bones " document . It announced that the United States was halting the bombing over North Vietnam . It also said that " serious and direct " peace talks were to get under way promptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . The communique made no mention of the Liberation Front , although , according to both South Vietnamese and Americans , it was understood that the Front would also be present . The issue , as it would develop later between the United States and South Vietnam , was not whether the Front would participate in the talks , but how it would participate in them . However , diplomats close to the American Embassy say this was not an issue when Mr. Bunker left the Presidential Palace in Saigon after the early-morning meeting . Thieu to Spread News They say he had President Thieu 's concurrence on a communique and had freed Mr. Thieu to start informing his National Security Council and legislative leaders of a possible breakthrough in Paris . South Vietnamese officials contend , on the other hand , that President Thieu agreed only to present the joint communique to the National Secu rity Council . They say the communique was regarded as " only a draft . " Meanwhile , reports began spreading quickly through Saigon that President Thieu and Ambassador Bunker had met before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw it , could ' : mean only one thing : a bombing halt was in the making because what else could cause , the two men to meet before ) breakfast . These rumors led to ' news reports from Saigon about an imminent breakthrough and immediate denials from the White House that one had been achieved , . lust then , Hanoi began to balk . Washington sources said that there were then 10 days of very hard negotiations in which North Vietnam sought " a good many things . " Instead of meeting the day after a bombing halt , Hanoi wanted a delay of several weeks . " We had a time getting them back to about a week , " a source said . Then , Hanoi indicated that it wanted a ccminuniqu6 in which the United States would accept the concept that the bombing halt was unconditional . Hanoi was told that no on ? ric ? , 1 it ( - mild ! iv tql 0 ti militarized zone was violated or cities were shelled . Therefore , the President could not accept an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Soviet Government was brought into the discussions . The United States believed it would be useful for the Russians to know the American position and to see if Moscow could use its influence in Hanoi . Mr. Rusk met several times with Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin to explain the situation . Finally , on Sunday , Oct. 27 , Washington received firm assurance from Hanoi that it could agree to the American package . Paris sources say that at critical moments in the ( secret negotiations , each side stated its position slowly and ' clearly so the other side could , take precise notes . ' Washington sources said that both Hanoi and Moscow were asked if they fully understood what the American terms for stopping the bombing were . Abrams Called Back As a further precaution , Mr. Johnson summoned General Abrams back from Saigon on Oct. 27 to report to him and the President 's top advisers . The General met with Mr. Johnson about 2:30 A.M. in the morning of Tuesday , Oct. 29 , and reaffirmed his support for a bombing halt . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and get his agreement on a joint announcement . In Saigon , however , the South Vietnamese Government was expressing discomfort over what would happen in Paris once the bombing halt was announced . The South Vietnamese raised what were called procedural questions . These questions included the following : Would the National Liberation Front delegates be allowed to sit as a group or would they be scattered throughout the North Vietnamese delegation ? Would the Front be forbidden to bring its flag into the meeting room in Paris ? Would the South Vietnamese be allowed to bring in their flag ? Could the South : Vietnamese have a nameplate that said South Vietnam ? Could ' the nameplates be ruled outs for the Front ? South Vietnamese officials say now that they were trying to avoid anything that could lead to direct talks between ' the Saigon Government and a distinct delegation from the Front . In their view , this would imply that the Front and the South Vietnamese must work out some internal compromise about the future of South Vietnam -- either a territorial division or a coalition government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Vietnam could avoid these implications by refusing to admit they were talking to the Liberation Front even when they were , in fact , doing just that . The trick would be to dismiss them simply as representatives from Hanoi . Mr. Bunker , an experienced diplomat , regarded this " your side , our side formula " as an old and effective diplomatic ploy . New Draft Communiqu ? After much discussion between Saigon and Washington , Mr. Bunker and deputy Ambassador Samuel Berger returned to Mr. Thieu and his advisers with a new draft communique that would be made public by Mr. Johnson and Mr. Thieu . It said , in part : " The two Presidents have reached this common decision because they have good reason to believe North Vietnam will join them in de-escalating the war and that the delegation of North Vietnam will start direct and serious talks with the delegation of the Republic of Vietnam and the United States . " The two Presidents wish to make it clear that neither the Republic of Vietnam nor the United States will recognize the National Liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the embassy saw it , such a statement would avoid any specific suggestion that North Vietnam was making concessions , and thus , would not reopen the package that had just been agreed to by Hanoi . The statement did not prevent the Front front coming to the table and looking upon itself as a separate entity . It simply said that the United States would not recognize them Os that . It was consistent with the " your side , our side formula . " Highly placed Americans in Washington said th .. ? re was no ** for misonderstamling . But the South Vietnamese now say that they understood the itatement differently . that the , c-mrlitting Pano and the United States to threesided talks with Saigon and preventing the Front from being a separate entity . The South Vietnamese were delighted with the draft of the communique as they understood it . " Monday was the happiest of all days , " one official said . " Everyone was happy . " Word came from Washington on the next evening , announcing the breakthrough with Hanoi and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announce talks , which would begin on Nov. 2 . Mr. Thieu said that Vice ' President Nguyen Cao Ky , who would head the delegation to Paris , needed more time to choose a delegation . Washington was informed that President Johnson 's speech would be put off for a day . Then , a new and more serious crisis develaoped . While Mr. Bunker and Mr. Berger were at the Presidential Palace in Saigon , Mr. Thieu received a message from Pham Dang Lam , his chief ohserver in Paris . Mr. Lam reported that he had talked with Mr. Harriman and was convinced that the Americans were tricking the South Vietnamese . President Thieu and Vice President Ky angrily accused Mr. Bunker and Mr. Berger of deception . Mr. Bunker replied , according to the South Vietnamese , that Mr. Lam had misunderstood Mr. Harriman if he suspected the United States of trickery . Mr. Bunker left the palace about 1 A.M. and returned with a message from President Johnson . It said that Mr. Johnson did not know what Mr. Lam was contending , but that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the Americans saw it , the South Vietnamese were more incensed by the tenor of Mr. Lam 's message than by its substantive points . Diplomatic sources said that the South Vietnamese knew all along that the only thing Hanoi had agreed upon was that the Saigon Government could be represented in Paris . In a sense , they ' said , the joint communiqu ? was window dressing and the South Vietnamese knew it . Because of the furor , another extension was granted in the bombing halt announcement ? from Oct. 30 Washington time to the evening of Oct. 31 . Washington sources say Hanoi caused no problems on the delay in the bombing-halt announcement , but sources in Paris say the North Vietnamese did express annoyance . Late in the evening of Oct. 30 , the American negotiators held a secret meeting in Paris with the North Vietnamese to give them a firm commitment that President Johnson would halt the bombing on Nov. 1  --  and make the announcement on Oct. 31 . The commitment was made even though Saigon had not given its agreement . Tension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At one point , South Vietnamese sources said , Mr. Thieu asked Mr. Berger , who was pushing hard for South Vietnam 's concurrence , if he were a " representative from Hanoi . " Americans were angered when Mr. Thieu then demanded that all old formulas be scrapped in favor of a statemernj that Hanoi could use " nc ruses " to put the Liberation Front into the talks as a separate entity . He also de ? manded that the Paris talks ge ; into a " completely new phase " and that Hanoi give " firm and unequivocal assurances " that it would talk directly with South Vietnam . All of this was unacceptable to the embassy , which said the demands would sabotage chances for negotiations . As the South Vietnamese saw it ? although they did not say it aloud until later ? the Johnson Administration was throwing away a chance to win the war in an effort to win the election for Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey with a dramatic bombing halt just before the election . President Thieu said Hanoi was coming to terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tet , or Lunar New Year , offensive late in January . As some Americans saw it , the South Vietnamese were trying to sabotage the negotiations in the hope that Mr. Nixon would win the election and prove to be more sympathetic to their point of view . Early in the morning of Nov. 1 in Saigon  --  Oct. 31 in Washington  --  enemy rockets hit a Roman Catholic church during mass , killing 19 civilians and wounding 6.1 . The South Vietnamese position grew even harder . In Washington , President Johnson began filming his television message announcing the bombing halt . In his original draft , the President included the line that South Vietnam would be " present " at the Paris talks on Nov . C. But Mr. Bunker . in his last talk with Mr. Mien , failed to get agreement . Mr. Thieu asked another delay . " It 's too ate , " Mr. Bunker replied . Mr. Johnson changed his language to read that the South .. , e.nitiaese would be - free to xtrticipate . " That ended the dialogue with Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning it was ri ! tret.able . " ( Me diplomat said . " But toward the end , it was : 1 big intim- of chicken . Each side if-etight the other would chicken out , would cave in . But ' lc ! , die ' '                     