@@725340

txt New Delhi India is clearing the decks for the visit , beginning Wednesday , of Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey , the dimensions of which are magnified as he nears India . Main objectives of the three-day stay are : To activate Indian initiative on Vietnam ; To set the stage for the next month 's visit with President Johnson by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi ; And to gain further insight into India 's economic crisis . Under Canadian inspiration , India , as a member of the International Control Commission on Vietnam , is thinking of the feasibility of some new approach to Hanoi . Suggestion auaited Officials of the External Affairs Ministry again reaffirmed to this correspondent Sunday night that their thinking was " cautious and tentative . " It is wondered here though whether if as a preliminary step some military disengagement plan can not be worked out . India and Pakistan , it is pointed out , now* are so engaged , in the cease-fire over Kashmir , although it is admitted their disengagement is easier to implement . India also is preparing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gesture , India send a team of doctors and teachers to South Vietnam . Despite control commission status , it is recalled , the late Jawaharlal Nehru did send medical.team to Laos , but this was on appeal from Prince Souvanna Phouma . A repeat performance in South Vietnam has political overtones , it is thought here , whose effect on Hanoi remain unpredictable . Ration averaged In Jaipur meariwhile , this correspondent ran across the editor of Cairo 's El Ahram and spokesman of United Arab Republic President Nasser . Ostensibly on a goodwill mission , this " tourist " also gives out with cryptic political sounds in certain interesting directions . ( Egypt has remained in touch with Hanoi for some time now . ) India , it is thought here , has to be particularly careful right now lest it is assumed that VP on tour American Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey tries on a Thai farmer 's hat while touring the Bangkok canals . Ile is going to visit both Pakistan and India this week . it is ready to move nearer to the United States on Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumption , even while incorrect , would end whatever usefulness India now has as a potential mediator . As Mr. Humphrey arrives , India has averaged out the rice ration for all states to a maximum per capita of seven ounces per day . This is to enable Kerala to get the same ration from the end of March . It now gets five ounces per capita . State chief ministers in conference with Mrs. Gandhi on Sunday night bowed to the pressures of the Jaipur Congress Party session to plan for equitable distribution , irrespective of surplus and deficit zones . Drought relieved Congress Party participants were also told that 300,000 tons of rice were bought from abroad , with a third of this amount coming from Thailand . Food Minister C. Subramaniam. meanwhile , is meeting representatives of 30 diplomatic missions here to explain the over-all food situation and solicit help 4o that the burden on the United States may be lessened . A six-month drought has ended from Kashmir in the north , now happily buried in snow , to Rajasthan in the south . " It looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister 's comment as skies opened to engulf Jaipur 's tented city and bring the Congress Party session to an abrupt end Saturday night . Sunday . as this writer drove up through the Rajasthan desert , camels were seen incongruously kicking up their feet in puddles under sand dunes newly crowned in palest green . North Indian farmers hail the belated rain gift to the standing wheat crop which is about to mature under cloud-filled skies .                     