@@727086

txt B-52 bombers carried out heavy raids base camps , tunnels and caves in Haunghia Province , some 24 miles northwest of Saigon , and in Tayninh Province , about 10 miles beyond Haunghia . Yesterday the bombers pounded bunker concentrations near the village of Bencat , 26 miles northwest of Saigon . This morning the 13-52 's struck heavily at an infiltration route , weapons positions and troop assembly points six miles southwest of Hue , in the northern region of South Vietnam . Military authorities in Saigon said that there were no incidents in the city during the night , although national policemen and South Viennamese Army units continued to remain on a full alert against possible attack . The fighting in the rural areas around the city consisted for the most part of small-scale battles and enemy mortar and rocket attacks . A sampan suspected of smuggling arms and ammunition into the city was sunk by an air strike in the Saigon River , well within the city limits . The national police said in a communiqu ? that " the Vietcong are preparing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tet , " the Lunar New Year . The communique asserted that the Vietcong " are now employing all means to transport arms , ammunition and explosives into Saigon . " South Vietnamese army and national police units have been on the alert in the city since Sunday , when , it was reported . a North Vietnamese colonel who had defected told of a pending attack on the capital by a force of 10,000 enemy troops . The curfew , which was 8 P.M. last week and went to 9 P.M. by the end of the week , remained at 9 last night . However , the streets were almost deserted half an hour before the deadline . Enemy Mortar Attack In the fighting near the city , units of the U.S. First Infantry Division came under a mortar and rocket attack early yesterday morning while in a night defense position 38 miles northeast of Saigon . After a supporting strike by helicopter gunships , the infantrymen reported having found the bodies of nine enemy soldiers . There were no American casualties . South cf Saigon , a United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Helicopter gun crews reported killing two of the enemy before contact was broken . Two Americans were killed and six wounded . Earlier , an air attack against a suspected troop concentraThe New York Times April 27.1968 Fighting broke out around the Saigon countryside as bombers struck Bencat. tion 25 miles northwest of the capital uncovered a large bunker complex . More than 100 of the bunkers were destroyed in the strike . Eighteen enemy soldiers were reported to have been killed in the action . The South Vietnamese reported that there had been no contact between their paratroopers and a large force of North Vietnamese regulars believed to be in the Ashau Valley , west of Hue . The paratroopers began the Ashau operation last Friday , but withheld word of it until Thursday . Thus far , the South Vietnamese military command has said only that 10 trucks were destroyed and a quantity of explosives seized . The valley , which is covered by rough , jungle terrain , is believed to be an enemy staging area for attacks in the HueDanang area . A road network in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Westmoreland , the American commander in South Vietnam , visited American bases in the northern provinces yesterday . This morning , a military spokesman said that 72 North ' Vietnamese soldiers were killed ' by marines late yesterday nearl Conthien . The marines were aided by tanks and artillery . American casualties were 9 killed and 17 wounded . In the air war , United States planes flew 110 missions over southern North Vietnam . The northernmost strike was on a causeway 168 miles north of the demilitarized zone , and just south of the 19th Parallel . The military command said that an F-4 Phantom was downed by unknown causes over North Vietnam Wednesday . Both crew members are missing . This brought the total of American planes lost over North Vietnam to 827 since the raids began on Aug. 5 , 1964.                     