@@723727

txt Balboa , Canal Zone The man who is charged with responsibility for running the Panama Canal Zone thinks that in the past 10 days a lot of people have become convinced that a number of changes are needed in United States-Panamanian relations over the canal . If proof of this need for change is wanted , Canal Zone Gov . Robert J. Fleming Jr . said that events of the last week have put a period on it . In a candid and lively discussion with this reporter , Governor Fleming indicated he is in favor of substantial revision of zone arrangements to more fully recognize the emotional and economic problems posed by Panamanians . L'anama Asset The Governor , who is a major general in the United States Army but has donned civilian dress in his executive rote , believes that many North Americans  --  both in the United States and in the zone  --  have put on mental blinders on canal issues and will not recognize the need for change . These people , he argues , often have not understood the pressures building on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very geography which provided some of the rationale for the canal is Panama 's one great asset . Panama wants a bigger cut from the canal to exploit its only asset , he commented . But the United States is right athwart that geography . Panama also wants more revenue from the canal , he noted . Calling attention to a much-voiced Panamanian complaint that the United States pays vastly more in annual rent to Spain and Libya for air bases in those countries , he said these facilities are much less vital than the canal . Moreover , Governor Fleming stated that Panamanians have had a perfect propaganda issue during the 12 years since the establishment of the Panama Canal Company to handle the operation of the canal . Governor Fleming is president of this company . With its annual profit-andloss statements and its balance sheets , the impression is clearly given that the canal exists to make money . It becomes vir- tually impossible , he remarked , to erase the impression that the United States is earning money out of the canal . Actually , during those 12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounted to S-16.7 million . During the same period , the company invested S122.7 million in capital improvements with funds coming from cash reserves and depreciation arrangements . Governor Fleming seems to feel that the Panamanians have some just grievances , including those surrounding complaints that the Canal Zone ought to get out of regular business or commercial activities , such as the commissaries , garages , tele vision and radio repair facilities , and the like . In another area , the Governor noted that the Canal Zone authorities have tried to get out of the cargo-handling business in CristObal for some time . With 72 percent of all cargoes coming into this port having nothing to do with the Canal Zone , the Governor said he felt it only right that Panamanians handle this activity . But the United States Congress has balked on the issue . This 72 percent goes directly into the economy of Panama or is transhipped  --  a business that occupies many Panamanians . Governor Flemings four years on the job here enforced his conclusion that the obstacles to better working relations between the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedial action . Obstacles Listed ? The canal and the Canal Zone are remote from the United States consciousness . There is a resistance to change in the zone itself from many long-time zone employees . Moreover , the relative isolation of these people , as well as some long-time residents in Panama itself , have led them to adopt even anti-Panamanian feelings . ? Resistance to change is also evident from the shipping interests , worried that substantial changes in Canal Zone arrangements might result in higher tolls for ships passing through the canal . ? The controlled news media in Panama . press , radio , and television , have often made difficult the process of change . North Americans often resent the press here , and it forces them into defensive positions . Panama press takes harsh line : Page 3                     