@@727171

txt Dr. Grayson Kirk , the president of Columbia University , has declared that the institution 's trustees " can not be expected to share decision-making power on any subject with a group of students if that group has the avowed policy of destroying the integrity of the university . " In a 5,000-word message dated June 1 and sent to " alumni , parents and other friends of Columbia , " Dr. Kirk said the radical Students for a Democratic Society , which dominated the recent student demonstrations at Columbia , " is overtly dedicated to , the destruction of radical transformation of all political , social and economic institutions . " He vowed that any future troubles would " be dealt with firmly " and said the outcome of the Columbia controversy would have a national impact ion other schools . Feeling of Alumni " If any of our alumni have any doubt on this score , " Dr. Kirk wrote , " I wish they could read even a sampling cf the thousands of telegrams and letters we have received from every part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deans , presidents and trustees have written to say to us that the outcome of our controversy will have a ' profound effect on their ability to preserve the future integrity of their own institutions . " Our struggle has a special relevance to the future of private institutions of higher education . The demonstrators conveniently overlook the fact that a private university is free , under the general guidance in our case of the State Board of Regents , and in accordance with the terms of its charter , to establish its own rules . Duty of Trustees " Its trustees not only have the legal authority but the responsibility to direct the affairs of ' the university . In practice , they delegate general educational and curricular policy to the various faculties , but they can not be expected to share decision-making power on any subject with a group of students if that group has the avowed policy of destroying the integrity of the university . " In taking a position that , in effect , excludes the S.D.S. from Columbia 's announced intentions of increasing student participation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mark Rudd , head of the Columbia chapter of the S.D.S. , which said : . " If we win , we will take control of your , world , your corporation , your university , and attempt to mold a world in ' which we and other people can live as human beings . Your power is directly threatened since we will have to destroy that power before we take over . " Mr. Rudd is one of 73 students suspended so far in connection with , the troubles that followed the seizure of five Columbia buildings . by students and violent clashes , with the police on April 30 and ? again on May 22 , after student demonstrators were once more cleared from a building by the police . Dr. Kirk , in stressing the motives of S.D.S. , also quoted from an article in Ramparts Magazine of June 15 , by Thomas E. Hayden , one of the national leaders of S.D.S. , in which Mr. Hayden wrote : " The Columbia students were . . . taking an internationalist and revolutionary view , of themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been groomed and educated . They did not want to be included in the decisionmaking circles of the militaryindustrial complex that ruled Columbia ; they want to be included only if their inclusion is a 4tep toward transforming the university . " Of this , Dr. Kirk said : " Such statements speak for themI selves . They indicate that the ' leaders of the S.D.S. ? as distint from an unknown number of their supporters ? are concerned with local or parochial issues only as they serve as means to a larger end . " Mr. Rudd , who is attending the national convention of S.D.S. at Michigan State University said when asked to comment on Dr. Kirk 's statements : " President Kirk and the trustees of Columbia are the people who are destroying the integrity of the university , not the students . " The striking students say that their university is an institution of oppression when it engaged in the kind of racist expansion in which it does and takes part in research to develop weapons to suppress liberation movements . The strikers are fighting for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The outbreaks at Columbia came after student demonstrators demanded the termination of Columbia 's construction of a gymnasium in Morningside Park , calling it discriminating against residents of Harlem , which adjoins the park , and the severance of the university's1 ties with the Institute for De- ' fense Analyses , a consortium of 12 universities - that does research for the Department of Defense . To these was added the demand by student strikers for amnesty for those charged with ( violations during the demonI strations . In discussing why he delayed calling the police during the first student occupation of buildings , Dr. Kirk pointed out that the university officials " were well aware of the strong , feeling that permeates all American universities against the use of municipal police for any purpose on university propefty . In addition , he said , since one of the buildings ? Hamilton Hall ? was occupied by ( black stuednts " there was a natural and serious concern at City Hall , which we shared , about the possible reactions of lour neighbors in Harlem to the use of police in Hamilton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of peaceful settlement without calling in the police . " It may well be , " - he said , " with hindsight , that we should have moved earlier , as we were naturally tempted to do , but I still believe that we followed the course best calculated to uphold the dignity and integrity of the university . At rio time did timidity , or indecision affect our conclusion                     