@@723180

txt Western observers in Washington and the Soviet Union are tending to believe Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has won another round in the Sino-Soviet ideological duel with Peking through Cuba 's Fidel Castro . This is the interpretation , at least , being placed on a number of incidents of Premier Castro 's long four-week visit to the Soviet Union , which began April 27 , and which is to end up in the Soviet Union at or near the Black Sea , where Premier Khrushchev has invited the Cuban Premier to rest and talk . Accolades Cited Evidence is cited as an in dication of this successful wooing of Premier Castro to the " softer " Soviet line of approach to revolutionary change away from Peking 's tack . For instance , Premier Castro continues to refer to the " avalanche of love " the Soviet peo ple and the Communist hierarchy have heaped upon him . Also , the Cuban leader has indicated he no longer holds any resentment about the Soviet Union 's hasty withdrawal of Soviet nuclear weaponry from Cuba in last October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremonies in Moscow Thursday . Premier Castro was awarded the Soviet Gold Star medal . the Order of Lenin , and the Soviet Union 's highest honor  --  rarely awarded foreigners ? of Hero , of the Soviet Union . Premier Castro was cited for his " outstanding services in organizing the triumphant struggle for freedom and independence of the heroic Cuban people . " News wire services described the farewell ceremonies . in Moscow as having a circus and country fair atmosphere where , among some 125,000 people , thousands wore brightly colored paper hats with Cuban emblems on them , gaily waved Cuban and SoViet flags , and ' gulped gallons of soft drinks in a blazing summer sun . When Premier Castro was introduced there was so much applause he could not speak for lour or five minutes . But the Castro-Khrushchev responses were not particularly summery . U.S. Warned Premier Khrushchev warned the United States that if it did not view the Cuban question " with the necessary common sense . . a situation might arise in the world even more formidable than last October . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pursued in stating that the United States agreed to no invasion of Cuba last October and November . This is not technically correct . The United States indicated it would consider no invasion of Cuba as a possible policy if on-site inspections were permitted . They have never been allowed . Premier Khrushchev described the Cuban revolution as marking " the dawn of a new life on the American continent , The eyes of millions in Latin-American countries are turned now to heroic Cuba because it is on that island that is being blazed the road to a better , happy life , the road of socialism , that will be taken by all the peoples of Latin America . "                     