@@721586

txt HAVANA , Dec. ** least twelve leaders of Cuba 's Electrical Workers Union were reported tonight to have taken refuge in Latin-American embassies here as Premier Fidel Castro 's Government crushed their attempt to resist Communist control . The labor leaders fled as soon as it became apparent that they faced not only a dismissal from the union but also arrest on charges or sabotage and counter-revolutionary activities or treason . They received asylum in the embassies of Argentina , Peru , Ecuador and Brazil . The union leaders reached their havens only a short while before a mass rally " ratified " a purge of their 5,000-member union . Premier Castro personally joined in the purge rally , which was turned into a tele- // vised show of strength against an who would defy " revolutionary unity " and discipline . Without a single voice of opposition , the rally , nominally a meeting of the Electrical Workers Union , expelled the leaders . The meeting approved a program of " purification " ordered by the Communist-dominated Confederation of Cuban Workers and hear warning that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A previous elections in the national , and Havana province electrical unions were nullified . Minister of Labor Augusto Martinez Sanchez then addressed the rally with an emotiopal denunciation of the " servants " of United States " imperialism . " Premier Castro took the floor at about 11 P. M. It could not be determined whether Amaury Fraginals , head of the Electrical Workers Union , was among the men who went into the embassies . One associate said Senor Fraginals was in hiding . A diplomat expressed the belief that he had been arrested . Senor Fraginals led 1,000 members of the union in a protest march on the Presidential Palace last Friday . The marchers shouted " Cuba yes , Russia , no " until their leader received a hearing by President Osvaldo Dorticos Torrado on the union 's complaint against Communist infiltration . The Fraginals group insists that it has the support of 75 per cent of the union members . Even before the protest march the Government-controlled press had accused the Electrical Workers Union leaders of acquiescence in alleged acts of sabotage that cut off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 29 . After Friday 's demonstration , the electrical union chiefs were denounced as " traitors " and " servants of United States imperialism . " During the day , sources here made it known that protests against the mistreatment of political prisoners in Cuba were presented by their relatives three months ago to the International Red Cross , the Committee on Human Rights of the United Nations and the International League ' for the Rights fof Man . It is understood that the International Red Cross , in accordance with its procedures , has requested permission of the Cuban Government to send a delegate here to inspect the prisons . This permission has not yet been given . The relatives charged that the political prisoners were being subjected to physical and mental torture . They also said the sanitary conditions of the prisons were extremely bad , that food was insufficient and that there was virtually no medical treatment .                     