@@723624

txt Letters to The Times the land . ABRAHAM N. GELLER , STEFAN KORBONSKI , ELEANOR LANSING DULLES.tered . WI ... Letters to The Times Prejudicing Trials Inquiry Asked Into Effect of News Media on Rights of Accused To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorials , as well as several letters published by you , have deplored the excessive emphasis on publicity exhibited in the Dallas mishandling of our processes of criminal justice . No fair-minded person can possibly disagree with the conclusion that such abuses , prejudicial to the right of an accused to a fair trial , are repugnant to our system of justice under law . However , I. am afraid that such generalized sentiments or suggestions for a self-imposed code will not produce any concrete results . The English courts have employed the traditional contempt of court device to keep publicity of criminal proceedings within legitimate bounds . In this country the contempt procedure has not been invoked under equivalent circumstances , probably due to the emphasis upon freedom of press guaranteed in our written Federal and State Constitutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing circumstances to entertain and pass on the question , Mr. Justice Frankfurter pointed out in Maryland v. Baltimore Radio Show ( 1950 ) the basic constitutional issues , the nature of the problem of adjustment and " the kind of questions that would have to be faced were we called upon to pass on " the issues . Courts ' Power It may be that now , viewing the disastrous effect in Dallas of the trend toward live , on-the-spot television coverage of criminal investigations , our courts may increasingly exercise their undoubted power to curb excesses which prejudice the trial of an accused . Our courts have in recent decisions granted new trials and change of venue where local press , television or radio coverage was of such nature as might have prejudiced the trial of the accused man . Relief of this type , attempting after the event to correct deplorable situations in individual instances , is a poor substitute for the comprehensive preventive remedy which this difficult and delicate problem requires . The problem is one of balancing competing basic rights  --  freedom of the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both are indispensable parts of the same Bill of Rights . There can be no question as to the necessity of keeping the public informed of all the news , including what goes on in our courts . This extremely delicate matter of accommodation as between freedom of the press and the fair administration of criminal justice can most effectively be resolved by an official inquiry into all phases of the subject and the setting forth of legislative standards within the constitutional framework to be followed . Possible Legislation The subject should be reviewer : by a Congressional committee to determine whether legislation is appropriate . It may , for example , be deemed feasible to provide in the Federal Communications Act standards for television and radio reporting of criminal investigations ant . trials , while establishing standards applicable generally to Federa criminal proceedings for public statements by Federal law-enforcement officials and newspaper reporting of such proceedings , which may be the impetus for similar action by the states . In our own state the present Commission on Revision of the Pena Law ' and Code of Criminal Procedure may decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in publicity concerning criminal matters prejudicial to the rights of an accused . I do not presume to suggest any specific remedies but merely that the matter should be dealt with affirmatively by constructive measures designed to prevent excesses which do injury to the rights of accused persons and to the law of the land . ABRAHAM N. GELLER , Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York . New York , Dec. 3 , 1963 . U. N. Inquiry in Poland To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The fifteenth anniversary Of the adoption by the United Nations of the Declaration of Human Rights calls for U.N . inquiry into the increased persecution of the Catholic Church in Poland , where priests are arrested , seminaries closed , monks and nuns expelled from convents , etc . There are instances where church equipment such as portable organs and vestments are sold at auctions by tax collectors . The United Nations has already established a precedent for this type of inquiry based on paragraph 18 of the Declaration of 1948 , by recently sending a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buddhists by the Diem Government . STEFAN KORBONSKL Chairman , Polish Delegation to the Assembly of Captive European ' Nations . Washington , Dee . 8 , 1963 . To Save Henderson Harbor Erection of Plant in Northern New York Seen as Threat To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Our late President and the Governor of New York have recognized in a number of ways the importance of preserving the recreation areas and the natural beauties of this country . They have taken note of the damage that comes if there is unrestricted industrial development , particularly in a time of rapid growth of population . There is now a threat to one of the most attractive harbors and peaceful shorelines in the Eastern states . There is a proposal to erect a large cement plant at the entrande of Henderson Harbor , overlooking the sheltered waters of Henderson Bay . This region , long famous for smallmouth bass , ideal for sailing , water-skiing and swimming , attracting many hundreds of sportsmen , may now become an industrial area , The 811 million plant will bring with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water pollution and noise from blasting , making nearby residence virtually impossible and inducing those not so near to find remote and quiet places in Canada or elsewhere . While there were at first large expectations of an increase in the tax base and a considerable demand for labor , second impressions are that the tax base will increase at first by approximately $2 million and that the loss of revenue as cottages are sold off at reduced rates may well outweigh this amount in the relatively near future . Employment of Americans may be less than the number of Canadians brought in . It is not too late now for the corporation to look for another site . It is highly desirable that the pleasant summer homes and the fishing and sailing , within easy reach of sonic of our large cities , be undisturbed . The shores of Lake Ontario are famous for their beauty , , their lovely islands , and their clear fresh air and peaceful coves . This is a national inheritance virtually unspoiled since the time of the Iroquois . We should keep it for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ELEANOR LANSING DULLES. , Va. , Dec. 5 , 1963 . Support for Foreign Aid To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Y ORK TIMES : Your editorial support of the Administration 's foreign aid request is commendable . But the American people are confused , as I discover during constant speaking appearances over the nation . They have no place to turn for adequate and accurate information . All they hear is criticism . It is surprising that a majority of the American people still support foreign aid . Two things would help . First , there is need for a citizens ' committee to help inform the American public , since Congress has bound the hands of the executive branch in such matters . Second , the Administration ought to ask many private organizations to help administer foreign aid through such contracts as it now makes with colleges and universities . If millions of Americans could be involved in foreign aid through the organizations to which they belong , they would feel an identification which is now lacking . Furthermore , those programs would probably be better administered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1963 . No Trading by Brokers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I applaud your Nov. 29 editorial on safeguards for investors . I believe one of the weaknesses made evident in the recent debacle of Ira Haupt &; Co. is the fact that brokers also act as traders . I believe brokers should be barred from trading ; also that traders should not be brokers . ? It is too much to expect of a human being to be so strong as to resist a chance to make some easy money when one acts as both broker and , trader . This is one of the safeguards for investors Wfilch should be put into practice . HERSCHEL I. EISENMAN . New York , Nov. 30 , 1963.                     