@@723187

txt Washington Hearing Michigan 's GOV . George Romney speak at the National Press Club here , this reporter for the first time began to wonder if this vigorous , articulate individual does n't have a message and a program which , adequately spelled out , can have a considerable impact on the American people . Governor Romney talks about " an aroused coalition of concerned citizens . " He urges the reinvigoration of citizen participation in government at all levels  --  those long-neglected local and state areas as well as the federal level . He stresses individual responsibility , and cries out against the massed forces and logrolling of big business or big labor  --  or big politics . Some worldly wise newsmen have been discounting the Romney remarks as oversimplified , as akin to being " for mother and against sin . " Yet in a nation where politics is becoming overmuch a " spectator sport , " where specialists seem to handle everything from school budgets to candidates ' images , lie who goes up and down the land preaching that citizens should interest themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions which affect their children , their hearths , their heritage , and their future  --  well , he may just have rediscovered an age-old formula that meets the current need . A A A Sometimes one wonders if he can mean all he says . But there he is , square-jawed , committed , churchgoing does n't drink or smoke , brought a major company back from the brink of bankruptcy . The record is impressive . Some politicians wo n't like his kind of talk . It smacks of citizens committees and of amateurs running campaigns and making colossal " mistakes " and cold-shouldering the " pros " who keep the party together during lean years . It recalls the endorsement , last year at Gettysburg , by another " political amateur , " General Eisenhower , of the " National Republican Citizens Committee . " But historians point out that the Republican Party has had its proudest hours when seized with a moral fervor  --  even as in Abraham Lincoln 's day , or when Teddy Roosevelt was trust- busting . Is this again a time . when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its campaigns largely financed by political ' fat cats , its ethos challenged by moral laxness ( whether teen-age or highway construction profiteer ) ? is ready for the new breeze of concerned citizen action ? A A A , Maybe this is the one way anyone can come even close to defeating the Kennedy administration next year , with its experienced " prod " and techniques , its advantages as the incumbent , and its appeal to varied segments of the population . Maybe the people , aware of their neglected or half-done duties as parents , parent-teacher association members , churchgoers , and voters , will welcome exhortation to " try anew , " and will respond to the challenge for intensive grass-roots , " town-meeting " participation on the political front . If Governor Romney is the spokesman for this concern , he has a long way to go and a lot to spell out yet . He took some useful positions at the National Press Club , declaring , for instance , that the " states ' rights " issue should n't be built up into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet the threat of centralization is not by mutilation of federal government but by genuinely strengthening local and state government . Perhaps the Romney message will make people stop and ask themselves , " What am I doing about things ? " ? whether it 's the school bond issue or the state sales tax or the Soviet hold on Cuba . More citizens should be exercised about such matters . How far this very new Governor will go on the national scene  --  how much support he has from General Eisenhower and the GOP kingmakers  --  remains to be spelled out . It 's just possible that here 's a man with an issue ' who could make a presidential cam . paign very exciting .                     