@@725843

txt " They 're laughing at us now , but that 's okay . Let 's turn right around and laugh at them . " Loud applause went up from the group of country folks surrounding the short , energetic man in shirt sleeves . " Do n't pay any attention to what those big-city newspapers write about you and me and our state , " shouted Gov . George C. Wallace . " If those wall-eyed editors sittin ' in their air-conditioned offices are so smart , why do n't they run for governor ? I 'd like to see how many votes they 'd get . " Another round of cheers and laughter shattered the warm air over at the courthouse lawn . It was clear that Governor Wallace and his auburn-haired wife , Lurleen , had successfully wooed most residents of another rural town in their quest for four more years as Alabama 's first family . Mrs. Wallace is the gubernatorial candi ? date this time , but most audiences quickly overlook her after her fast-talking , well-liked husband starts telling them how he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationwide attention in their efforts to stop the national administration 's " dangerous socialistic take-over of this country . " Veneers reported ahead They particularly like it when he tells them how he and his " third-party movement " are going to defeat President Johnson in 1968 . He adds , " I 'm not only against Lyndon B. Johnson , I 'm against Richard Mill-house Nixon , too . " Despite some hard campaigning by Ala ? bama 's first Republican candidate for governor since Reconstruction days , Rep. James Martin , most Alabamians feel " the Vallaces " have a significant edge in the November election . Mrs. Wallace won by a landslide in the primary , and most political observers feel she may do the same thing again in November . Mr. Martin , however , is an attractive candidate and well liked by many Ala ? bamians . He is expected to make a good showing in his first bid for governor . A third independent candidate , Dr. Carl Robinson , is making a pitch for the racially moderate vote in the state . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . George Wallace , foreground center , meets some constituents . Not far away his wife , Lurleen , right rear , greets others . Most Alabamians feel ' the Wallaces ' are substantially ahead in the governor 's race . *Let them laugh , ' says vote-getter Wallace // pected to attract a great number of voters . Like the Wallaces , Mr. Martin 's principal appeal to voters is his antifederal , anti-Johnson platform . Painted on the red , white , and blue bus he campaigns in is the slogan , " Beat LBJ the Jim Martin way . " He constantly reminds his audiences that Mrs. Wallace , despite her anti-LBj sentiments , is a Democrat and therefore a financial supporter of the National Democratic Party . He says the political salvation of Alabama and the South lies in a two-party system . The congressman says the South has been ignored by national politicians through the years because of its traditional , solid Democrat support . Opportunity seen " The South has an opportunity to bring to bear on the United States a great political force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his home town . " A politically independent South can defeat Lyndon Johnson . We 're the only section in the country that has never voted Republican . " He charged that the " third party " movement planned by Governor Wallace " plays right into the hands of Johnson . How many states can lie Wallace possibly win ? Eight or ten . And who would they be denied to ? The Republicans . And only the Republicans can defeat Johnson in ' 68 . " Still a large question mark in the election is the state 's newly expanded Negro vote . Neither candidate is making an appeal to Negroes . Attorney General Richmond Flowers openly asked for Negro support in the Democratic primary and was severely defeated by a white backlash . Differences studied Negro leaders say they are left with little choice , since both Mr. Martin and Mrs. Wallace are segregationists and strong opponents to civil-rights legislation . The Negroes are keeping mum about which candidate they favor , but indications are that many are leaning toward Mr. Martin . As one Negro businessman put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if he 'd just give us something to vote for . " The principal difference between Mr. Martin 's and Governor Wallace 's race to " beat LBJ " is their approaches to the voters . Mr. Martin uses the reasoning and polished speech of a businessman . His talks are ctuiet and his speech firm , qualities that attract other businessmen and middle-class city dwellers . Governor Wallace , on the other hand , has the fiery , emotional approach of a Southern preacher . He knows how to appeal to both country folks and city residents . He obviously understands Alabama voters and knows what they want to hear . Targets of attacks Mr. Martin 's wife , a former Miss Alabama , sings " Dixie " at his rallies ; her voice is the educated one of a trained singer . Governor Wallace also opens his rallies with the South 's " national anthem . " His entertainment is provided by a hillbilly band " straight from the Grand Ole Opry . " Mr. Martin discusses the details of his fight in Congress to have federal school-desegregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governor Wallace lashes out at the guidelines calling them " attempts to destroy our schools . " After touching on the achievements of his administration in education , attracting industry , and road building , the Governor launches an attack on all the national politicians and public officials he opposes . The greater part of his campaign speeches deal with these attacks to the delight of his audiences . He denounces big-city newspapers ( both in and out of Alabama ) ; Govs . George Romney of Michigan , Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York , and William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania ; Democratic Sens . Robert F. Kennedy and Jacob K. Javitts of New York and Republican Sen. Everett McKinley Dirksen of Illinois ; as well as the entire national Democratic Party and the National Republican Party . Governor Wallace is N  --  ell liked by many Alabamians for a number of reasons . Resentment among whites over the 1964 and 1965 civil rights Acts and their subsequent enforcement explains the antifederalgovernment sentiment that prevails in the state . The Wallaces pledge to " stand up for Alabama against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admiration for the Governor this way : " He 's a good Christian man . He 's kept alcohol out of the state Capitol , and he does n't go around talking about his opponent . " An elderly farmer sat on the courthouse steps and remarked , " I 've voted for Democrats all my life . Reckon I will again . I just ca n't see myself voting for one of those conservatives . " Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     