@@722545

txt President Kennedy named Anthony J. Celebrezze , Mayor of Cleveland , today to be Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Mr. Celebrezze will succeed Abraham A. Ribicoff , who resigned two days ago to seek the Democratic nomination for Senator in Connecticut . The selection of Mr. Celebrezze , announced by the summer White House here , came as a surprise . His name had not figured in the speculation that had preoccupied Washington for several weeks . President Kennedy said that he had known Mayor Celebrezze for a number of years and had the highest regard for " his ability , integrity and dedication to public service . " Wealth of Experience ' " Mayor Celebrezze , " the President said , " brings to my Cabinet a wealth of experience gained from having worked through the years with the problems of people , particularly those in the areas of health , education and welfare . " Whatever Mr. Celebrezze 's technical qualifications for the post , it seemed obvious that political considerations played a large part in . his selection . A son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a notable vote-getter . Beginning in 1953 , he has been elected Mayor of Cleveland five times . In 1961 he won a fifth term , as President Kennedy noted today , " with a 73.8 per cent plurality , carrying every ward in Cleveland . " Political Help Seen The appointment could well . help both Mr. Ribicoff in Connecticut in his race for the Senate and Gov . Michael V. DiSalle of Ohio in his bid for reelection . Connecticut and Ohio both have large numbers of voters of Italian extraction . By the same token , the appointment could also be expected to help Edward M. Kennedy , the President 's brother , in his race for the Senate in Massachusetts . Andrew T. Hatcher , associate White House press secretary , said that the President would send the nomination to the Senate early , next week . Mr. Celebrezze will have a conference with the President next Tuesday , he said . Mr. Hatcher said that President Kennedy finally obtained Mr. Celebrezze 's acceptance of the post in a telephone call to the Mayor yesterday in Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say when the President had , first approached Mr. Celebrezze about the post and how many , conversations there had been between them . He said that he ' knew of the appointment only ) twenty minutes before he announced it . The President 's choice of a successor to Mr. Ribicoff was the best-kept secret since the selection of Byron R. White for the Supreme Court earlier this , year . Rumored for Position Early last evening there werei rumors in New York that the , post would go to Leona Bauntgartner , Commissioner of Health there . Just before midnight , a broadcast report said that the President had decided on James P. Dixon , president of Antioch College , but Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy in Washington denied the report . Others who figured prominently in the speculation were LeRoy ' Collins , former Governor of Florida ; Robert C. Weaver , Administrator of the Housing and Home Finance Agency , and Wilbur . T. Cohen , assistant secretary of Legislation in the Welfare Department . The intense interest in the appointment stemmed from the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  aid to education and care for the aged  --  would be administered by the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Education Aid Founders It is generally agreed that the education bill has foundered for this session of Congress on the issue of whether the aid should be extended to parochial schools . President Kennedy has opposed such aid as unconstitutional . The bill on aged care is now before the Senate in an amended form that would permit beneficiaries to decide whether to be insured through Social Security or private organizations . If passed by the Senate , it faces an uncertain future this session in the House . It is not known whether Mr. Ribicoff recommended Mayor Celebrezze for the Cabinet . But in choosing a political figure rather than a college president or an expert in public health administration , the President did follow the counsel of Mr. Ribicoff . When the President recently asked Mr. Ribicoff 's advice , the Secretary suggested naming a politician tothe post . He did so . evidently , with the legislative obstacles to Mr. Kennedy 's program in mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versed in the political arts of persuasion and compromise . There is a matter of irony here , for Mr. Ribicoff himself is a well-known and highly successful politician . He served in the Connecticut General Assembly , was twice elected to the House of Representatives , and won two hard battles for Governor of Connecticut . He was the first Cabinet member chosen by President Kennedy and was chosen precisely for his political abilities . Yet there is widespread belief in Washington , one shared by some at the White House , that Mr. Ribicoff was not a very effective advocate on Capitol Hill . Not Happy in Post Several reasons , aside from the controversial bills he had to champion , are given for this apparent ineffectiveness . He was not really happy in the job of administering the sprawling department . Furthermore , some members of Congress believe that he did not really have his heart in the lobbying necessary for the education and care bills . Finally , Administration officials admit that Mr. Ribicoff did not receive the kind of " back-up " that Under Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Deputy Secretary of Defense Roswell L. Gilpatric furnishes Secretary Robert S. , or Under Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz gives Secretary Arthur J. Goldberg . Some officials in the White House feel very strongly that Mr. Celebreeze , regardless of his knowledge of the field and his political assets , will need some lieutenants with the abilities and that standing in Congress possessed by Messrs . Ball , Gilpatric and Wirtz . Envoy ' to Morocco Named HYANNIS PORT , Mass. , July 14 ( AP )  - -  - John H. Ferguson , 47 years old , a lawyer and former State Department official , will be appointed United States Ambassador to the Kingdom of Morocco , the summer Vhite House announced today . Mr. Ferguson , a resident of , Washington , will succeed Philip W. Bonsai , who resigned . Mr. Ferguson is a native of Oklahoma City and a graduate of Yale University and of the Harvard Law School . He first went into Government service as a lawyer in the Treasury department in 1939 . Since then he has held a number of Government posts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Ambassador to Tunisia since 1957 , has submitted his resignation . A career Foreign . Service officer , he will return to the State " Department for re'assignment.                     