@@727238

txt A leading Soviet physicist has issued a plea for full intellectual freedom , Soviet-United States cooperation and a worldwide rejection of " demagogic myths " in an urgent program to avert nuclear war and famine . The 47-year-old scientist , Prof. Andrei D. Sakharov , helped develop the Soviet hydrogen bomb . In a 10,000-word essay , " Thoughts About Progress , Peaceful Co-existence and Intellectual Freedom , " expressed fear that the world was " on the brink of disaster . " The unpublished work is circulating in Moscow in manuscript . Professor Sakharov , a member of the Academy of Sciences since 1953 , urged a worldwide implementation of the scientific method in politics , economic planning and management , education , the arts and military affairs . Intellectual freedom is imperative to achieve truth in a complex and changing world , he declared . He denounced Soviet censorship policies as harmful restraint on free inquiry . The essay called for a thorough investigation into the damaging effects of Stalin 's decade of dictatorial rule and demanded that " neo-Stalinists " he ousted from positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was termed the United States ' " crimes against humanity " in the Vietnam conflict as a reflection of traditional policies of self-interest . But it also charged that the Soviet Union was responsible for the Israeli-Arab conflict a year ago because of " irresponsible encouragement " of the Arabs . The essay denounced the Government 's action in breaking relations with Israel , protesting that this had damaged efforts for a peaceful settlement of the Middle Eastern conflict and had made more difficult " a necessary diplomatic recognition of Israel by the Arab countries . " Professor Sakharov , with Prof. Igor Y. Tamm , advanced a proposal for a controlled thermonuclear reaction in 1950 . Professor Tamm , a leading So- , viet scientist , shared a Nobelj Prize with two other Russians ' in 1958 for his work in nuclear physics . Profesor Sakharov received a Stalin Prize . The Sakharov essay was based on these theses : cThe estrangement of man-1 has put civilization under the perilous shadow of nuclear ' destruction , famine and ideological myths that leave nations at the mercy of " cruel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual freedom ? freedom to obtain and distribute information , freedom for unprejudiced and unfearing debate , and freedom from intimidation by officialdom . " Such freedom of thought is the only guarantee against an infection of mankind by mass myths , which , in the hands of treacherous hypocrites and demagogues , can be transformed into bloody dictatorship , " Professor Sakharov declared . " Intellectual freedom is the only guarantee of a scientificdemocratic approach to politics , economic development and culture . " Any attempt to preach incompatability between ideologies and nations , the physicist said , is " madness and a crime . " Need for Debate Stressed He called for enactment of a law on the press and information to remove from Glavlit , the Soviet censorship agency , its absolute powers over what appears in print . The law should state explicitly what can be printed and what can not be printed for state reasons , he suggested , with authority put into the hands of " competent and controlled public figures . " Censorship has killed the " living soul " of Soviet literature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impact of censorship on other areas of original thought , causing an absence of " fresh and profound ideas . " " Profound thoughts arise only in debate , with a possibility of counterargument , only when there is a possibility of expressing not only correct but also dubious ideas , " he asserted . " The philosophers of ancient Greece understood this , and it is unlikely that anyone would challenge this today . But , after 50 years of full control over , , the minds of the entire country , our leadership seems to be afraid of even a hint at such debate . " Referring to the democratic reform under way in Czecho-i slovakia , Professor Sakharov ' said that the need for intellectual freedom had been understood there and added : " We must , without doubt , support their bold initiative , which is , very important for the fate of Socialism and the whole of mankind . " The essay condemned as shameful the impesonment of Andrei D. Sinyaysky and Yuli M. Daniel . the writers , and other dissidents sentenced to labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Basic Principles for Peace In a broader discussion of the perils of nuclear warfare and famine as a result of the world population explosion , the physicist said that mankind could move away from " the brink of disaster " only by a rejection of traditional " empirical-competitive " international politics . He said that world peace and order in the nuclear age depended upon Soviet-United States agreement on the following basic principles : gAll peoples in the world have the right to decide their own fate under international guarantees . CA11 military and militaryeconomic forms of exporting revolution or counterrevolution must be forbidden . CAll countries must strive toward mutual assistance in economic and cultural problems . JInternational policies must reject any exploitation of local conditions for an enlargement of areas of influence or the creation of difficulties for other countries . Professor Sakharov predicted the emergence of a multiparty political system in the Soviet Union and an ideological evolution toward Socialism in the United States and other capitalist countries . The essay concluded with the following explanation : " The author of this essay addresses it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all people of goodwill in the world . The author understands the controversial nature of many points in the essay . His goal is open , frank and public discussion "                     