@@723319

txt Governor Rockefeller declared war on " the radical right " wing of the Republican party yesterday with a blistering statement clearly aimed ' at the most vocal supporters of Senator Barry Goldwater for President . The New York Governor asserted he was " deeply disturbed " by the " ruthless , rough-shod intimidation " and " tactics of totalitarianism " at the biennial convention of the Young Republican National Federation June 26 and 27 in San Francisco . Senator Goldwater was the convention 's hero and its closing speaker . The Governor appeared to be almost openly offering himself as an alternative for the Presidential nomination . His statement was also aimed at leaders of the John Birch Society and " others of the radical right lunatic fringe " as every bit as dangerous to America as " the radical left . " Promises Opposition The Republican party , Governor Rockefeller asserted , would " destroy itself " if it adopted what he said was being " seriously proposed " as a 1964 campaign strategy . This , he said , would " write off " Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North and the big cities , and appeal primarily to the South and West with " the outlawed and immoral base of segregation " and a " cloak of so-called ' states rights . ' " " The time for temporizing is over , " Governor Rockefeller went on . " I for one will do everything in my power , working with others to counter the influence of these forces and to defeat their purposes . " Mr. Rockefeller refrained from naming directly Senator Goldwater , who was described in news stories as having " nearly lifted the roof " at the San Francisco convention with his attacks on " the phoneyness that has been going on under the false guise of liberalism for the last 30 years . " Potential Harm Seen But yesterday , Fred A. Young , whom the Governor put across as state Republican chairman this spring , specifically contended that a conservative Presidential race by Senator Goldwater would hurt liberal Republicans in New York State . " I think that Goldwater would be harmful in certain areas , especially the cities , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young said . Mr. Young reaffirmed his " personal opinion " that Governor Rockefeller would be a candidate for the Presidential nomination . He spoke in a " Let 's Find Out " interview over radio station WCBS . A week ago , Senator Jacob K. Javits , a New York Republican , said that a Goldwater candidacy might " prove costly " to Republican Senate candidates in New York and Pennsylvania . Statement Strongest to Date Governor Rockefeller 's 2,000-word statement , issued through his Albany office , went far beyond any previous declarations he has made on Republican affairs , even when he dropped out of the race for the 1960 Presidential nomination . At that time , he issued a surprise statement of withdrawal on Dec. 26 , 1959 , announcing that " the great majority of those who. will control the Republican convention stand opposed to any contest for the nomination . " He fired another shot June 8 , 1960 , when he demanded that Richard M. Nixon make his position clear on urgent national issues before the convention . But he refrained then from epithets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future of the nation " lies in the fiscally responsible , humanely principled mainstream of American thought and leadership that the party of Abraham Lincoln , of Theodore Roosevelt , of Robert Taft has always represented and will continue to represent . " This bow to supporters of the late Senator Taft omitted any reference to Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , who defeated the Ohioan for the 1952 Republican nomination , or to Mr. Nixon . But associates of the Governor insisted there was no significane to the omission . Governor Rockefeller lashed at the Democratic Administration of President Kennedy . He said it was " faltering " in allowing a Communist military base to be established in Cuba and " a general deterioration in our national security . " He contended it had been " floundering in its fiscal management " and unable to solve problems of " our stagnant economy and our millions of unemployed . " He accusingly said its " inaction has plunged our country into the most soul-searing racial strife of our history . " Tenets Held in Danger The Governor declared that there should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . These were freedom at home and abroad , equality of opportunity for all Americans , faith in the federal system of government , the private enterprise system , fiscal integrity and the right to know all facts . He said that Republicans and Americans had been aware of the threats from international Communism to these principles . But , he continued , many persons had taken too lightly " the growing danger to these very same principles through subversion from the radical right . " He asserted " the vociferous and well-drilled extremist elements boring within the party utterly reject these fundamental principles of our heritage . " The San Francisco Young Republican meetings , he said , had been " dominated by extremist groups , carefully organized , well financed and operating through the tactics of ruthless , rough-shod intimidation . " Such people , he declared , have no program except " distrust , disunity and the ultimate destruction of the confidence of the people in themselves . " He called them " purveyors of hate and distrust in a time when , as never before , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Civil War , Governor Rockefeller asserted , " decided for all time that in the area of human dignity , states ' rights must forever yield to the rights of the individual . " For the Republican party , he added , a task force for the national committee , headed by Ray C. Bliss , Ohio state chairman , had reported in 1961 that the party 's hope lay in its willingness to deal with problems of urban areas and minority groups . Statement Criticized Governor Rockefeller 's statement drew a comment from Senator Carl T. Curtis , a Goldwater hacker , that " now is no time for either anger or namecalling among Republicans . " Senator Curtis , a Nebraska Republican , said in Washington : " Senator Goldwater is the leading candidate because he squarely challenges the New Frontier ideology and performance , I would say that one thing in his favor is that he 's not a sectional candidate . " Mr. Young said in his radio interview yesterday that he believed Governor Rockefeller was conducting polls through an organization of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential chances . There had been more reaction to the remarriage than anticipated , Mr. Young said , but he predicted that this would " wear out " within another year .                     