@@726846

txt Behind the mission of American presidential envoy Chester Bowles to Pnompenh , Cambodia , lies the question : Can the 1954 Geneva machinery solve the issue of Communist sanctuaries in Cambodia ? The following article explores the legal and political positions involved . The United States is confronting Poland and India with legal arguments to justify international inspection of the border between South Vietnam and Cambodia . Not only does Washington believe that the International Control Commission , set up in 1954 , has authority to do this , but it maintains the ICC can act on a simple majority vote of its three members . The members are Canada , Poland , and India . Canada agrees with the United States view . But so far , Poland and India ( the ICC chairman ) have not agreed . They have felt that the commission can act only with unanimity . Their legal arguments have been obliquely stated . But their diplomatic reasoning is obvious : They do not want to embarrass their ally , the Soviet Union ? or North Vietnam . A United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skeptically by Western diplomats . Now that Prince Sihanouk , Cambodia 's Chief of State , has agreed to talk with the United States Ambassador to India , Chester Bowles , the stage is set for an intense diplomatic and legal debate . The Prince has publicly criticized Poland and the Soviet Union , for standing in the way of a stronger ICC . The American position , as obtained here , goes like this : The ICC agreement  --  technically known as the agreement on the cessation of hostilities in Cambodia , set up in Geneva on July 20 , 1954 ? was signed by Hanoi and Pnompenh . It is designed to protect the neutrality and territorial integrity of Cambodia . Articles 13 ( a ) and 21 lay the legal basis for ICC action to patrol the border . The commission has investigated complaints by Prince Sihanouk many times in the past , on a 2-1 majority vote . Article 20 states that " recommendations " by the ICC must be adopted by " majority vote , " except as provided for in Article 21 . This latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " refusal by foreign armed forces to effect movements provided for in the withdrawal plan , " and " violation or threat of violation of the country 's integrity by foreign armed forces . " Washington interprets this to mean that final reports by the ICC must be signed by all three members ; but that procedural , administrative issues , such as deciding to launch an investigation , or augmenting the commission staff , can be decided by a majority . Argument recalled Moreover , back in 1957 , and many times since then , Poland has been on the opposite side than it is today . The record shows that on May 9 , 1957 , for example , the Polish Commissioner , Gustaw Alaf Bolkawiak , argued strongly that " as lcng as the commission exists in Cambodia , it is competent to deal with all the problems of violation of Cambodian territory and of threats to its security as envisaged by the Geneva agreement . " He went further : " I would say more , the commission is obliged to deal with the problem . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that South Vietnamese troops had violated the border ( at Bathu , on May 4 , 1957 ) . The Indian Commissioner , Maj. Gen. Chand N. Das , agreed with him , and the ICC acted . Today , ' North Vietnainese troops , as well as the Viet Cong , are involved , Canada is ready and eager to get on with inspection . The United States is believed here to have offered more jeeps and helicopters . It has said publicly it stands ready to do so , But Poland , and India , have been recalcitrant , according to diplomatic sources . Much American diplomacy now is being directed at New Delhi ; it is hardly a coincidence that Ambassador Bowles was picked as the President 's envoy to Pnompenh.                     