@@726761

txt Senator Robert F. Kennedy said today the Johnson Administration had turned away from the Vietnam policy of President Kennedy and had forgotten the moral responsibility at stap in the war . " We turned , we 've switched , " he said , and consequently the moral fiber of the United States had been ' ' seriously undermined . " The New York Democrat was interviewed on the Columbia Broadcasting System 's " Face the Nation " television program . He acknowledged a share of responsibility for Vietnam policy decisions during his brother 's Administration . " If there are mistakes that have been made , I have been involved in those mistakes , " he said . " But perhaps , if you admit mistakes , you are a little wiser than you were when you were committing them . " Compares Two Policies Comparing Kennedy Administration thinking with the policy of President Johnson , Senator Kennedy said : " First , we were making the effort there in Vietnam so that people would have their own right to decide their own future , and could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't going to be imposed on them by the North Vietnamese , and we had the support of the people on South Vietnam . " Now we turned , when we found that the South Vietnamese have n't given the support and are not making the effort . " On a later television program , " Meet the Press " of the National Broadcasting Company , Vice President Humphrey disputed one of Mr. Kennedy 's points . South 's Role Questioned Supporting his charge that the South Vietnamese were not " making the effort , " Senator Kennedy asked : " Why , for instance , in the battle of Dakto , has n't it been the South Vietnamese Army that has gone up that hill ? Why has n't it been the South Vietnamese army that has been on the demilitarized zone and stayed there ? Why does it always have to be the Americans ? " Mr. Humphrey replied : " My answer , of course , would be that the South Vietnamese army has been at Dakto , and has been at the DMZ , and in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been by some of the units of the South Vietnamese Army . " Mr. Humphrey was not asked to comment on Mr. Kennedy 's analysis of an alleged shift in policy between the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations . Initially , Senator Kennedy said in the broadcast , the United States was fighting , killing tsoldiers and civilians , because the South Vietnamese wanted it . " Now , we 've changed and we 've switched  --  maybe they i.o n't wont it , but we want it , " he said . " We 're killing South Vietnamese , we 're killing women , we 're killing innocent people because we do n't want to ! lave the war fought on American soil , or because they 're 12,000 miles away and they ' might get 11,000 miles away . " " Do we have that right here in the United States to perform these acts because we want to protect ourselves ? " he asked . " This is our responsibility ? we must feel it when we use napalm , when a village is destroyed and civilians are killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view to another , athink that we 've forgotten ' bout it . Charges Undermining " When we say we love our country , it is not just the land , it is not just the mountains , it is what this country stands for  --  and that is what I think is being seriously undermined in Vietnam . " He added : " Now we 're saying we 're going to fight there so that we do n't have to tight in Thailand , so that we do n't have to fight on the West Coast of the United States , so that they wo n't move across the Rockies . " Our whole moral position , it seems to me , changes tremendously . " In making his points , Senator Kennedy spoke in general terms and did not accuse the President or anyone else in the Administration of deliberate r distortion . His argument , nevertheless , seemed to observers about as close as he has ever come publicly to saying that President Kennedy , had he Lived , would not be pursuing the present war policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency or the Vice-Presidency in 1968 . " It would immediately become a personality struggle , " ' he said . says Johnson ' Deserves It ' " It would immediately become a struggle between President Johnson and me , as an overly ambitious figure trying to take the nomination away from President Johnson , who deserves it because of the - fact that he is not only President but served the Democratic party and the country as President for four or five years . " The critics , he said , would say " that I would like to still have President Kennedy President of the United States that I have a resentment of Johnson as President of the United States . " Asked about the prospect of a Democratic challenger to President Johnson on the Vietnam issue , such as Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota , Kennedy said : " There could be a healthy element in that , in the fact that we can then get around ' to beginning to discuss these matters and exchanging views . " The essence of what he was asking for was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam and other issues . But he said he himself would stay out of the preconvention campaigning , supporting neither President Johnson nor Senator McCarthy , but backing the candidate who wins the nomination . He expects the Democratic candidate in 1968 to be Mr. Johnson , he said . On his later appearance , Vice President Humphrey specifical : ly endorsed Senator Kennedy 's comments about the desirability of a dialogue on major issues . To questions about Mr. McCarthy 's possible interest in campaigning on an anti-Administration Vietnam program , Mr. Humphrey warned his Minnesota colleague : " The State Central Committee of the Democratic Farmer-Labor party , a cross section of our state , strongly supported the President ? I think there was only one or two votes in opposition ? so that is about the way it is . " John Kenneth Galbraith , the Harvard economist who has been critical of Mr. Johnson 's Vietnam policy , said that the Democratic party would be " in a much stronger position " if Mr. McCarthy formally opposed the President . Mr. Galbraith was interviewed on the television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company network . McCarthy Move Backed BOSTON , Nov. 26 ( UPI ) ? Senator McCarthy would make a formidable opponent for President Johnson In Presidential primaries , long-time Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. , Mattsachusett Democrat , said today . " Anyone running on the ticket as a dove in Massachusetts would be bound to give the President a tough struggle in the primary , " Mr. O'Neill said . " He ( the President ca n't carry Massachusetts very easily , " Mr. O'Neill , who earlier this year changed his position on the Vigtnam war from hawk to moderate opposition , spoke In tt television interview .                     