@@727149

txt LONDON , June ** United States moved today to expedite the return for trial of the man arrested at London airport yesterday and identified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as James Earl Ray , wanted for the murder of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . Legal proceedings could take up to several weeks under normal conditions . Assistant Atty . Gen. Fred Vinson Jr. , who flew from Washington overnight , talked with Ray at Cannon Row jail where he is listed as Ramon George Sneyd , the name shown on two Canadian passports he carried when arrested . Questioned on Return After the meeting , Vinson was asked if he expected to take Ray back to the United States with him . " That is very doubtful , " he said . Vinson 's comment was taken in some quarters to mean that Ray had refused to waive the rights that accrued to him under British law by his presence on British soil when arrested and that Vinson would not remain in Britain for the court proceedings . Vinson said he had come to Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States " but he refused to say whether he had asked Ray to go voluntarily , under escort , to the United States for Scotland Yard said tonight the man they call Sneyd will be brought into Bow Street magistrates court at 10 a. m. tomorrow to answer charges of possessing a firearm without a certificate and possessing a false passport . A loaded gun was found in his pocket when he was stopped by an immigration officer checking pass-I ports of passengers bound for Brussels . Charges Called Sufficient The charges are sufficient to hold Ray until the United States can formally apply for extradition . The charges will bring him before the chief metropolitan magistrate , Frank Milton , 61 , who presides over the Bow street court and who normally conducts the first stage of extradition hearings . The British extradition procedure , laid down by parliament in 1870 and embroidered by various treaties , is complex . Unless Ray agrees to return voluntarily , the United States will have to convince the magis-trate : 1 . The man actually is Ray . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has sufficient evidence acceptable under British court procedures to prove that a prima facie case exists . Generally , this provision demands that the country requesting that a person be handed over must present all the evidence it will later introduce in its own trial . The person does not , however , presheent Ahismedreifeehn : ' 3 . T government would have to engage British lawyers to present its case in the British court . If the chief magistrate decides there is just cause for Ray 's being held for trial , British extradition procedure generally then demands a 15-day waiting period before the man Can be taken from Britain . This delay gives the wanted person abundant time for his lawyers to start habeas corpus proceedings in the higher courts . If they do so , these applications , and all appeals that normally rise out of them , must be settled before the man is handed over . Recalls Soblen Spy Case Since World War II , only one person has fought hard in British courts to prevent being sent to the United States . That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who in 1962 slashed his wrists and cut his abdomen while aboard an El Al Israeli air liner about to land in London on a flight to New York . His injuries were sufficient to force accompanying United States marshals to let him leave the plane and be taken to a London hospital . In the hospital he sought asylum in Britain as a political refugee . British extradition procedures exempt any person accused of a political crime . Dr. Soblen was thus on sounder ground than Ray , because in British extradition treaties , murder tops the list of crimes , usually about 30 , for which a man may be handed over . Mutiny , piracy and slave dealings are among the others . Found Another Way Britain found another way to hand Soblen over to the United States . It ordered him to be deported . But before that could be carried out , he died under mysterious complications that raised suspicion he may have been murdered to silence him . British procedures prevented Vinson today from questioning Ray on any matter pertinent to his identity , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King . His jailers let the prisoner ? " our guest , " they call him ? walk up and down the corridor of the one-story cell block in which he was the only inhabitant . Bobbies who periodically peek into his windowless cell said they gave him the same breakfast , lunch and " high tea " they themselves had in the station canteen , and he ate well and generally conducted himself as a model prisoner . Bow Street station and court share a grimy stone Edwardian building . On a normal Monday morning , the week-end 's collection of drunks , ? hippies , hoboes , and prostitutes parade before a magistrate . U. S. Air Line Credited United Press International quoted a police source as say , ing late today that an American air line provided a major tip which narrowed the search for Ray . The source said the air line 's offices ... had been alerted-that Ray was believed to be tiaiek ing with ' a false passport bearing the name Sneyd . Checking its records , the air line found -a passenger with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London to reroute him tiny Lisbon in early May . . Ray had left for Lisbon by ? then , but police were alerted to watch for him on any flights arriving from . Portugal . . Thus , the source said , Scotland Yard was waiting for Ray when the man calling himself Sneyd arrived at London airport yesterday . Airport sources said that Ray , seized while trying to board a flight for Brussels , could have gone from the Lisbon plane that brought him to London directly to the transit lounge , and thus avoided immigration officers . His capture indicated he left the transit lounge  --  either to meet someone or possibly to kill time , and consequently got caught . Paper Reports . Calls The London Daily Telegraph said today Ray was in London for 21 days and made several phone calls to the paper asking how to become a mercenary soldier in Africa . Ian Colvin , reporter , said , " When we first spoke , a Cana. dian or perhaps Americas voice said to me , ' This is Ray mond Sneyd . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Angola . ' " Colvin said in a later cal Sneyd said it was not so mutt that he wanted to search foi his brother , but that he wantec to become a mercenary . The reporter said he offered to give Sneyd an address in Brussel : where he could pursue the search for his brother . Colvin said that later In found a small hotel where Ray had stayed . The hotel owner said Ray tried to leave the country Thursday or Friday but received a call from the airline saying his flight for Ger . many was full .                     