@@724619

txt Foreign Affairs : Hour and Why Policy changed 33 , - C. ' , ti3 9-. , /33,13 . C.1. 3E . PARIS  --  Washington pretends there has been no change in United States policy on the Vietnam war , but in fact there has been a major change . For the first time since modern techniques of " revolutionary warfare " were perfected by the Communists , a power defending itself and an ally against guerrilla assault has ventured to attack the guerrillas ' external sanctuaries , The United States has discarded the unwritten and unjustified rule that guerrillas should be allowed safe havens on foreign soil . We have not yet learned how to counteract the intricate techniques of " revolutionary warfare " itself but we have at least deprived its proponents of protected foreign bases . Action and re:iponse No one can yet foresee what the reaction to this decision will be or , indeed , whether it was taken in time to check the dry rot in South Vietnam . A year earlier it might have stood more chance of producing results . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States has declared itself free to attack Vietcong , asylums abroad when it sees fit and not merely in response to particular Vietcong action . Failure to act with similar audacity had negative effects on other guerrilla campaigns . During the Greek Communist rebellion  --  which became more conventional than partisan conflict at the end  --  the rebels had supply and training bases in Albania . Even when the United States intervened , we did n't dare strike at the Albanian sanctuary . Later evidence indicated Russia would not have reacted had we done so . Bombproof Sanctuaries When France was fighting the Vietminh , nationalist precursor of today 's Vietcong , Paris refrained from bombing its haven in Southern China . Likewise , in a bloodier and more formal war , the United States did n't bomb Chinese sanctuaries of troops sent into Korea by Peking . With one minor exception the French never attacked Tunisian and Moroccan asylums of the Algerian F.L.N.  --  and Washington would have opposed any such move . It is historically odd that the idea of foreign sanctuaries for guerrilla armies was allowed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for these safe havens probably arises from fear of escalating any conflict , even guerrilla , into nuclear war : in other words . from the balance of terror . It is still impossible to see whether breaking this unwritten rule in South Vietnam will produce any real change in the desperate situation and pave the way , to the kind of stabilization requisite to eventual negotiated settlement . So far one can only report that , despite horrisonous and loud-sounding threats from Peking , Moscow and Hanoi . there has been no forcible reaction . A meticulously careful dispatch from the Agence France Presse correspondent , sent from Peking March 3 , points out that while the Chinese have published " warnings " against " American aggressors " they have not shown signs of wishing to start " direct initiatives that could lead to taking grave risks . " The correspondent underlines Chinese " prudence " and a desire to avoid sending regular Chinese troops or air units to Vietnam . Likewise , so far Hanoi has made no dramatic move . The Russians have promised to beef up North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is being " prudent " in actions if not in statements . To date -- and this statement is naturally subject to instantaneous rectification  --  riots , protest marches and propaganda diatribes have constituted the only tangible riposte . It is obviously impossible to destroy a guerrilla movement by aerial bombardment of its external bases just as it is obviously impossible to destroy a guerrilla movement by aerial bombardment of its evanescent units . The Greeks and French had complete air control in their anti-partisan campaigns but this was never a decisive factor . Even in the conventional Korean war the United States had complete air control and was fought to a standstill . Combating Erosion Nevertheless , aerial intervention against foreign guerrilla sanctuaries has explicit strategical and political implications . Henceforth the side being subjected to erosion by revolutionary warfare is determined not to permit such erosion to continue indefinitely without striking back  --  even at risk of enlarging the area of conflict . The inference is that the defensive side will not remain confined to defensive tactics within a geographical sphere delimited by the guerrillas and their sponsors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken the advantage alv. - ays lies with the guerrillas and their backers . The evident if unspoken purpose of the new American policy is to readjust the Vietnamese balance so that the present conflict can ultimately be ended by negotiation . But such negotiation must be founded on equality . a Panmunjom following military stalemate . not another Geneva 195-1 , following another Dienbienplat disaster .                     