@@725018

txt The Christian Science Monitor Casablanca , Morocco Four days of Arab summit meetings here have produced a six-point agreement to bury Arab quarrels . It is a veritable Pax Arabica under which the Arab nations promise not to undermine each other 's regimes or conduct hostile propaganda against one another . President Bourguiba of Tunisia , who is boycotting the conference , did not sign the accord . But the Arab League secretariat dispatched two emissaries to Tunis to request Tunisia 's adherence , according to conference sources . The new " solidarity pact , " as Arab spokesmen termed it , was signed Thursday . It was far more rigid and specific than previous Arab agreements of its kind , which have been frequently broken . Moroccan royal police immediately ordered several Moroccan newspapers to submit to prior censorship , the newspapers said . The official reason given was to prevent publication of material hostile to other Arab states in execution of the accord . The Moroccan Justice Minister denied censorship was intended . Interference barred As furnished by conference sources , the full text reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement to support Arab solidarity especially n the Palestine issue . " 2 . They respect the modes of government in each Arab country and the constitutions supporting those regimes and they also agree not to interfere in the domestic affairs of any other Arab country . " 3 . They respect international law and the codes of ethics pertaining to the right of political asylum . " 4 . They refrain from the encourage ment of rebellious movements regardless of their nature . " 5 . It is the duty of the Arab press to live up to the standards of journalism in the service of Arab causes , especially the Palestine cause  --  in other words they must put an end to press diatribes among Arab nations once and for all . " 6 . They call for the revision of press laws in each Arab country to forestall the return of verbal or written diatribes . " Exactly how far " Arab solidarity in the Palestine issue " would actually reach remained to be spelled out in final conference resolutions . Guerrilla army However , agreement was reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivers of the Jordan to prevent additional water reaching Israel 's southern Negev desert . Progress was also made on creation of a Palestine guerrilla - army . This would be bolstered in case of large-scale hostilities with Israel by regular units of the Arab countries . Under a proposal by King Hussein of Jordan , the countries most involved in the struggle with Israel  --  Jordan , Syria , Lebanon , the United Arab Republic , Iraq , and Saudi Arabia  --  would enjoy military guarantees endorsed by the remaining Arab states in case of escalation of frontier clashes .                     