@@724757

txt Washington Ten swift days after President Johnson sent marines into Santo Domingo , an international body already is taking control of the situation there . A unilateral act , widely criticized , has turned into a multilateral act , widely praised . There is deep , quiet satisfaction behind the scenes in Washington at this constructive turn of events . Rarely , it is said , has so painful a situation been converted into so promising a forward step in so short a time . Rarely , also , has the United States been so effectively brought to book for what many considered an overreaction to a Communist threat that was not yet plain . Contrast noted The speed of the readjustment and the settlement stand in marked contrast to the terrible delays of the peace-making efforts in Vietnam . It is known now that leaders of Latin-American opinion pleaded privately with President Johnson not to " quibble " over the wording of the resolution in the Organization of American States ( OAS ) , as the State Department had begun to do . They asked him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his action were willing to join in a common solution . The President yielded . He was convinced of the rightness of his original act to avert any chance of " another Cuba . " But he saw in collective action the way to spread this responsibility . The key problem now facing the OAS  --  and the United States=is this : Who will keep watch on Communist infiltration if the OAS is to take over ? Is the OAS willing to ? Is it able to ? Stand made clear The President is leaving no doubt , privately and publicly , that he will act again , with the unilateral military force of the United States , if it appears necessary to avoid Communist seizure , in the Dominican Republic or in any other American country . He , like President Kennedy and Eisenhower before him , stands fully committed on this point . The necessities of the cold war come first . But the forces of popular government in the Americas are known to be much more concerned at present with their own development and standards of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept help from domestic Communists . They consider their real enemies to be the same as the professed enemies of the Communists : governments that are run by small groups of men with privilege and property and the power to maintain them in the face of a poor people . Reconciliation problem Both the United States and its chief Latin-American friends , therefore , are trying to reconcile the cold war with the great reluctance of the more democratic forces in Latin America to be caught up in it ? and especially on the side of governments like that associated with Brig . Gen. Elias Wessin y Wessin in the Dominican Republic . The chief hope at present here is for legal OAS machinery for forcible intervention , if a country is assailed by revolution directed and equipped from the outside . In this event , it is pointed out , the OAS leaders could afford to wait , as President Johnson felt he was unable to , until the facts of the subversion were clear . Then , since it had the legal right , the OAS could use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , and restore the country to democratically elected forces . If this kind of machinery can be constructed , despite the many difficulties , the peace-keeping machinery of the Americas will lead the United Nations in reconciling those who justify and those who reject the , cold war . Congress and Johnson : Page 3                     