@@725547

txt This session of the 89th Congress likely will be known as the period when President Johnson 's skills of political persuasion met their greatest test . This is the period that was to be the lull following the great flood of presidential-desired legislation . Majority Leader Mike Mansfield said that this was to be a time devoted in the main to shoring up hastily passed bills . This was to he a period when the Democratic majority was to rest a bit on its laurels , enjoy a short session , and then adjourn early to campaign for the fall elections . It was against this congressional feeling of resistance to action that President Johnson decided he was n't going to permit a lull . Instead he presented a fairly long list of desired legislation to a surprised Congress . Thus , in the face of this relative disinclination on the part of congressional Democrats to want to make new legislative history , the President presses forward . And the session looks as though it will go on and on . O'Brien back on job Largely unnoticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lawrence F. O'Brien , his new Postmaster General , to continue as the chief ramrod for the White House in getting legislation through Congress . Thus Mr. O'Brien , who as top presidential liaison man steered 88 " priority " bills through Congress in the first session of this Congress , is right on the job again . This time the list is shorter  --  but the task is much harder . Besides the dropoff of enthusiasm there also is the large number of freshmen Democratic congressmen who are facing very difficult challenges in fall elections . They already have communicated their ire over having to vote on further legislation involving spending by the administration . These are congressmen ( 48 in all ) who come from normally Republican or , at least , marginal districts where the contests will be close . They already have voted about 92 percent for the administration 's big surge of legislatioh last year . Interest lacking This , they argue , may impair their prospects of being reelected . But they certainly do n't want to compound their problems by having to add additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance , too , is stronger this session than last to administration desires . On civil rights , for example , it seems clear that Senate Minority Leader Everett McKinley Dirksen is n't at all inclined to help the President much this time  --  definitely not on the housing provision , which he regards as being unconstitutional . Further administration problems lie in the area of what one top administration official terms " lack of ideological appeal . " He says " there is n't real public interest in the new programs . " Even in civil-rights legislation , " he says , " we have reached the peak in public interest . The cry for new legislation is n't as loud today . The pressure is less . " This official points out there is less than great public enthusiasm and interest in such items as a new department of transportation , streamlining the executive branch for more efficiency , and the sale of assets bill .                     