@@722999

txt A Federal grand jury indicted three men today on mail fraud charges in the sale of land in Arizona . They were accused of falsely implying in newspaper - advertisements that the land they were offering for sale by mail had a supply of drinking water , electricity and telephone lines . About 3,000 persons were said to have bought property in the project , known as Lake Mead Rancheros . Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy warned the public " to exercise precaution in . buying land by mail . " He said that in the last two years " we have experienced a sharp increase in the sale by mail of nearly worthless land for greatly inflated prices . " " There certainly has been- a number of honest , imaginative and attractive land developments , " he explained . " But at the same time , thousands of persons ? particularly aging couples looking forward to retirement  --  have been taken in by unscrupulous promoters . " Mr. Kennedy said the Post Office Department 's inspection service developed the Arizona case and turned up information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand juries . " It was understood that two of the grand juries were in San Francisco and Los Angeles . A 22-count indictment returned in Phoenix , Ariz. , named three Miami , Fla. , men as defendants . They were Dory Auerbach , David Prosser Randell and Irving Gottlieb . All were said to be officers of Lake Mead Rancheros , Inc. , with offices in Miami and Hollywood , Fla . Advertised in Newspapers The indictment charged the men . with devising a scheme to defraud , starting at least as early as July , 1961 . It said they obtained 17 sections of desert range land in Mohave County , Ariz. , subdivided it into lots and advertised the lots for sale in newspapers . Most of the advertising was in the East , it was understood . The advertisement , a Justice Department announcement said , " described the land as ' developed ' and ' livable now , ' fraudulently implying that drinking water , power lines and telephone lines existed on the property . " Mr. Kennedy said that while the land was represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 48 miles away . He described most of the property as " totally undeveloped , desert range land . " In September , 1962 , the indictment said , the defendants acquired a smaller piece of land in Mohave County , near U.S. Highway 66 , that already had power and telephone lines and a water pipeline . That property was about six miles from the nearest part of the larger piece of land , the indictment said . Implications Held False Between September , 1962 , and January , 1963 , the grand jury charged , the defendants falsely implied in their advertisements that all- , of the lots were equipped with utility services . About 3,000 of the 5,000 lots on the larger property had been sold , the indictment said . The newer property was divided into 241 lots . The lots in the older section were said to have ranged in size from one and one quarter to five acres .                     