@@726251

txt April 10 ? I have just , returned from . a four-day jungle ' patrol with the ' First Battalion , Fourth Division , ? of the Bolivian Arrny , which discovered a strongly fortified base of Castro-type Communist ' guerrillas deep ' in the Bolivian jungle . Our find is the first positive proof that Communist guerrillas have in fact established themselves in strength in this politically explosive country in the ' heart of South America bordering on virtually unmapped parts of Argentina , Brazil and Paraguay . Nachabhuazu is about 125 miles southwest of Sucre . This vast new extension southward of Communist guerrilla activity came to light by accident when a patrol of six men under a lieutenant of the Bolivian'Army was wiped out on March 23 in a skillfully set ambush in a gorge in the foothills of the Andes . Two days later another patrol of 14 men arid two officers , sent to look for the missing men , was ambushed , taken Prisoner and released ' after 48 hours . The released prisoners reported that the guerrillas took their weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' clothes . Fantastic Stories Told The returning prisoners , illiterate conscripts , told fantastic stories of bearded Russians and , Chinese . Most Bolivians believed that the guerrillas were a band ' of cocaine or marijuana smugglers , as both drugs flow freely in this part of the world .. Foreign observers suspected that the Bolivian Government had invented or magnified the guerrillas in order to get United States support on the eve of the conference of Latin-American Presidents at Punta del Este , Uruguay . In fact , a United States diplomat said , " The Bolivian 's are trying to put the squeeze on us for , more arms , aid . " I Wii0 charged to make an unofficial report to the Americans on whether the guerrillas existed . My report is that the facts are nearly as fantastic as the rumors . Our patrol marched 12 miles into the jungle-clad Andes foothills on a trail that the army cut in four days . This doublecanopied , primeval jungle is full of snakes , huge spiders , jaguars and boa constrictors . We bivouacked by the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 700-foot-high , jungle-clad cliffs . Then we waded up the thighdeep river , a six-hour march , being eaten alive by mosquitoes and leeches . We passed the spot where the patrol was trapped , with bloodstained uniforms lying on the sandy shore of the stream . I inspected the expertly placed weapon pits in the cliffs from which the ambush was sprung and began to doubt that this was the work of marijuana smugglers . Two hours farther up the river one of the released prisoners guided up past the concealed entrance of a trail following a small creek up the side of the gorge . At every turn of this trail were well-placed intercommunications weapons pits . Then we found a fully equipped field kitchen with a big oven capable of baking bread for at least 100 men . Near it were healthy gardens , growing vegetables and a butcher shop where mules had been cut up . A. little farther along the trail , under the dense canopy of trees and creepers , was a well-equipped field hospital . A hundred yards farther on was the dormitory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crude showers made of mule skins . In this area were more than 50 homemade hand grenades made of dynamite . Among the rubbish neatly raked from the dormitory area I found a picture of Ernesto Che Guevara taken in the jungle and a copy of a speech by Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap of North Vietnam , translated into Spanish , calling for an " armed struggle for national liberation of long duration , with prolonged resistance leading to the eventual triumph of the people . " - It was impossible that these could have been " planted " ' as I found them myself in the ' rubbish . The picture ? of Guevara was of , a younger man than the Guevara I saw in Cuba in 1964 , and I judge it ' to have been taken in the Sierra Maestra in Cuba some years ago , so the finds throw no real light on the mystery of where Guevara is and whether he is still alive . The guerrillas ' camp showed every sign of an orderly evacuation , as nothing of value had been left behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No State Department Comment Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , ' April 10 ? The State Department had . no comment tonight on the report of the discovery in Bolivia of a strongly fortified guerilla base . One source in the capital-familiar with Latin-American affairs , Who asked not to be identified , gave little weight to the possibility that the reports might be the result of a campaign to win American aid . The assertion by Murray Saylc of The Times of London that he had been " charged " by American officials to make an unofficial , report-on his trip into the jungle could not be confirmed here .                     