@@725734

txt City Council President Frank D. O'Connor expects to fly to Washington today to ask Senator Robert F. Kennedy for a statement about the Democratic nomination for Governor . " I 'd prefer neutrality , " Mr. O'Connor said . ? A statement of neutrality by the Senator would assure the nomination for Mr. O'Connor , most political observers believe . They believe further that , if the Senator did speak out for a specific candidate , it would not be Mr. O'Connor . Mr. O'Connor indicated with a shrug that , no matter what happens , he thought he had the nomination won . Tours the Rockaways The Council President spoke in an impromptu interview as he jounced cheerfully through the sunbaked Rockaways , perched on the back of a white convertible , alternately sipping from a can of cola and waving at people along the sidewalks . " Cripes , it feels good to be campaigning again , " he said exuberantly . Then his 18-car motorcade stopped at the Boardwalk and 116th Street , and he stood among people in Bermuda shorts and soggy bathing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first day of the regular campaign . We have the nomination won already . Now we 're after Governor Rockefeller 's scalp . And we 're going to skin him alive . " The crowd shouted , Mr. Connor grinned . His campaign day was a pleasant one . At one of his first stops , near the Wave Crest apartments at Beach 20th Street , a plump woman in a black bathing suit muttered , " I remember Beame walking down here . It did n't do much good . " But most of the welcomers were friendly . Amid the hand- , shaking , tie answered questions . On a WINS radio interview earlier , Howard . -J . Samuels , one ' of the three other Democratic ' candidates , had said that if the Bronx and Brooklyn were for Mr. O'Connor , the Council President had " a reasonable chance of winning on the . first ballot . ' That was mentioned and Mr. O'Connor said , ? " We can do it without the Bronx or Brooklyn . " ? An O'Connor spokesman said later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties . Neither the Brooklyn lead-1 er , Assemblyman Stanley Steingut , nor , the Bronx leader ; Charles A. Buckley , was available for immediate comment . On a WCBS- radio interview , H. Lee Dennison , Suffolk County Executive , had offered himself as a possible candidate for Lieutenant Governor . Suffolk Democratic convention delegates voted 27 to 7 on Friday to back Mr. O'Connor , an action that was a sharp jolt to their neighbor and his chief opponent , Eugene H. Nickerson , Nassau County Executive . Asked about Mr. Dennison as a running mate , Mr. O'Connor replied that he was certainly qualified but that ? so were others . He said he , wanted to " bossism . " " I hope Governor Rockefeller continues to raise that issue , " he . said . " I 'd love to take him on that issue . I 'll debate him on television , right here on this corner , on the radio , or anyplace he wants . " The other candidates had quiet days . Franklin D. Roosevelt . Jr : was at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party for the of his stand . Mr. Linowitz said he did n't O'Connor Confident know whether Senator Kennedy But Mr. O'Connor clearly planned any efforts in his bebelieved yesterday that . the half . nomination was his as he Stood Asked about polls that show on the sidewalk at 98th Street several Democrats leading Govand Shore Front Parkway and governor Rockefeller , who is seekreplied to a question about ing a third term , Mr. Linowitz said he was not a politician and could ? not evaluate polls . He described the four . announced Democratic contenders as " all competent decent men . " Mr. Linowitz said ? he had spoken with Alex Rose , a leader of the Liberal party , " but not in circumstances which would give me a way of answering " whether he would get Liberal party support for the Governorship . He said he would not accept the nomination for Lieutenant Governor .                     