@@724201

txt ATLANTIC Aug. 26 ? The Alabama delegation to the Democratic National Convention followed the Mississippi delegation today in withdrawing rather than signing pledges of loyalty to President Johnson for the coming election . They left behind only token groups of loyalists  --  nine from Alabama and three from Mississippi ? to take part in the President 's nomination by acclamation . Eugene Connor , Alabama 's national committeeman , was turned away by sergeants-atarms when he sought to take his seat . Mr. Connor , former Birmingham police commissioner , predicted that the action would hurt President Johnson politically in the south . The refusals by the two delegations to participate in the proceedings came after the convention 's adoption yesterday of a recommendation by the Credentials Committee that the Mississippians take the loyalty pledge . The convention had earlier approved a similar requirement for the Alabamians . Many of the Mississippians , who had made known their intention last night to quit the convention , left Atlantic City earlier today . Mayor Jess Lanier of Bessemer , chairman of the unpledged group in the Alabama delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened that they would suffer no further " insults " and that they were returning to Alabama . Seymore Trammell , Ala // Alabama Delegates Follow Mississippians in Withdrawing Over . Loyalty Isere BUT TOKEN GROUPS STAY ON THE FLOOR Both Delegations Refuse to Sign Pledge of Support for the National Ticket // bama 's finance director and the key aide to Gov . George C. Wallace present at the convention , said Mr. Wallace " recognizes that the Alabama delegation has been kicked out of the Democratic party . " The donkey has used its heels instead of its head , " he said . Convention officials were prepared tonight to prevent a resumption of the events of Monday and Tuesday nights , when members of the unpledged faction entered the Conventional Hall and took seats . Aides filled all but 11 seats in the Alabama section two hours before the session started tonight . When Mr. Connor approached the seats , accompanied by Connor Vermont , his 11-year-old grandson , sergeants - at - arms blocked his way . A convention official told him he must take the oath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " I will retire . " ' Like a Gentleman ' " I 'll go like a gentleman , " Mr. Connor said . " I 'll let the people of Alabama decide who represents them ? me or the Democratic National Committee . " Harry P. Clark one of the unpledged delegates , remained behind when Mr. Connor left . And when the roll-call of states for Presidential nominations began , Mr. Clark attempted to take the microphone at the state 's position . Jack Sullivan , an assistant sergeant-at-arms , blocked him . Reuben Newton , co-chairman of the pletdged Alabama group , then took the microphone and yielded to Texas , whose Governor , John . B. Connally Jr. , placed the President 's name in nomination . Shortly after 10 P.M. , five ' sergeants-at-arms , headed by William Brawley of the White House staff , arrived at Ala- , bama 's position in response to a I call from Mr. Newton . Mr. Clark had a grip on the microphone at this point but Chester Smith , chief deputy sergeant-at-arms , abruptly forced his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ai n't that fine , " Mr. ' Clark snorted several times . " You 're using force . I hope you 're satisfied . Bully ! No reSpect ! " Mr. Brawley . and his aides surrounded themicrophone until the seconding ap-eechei'had been completed and Mr. Johnson had been nominated . Leaves the Hall Mr. Clark shouted " yes " along with the loyalist Alabama delegates when the vote was called . Then he left the hall . Had there been a roll-call vote , he said , And had he-been in possession of the microphone , he intended to say : . " I cast my one vote for Lyndon B. Johnson and God bless ? Governer Wallace . " When the call came for VicePresidential nominations , Roy Davis McCord , the other loyalist co-chairman , nominated Gov . Carl Sanders of Georgia . - The Governor , one of the Souths leading moderates and a strong Johnson supporter , took his delegation 's microphone , withdraw his name and praised Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , . the President 's choice for the nomination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shouted " yes " when the proposal was made that President Johnson nominated by acclamation . . They are Douglas C. Wynn of Greenville , City Judge C. R. Holladay of Picayune and Fred Berger , a Natchez lawyer . They took their seats and held them although some 16 white ' and Negro members of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic party stood in front of them in the wide aisle holding placards urging support for that predominantly Negro group . The Rev. Edwin King , white chaplain of Southern Christian College near Jackson , Miss. , and one of two Freedom party representatives admitted as atlarge delegates , sat nearby . The second at-large delegate , Aaron Henry , a Negro druggist from Clarksdale , who is state president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , stood in an aisle beside the Mississippi standard . Mr. Henry had announced earlier that the Freedom Party had rejected the compromise under which he was admitted and the regular Mississippi delegates were forced to sign the oath Or leave the convention . He said he had decided to attend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members . James Forman , executive secretary of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , chief sponsor of the Freedom party , stood in a nearby aisle . He was accompanied by Robert P. Moses and other Student Committee officials . All of them had credentials obtained from other convention delegates , officials and from news media . Some of the student committee members , who were being watched closely by sergeantsat-arms and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents , were equipped with walkie-talkies . A sergeant - at - arms ' approached Mr. Moses at one point and asked where he had obtained his credentials . " I 'm with the Freedom Democratic party and I 'm going to stand here , " replied Mr. Moses , who is director of the Council of Federated Organizations , the civil rights coalition that sponsored the formation of the Freedom party and the recent summer civil rights drive in Mississippi . The convention handling of the Alabama-Mississippi seating dispute brought a mixture of opposition , apathy and approval among the other Southern delegations . The Johnson forces had regarded Alabama and Mississippi expendable or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to devise a formula that would recognize Missippi 's legal right to be seated and the moral case of the Freedom Democrats , prevent a walk out by other Southern delegations and provide a nondiscrimination rule for delegations to the next convention . The Mississippi Freedom Democratic party , a predominantly Negro group , was organized last spring in opposition to the state 's all-white regular Democratic party . Although the Freedom Democratic party has been denied a state charter , its members came to the convention to seek seating as the official party from the state . A three-point proposal providing for a loyalty pledge by the Mississippi regulars , seating of the Freedom Democrats ' with out voting rights and a nondiscrimination clause proved unacceptable . Under this proposal , the Freedom Democrats would have been given two symbolic votes . The compromise came Monday night when a member of the Credentials subcommittee seeking to work out a solution suggested that the Freedom Democrats be given two at-large dele gates with voting rights . This brought agreement from supporters of the Freedom Democrats and averted a floor fight over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights forces backing the Freedom Democrats indicated today that they were far from satisfied . Louis Smith , a Congress of Racial Equality liaison man with the Freedom party , blamed President Johnson for preventing a floor contest . Most of Mississippi 's 44 delegates and 22 alternates had either checked out of their rooms or were making preparations for leaving . Only three had signed the loyalty pledge . Most members of Alabama 's delegation of 36 delegates and 18 alternates remained at the hotel . Some wanted to leave the convention , others wanted to remain and resume their sit-in on the floor until asked to leave by Representative John W. McCormack , the convention chairman , and the handful of loyalists wanted to participate fully in the proceedings . However , Alabama political observers here said the Wallace forces had intended all along to force the national party 's hand and thus to clear the way for the Governor to support Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona , the Republican Presidential nominee , or to initiate another third-party movement . Despite earlier threats of possible walkouts by other Southerners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential trouble spot because of statements by Gov . Orval E. Faubus , actually approved the Credentials Committee 's recommendations in a caucus . The explanation given by sources close to the delegation was that Mr. Faubus , who is not attending the convention , had telephoned no instructions and that loyalists had made their own decision . The Louisiana delegation , which included a large group favoring a walkout , also approved the conventions compromise with the exception of one section  --  that under which Mr. Henry and Mr. King were admitted as delegates at large .                     