@@724215

txt London President Sukarno 's latest move against Malaysia has encountered both a military and a diplomatic challenge . Great Britain is reinforcing its Singapore garrison with troops from a light air-defense regiment flown from West Germany . The troops have been serving with the British Army of the Rhine . They were dispatched eastward after due notice to North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters . The hearing , in the United Nations Security Council , of Malaysia 's complaint against Indonesia represents a new step for the government of Tunku ( prince ) Abdul Rah-man . Heretofore , the Tunku has resisted the idea of taking his case to the United Nations . Two Factors Cited Two developments coincided to stiffen the Tunku 's attitude : ? The outbreak of rioting in Singapore . According to the Malaysian Government , the rioting was instigated by Indonesian agents . ? The Sept. 2 landing of Indonesian parachute troops in the Labis area of Johore in Malaya . A similar air-borne incursion took place on Aug. 17 . Labis is 100 miles north of Singapore and 150 south of Kuala @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Australia , and New Zealand immediately indicated their readiness to step up military assistance to Malaysia . The transfer of more than 500 troops to Singapore expresses the British intention in tangible terms . The move has been described as " a precautionary measure . " If further aid should be necessary , Britain appears to be ready to give it . Whatever results from Malaysia 's taking its complaint to the United Nations , the feeling here is that charges of Indonesian . aggression will have been spotlighted more clearly than heretofore . The point is made in London that , whereas President Sukarno has never recognized . Malaysia , he has nevertheless recognized the territorial integrity ' of Malaya ( one of the segments of the federation formed in September , 1963 ) . Indonesian paratroop landings on Aug. 17 and Sept. 2 therefore carried the Sukarno " confrontation " campaign against Malaysia into a new phase . // Britain Answers Sukarno // In Whitehall 's opinion , the official United States attitude toward President Sukarno has undergone a significant change in the months since former Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of responding to the counsels of reason put forward by Mr. Kennedy , President Sukarno has continued and  --  with recent military operations  --  stepped up his campaign to " crush " Malaysia . British officials feel that this has caused a new degree of disenchantment in Washington . At the same time , both the Japanese and Philippine governments are said to have been awakened to the character of Indonesian intentions . Malaysia 's appearance before the Security Council advances the situation and , in so doing . further exposes Indonesia 's ambitions .                     