@@725752

txt The potential power base for a bid by Sen. Robert F. Kennedy for the presidency is beginning to emerge now . And more and more there is indication that increasing thought is being given by the Kennedy faction to updating the Kennedy move to 1968 . With the fall of President Johnson 's popularity within his own party , together with a rise in the Kennedy approval among Democrats , there is more talk about a Kennedy challenge two years hence . A thumbnail assessment of such a bid taking place would , until quite recently have been put in one word : " improbable . " Nov the assessment is " possible . " In two recent . developments , former Republican Vice-President Richard M. Nixon has predicted that President . Johnson may choose Senator Kennedy instead of Hubert H. Humphrey as his running mate in 1968 if he feels a stiff GOP challenge . ' Wisconsin move shapes And aides to Senator Kennedy have confirmed reports that he will campaign for several high-level Democratic candidates outside New York State . To launch an intramural battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1964  --  and who pushed through so much party-favored legislation  --  would take great audacity . But it just ca n't be written as " probable " at this time . Yet , a political tour of the nation discloses stirrings at the grass-roots level by politicians close to the Kennedys . A significant move is taking place in Wisconsin . There the man who was most instrumental in bringing the late John F. Kennedy into the Wisconsin primary in 1960 ? Lt. Gov , Pat Luccy  --  now is running for governor . It can be argued that the first real springboard for the Kennedy nomination took place in that 1960 primary  --  and that Mr. Lucey was the one most instrumental in persuading Mr. Kennedy to make the race . Further , it was Mr. Lucey who did most to make it even politically possible within that state for Mr. Kennedy to get into the contest there against Mr. Humphrey . Most other leading Wisconsin Democrats , including Gov . Gaylord Nelson , were supporting Mr. Humphrey and opposed to Mr. Kennedy 's coming in . Mr. Lucey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Kennedy man . " A challenge by the New York Senator would doubtless follow the primary route . And Wisconsin could become the first major battleground , just as it was in 1960 . Actually , any Kennedy begins with potential power bases that are most apparent , such as New England , New York , and the big cities . The Kennedy strength is also apparent in a state like Minnesota , Vice-President Hum- By a staff photographer Robert F. Kennedy Is the New York Senator ( shown at a current Senate hearing on city problems ) planning to challenge President Johnson in 1968 ? phrey 's home state . There recent polls show public opinion giving Mr. Kennedy 60 percent of the vote in a possible race against Richard M. Nixon . This edged President Johnson ( who got 59 percent ) and Mr. Humphrey ( 53 percent ) in a trial heat with Mr. Nixon . The primary battle between Karl F. Rolvaag and Alexander M. Keith for governor is hurting Mr. Humphrey , and , hence , the administration . Although trying very hard to stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice-President has somehow hurt himself among some followers of both candidates . Support mounts And , said one longtime Democratic friend of Mr. Humphrey : " Robert Kennedy is picking up the pieces . " That seems the theme in state after state ? picking up the pieces . Wherever Democrats or independents have become disenchanted with the administration , Robert Kennedy now is gaining support : ? Among Democrats and , particularly , among the youth who oppose the President on Vietnam and see Robert Kennedy 's position as a workable alternative . ? Among Democrats who just do n't  --  and never have  --  cared for the President personally . ? Among Democrats who are still under the spell of their memories of the John F. Kennedy days . These are Democrats who are deep in politics in every state , who are fielding major candidates in every state . For example . what happens if G. Mennen Williams wins in his race for United States senator in Michigan ? As governor , Mr. Williams threw his delegation to John F. Kennedy at a most strategic moment along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help open the door for another Kennedy . Across the nation the Kennedy supporters are again on the move . And they could decide to peak their efforts in 1968.                     