@@725014

txt Defective voting machines and the failure of election inspectors to sho , v up at some polling places caused substantial delays in voting in some areas of the city yesterday . Delays were also caused by the inability of some election , board officials to operate the machines . Adding to the confusion was ' ! the uncertainty of some voters ' about where they were supposed Ito cast ballots . This was the re- , 1 suit of the reapportionment ! that had radically shifted dis- , trict lines . These voters said they had not received Board of Election cards telling them where they were supposed to vote . Herman Badillo , candidate for the Democratic noniination1 for Bronx Borough President , said early this morning that voters in two election districts in a Puerto Rican area were still voting at 1 AM. , though polls were supposed to have closed at 10 P.M. He said the machines had broken down earlier and his supporters had asked Federal : Bureau of Investigation agents to watch the balloting . Conference Held A spokesman for Mr. Badillo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Doar , assistant United States Attorney General in charge of the civil rights division , and United States Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau to report indications that there might he efforts to hinder Puerto Ricans in voting here . The spokesman said a request had been made for the assignment of assistant United States attorneys to voting places to watch voting under the new civil rights law . He said an agreement had been reached by which the Badillo forces were given special numbers at which F.B.I . agents would be available on call . At 2 A.M. , a Badillo spokesman said Federal agents had shown up at a polling place at Public School 43 , 135th Street and Brown Place . The other late-voting district , he said , was in Public School 124 , 160th Street and Tinton Avenue . Representative William F. Ryan 's campaign manager called for the impounding of all Bronx voting machines because of " frauds and irregularities . " An hour and a half before the polls closed at lb P.M. , the manager , Myron Cohen , said he had sent telegrams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elections and Police Commissioner Vincent L. Broderick demanding the imImediate impounding of the machines . Another Ryan spokesman said that in Bronx areas where Mr. Ryan had strong support some polling places did not open , in others the machines jammed and in still others election inspectors did not report . As a result , he said , many Democrats did - not have a chance to vote . Commissioner 's View Maurice J. O'Rourke , one of the city 's four Commissioners of Elections , said last night that if he was satisfied that the Ryan complaint was justified land if the vote in the Bronx was close , he would ask the Police Department to impound the voting machines . Spokesmen for City Council President Paul R. Screvane and Councilman Paul O'Dwyer said their headquarters had also re- , ceived many complaints about ! machines and absent election inspectors . An aide to Controller Abraham D. Beame , the fourth candidate for the Democratic mayoral nomination , said Beame headquarters had received no complaints . Complaints received by this newspaper told of long delays because of defective machines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board officials about how the machines should be Operated . Stanley Lowell , campaign manager for Mr. Screvane , charged that the failure of Republican inspectors to report to the polls had delayed some ! voters as much as two hours. , " Is this Mr. Lindsay 's effort to keep the Democratic vote : as low as possible ? " he asked . " The responsibility of a full and free vote is everyone 's , re-. gardless of party . " The reference was to RepreH sentative John V. Lindsay , Republican-Liberal candidate for ! Mayor . Because Mr. Lindsay was unopposed for the Republican and Liberal nomination his ! name was not on the voting machines . Campaign aides for Mr. Eadillo also charged that : some Republican Inspectors had ' failed to appear there . They said Republican voters , in line were eventually sworn ! in to act in the Republican inspectors ' places but the delay in some cases was two hours . Lefkowitz Scoffs Mr. Lefkowitz , who is a Republican , scoffed at the charges that Republican election officials were impeding the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! difference to Lindsay whom he faces in November , " the Attorney General said . " These charges do n't make any sense . " John Gardiner , a spokesman for the Manhattan Republican organization , said it had received a report from the Board of Elections of 30 missing Republican inspectors in that county . He said he did not consider that a high b fiaure since his organization had to supply more than 2,100 inspectors . Illness and other legitimate reasons could account for the 30 , he said . He and a spokesman for the Bronx Republican organization , where there also were reports of missing inspectors , said that in sonic instances a check showed it was not a Republican but a Democrat who was missing . The election law requires two inspectors from each of the two major parties at every polling place , and they are usually named by the local party leaders . This is true even if only one party is represented on a district 's ballot . The inspectors are the high-. est-ranking officials on a local election board . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their signatures on the registration books and another is to rule whether or not a voter is eligible to cast a ballot . The law also says that if an inspector is absent , the other ) inspector from the same party may swear in a voter of that party to act in his place . Where both inspectors of a party are missing , the local board 's clerks from that party may appoint members of that party to act in their place . Finding substitutes was a simple matter for the Democrats since it was largely a Democratic primary . There were no citywide Republican contests , none in Manhattan , Brooklyn or Staten Island and only a few in the Bronx and Queens . In some instances complaints about missing Republican inspectors were referred to local clubhouses and this caused delays , While the law seems clear that the substitute must he of the same party as the absent inspector , Mr. O'Rourke said it was his understanding that any qualified voter could be sworn in if a substitute of the same party could not be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx he had received complaints that some boards had not opened because Republican inspectors were missing . He said he had gone to the polling places and directed the chairmen of the boards to swear in any available voters , and this was done . The Ryan forces said that most of the irregularities about which they complained were in areas such as the upper West Side of Manhattan and the lower Bronx , where Mr. Ryan was expected to make his best showing An O'Dwyer spokesman put most of the irregularities in areas where there were strong concentrations of Irish residents and where the Irish-born Mr. O'Dwyer had expected to do especially well , At the Board of Elections ' Manhattan headquarters , 80 Varick Street , four Supreme ' Court Justices dealt with 120 applications from prospective voters who had been denied the right to vote . Court attaches said it was one of the heaviest calendars dealt with during a primary ' election . The fourth justice was called in shortly after 8 P.M. when the complaints amounted . Of the 120 cases , the justices granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were withdrawn .                     