@@721956

txt Socctal to The Sect York Ttoms . LONDON , July 26 ? Britain quickened her military preparations today and warned the Soviet Union that unilateral action over Berlin would involve " the most serious dangers . " Qualified sources said that the first military move was expected to be the recall of reservists to bring the British Army of the Rhine up to " complete fighting efficiency . " But preparedness talks have extended to the role that the Territorial Army would play if the situation in Central Europe worsened this autumn . The reservists to be recalled are of Section A of the Regular Reserve and Category 1 of the Army Emergency Reserve . These troops will fill up administrative and specialist units in the Army of the Rhine . The infantry and armored battalions of that force are at full strength , the sources said . Government sources empha // sized that Prime Minister Macmillan had the necessary authority to recall these reserves . If the situation requires it , they said , legislation will be adopted to mobilize more manpower . Minister of Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in the mutual interest of Britain and the United States to " strengthen the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at this time against the possibility of difficublties over Berlin . " The Foreign Office meanwhile declared that the Government welcomed and fully endorsed President Kennedy 's speech last night , " particularly those passages concerning the whole German problem , including Berlin . " The Foreign Office statement said that Britain shared the " readiness " of the Administration to negotiate on Germany with the Soviet Union , " provided always that the Soviet Government is ready to do this on a reasonable , basis . " . " But If negotiation is to have any chance of success , " the statement continued , " we and our allies must demonstrate clearly to the Soviet Government that . threats to pursue their aims through unilateral action can only create the most serious dangers . " Accord on Preparations The British Government also agrees fully with the United States that " we must make such preparations as are required to face the critical situation which may arise , " The Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the nature of the steps it " will take . " It added that these , although not necessarily identical with those announced by the President , " will have the same purposes . " The Government also emphasized that military preparations did not conflict with its invitation to the Atlantic alliance to review the financial conditions under which British forces are maintained in West Germany . The review applies to the next fiscal year , whereas efforts to increase British readiness are an expression of " our determination to stand by our NATO obligation in the defense of West Berlin , " the Foreign Office declared . The British position , as it was stated in the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defense , was much stronger than diplomats of Britain 's allies had expected . Wider Preparations Seen A hint of even more extensive preparations was seen in the assurance that Prime Minister Macmillan was prepared to consider the recall of Parliament from its summer recess if the situation deteriorated . He would then ask Parliamentary approval for further military preparations . These ' could include a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American President in recent years have won warmer praise in London than Mr. Kennedy 's . The praise was applied equally to its context and to its tone . The British believe that there is now a much better chance Ito formulate a sensible Western negotiating position over Berlin because the West will be stronger and its desire for reasonable negotiation manifest . The British preparedness program as it was outlined today ( groups put the seven brigade Igroups of the Army of the Rhine on what will be virtually a war footing . The brigade groups number between 4,000 and 5,000 men , depending on whether the brigade is armor or infantry . The total scheduled strength of the British Army of the Rhine is 55,000 men , but at prese0 according to official sources , it is about 5,000 men nelow strength . The sources said that Britain 's most powerful weapon , the nuclear bombers of the Vforce , was already . in an advanced state of readiness . Ships May Be Reactivated It is probably , however , that steps will be taken to reactivate some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of storage , A squadron of Canberra medium bombers that was sent to the , Persian Gulf at the time of the occupation of Kuwait has returned to West Germany , the sources . said . The Territorial Army of 250 , - ' 000 men is approaching the period when its units go into summer camp . This force , similar to the United States National Guard , would provide three divisions on mobilization or , as the British Army is now organized , nine brigade groups . Military planninc , has- scheduled one division ' ' for employment in Europe in the event of war .                     