@@726935

txt Secretary of State Dean Rusk declared today that all explorations so far showed that North Vietnam had rejected United States terms for entering peace negotiations . In a special statement , Mr. Rusk recalled that President Johnson promised , in his State of the Union Message on Jan. 17 , to report to Congress on diplomatic soundings of North Vietnamese offers to talk . " I must report that all explorations to date have resulted in a rejection of the President 's terms for negotiating , " Mr. Rusk said . Soundings Are Reflected American officials said the Secretary 's remarks took into account contacts last week by the Italian Foreign Minister , Amintore Fanfani , with North Vietnamese representatives , as well as diplomatic soundings in India , Moscow and Paris by Secretary General Thant of the United Nations . Mr. Thant met in Paris today with Mai Van Bo , Hanoi 's chief representative in Europe . Mr. Rusk , seeking to dampen what the Administration views as rising but false hopes for talks , issued his assessment late today through the State Department spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the six weeks since intensive diplomatic exploration got under way that Secretary Rusk said that North Vietnam had " rejected " American terms . Previously lie gave negative appraisals of North Vietnamese diplomatic and military actions , but avoided interpreting any of Hanoi 's moves as a flat rejection . Propaganda Charged His shift to the more pessimistic appraisal seemed to signify that the Administration had given up hope of entering talks in the near future . Officials said Mr. Rusk 's statement could be read as meaning that the Government was inclined to interpret a series of North Vietnamese statements more as propaganda than as bids for serious negotiations . The recent round of diplomatic soundings intensified after the North Vietnamese Foreign Minister , Nguyen Duy Trinh , said explicitly on Dec. 29 that Hanoi " will " hold talks if the United States uncondi- tiona Hy stops its attacks against North Vietnam . On Jan. 4 , Mr. Rusk said at a news conference that it was too soon to say whether this was a serious peace feeler or a propaganda ploy . The statement today , officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interested in propaganda gestures whose purpose it is to mislead and confuse , " Mr. Rusk said . " We will be interested in a serious move toward peace when Hanoi comes to the conclusion that it is ready to move in that direction . " " Repeated periods of bombing cessation or reduction in North Vietnam have elicited no corresponding action by North Vietnamese forces in South Vietnam , " Mr. Rusk said . " All explorations to date have resulted in a rejection of the San Antonio formula , " Mr. Rusk declared . He added that the formula , put forward by President Johnson in a speech at San Antonio , Tex. , on Sept. 29 , remained " the basis of our position . " ' Publicly or Privately ' In that speech , . , the President pledged to end American air and naval bombardment of North Vietnam if ? that would lead promptly to productive talks and if Hanoi would not take military advantage of the bombing cessation . Secretary Rusk commented : " At no time has Hanoi indicated publicly or privately that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bombing of North Vietnam . Nor has it shown any interest in preliminary cliscus sions to arrange a general cease-fire . " On the contrary , the Secretary asserted , Hanoi 's response to the periodic limitation of American air raids has been a step-up in enemy attacks and infiltration . " Their reply was a major offensive through South Vietnam to bring the war to the civilian population in most of the cities of that country , " he said . " Their preparations for a major offensive in northern provinces of South Vietnam continue unabated . Negative Meaning ' " In assessing , therefore , whether Hanoi 's alleged interest in political talks has anything to do with making peace , one must take into full account the negative meaning of their recent escalation . " State Department officials said the Secretary was taking into account a range of diplomatic tests , including the previously undisclosed contacts in Rome between Foreign Minister Amintore Fanfani and two North Vietnamese representatives . Officials said that the United States had received a full report  --  on these meetings and that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions about the timing , substance , participants and general military climate for the proposed talks . Similarly , officials said , the United States has received " enough of a reading " on Secretary General Thant 's contacts with North Vietnamese officials for Mr. Rusk to state that Hanoi was " rejecting " American terms .                     