@@726504

txt Members of the Chicago Milk Wagon Drivers union , in a mail vote counted yesterday , rejected for the fourth time a contract of , - fered by the Associated Milk Dealers . The votes , tallied by union members a n d officials in the headquarters of Chicago Teamsters Joint council at 133 S. Ashland ay. , showed 1,771 voted against the contract and 817 for it . A total of 2,638 votes were cast , and 50 ballots were spoiled . Predicted Pact O. K. Thomas J. Haggerty , secretary-treasurer of the union , said the contract was rejected by a margin of 13 votes more than two-thirds required by union regulations . Haggerty had predicted union members would ratify the contract in a mail vote . The vote threatened another strike by the union and a stoppage of milk deliveries in the Chicago area . " The membership has spoken , " Haggerty said . " They reiterated what we told the milk dealers previously , but the dealers asked for the mail vote and this is it . We will report this back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their final offer . " Depends , on Reply He said if the milk dealers do not offer changes in the contract the local would seek approval for a strike from the Teamsters Joint council 2.5 and from the Teamsters International council . The three-year contract offered by the dealers called for a $14 a week pay increase over the next three years ; a $1 a week boost in the union 's health , welfare , and pension fund ; four paid holidays a year ; and a reduction in deliveries from six to five days a week . The change from six to five delivery days a week has been the stumbling block to ratification of contracts on previous occasions . Haggerty said he believed that it was the drgrers ' opposition to this that brought defeat of the contract in the mail vote . William B. Hanley , attorney for the Associated Milk Dealers , said he could not comment at this time on what action the dealers would take in light of the rejection . " However , I do n't believe that the dealers are convinced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he added . " The industry believes the contract would have been accepted were it not for activities by a certain faction to seek a rejection . " Contract Date Questioned Representatives of the milk dealers have threatened that defeat of the contract in the mail vote would cause them to refuse to make any future proposals retroactive to May 1 , when the old contract ended . They have said that any new proposals by the milk dealers would not include strike or lockout nay . Haggerty had urged union members to approve the contract and charged that " people from the outside want to take advantage of the present situation to take over the union . " He said the opposition was " undoubtedly being masterminded by certain people who are not members of our anion bu. would like to take over . "                     