@@721305

txt Buyers from all over the country swarmed into Navy pier Sunday for a spectacular preview of Chicago 's 1960 International Trade Fair . The doors opened at 11 a. m. , and in the first hour , 1,640 visitors poured LI . Total buyer attendance for the preview amounted to 6,056 persons , it was reported when the preview ended at 5 p. m . The huge exposition , which has transformed the mile long pier into a colorful bazaar for the world 's choicest products , formally opens Monday , with attendance for the first five days limited to professional buyers . For the 11 days from Saturday thru July 5 , the fair will be open to the general public . In this period , entertainers brought here from many parts of the globe will present almost continuous performances for the hundreds of thousands of visitors expected . This Year 's " Even Better " " The huge trade fairs are becoming one of the city 's most spectacular summer events , " said Richard Revnes , managing director of the exposition . " Last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year we are convinced we have even a better fair . " Only one hitch  --  a comic one  --  marred the fair 's preview . Seven of 25 rickshaw pedicabs brought from Formosa to haul foot weary fair goers around the elevated promenade between the exhibit halls suffered punctured tires during the day . Ken , Solomon , a University of Chicago junior in char ? of rick- , s h a w repairs , complained " the promenade is littered with tacks left over by workmen . " National Pavilions Sparkle Here and there , thru the long , twin exhibit halls , hammers pounded and power saws whined as exhibitors rushed to complete their ' display booths . Most of the larger exhibits , however , were ready to the last , glittering detail . The south hall , particularly , brought gasps of delighted awe from visitors . Here , in a blaze of color , are the national pavilions of 21 countries and British Columbia , with the finest merchandise on display . The first professional buyer to register was George C. Webster of Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housewares . He had a lavish surprise coming . As he stepped thru the gate with his wife , Faye , Revnes and Thomas H. Coulter , chief executive officer of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry , were there with a present . It was a one week trip to any city in the world with all expenses paid . The trip was one of 21 " magic carpet " flights . for one person , to be given away to buyers during the fair . On Monday the great exposition formally gets - under way at 10 a. m. for Its 16 day run .                     