@@724093

txt ABOARD REPUBLICAN CONVENTION SPECIAL bound for San Francisco , July Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower has been thinking aloud to his immediate companions the last few days ' about what he calls the " hysteria " sweeping the country 12or and against the candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination , The general , who is due to arrive in San Francisco Sunday for the party 's national convention , has continued to discuss this subject on the way west in his private car aboard this special train , He left Harrisburg yesterday . In an impromptu news conference today on a stop in Chicago , he reaffirmed that he would not play the role of a kingmaker at the convention . opening Monday . Seeks Republican Unity " I 'm trying my best to see that the whole party gets together as a unit , " he said , " If it does n't , I 'm going to be disappointed . " The general was asked if he , thought Senator Barry Gold- ' water of Arizona , the front- , running candidate , could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say . " For months he has been swamped with all manner of communications demanding that , he speak out for this hopeful or to stop the other . To those well known to him whose fervent pleas demanded an answer , General Eisenhower has replied in various ways , but always to the same effect . To some he has said that he Ipledged 18 months ago to remain " neutral " while urging all prominent and qualified Repub . Ilicans to seek the nomination and hoping for an " open convention . " He asked how he could do otherwise now without violatling that public pledge . Blunt Reply for Others To others he has replied rather more bluntly that he had never intentionally gone back on his word and that he had no idea of starting now . He would not be a party to a movement to stop anybody , nor would he publicly state a personal preference among the active candidates . This has remained his intention . Everyone professed to know , General Eisenhower ruminated , exactly what he should do . ' Among his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course they proposed he follow had been revealed to them as the will of God . Many delegates , party officials ' and contributors seem to regard the general as a forlorn and frustrated man who has become the chief victim of his own planned neutrality . However , they fail to distinguish between Eisenhower , the soldier , and the Eisenhower who became the leader of his party without ever becoming a politician in the popular sense of the word . General Eisenhower abhors even more today than he did in his White House years the brand of politics that conjures up " string-pulling , backscratching and log-rolling . " But as an expression of the governed toward their goverment , he deeply believes there is nothing more important than , politics . In a paraphrase of Clemenceau 's observation in World War I that " War is too important to leave to the generals , " he has more than once remarked that " Politics is too important to leave to the politicians . " Editorial on Neutrality An editorial Wednesday in The Chicago Daily News , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former President had not come out boldly for some moderate Republican who thought as he did about political issues . Many political professionals appeared to agree with the analysis with which the editorial concluded : " The genera ! , we are sure , knows that neutrality on a battlefield is a fiction  --  to fail to press the battle toward victory is to hand the means of victory to the other side . It is a pity and a tragedy that he could not understand that politics is a battlefield , too , where noman 's land provides no sanctuary . " There is no way of knowing whether the editorial ever came to General Eisenhower 's notice . But his reaction to it might easily be surmised from the fact that , increasingly of late , he has spoken privately of what he considers the primary function of an American free press ? to lead . The former President has asked more than once what happened to the nation 's free press that it no longer produced men who had the ability to foresee political chicanery in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Open Convention It is easy enough to analyze events after they happen or identify trends after they are well under way , he has said . But where , he has asked , were the editors when he began clamoring 18 months ago for all prominent and qualified Republicans to enter the lists in the interest of an open convention . He has also asked where , for that matter , were the moderate Republicans who stood the best chance of winning the support of like-minded partisans and of independent Democrats without whom no Republican could win a Presidential election . Some of his best friends insisted until two weeks ago that he must face up to the reality that there was no such thing as an open convention any more . But General Eisenhower stuck by his guns , insisting that a convention at which the nomination was a foregone conclusion was " no convention at all , but a rubber stamp for the preconceived notions of the socalled professionals . " What effect would such a transparent prearrangement have on the mainstream of moderate Republican voters , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warning to the Senator One source close to General Eisenhower has disclosed that the former President has been torn for months between his Flopposition to Senator Goldwater and his conviction that party unity is the first ingredient of a Republican victory in November . This continues to be his view and helps to explain why he did not publicly accuse Senator Goldwater of misrepresenting his views after their recent Gettysburg meeting . General Eisenhower told the Senator in no uncertain terms , according to his confidant , that it would be a mistake for the Senator to oppose any of the then pending civil rights legislation on constitutional grounds , or to oppose closure of debate . It came as a shock to the former President that Mr. Goldwater , returning to Washington , had authorized a statement that the general had " said he did n't hold it against me " when informed that the Senator would vote against both closure and the pending bill . In his private conversations recently , the general has asked himself out loud : " How can they permit themselves such deliberate misrepresentation ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania , as General Eisenhower sees it . When the two met at Gettysburg , it was the general 's only purpose to convince the Governor that he " should become less vague " about his availability for the Republican nomination , General Eisenhower has said . It was idle , the general told the Governor , for him to go on saying that his availability would depend on an " honest draft " by the convention . General Eisenhower 's version of that conversation was that he told Governor Scranton he should do no more than define what he meant by a " draft " and that he should say only that he was available for the nomination if the party wanted him . He was amazed to see in the newspapers the next day , General Eisenhower later said , that Governor Scranton had taken his admonition as " personal support " for his candidacy . Modifies View on Goldwater To understand why General Eisenhower has not publicly repudiated both Mr. Goldwater and Mr. Scranton for what he considered their deliberate misrepresentations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower statement to friends in recent weeks . Referring to active candidates for the party nomination , he remarked on several occasions : " After all , anyone in the White House is better than what we 've got . " It is this attitude that has led him not only to withhold any repudiation but also to modify his previous opinion of Senator Goldwater . Two years ago , General Eisenhower was saying in effect that he could not take Mr. Goldwater seriously and did not believe anyone else would by convention time . Eighteen months later he was saying that his only real objection to Mr. Goldwater was the Senator 's acknowledged tendency to " shoot from the hip " on important questions of public policy . Still later , General Eisenhower suggested to the Senator that he should take a definite stand on such matters as medical care for the aged , urban redevelopment , Social Security and civil rights . He thought he had an understanding with Mr. Goldwater that his positions on these questions would be made clear in the primaries , but he is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying privately that what really concerned him about Mr. Goldwater was that he might take the nation into a war . Two months ago he was saying privately that his concern was not that Mr. Goldwater would get into a war but that too many voters could get the idea that he might . General Eisenhower 's most loyal adherents acknowledge that his political thinking in the last 18 months entailed certain apparent inconsistencies . But they insist these are more apparent than real . His refusal to name a moderate Republican to head off a convention sweep by Mr. Goldwater is only one of these . But his associates ask how he could violate his pledged neutrality without risking his leadership and leaving the party without any moderate driving force . What Might Have Been The general would probably be the last to deny that his neutrality created the vacuum in the nomination race that the active Goldwater candidacy rushed in to fill . But he would be the first to insist that it might have been different had Republicans like Henry Cabot Lodge , Gov . George Romney of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call to seek the nomination . All this is not to say that General Eisenhower is reconciled to the nomination of Senator Goldwater . He has said that he would definitely support the convention choice , but there are two kinds of support , in his view . One is to keep his views about Senator Goldwater to himself . The other is to engage in the kind of active campaigning that he offered to former Vice President Richard M. Nixon four years ago , an offer that Mr. Nixon refused . As nearly as can be learned from those in the confidence of the general , the chances of his actively campaigning for the Arizona Senator are about the same as those of a snowstorm in August .                     