@@726372

txt PARIS , June 5 Monday Renters1 ? The Israeli air force has attacked Egyptian air bases in the Sinai peninsula and inside Egypt , destroying or putting out of action 117 Egyptian aircraft , the Israeli embassy here said today . BEIRUT . Lebanon , June 5 I Monday I ? ( HT ? Damascus Radio said today Syrian troops are attaching Israel . ( Mop OH back page ) ( From Tribune Wire Services1 Fierce lighting broke out early today between Israeli and Egyptian forces , and each side said the other instigated combat . Battles raged along the nations ' southern frontier , and official Israeli spokesmen said planes and tanks were involved . Cairo radio said Israeli planes bombed the Egyptian capital and " all parts of the United Arab Republic . " The southern front is the flank facing the 80,000 Egyptian troops in the Gaza strip and the Sinai desert . Return Fire Told A report broadcast over the Israeli radio by a correspondent attached to the commanding officer of the southern front , Brig . Yeshahiu Gavish , said Israeli forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel . The report said Israeli forces were chasing Egyptian forces across the lines . The broadcast reported fights between Egyptian and Israeli aircraft , and said Egyptian anti-aircraft batteries fired on Israeli aircraft . Cairo radio said fighting broke out at 9 a. m. 1 a , m . Chicago timel . In Washington , a state department spokesman , James Matter , said , " It looks like we may have a war on our hands . " At United Nations headquarters in New York City , Israeli Ambassador Gideon Rafael told Hans Tabor of Denmark , security council president , that " Egypt has attacked Israel by air and land , " an Israeli embassy spokesman said . In London , the British Broadcasting corporation quoted Israeli claims that 10 Egyptian planes , mostly soviet-built MIG jets , were shot down by Israeli fighters . " Large numbers " of Egyptian planes were destroyed on the ground at U. A. R. airports , BBC said . The spokesman said Israel had not asked for an emergency meeting of the council " at this time . " Claim 42 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down 42 Israeli planes . The broadcast was monitored in Beirut , Lebanon . Five minutes later , Cairo radio said in an alert to Egyptian armed forces in Gaza and Sinai , and particularly near the Israeli port of Eilat : " The time has come to revenge , attack , and liberate Palestine from Zionist gangs . " The message also was directed to " our brothers in Jordan and Syria . " " Arab soldiers in Jordan and Syria , your time has come . Attack , destroy , and liberate Palestine and launch yourselves against Tel Aviv , " the broadcast said . It said Israel had fallen into the trap by beginning aggression . Sirens Wail Again Air raid sirens were sounded for practice alarms in several Israeli cities this morning , sending people to shelters . Kel Israel , the government radio , said people were more surprised than scared , since there had been no indication that war was imminent . The Israeli army general staff 's statement said , " Since the early hours of this morning , heavy fighting has been taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces which moved against Israel and our forces which went into action in order to check them . " Play Martial Music Reports of the fighting broadcast by the Israeli radio were received with calm by the civilian population in Tel Aviv . The radio played martial music . Most of the tunes dated to Israel 's war of independence 19 years ago , and the Sinai                     