@@722594

txt Mrs. Hortense Gabel , City Rent and Rehabilitation Administrator , announced last night a complete shake-up of the agency 's Brooklyn and Bronx offices , It will include the transfer of personnel some time within the next two weeks , she said . Several hundred employes work in the two offices . Most of them were transferred to Mrs. Gabel 's agency from the Temporary State Housing Rent Commission when the city assumed the administration of rent control here May 1 , Her announcement was made in conjunction with City Investigation Commissioner Louis I. Kaplan 's inquiry into rent frauds . Mr. Kaplan had said that his office was investigating , among other things , charges that at least twenty rent inspectors and examiners had been involved in graft and bribery in the granting of rent increases by the state . None of these persons had been named . Most of them now work for theacity . On Thursday two Bronx landlords , a man and his wife , were arrested on charges of conspiracy to defraud tenants diring the time the state controlled rents in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herman said that his office had started the inquiry that led to the couple 's arrest , adding : " I am pleased that the city administration has finally completed this investigation started by my agency . " He sP " that the case was one of .514 transferred to the city Rent and Rehabilitation Administration on May 1 . In addition , Mr. Herman said that when rent control Was transferred to the city his office had pending 196 similar cases before the various District Attorneys , twenty-seven matters before the State Attorney General and four matters before the Secretary of State 's office . Says City Has Records " The state turned all these records over to the city and Mrs. Gabel and Mr. Kaplan know this , " Mr , Herman said . The cases referred to , he said , were basically complaints from tenants about collusion between landlords , real ' estate agents and contractors to submit false documents to set rent increases . Mrs. Gabel , in a statement , said that she was " appalled at Mr. Herman 's statement . " - She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main office had examined the Brooklyn and Bronx offices . " The degree of sloppiness which I found in processing cases , the gaps in evidence upon which a rent increase could be granted , beggar the imagination , " she said . She said indications were that cases similar to the one in which the Bronx couple was arrested would be found in rent increases granted by the state for about 2,000 tenants . The Bronx couple were Mr. and Mrs. Murray Kenner of 510 Kappock Street , Riverdale . Mr. Kenner , who is 35 years old , was arraigned on charges of perjury , forgery and conspiracy . Mrs. Kenner , who is 34 , was charged with conspiracy , a misdemeanor . It was charged that between Jan. 1 , 1959 , and Aug. 1 of this year the couple offered false documents to support rent increases in buildings that they owned . Magistrate Samuel Ohringer set bail of $1,500 for Mr. Kenner and $500 for his wife . Hearings in Bronx Magistrates Court for both were set for next Friday . Mr. Herman and Mrs. Gabel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or decreased rents in properties owned by the Kenners . The Kenners own eight buildings . Mr. Herman said that on April 30 , the day before rent control was turned over to the city , the state " issued orders to reduce the rents of tenants of certain of Kennner 's properties . " Stands on Statement " I have no records before me , " Mr. Herman said . " She has them all . However , I stand on that statement , and the basis of my information is the man who was in charge of that particular case , and he is still with the state . " Mrs. Gabel charged , however , that not only did the state not reduce rents , but that it increased the rents for five tenants in a Kenner-owned building at 2075 Grand Avenue in the Bronx . She charged further that in seven other buildings owned by the Kenners there were rent increased based on " phny invoices and doctored checks " and that rents were never reduced . Mr. Herman agreed that there might have been such increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned under a corporate name and so with no apparent connection between the building and the Kenners ' increases might have been granted , " he said , " However , once we started checking back on the Kenners we would have found out about those increases and canceled them and given the tenants back their money . " Mr. Herman said that Mrs. Gabel was a " deputy state rent administrator for four years , from 1955 to 1959 , and she proceeded under the same rules and regulations . The same procedures were also followed under her supervision . "                     