@@723554

txt Springfield . Ill. , Oct. 24 George W. Dunne , spokesman for Chicago 's Mayor Daley , promised today that voters will be spared the " chaos " of state-wide balloting on all 177 seats in the Illinois House of Representatives next year . " We 're not going to have it the election at large , - Dunne said to the other nine members of the bi-partisan commission on reapportionment . Speculates on Plan It is not clear , however , whether he intended to give assurance that the commission will agree upon a new map of districts . A moment later he told a reporter for THE TRIBUNE he still insists that Chicago retain 23 districts  --  the same number it now has , based on the 1950 census . This is the cause of the present deadlock . Therefore , taking Dunne at his word , a political observer speculated that Daley 's spokesman could be looking forward to maneuvers which would result in the 1964 election being conducted according to the old district map . Rips Democrats ' Plan There have been rumors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Secretary of State Charles F. Carpentier would he besieged with appeals to accept candidates ' petitions based on the 1955 map . If he accepted them and was sustained by the courts , Democrats might regain control of the House and pass a reapportionment bill to their liking . Dunne is a former House majority leader . Now chairman of the Cook county board finance committee , he has been mentioned as a future candidate for , mayor . The first portion of the meeting today was opened to the press at the demand of Fred G. Gurley , retired board chairman of the Santa Fe railroad who is spokesman for the five Republican members . Gurley read a strong statement attacking the Democrats ' map showing 23 Chicago districts , 7 for the Cook county suburbs , and an undisputed 29 districts for downstate . Democratic Gov . Kerner , now traveling in Europe , appointed the commission Aug. 14 after he vetoed a reapportionment bill passed by Republicans in the legislature . But the Democratic map for Cook county was not presented until Oct. 17 . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the constitutional provision autho:izes , and that the remainder of Cook county would have two less districts than authorized , with three members elected from each district , " Gurley said . Turns Down Proposal " Certainly one should not waste time and cause confusion in discussing an unlawful proposal . Nu good can come from it . Time is running against us . The deadline is Dec. 14 . We wish to make it abundantly clear that we will have no part of the Democrat 23 and 7 proposal . That is unequivocal . " Republicans previously submitted a map for 21 Chicago districts and 9 in the suburbs , based on the changes between the 1950 census and the 1960 census , Gurley said . The 1954 amendment to the state constitution requires that 7 of the 10 commission members agree on a map to make it effective . Speaks for Committee Atty . Eldon Martin , another G. 0 . P. member of the commission , read an opinion from Don H. Reuben of the Chicago law firm , Kirkland , Ellis , Hodson , Chaffetz , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reuben 's opinion contended that a Democratic defense was submitted last week in the name of Rubin G. Cohn , a law professor , who on several previous occasions has had Chicago City hall assignments . Cohn asserted that the constitution , in providing a formula for reapportionment , also said it should be applied " as nearly as practicable . " He said this phrase gives the commission discretionary powers . " Prof. Cohn ultimately cites as some support for his construction of the constitution the fact that altho Chicago has 35 per cent of the population , it has only 31 per cent of the Illinois Senate districts , " Reuben wrote . " The professor seems to be arguing that the claimed inequality should be adjusted in the reapportionment of the House . "                     