@@725058

txt The dramatis personae of two major 1966 American political productions are already beginning to gather ? in California and Texas . Washington is watching both . In California , former San Francisco Mayor George Christopher is expected any moment to rush onstage into the GOP race for governor . Mr. Christopher feels he is the only moderate Republican left who can head off the nomination of actor Ronald Reagan , a stout conservative . Mr. Reagan appears to be the Republican frontrunner . Another Republican moderate now fidgeting in the wings  --  former Gov . Goodwin J. Knight  --  has been talking of a possible announcement in early winter . For the Democrats , Gov . Edmund G. Brown is expected to throw in for a third term about the time snow begins to fly in the high Sierra . Texas political candidates used to time their leaps into races to coincide with the blooming of the dogwood in the spring . But it appears the 1966 ballot may be full before the frost this fall . Democratic Gov . John Connally was first to throw in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Waggoner Carr promptly vowed to take on Republican Sen. John G. Tower , the only major Republican officeholder left in Texas . Jim Wright , liberal congressman , will take on Mr. Carr for the Senate nomination in what shapes as the battle of 1966 for Texas Democrats . Governor Connally is expected to lead a. " ticket " of moderate conservatives into the Democratic primary . A labor-liberal coalition will attempt to put together a slate against it . As for Republicans  --  they will concentrate on trying to reelect Senator Tower . Trends ... More and more hands are reaching out to help uncouple the John Birch Society from the Republican Party . The last , and perhaps most telling pair , belong to Barry Goldwater . Republican leaders have heretofore hesitated to attack the 100,000-member ultraconservative group . They feared they might alienate the pro-Goldwater wing of the party . But Mr. Goldwater himself has just said John Birch Society members should resign and put a shoulder to the Republican wheel ins tea d . And with that there seems less chance that the uncoupling operation now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader'ship ? Sen. Everett McKinley Dirksen of Illinois , and Rep. Gerald R. Ford of Michigan  --  have denounced the society . Kentucky Sen. Thruston B. Morton will enter a censure motion against it when the GOP Coordinating Committee meets in Washington Dec. 17 . Richard M. Nixon , the 1960 Republican presidential standard bearer , has said privately he may support the motion . These are hands capable of an uncoupling . How and why .. . Japan 's emerging role in Southeast Asian economic life is raising smiles of satisfaction in Washington . Several regionwide projects are afoot in the area . And Japan is taking a major part in putting up much of the money and energy that drives them . The Japanese are pitching $200 million into the $1 billion Asian Development Bank . That 's as much as the United States is contributing . Tokyo is also taking a keen interest in the vast Mekong development project and the Asian highway coordinating committee . Washington , already in deep with economic aid to the region , welcomes the helping hand . While Washington smiles at Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is building up its forces facing Greece and Turkey . Over the past two years the Bulgarians have built up a mobile strike force heavy on armor and tactical planes . It now has 10 divisions , three of them made up of some 2,000 tanks . Its forces are at about 60 percent of strength , calling for 150,000 men in all . This build-up comes in part as a response to ' a continued sharpening of Greek and Turkish forces in recent years . American aid over a long period has developed strong , trim , and battle-ready defense forces in both of those nations . Greece has 162,000 men , including 11 infantry divisions  --  three at full strength and one of them armored . The Turks have 417,000 men under arms  --  some 16 divisions .                     