@@724101

txt Hong Kong Peking has emphasized anew its unbridgeable chasm with Moscow with a 30,000-character polemic attacking Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's " phony communism . " The attack centered on the Soviet Communist Party 's domestic programs since the 22nd Soviet Party Congress and accused " the revisionist Khrushchev clique " of having " usurped the leadership of the Soviet party and state . " As a result , the Soviet Union faces " the unprecedented danger of capitalist restoration , " Peking said . The Chinese Communist attack , published Tuesday in the party newspaper People 's Daily and the party journal Red Flag , appeared as Mr. Khrushchev himself in a major speech before the Supreme Soviet on Monday lauded his regime 's economic successes and rejected Peking 's contention that efforts to raise living standards represented " a bourgeois tendency . " Series Continues The latest Peking document is part of a whole series of Chinese Communist pronouncements not only attacking Soviet " revisionism " but discussing the problem of maintaining ideological purity within Communist China itself . As such it is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mao Tse-tung -- how to keep Communist China from treading what he regards as Moscow 's erroneous path after his own revolutionary generation has passed from the scene . " Khrushchev has abolished the dictatorship of proletariat in the Soviet Union and established a dictatorship of the revisionist clique headed by himself , that is , a dictatorship of the privileged stratum of the Soviet bourgeoisie , " the latest Peking editorial said . It accused Mr. Khrushchev of establishing " a despotic dictatorship over the Soviet people . " Discontent Seen It portrayed the Soviet people as " seething with discontent " over this " despotism . " It accused Premier Khrushchev of advocating " a struggle for a good dish of goulash " instead of for " emancipation of all mankind . " In short , said Peking , " Khrushchev 's communism is ' goulash communism , ' the ' communism of the American way of life ' and ' communism seeking credits from the devil . ' " Peking foresees for Mr. Khrushchev the same doom It reserves for imperialists themselves . " Like the clay buddha that tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not even save themselves , so how can they endow imperialism with long life ? " the article asked . Romania Cited In a recent conversation with visiting Japanese Socialists in Peking , Chairman Mao is reported to have said that he was prepared to carry on the polemics with Moscow indefinitely . Attempting to prove the rightness of Peking 's stand , he cited the Romanians . They came to Communist China early this year , he said , intent on mediating the Sino-Soviet dispute . But convinced by the Chinese arguments , they went home and started their own polemics with Moscow . The Japanese Socialists reported Chairman Mao as taking a fairly relaxed view of the polemics . " In a real war , " they ' quoted him as saying , " many people will be killed . But in the war of words such as we are conducting with Moscow , there is no need to worry since no one is killed . "                     