@@724456

txt House Democrats stripped two Southerners of their seniority rights today for party disloyalty in the 1964 Presidential election . The Democrats , in party caucus , also approved proposals for major changes in House rules to curtail the power of conservatives to obstruct President Johnson 's legislative program . The two Southerners , Reprez. sentatives John Bell Williams of Mississippi and Albert W. Watson of South Carolina , were disciplined for openly supporting the Republican Presidential candidate , Senator Barry Goldwater , in the November election . Action Assailed In a joint statement , the two men called the action " repugnant to our representative government " and the start of an attack on the Congressional seniority system that would lead to its demise . Neither would say what he planned to do about it , but Mr. Watson hinted that he might leave the Democratic party . The action came on a resolution by Representative John A. Blatnik of Minnesota on behalf of the Democratic Study Group , an organization of House liberals . The vote was 157 to 115 . Both Mr. Williams and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Commerce Committee . The ranking determines the order in which members move up to the chairmanship . In House 18 Years Mr. Williams , who has been in the House for 18 years , is the second-ranking Democratic member of that committee and ' thus had been first in Iine to succeed the chairman , Oren Iliarris of Arkansas . Mr. Wat , son , now beginning his second term , ranks 18th . Both will go to the bottom of the committee 's seniority list ? below freshman Democrats in the new Congress , which convenes Monday . Mr. Williams also loses his ranking as fifth in Democratic seniority on the District of Columbia Committee . Mr. Watson does not have a second committee assignment . Researchers for the Democratic Study Group said they believed it was the first time in history that any House Democrat had been disciplined for party disloyalty in an election . The caucus 's most recent disciplinary action for any rea- ; ; son , they reported , was taken ! in 1911 against a member who ! disobeyed a binding caucus res-i olution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a key House vote . He was ; removed from the House Rules ; Committee . Mr. Blatnik 's disciplinary res- , olution was a modified version ! of one that leaders of the Dem- ' ocratic Study Group had . planned to offer . Under the ear-. lier proposal , the two Southerners would have been purged from the 295-member party ; caucus . The main effect would have ; been the loss of their committee ' seniority . A liberal spokesman ! said the change was made to ; achieve the main objective ! without the risk of making ' martyrs of the two in their , home districts . The disciplinary action and the endorsement of proposed , changes in House rules reflect- ; ed the substantial increase in House strength achieved by lib. ; erals in the Congressional elections Nov. 3 . Vote Expected Monday The rules proposals will be called up in the House Monday with the backing of Democratic leaders , who predicted prompt approval . Adoption of the proposals would significantly strengthen explicit authority of the House Speaker for the first time this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now seems ; likely , would make it impossible ! for the House Rules Committee ! to obstruct legislation against ! the Speaker 's wishes , as it has ; often done in the past . The committee is headed by Howard W. Smith of Virginia , a conservative . The Rules Committee , through which major bills ordinarily must be routed to the floor from the legislative committees , no longer could effectively block a measure for more than 21 days . After 21 days , the Speaker could , if he chose to do so , recognize the chairman or a ranking member of the legislative committee to offer a motion calling up the bill for House consideration without Rules Committee action . A majority vote of members present would make the measure the pending business of the House . Conference Rule Noted The Speaker would be given the same discretionary authority to entertain motions for sending legislation already approved by the House and Senate to conference for adjustment of differences . Again , a simple majority vote would carry the motion . Under present rules , bills can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House or after clearance by the Rules Committee . A third change endorsed by the caucus would eliminate a time - consuming device often used to delay final House passage of bills . By raising an objection , a single member can now delay passage until an " engrossed " copy of a pending bill has been prepared . This is. a completed copy , printed on special paper with special ink , and takes hours to prepare . A demand for an engrossed copy usually forces postponement of the vote until the following day . Several other changes in rules and procedures had been drafted by the Study Group leaders but were not offered at the caucus . One called for establishment of party ratios on all committees to reflect as nearly as possible the 2-to-1 majority of House Democrats in the new Congress . A spokesman for the Study Group said this was not pressed because Democratic leaders had assured liberal leaders that they would put the proposal into effect : in any case . The new ratios will apply to the House Ways and Means and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Representative Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the majority leader . Customarily , the party division is maintained at 15 to ' 10 on Ways and Means and 30 to 20 on Appropriations despite party gains or losses in the biennial Congressional elections . Another major innovation suggested earlier by liberal leaders but abandoned at a meeting of the Study Group this morning would have given the Democratic caucus veto authority over committee assignments made by the 15-member Democratic Committee on Committees . The present practice is for the Committee on Committees to send the assignment lists directly to the House , where approval is usually automatic . The veto proposal would have given liberals , who now dominate the caucus , a controlling voice in the selection of committeef members and chairmen . The Study Group also abandoned a proposal that would have enabled the Speaker to arrange for House consideration of legislation bottled up in any committee if 175 Representatives signed a petition . Committees may now be bypassed by petition of 218 members , or a majority of the full House . The Speaker now has no discretion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Williams and Mr. Watson said they had no apologies for supporting Senator Goldwater and would have done so even if they had known of the " drastic action " in store for them . They recalled that no disciplinary action had been taken ) against Representative Adam ; Clayton Powell Jr . of Manhat-1 tan , a Democrat , for supporting Gen. Dwight D. Einsenhower for President in 1956 . Today 's action , they said ' " creates classes within the ! Democratic party when we are , ! stripped of our seniority while ' a Harlem Congressman isI rewarded with a committee ! chairmanship . " Mr. Powell , a Negro , became , chairman of the Education and Labor Committee in 1960 under . the customary seniority system . Emphasizing the point in an interview , Mr. Watson said the caucus had created a situation ' where " we , as white Southerners , are put in the kitchen to get the crumbs while others feast at the banquet table . " In hinting that he might follow the example of Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't intend to be a second-class Democrat . In a matter of a week or so I will reach a decision as to how I can best represent my people  --  as a purged or denied Democrat , as an independent or as a Republican . " Senator Thurmond , in backin ? . Senator Goldwater , joined Vibe Republican party . Mr. Williams declined to discuss his plans .                     