@@723379

txt Angry members of the American B a r association 's house of delegates called attention yesterday to a suggested guide for teachers in educating against communism , published by the association last May , as a document not worthy of the A. B. A. imprint . The 260-page book , called " Democracy and Communism in World Affairs , " and published as a " provisional " model syllabus , has been criticized a mild treatment of an international menace . The antiCommunist Cardinal Mindszenty Foundation of St. Louis has said of it : " Better no course at all , than this one . " Book Being Revised The book was prepared under the direction of the Institute of International Studies at the University of South Carolina and was not generally distributed . It is now being revised , the house was told by Morris I. Leibman , Chicago . chairman of the association 's committee on education against communism . This remark about revision led a house member , Loyd Wright of Los Angeles , former A. B. A. president , to believe that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house instruct the committee to recall all copies which have been distributed and give the same publicity to that fact as that which had been given to the " disavowal . " This motion was opposed by Lewis F. Powell , Richmond , Va. , who will become presidentelect of the A. B. A. tomorrow . He said that the volume was purely provisional . " Let me reassure this house that no committee of the American Bar association will give aid and comfort to the enemy , " Powell declared . Another past president , Cody Fowler , Tampa , Fla. , supporting Wright , said : " I am a little confused as to why this book was turned loose by the committee . The American Bar News , on June 15 , said it was the first comprehensive guide book for instructing students in the contrast between the American and Communist systems . " There was nothing in the article about its being a temporary draft ? no ifs , ands , or buts . It was nothing but an indorsement . Distributing it education against communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed with " 90 per cent " of the criticism of the book made by John Fred Schlafly , attorney of Alton , Ill. , who has called attention to the fact that the volume accepts " democratic socialism " as the answer to communism . ; " I can assure you , " Rhoads told the house , " that no document will ever be put out by the committee without a reference to Cuba , to Alger Hiss , and to the distress of the east ! ern communist European countries . " But Rhoads said that Wright 's motion , if passed , would reflect I on the committee , and Wright I then rose to say that he in ; tended no such reflection . Motion Ruled Out The house chairman , Edward L. Wright of Little Rock , even ; tually ruled that with that delei tion , there was no motion be ; fore the house and the matter was thus left with the commit ; tee . Chairman Wright ruled out of order a motion by was outside the authority of Sylvester C. Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. J ? A. B. A. presiIn the ensuing debate , one dent , that the house approve member of the committee on ' the committee 's action in fur ; ther revising the book by saying that it was unnecessary since the committee was al ! ready engaged in that revision . I One of the final comments on the matter was made by Rear Adm . William C. Mott , judge advocate general of the navy and a member of the committee . " The work of revision will be redoubled , " the admiral promised . So , after an hour 's debate , the matter ended with no action ? save , perhaps , to apprise the ' house that an A.B.A. document , many feel , needs revision .                     