@@723399

txt Bonn West Germany has signed the partial-nuclear test-ban treaty despite Bonn 's distrust of American aims in further negotiations with the Soviet Union . West German representatives in Washington , London , and Moscow , Monday , signed copies held by each of the three powers who hammered out the Moscow agreement outlawing all but underground blasts . Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's Cabinet decided Friday to sign the treaty and accept American and British assurances that Communist East Germany would gain no international status by signing . Unanimous Decision The West German decision was unanimous , but the Chancellor and his Cabinet Ministers have strong reservations . The Bonn government proposed Saturday that measures for reducing military tension should be discussed by the NATO Council before they become the subject of East-West negotiations , as a check on any United States tendency to " go it alone . " This Move followed a United States announcement that this country was ready to negotiate with Moscow on the issue of East-West observation posts to prevent surprise attack . Proposal Interpreted Political observers in Bonn interpreted the Saturday proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not trust the United States administration to take full account of vital West German interests . Foreign Minister Gerhard SchrOder said last week the West German Federal Republic does not consider fixed observation posts alone a satisfactory check on troop movements . The West German view is that it will not accept observation posts limited to German territory or to Central Europe , and the system must have wider scope . Bonn government aides emphasized West Germany 's reluctance to underwrite President Kennedy 's attempts to conclude agreements with the Soviet Union in no way implied any " conspiracy " with France . S'oviet Shift Hinted By Reuters Geneva Western diplomats say here that the Soviet Union bas apparently made a definite link between its proposal for an exchange of observation posts to guard against surprise attack and other partial-disarmament measures . American and British delegates to the 17-power disarmament conference here reached this conclusion Monday after intensive study of a. conference speech made Fri-clay by Soviet delegate Sem-. yon K. Tsarapkin . Mr. Tsarapkin raised the is , sue in referring to Soviet proposals on surprise attack made here in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly necessary if land-control posts " are to play an effective part in reducing the danger of surprise attack and lessening tension . "                     