@@721688

txt A move to seize the initiative in City Charter revision from Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Wagner was made by the City , Council yesterday . Two local laws on Charter revision were introduced into the Council . One would put up to the city 's voters at a general or special election the question : " Shall there be a commission to draft a new City Charter ? " The other alternative would provide a Charter revision commission Of nine men , only three to be appointed by the Mayor . In neither case would a new Charter be submitted to the voters until after Dec. 31 , 1961 . Because of this provision , the // Council 's bills were regarded generally as an effort by the city 's Democratic organization to spike the Rockefeller-Wagner plans to push Charter revision to a vote at the general election next Nov. 7 . Mayor Wagner had asked Governor Rockefeller to help him obtain state legislation to authorize him to appoint all nine members of a commission to write a new Charter . The rest of the commission described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows : two by Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa , two by City Council President Abe Stark and one each by Joseph T. Sharkey and Stanley M. Isaacs , the Democratic majority and Republican minority leaders of the council . The bills were referred to the Council 's Committee on General Welfare . Mr. Sharkey said he expected the committee would open public hearings two weeks . After yesterday 's Council meeting Mayor Wagner was told at a press conference that the nine Councilmen sponsoring the new bills had said that they had discussed both bills with their county leaders and had received the leaders ' full approval . The sponsors represented all five boroughs . One of these leaders is Mr. Sharkey , the Democratic chieftain in Brooklyn . Mayor Wagner replied only that the Council bills had not , been discussed with him . He would not comment on them , saying he had not seen them . He said that there should be a Charter revision commission representing all five boroughs to review the findings of the Commission on Governmental Operations of the City of New York . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the commission . Carmine G. De Sal* , embattled county leader in Manhattan , said last night that the five borough organizations supported the Council bills . He voiced doubt that Charter reform was urgent . The commission the Council proposed would study the Moore unit proposals . Any new Charter proposed would have to be approved in a city referendum . Mr. Gerosa has been one of the chief opponents of Charter revision . The Moore Commission proposals would strengthen the office of the Mayor , reduce the authority of the Controler , weaken the offices of the five Borough Presidents and convert the Board of Estimate into an advisory agency . The Moore suggestions also would endow an enlarged City Council with the city 's sole legislative power . A statement issued yesterday on behalf of the sponsoring Councilmen virtually challenged the Governor and Mayor  --  without mentioning the Mayor  --  to attempt to get their Charter revision views before the electorate by by-passing the City Council . Normally the City Council would send a home rule message to the Legislature asking that legislation be adopted providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council 's hostility to the Rockefeller-Wagner proposals , however , the Governor and Mayor are understood to favor a state bill incorporating their views that would be applicable to all cities with a population of 1,000,000 or more . New York is the only city in the state meeting this description . Earlier yesterday , the Liberal party telegraphed Governor , Rockefeller and Mayor Wagner to support a plan for a Charter commission whose members would be named by the Mayor . The Liberals urged public hearings by such a commission , with a report on the proposed Charter by Aug. 1 to enable a vote at the election Nov. 7.                     