@@721595

txt John A. McCone , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , disclosed tonight that he would resign when the Kennedy administration takes over Jan. 20 . The 58-year-old Los Angeles Republican said he was determined to return to private life next month although his term as commission chairman did not expire until 1963 . Mr. McCone revealed his plans on " Meet The Press , " a ! ( National Broadcasting Company television program . He said his . wife had already gone to Pasa-I ' dena to reopen their home there .. Prior to Mr , McCone 's ann nouncement tonight , there were reports that he would step down 1 as chairman but would stay on ' the five-man commission for several-months to guide his successor . One seat has been left open to be filled by the new President . There was also speculation that Mr. McCone , an industrialist and engineer who sucIceeded Lewis L. Strauss in the // ( job in July , 1958 , would be asked by President-elect Kennedy to stay on as chairman . However , neither of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informants . Mr. McCone told associates he felt it would be " awkward " for . him to stay on as chairman because of his close personal and official ties to President Eisenhower . The new administration ; Mr. McCone believed , should be able to make its views felt through its ' own commission chairman on such critical matters as the current ban on nuclear testing and proposals for development of atomic power . Mr. McCone explained that he had taken the A. E. C. post " at President Eisenhower 's request , with the understanding that if my services were satisfactory , I would stay on for the balance of his term . " He added that he had not been asked to confer with anyone in the incoming Administration , although he had offered to cooperate with his successor He said that he doubted whether the President-elect had named a successor , " because he 's been extremely busy with his Cabinet . " His own strong  --  and frustrated  --  advocacy of resumption of underground tests was , he insisted , a minor factor in his decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - stay on the commission , even if he resigned as chairman , because his former status and considerable influence would make things " embarrassing " for his successor . The name of Robert , publisher of The Santa Fe New Mexican , has figured heavily as a possible successor to Mr. McCone . Mr. is a friend of Senator Clinton P. Anderson , the New Mexico Democrat who heads the Joint Atomic Energy Committee . He was the first United States representative to the International Atomic Agency in Vienna , and prepared two reports for the Anderson committee on atomic energy . Tonight on television , Mr. McConecoupled his resignation announcement with a renewed warning against probable secret Soviet violations of the nuclear weapons - testing moratorium which.the United States has observed for more than two years . He said it would be " unwise " for the United States to wait another six months before beginning underground and outerspace testing of nuclear devices , while proper international safeguards remain lacking . Concerned Over Test Ban Mr. McCone , along with Defense Department officials , had become highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States moratorium on nuclear weapons testing . Mr. McCone felt that the twoyear-old moratorium , has given the Soviet Union the opportunity to improve weapons while the United States voluntarily remained at a stand-still . Mr. McCone 's feeling was that this situation encouraged stalling by the Soviet Union in the negotiations being held at Geneva to work out a plan for nuclear disarmament that would include an inspection system . He told a news conference recently that while there was no evidence of new Soviet nuclear explosions , " since there are so many advantages to them ( in resuming testing ) and there is no means of detection , and the costs are very moderate , I can surmise that they are proceeding in the absence of any proof that they are not . " The view urged by the State Department that open unilateral resumption of testing by the United States would jeopardize the Geneva negotiations and prejudice the American position in the eyes of the world has prevailed over Mr. McCone 's and the Defense Department 's worries , however . Mr. McCone has played an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarmament negotiations and in working out agreements with other nations on advancing nuclear energy for industrial purposes . Last October , he headed the United States mission to the fourth conference of the International Atomic Agency in Vienna , set up to further President Eisenhower 's atoms-forpeace program . At the meeting , the United States offered four nuclear reactors to the agency . He served as a special deputy to Defense Secretary James V. Forrestal , in the Truman Administration , and later was named Under Secretary of the Air Force .                     