@@727601

txt After a period of tutelage by patriarchs of the Senate , professors of law schools and officials of labor and industry , Senator Edward M. Kennedy is preparing to step forward with his own legislative program . In the next few weeks , the Massachusetts Senator plans to introduce legislation proposing tax incentives to industry to provide housing and employment for the poor , reforms in the draft and expansion of health care for the needy . As he fully appreciates , presentation of a Kennedy legislative program will undoubtedly be interpreted as an attempt to " upstage " the Nixon Administration and to lay the basis for a Presidential bid in 1972 . But Senator Kennedy is emphasizing that he is approaching the new Administration in a cooperative rather than a competitive mood . Discussing his approach to the Nbion Administration from his nar position as Democratic whip , or assistant leader , of the Senate , Senator Kennedy said in an interview : " We are in an entirely different period than in the 1950 's , when Bob Taft said , ' The role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , given the kind of problems we have today , can not afford that attitude . " I think the President will find a responsible kind of support on the Democratic side . We will come up with responsive alternatives but at thel same time there will be a willingness to give the President the benefit of the doubt . " At least in one respect , the Senator may assist and encourage the new Administration with his espousal of the principle of tax credits to help provide housing and employment for the poor . On this approach a significant convergence of views is developing between young liberals led by Senator Kennedy and the Nixon Administration . A Cool Reaction Among the Southern conservatives and the older , New Deal liberals , President Nixon is encountering an initially cool reaction to his idea , advanced during the campaign , of using tax incentives in the antipoverty program . Wilbur D. Mills , the Arkansas Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , has often said that he is opposed to tax credits in principle , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain specific cases . But now Senator Kennedy , drawing on ideas developed by his brother , the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy , is ready to take the initiative away from the Administration by sponsoring legislation giving industry tax credits to locate in slum areas and to . build housing for the poor . The Senator 's legislation to reform the draft , incorporating ideas he has developed over the last three years , - would introduce the lottery concept for determining priorities in draft calls and would seek . to move toward a volunteer Army by using civilians in such nonmilitary jobs as clerks and drivers . His health legislation will concentrate on extending health care to . the needy through expansion of neighborhood health centers . End of Freshman Role In a symbolic sense , the introduction of the Kennedy legislative program will mark the graduation of Senator Kennedy from a freshman status into the role of a national legislator in the Senate . Since coming to the Senate five years ago , Senator Kennedy has largely played a quiet , backseat role , tending to the smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his colleagues as a " Senate man . " Now , as newly elected Democratic Whip , he is intent on stepping forward as a party spokesman on domestic policy . As party Whip , Senator Kennedy recognizes that he will be called upon to speak out on issues on which he has been relatively quiet and about which he is not particularly informed , such as economic policy and disarmament . For the last several weeks , therefore , he has been going through a deliberate educational process , conferring with Harvard and Boston College law professors , dining with labor leaders , meeting with business executives and assembling a growing staff of young aides and lawyers . . At the same time , in almost a grandfatherly way , Senator ' Mike Mansfield , the 65-year-old Senate majority leader , has taken him in tow and tutored him in the ways of Senate leadership . When pictures are being taken or news conferences held , Senator Mansfield always arranges for Senator Kennedy to be in a center position . More and more , Senator Mansfield has let Senator Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor , such as the calling of the executive calendar of nominations . Within the all-important committee structure of the Senate , Senator Kennedy is also developing a legislative base that will give him authority to speak out on domestic issues as well as to investigate any shortcomings by the Nixon Administration . Probably his most Amportant committee move will be assumption of the chairmanship of the Judiciary Committee 's Subcommittee on Administrative Practices  --  a panel with a broad enough mandate to permit him to investigate most departments and agencies of the Government . The subcommittee is charged with making " a full and complete study and investigation of administrative practices and procedures within the departments and agencies of the Government in the exercise of their rule-making , licensing , investigatory , law enforcement and adjudicatory functions . " Since most departments and agencies engage in at least one of those functions , the subcommittee gives Senator Kennedy a virtual hunting license  --  provided he does not poach . on the jurisdictions of other committees . t He will remain as chairman of the special Committee on the Aging as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given him a limited foreign policy forum to explore problems in Vietnam and the Middle East . On the Labor and Public Welfare . Committeee , Senator Kennedy will become a member of the Health , Education and 4anpower subcommittee . Initially , he was slated to become chairman of the Manpower subcommitteee , which handles most of the poverty programs , but he decided against the assignment because of his new responsibilities as Whip . He will , however , take over the chairmanship of a special labor subcommittee considering extension of the National Science Foundation , thus giving him an indoctrination in science policy                     