@@722040

txt Chancellor Adenauer began fighting for his political life today as a result of his party 's heavy losses in the West Ger , man elections . With the Christian Democratic Union 's parliamentary majority wiped out yesterday , the 85-year-old Chancellor lost no time in seeking a coalition with the Free Democratic party led by Dr. Erich Mende . The Free Democrats made the biggest gain in the election . Dr. Adenauer rejected the bid of Willy Brandt , West Berlin 's Mayor , for a national coalition : embracing the Social Democrats , as well as the two other parties . ' . A coalition with the Socialists , the Chancellor said at a news conference , " would not corre- ; spond with our democratic feeling . " The big question was not whether Dr. Adenauer could set the terms for a coalition but whether he could survive the demands for his retirement and his replacement as Chancellor by Dr. Ludwig Erhard , the 64-year-old Minister of Economics . There was considerable speculation that the Free Democrats would agree to Dr. Adenauer 's continuing as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry the onus for accepting the hard decisions facing West Germany . With the long , bitter campaign and the vote at last out of the way , a beginning was in for the long-awaited pub-sight lie discussion of these decisions . 11 The Free Democrats ' news service , commenting on the-election results , which left the I ) party holding the balance of power , said : " An epoch of German postwar history has ended . The coming months and years will destroy many illusions and place extraordinary demands on our people . " The statement reflected a continuing but decreasing reluctance to specify the demands . Two are accepted by almost all West German officials as inevitable : the acceptance of the OderNeisse border as Germany 's frontier with Poland and some form of de facto recognition for Communist East Germany , with all that means to the loss of hope for the reunification of Germany . No one here is yet sure whether the West Germans are going to be asked to accept new limitations on their armament , particularly atomic armament . It is feared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ject of negotiations with the , Soviet Union . Dr. Adenauer called his news conference seeminely to show he had not been overwhelmed by the election results , though ' it was generally interpreted as an anti-Adenauer rather than an anti-Christian Democratic vote . He reviewed the returns , which gave the Christian Democratic Union and its Bavarian affiliate , the Christian Social Union , 241 seats , the Social Democrats 190 and the Free Democrats sixty-six . A. loss of forty seats was suffered by the Christian Democratic-Christian Social combination . The Socialists gained twenty-two seats and the Free Democrats twenty-three . Dr. Adenauer 's forces polled 45.3 per cent of the vote , the Socialists 36.3 and the Free Democrats 12.7 . All the minor parties were shut out . None was near the minimum 5 per cent of the national vote needed to win parliamentary representation . Dr. Adenauer , who has served ' three successive four-year terms as Chancellor , said the , Christian Democrat- ChristianSocial group had been in the ! forefront for the twelve years of the Federal Republic 's existence and " discontent developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . " He took note of the widespread conviction that his failure to go to West Berlin after the Communists closed the border with East Berlin last month had cost him heavily . He said that Ernst Lemmer , the Minister for All-German Affairs , called him at 7:30 on the morning of Aug. 13 , a few hours after the Communists began the border closing operations , and expressed his fears of an uprising in East Germany . That was the only reason he did not go to West Berlin earlier , Dr. Adenauer said . Dr. Adenauer said he had opposed the idea of a minority government . He noted that he had worked in a coalition Cabinet before with the Free Democrats and saw no reason why it should not be possible again . The important thing , he said , is to assure the continuation of the Government 's foreign policy without interruption . " The West must remain united and strong so the Soviet Union will agree to negotiations , " Dr. Adenauer said . " My aim was and is negotiations with the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has said , however , that he would give up his job as West Berlin Mayor only for a more responsible post such as Chancellor . His plans were clearly in abeyance until the political situation clarified and the question of a three-party coalition was finally decided .                     