@@722746

txt Negotiating With Russia Concrete Threat We had absolutely nothing to thank him for , but if we wanted to be humane to him , the best way of doing so was to make our threat absolutely unambiguous  --  to save him and his colleagues occasion for wondering whether their headlong retreat was really necessary . What would be intolerable to Khrushchev personally and to his position of leadership in the Soviet Union would be the feeling that he had yielded prematurely to a weak threat rather than having backed away appropriately from a serious menace . We should thus expect from a premature softening of our tone not only no payoff but actually the reverse . The above remarks apply equally to the letter in the same issue by Prof. John H. Herz , who seems to be appalled at the mere thought of confrontation , and doubly appalled that we should risk inflicting " humiliating loss of face " upon our opponent . The actual condition of the world simply does not allow room for such squeamishness , and I am speaking as intently as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Santa Monica , Calif. , Nov. 2 , 1962 . For Holiday Cheer To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES . Over the years the warm ; - ? . : - .. ponze of your readers to our annual holiday appeal has helped provide special Thanksgiving and Christmas festivities for hundreds of Golden Agers at the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House . The area served by our Neighborhood House on Manhattan 's East Side has an unusually large aged population . Many of these people are in their seventies and eighties , and live alone in dreary tenement rooms . Their small pensions provide basic necessities , but the pleasures which most of us take for granted are rare and special treats . Each Thanksgiving and each Christmas , the Golden Agers gather at the Neighborhood House to plan and prepare their own holiday dinners . Traditional turkey and trimmings are served by volunteers and the evening often concludes with song and dance . Most important is the quality of gaiety and fellowship that poignantly captures the very essence of the holiday spirit . Lenox Hill is a , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has been serving the community for almost seventy years . Checks , either large or small , may be made payable to Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association , 331 East /0th Street , New York 21 , N. Y. PEGGY LEHMAN KORN , President , Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association . New York , Nov. 5 , 11163 . Eleanor Roosevelt Lauded Trade Union Leaders Describe Her Aid to Working Women To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Among the millions who mourn the passing of Eleanor Roosevelt and who were the beneficiaries of her energetic and far-sighted humanitarianism are thousands of working women who were aided by the Women 's Trade Union League . Mrs. Roosevelt was an active member of the Women 's Trade Union League for many years . Founded to help organize women into unions and to help end the exploitation of immigrant women , the league worked also in the fields of education and legislation for the benefit of working women and the entire community . Mrs. Roosevelt taught classes in the league . She was instrumental in raising funds for the purchase of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the financial beneficiary of her earnings from her first radio programs . She was a stanch beacon light throughout the depression when women could not stand on breadlines like their unemployed brothers , when they had no other place ? to turn to but the hospitable Women 's ' Trade Union League 's clubhouse . Eight years ago the league , feeling that the organizing , and educational programs were efficiently handled by unions ( many of whom the league had originally organized sold the clubhouse and a trust fund was established , the proceeds being used to provide college scholarships for young women in New York . livIrs . Roosevelt was chairman of the Women 's Trade Union League trust fund , and lways had time , in the midst of her busy life , for board meetings . She gave a memorable tea , each June in her home , for , the young women who had won the scholarships . These occasions were memorable not only for the cash awards made to the students hut , as many of them wrote , for the inspiration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irreparable , as thousands of women , not only in this city , but throughout the world , will testify from the depths of their hearts . ROSE SCHNEIDERMAN , Vice Chairman ; GEREL RUBIEN , Trustee , Women 's Trade Union League Trust Fund , Inc . New York , Nov , 8 , 1962 . Philadelphia Urban Renewal To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Naturally , we were all tremendously encouraged by your Nov. 6 editorial " No Architect . " I Aside from the satisfaction I feel for our city , our program and our profession , I was pleased to note that you have created an aphorism that will find its way into the folklore of the enterprise system : " Good business without . good design does not make good cities . " EDMUND N. B .. , , CoN . Executive Director , City Planning Commission . Philadelphia , Nov. 8 , 1962 . Native of Liberty Island To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a news story on the 76th anniversary of the dedication of the Statue of Liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murphy was the only man to have been born on . Liberty Island . This statement is not correct . May I say , proudly , I was born on the island on Sept. 19 , 1899 . My father and family lived in a Government house , as he worked in. the powerhouse and on the equipment that lighted the torch . GEORGE D. CODY . Floral Park , L. I. , Nov. 1 , 1962 . Call for Restraint on Cuba Said to Ignore Nature of Opponent The writer of the following letter , a senior staff member of the RAND . Corporation and formerly professor of international relations at Yale , is the author of " Strategy in the Missile Age . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The letter published Oct. 28 from Prof. Roger Fisher , Donald Brennan and Morton Halperin urging American restraint in negotiations on the Cuban issue is remarkable for the absence of any allusion to the special character of the opponent . The clear implication is that , the Soviet opponent is in most relevant respects simply a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country about the Soviet Union is by now very great . The problem is to apply that knowledge discriminately and persistently . Leaders of opinion in foreign affairs ought to be responsible for doing so . The argument that it is the wiser part of diplomacy for us to make sure that Khrushchev has an easy way out of his predicament , and to avoid anything smacking of " humiliation , " is an argument appropriate to pre-1914 diplomacy . Neither his venturesome missile advance into the Caribbean nor his unashamed retreat under the strong American reaction would fit the patterns of pre-1914 diplomacy . Study Cited Both are , on the other hand , beautifully explained in anticipation , by such a " codification " of Bolshevik behavior as that published over ten years ago by my colleague , Dr. Nathan Leites , under the title " The Operational Code of the Politburo " ( a more complete version bore the title " A Study of Bolshevism " ) . This study has now received monumental confirmation in the Cuban affair . Among Soviet characteristics that Dr. Leites pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a moral imperative to the Communist leader that he must advance against the opponent wherever opportunity affords ; he must not , in other words , be lax in carrying forward the revolution . On the other hand , it is equally imperative that he must at no point subject to grave risk or hazard the basic achievement already consolidated . He must , therefore , be absolutely ready to retreat wherever occasion requires it , without regard to childish notions of " humiliation " and the like , provided , of course , the menace is real and not fake . If this conception is accepted ' and it represented the consensus of American Sovietologists even before the recent spectacular confirmation ? then the main thing surprising about the events of the past weeks has been our eagerness to soften our tone the moment Khrushchev showed his readiness to surrender .                     