@@725186

txt The muse of history , watching the United States , the Soviet Union , and the areas in between , could well hold her breath in the weeks just ahead . There is a loosening of hitherto rigid diplomatic positions in this area . A venture has been started to ease the " German question " which is the central and most stubborn issue in the West . If this goes well , a treaty on the spread of nuclear weapons conceivably could follow , and a partial renewal of the thaw with the Soviet Union  --  despite the high tension over Vietnam . This is the surrounding atmosphere for the visits to President Johnson of British Prime Minister Harold Wilson and West German Chancellor Ludwig Erhard . Peace feelers out The moment is considered more favorable for such an attempt than any time since the partial test ban . Obstacles are enormous . No one of those concerned is willing to be an optimist . But the stakes are ultimately those of nuclear war or peace , so the attempt is being made . For some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but intently by the United States , Britain , and West Germany . The Soviet Union keeps its own counsel . It drops only the smallest hints that it might be interested . But it continues to listen . The importance of the chief matter the President will discuss with his visitors is shown by the cracks that begin to appear in the hitherto blank walls of separation : ? Germany has shown , in a four-day debate in the Bundestag on the post-election program of Chancellor Erhard , that it is willing to slacken a little its pressure to " share " in the control of allied nuclear weapons . Even a modest concession could make a . big difference . It might then be possible to repair the . NATO alliance . The ' main cause of its recent division the deep-lying reluctance of Europe to place its ' survival completely in the hands of the United States with respect to nuclear weapons ? might then be mended . ? The Soviet Union has dropped some hints that are subject to this interpretation : ' Despite its sharp hostility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it might still be willing to join a treaty to check nuclear proliferation . It would first require that Germany 's hand be , kept off the actual NATO nuclear trigger . But if this can be arranged , the Kremlin may be ready to put up with a NATO-planned and guided nuclear force , without using this as a reason to block a treaty on the spread of nuclear weapons . Meanwhile : ? President Johnson has been quietly searching for ways ( 1 ) to mend the alliance , ( 2 ) to check the spread of atomic weapons before it is too late , and ( 3 ) to restore the d  --  tente with the Soviet Union despite friction over Vietnam . The three are interrelated . To resolve them is Mr. Johnson 's present grand design in the West . If the coup could be pulled off , it would give him a major victory in foreign policy to offset , in part , his frustrations in Vietnam . It might even aid , ultimately , in persuading the Soviet Union not to oppose so strongly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communism . ? The British Government is showing extraordinary vigor and finesse in the indispensible role of " third party mediation . " With Britain freed , now , from the older form of colonial conflict that caused special hostility with the Soviet Union , Prime Minister Wilson and Foreign Secretary Michael // West German Chancellor Ludwig Erhard 's visit to Washington this week is his second this year . It was just six months ago that he and President Johnson , when photographed above , were engaged in their first round of 1965 talks . // Stewart are probing and prodding Washington and Moscow by turns . They are using the great skills developed by the British parliamentary system on the giants of West and East who are both more concerned with blocking each other than in accommodation  --  but are both aware of the great danger of the nuclear arms race . A round of critically important secret diplomacy will begin a more open phase when Messrs . Wilson and Erhard meet with the President . The first object is to repair the Western alliance , bypassing the objections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well with the first , is to attempt a nuclear agreement with the Soviet Union . The United States is taking the lead with Germany . Britain has been sounding out the Soviet Union . Central issues The central questions are these : Will the Soviet Union accept a reasonable minimum of nuclear sharing by the NATO allies ? What is a reasonable minimum ? Below ' . what point would the harm to the alliance begin to exceed any gain from a treaty with Moscow ? Even as the British and Americans try to negotiate answers , there is much skepticism , especially in Washington , as to the outcome . The " German question " ? what steps will lead back to a free and reunited Germany ? ? has been the most obstinate and impenetrable postwar issue between West and East . Even the smallest constructive steps have proved impossible because they would alter the delicate balance between the two sides . Officials here , and experienced " old hands " in the big civilian organizations concerned with foreign policy , are very reluctant to suggest that anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many will argue that the future is to the builders and not the pessimists , and that the attempt should be made . A primer for baffled citizens who can not grasp the intricate maneuvers that are under way should begin with the fact that most public statements are misleading . A dense thicket of dogmas has grown up around the German question since the war . Hardly a politician dares to challenge them . Thus : Germany " must " share in allied nuclear force . It " can not " continue to renounce nuclear weapons when its three principal allies all have them . Yet the Washington Post reported , after the Bundestag debate , " it appeared that Erhard and Foreign Minister Gerhard Schrtider can count on only minority support here for any strong demands for an allied or multilateral nuclear force . " Likewise some American officials acquainted with trends in Germany say that the appearance of an ultimatum from Germany is just that  --  an appearance  --  and that the German political parties or public opinion do not require a share in actual nuclear power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accordance with these claims of a " thaw in German attitudes . " Thus : the United States " must " support its German ally . Yet the Eisenhower as well as Kennedy and Johnson regimes have been extremely reluctant to admit Germany to more than a planning role . Washington has always been convinced that only one man in the West can make the great decisions to use , or threaten to use , nuclear weapons , or not to use them : the president of the United States . It has been generally hoped , despite various offers like the mixed  --  manned nuclear force for NATO , that Europe would come around to recognize the logic of this position and content itself with a genuine advisory function . Thus : any concession to the Soviet Union would only exhibit United States " weakness " and ' betray " the United States into the hands of Communist trickery . This is a view held by some groups of Americans , but so strongly held that American governments have been reluctant to talk much about negotiations with the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial test ban , have been negotiated . Secret diplomacy Add to these conflicts between public positions and private attitudes another ingredient : secret diplomacy . All parties have shied away from public discussion of the quiet talks that laid the groundwork for the Wilson and Erhard visits . None of the countries concerned wants to expose its hand only to have the attempt fail , with resulting disappointment and condemnation at home both for trying and failing . As a result , the opening negotiations have come through several stages in almost complete secrecy . Hardly anyone outside the various - governments is aware of the full significance of what is taking place . A quick historical review could start early this year with the resumed disarmament talks in Geneva . The West wanted to find out one thing : Would the Kremlin consider a treaty on nuclear spread while the war in Vietnam continued ? Kremlin answers Part of the answer became noisily clear  --  and has been confirmed many times during the year . The Soviet Union , whatever it may think privately , will not be persuaded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thaw in the West , and not even because of its quarrel with Communist China . It will bitterly oppose the American role in Vietnam with language , with maneuver , with some aid to Hanoi , though not , it seems , with military actions of its own . There remained the question whether Moscow would do business with the West on something else . The readings at Geneva sometimes suggested maybe , sometimes no . Geneva signs read There was no clear sign . It was the same when Ambassador W. Averell Harriman talked with Premier Alexei N. Kosygin in July . Mr. Harriman has had the best relationship of any American official with the Soviets because he never appeases , and is always direct and strong about the national interests of the United States and its full commitment to stop the spread of communism . They respect his honesty and realism . Mr. Harriman came away from Moscow enough interested in the possibility of maneuver that he then pressed the Germans at Bonn on what they could contribute . He was frank with them , too . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No doors slammed Soundings continued at the United Nations meetings this fall , and when British Foreign Minister Stewart again talked with Premier Kosygin last month , after meeting with Secretary of State Dean Rusk . No doors were opened , but no doors were slammed . The Soviet leaders seemed willing to wait and see what nuclear arrangements were made by NATO . The NATO ministerial talks , postponed until after the German elections , began when United States Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara went to Paris on his way to Saigon . They resumed this week with three American Cabinet members in attendance . No conclusions are yet available . But again the signposts were not unfavorable . The Germans seemed not dissatisfied with a kind of nuclear " sharing " that keeps the final control in the hands of the United States . This , if anything , would impress the Soviets . What kind of nuclear " sharing ? " This has to be talked out  --  first at this week 's meetings , - then in a shake-down period afterward . The present trend is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the United States . The other allies would share in planning and direction but not in command . Most everyone would be surprised if this emerged from the talks as a complete plan . A broad outline and a statement of principles are more likely , with details to be filled in , debates held in each country , and differences yet to be ironed out . Fresh start sought The jaded initials of the American MLF proposal and the British ANF are not likely to appear in a new pattern , in order to give a fresh start to the idea of a joint force . The mixed  --  manned force fs likely to be dropped . Of this concept , Prime Minister Wilson quoted German Defense Minister Kai  --  Uwe von Hassel as saying , " I would rather swim . " In his first debate on the nuclear problem in the Atlantic community , and its relationship to a detente with the Soviet Union , Mr. Wilson said : " I believe that the issues that we are debating today are of transcendent importance . Our approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign affairs and in defense will , as I have said , govern the pattern of world affairs for a decade and perhaps more than a decade ahead . " In the past few weeks there has been a renewal of concern among the Western allies about these big concerns and opportunities . It is learned that additional adjustments have been worked out , in the time gained by the postponement of the Erhard visit . The Washington talks begin on this up beat .                     