@@727598

txt President Nixon 's Cabinet officers have been instructed to begin immediately a complete review of their departmental budgets with the aim of a reduction in the appropriation ' request to Congress drawn up by former President Johnson . In a letter sent late last week to all heads of departments , Budget Director Robert P. Mayo outlined procedures for a rapid budget review and observed : " Most Americans expect us to be more careful and more frugal as well as more concerned , and we should not disappoint them . " He also said , " The actions we take now can provide us with room in the fiscal 1971 and later budgets to introduce and carry out our own initiatives and proposals  --  room that would otherwise be seriously pre-empted by existing programs and financial commitments if- we - are - not watchful . " Revisions in March The objective appears to . be submission- by Mr. Nixon to Congress of revisions in the budget requests sometime in March . Mr. Mayo said he would communicate each department 's recommendations for ? changes to the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each department head what the President had decided . Mr. Mayo did not rule out revisions upward in some programs and accompanying - appropriations requests " to meet the highest priority purposes . " But he added : " Any such additions should at a minimum be offset by recommended reductions in lower priority activities . " The letter did not insist on reduction in actual spending in the new fiscal year . Spending is ' heavily influenced by past decisions , laws and commitments . Rather , he instructed the Cabinet officers to " aim in total for reductions in planned obligations commitment of funds and appropriation requests . " This was his method of obtain // ing more " room " for Nixon Administration programs in the next budget . The department heads were asked to include in their review not only requests for the fiscal year 1970 but also items in the $4.5-billion catch-all supplemental request sent to Congress by the prior Administration for the current nscal year . Mr. Mayotgave these instructions to follow in the search for reductions : 9 " Examine closely all program expansions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce or eliminate those of lower priority . " He suggested there might be " Federal programs or parts of programs which private industry could do just as well ( or better ) . " 9If an objective is regarded as " essential , " then " evaluate carefully the amounts proposed to meet those objectives . " 9 " Be especially alert to proposals which ' lock in ' commitments that would have to be met in future years . " The Cabinet officers were told to propose new legislation if necessary " to close the ' open end ' on items which would make future substantial increases in spending relatively uncontrollable . " q " Propose deferral of any major budget request about which you are doubtful or uncertain until you have had time to get The New Yorke Times Robert P. Mayo the necessary staff work done ) and clarify your own position . " ' Mr. Mayo said the assumption ) " for the time being " should bel that the personnel ceilings established by last year 's taxexpenditure bill , imposing the 10 per cent income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he asked that each agency chief " send me separately , and as promptly as possible , your views on this matter . " For the rest of the current fiscal year , Mr. Mayo asked the department heads to " make every effort to begin program iedirections and expenditure reductions during the next five months so that a quick start can be made toward the objectives of our Administration . " . But he warned that any spending reductions " should be real cuts and should not be obtained by temporary deferrals which would have to be restored " and thereby raise the spending level for the fiscal year 1970 . In practice , such major items as veterans benefits , farm price supports and subsidies , and interest on the debt can not be reduced in the present review , mainly because laws are on the books that can not be changed quickly , if at all .                     