@@727193

txt INCIDENT IN BERLIN : Soviet soldiers turn back a group of young demonstrators on the grounds of a Soviet war memorial in West Berlin . The , young people had sought to persuade some East Berliners doing restoration work at the monument to strike . The incident occurred last week against the background of new East-West tensions over Berlin . Germany Bonn Plays a Softer Tune on Berlin BONN  --  The Nibelungian leitnotif of revenge  --  reprisal against the new East German curbs on access to West Berlin  --  dominated political and diplomatic activity in this capital on the Rhine early last week . By the weekend , however , the Wagnerian blasts seemed to be giving way to a calmer music . The East German restrictions , announced on June 11 , include a passport requirement for West Germans and a visa requirement for West Germans and West Berliners using the East German autobahn between West Germany and Berlin . They also will impose a surtax on freight transport across East Germany by West Berlin and West German carriers . " Hawks " within the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin access routes  --  the United States , Britain and France  --  take quick , tough action against the East Germans . However , these hardliners did not make any specific proposals ? at least not publicly  --  and one allied official was moved to comment privately , " What do they expect us to do , send in tanks ? " The Bonn Government did respond quickly with a series of measures to insulate West Berlin from the possible economic shock as a result of the new rules . The Cabinet adopted a variety of financial incentives to keep business interested in the city and to encourage travel between West Germany and the city . These measures , however , were largely defensive . Several hard reprisals were considered and rejected as unworkable ; Among these was an embargo on trade with the East Germans . Although the idea was not completely abandoned among Bonn 's " hawks , " it was largely agreed by the Government that such a reaction would do more harm than good , particularly to the West Berlin economy , which leans heavily on trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Permanent Council in Brussels decided to impose selective restrictions on East German travel to NATO countries through the Allied Travel Board in Berlin . Several other measures are to be discussed in Reykjavik , Iceland , where the NATO Council of Ministers is meeting this weekend .. Among them are a limitation on the activities of East German trade offices in NATO countries and a joint declaration ' of solidarity with West Berlin by the NATO nations . None of these measures is likely to force East Germany to rescind its new travel rules and Bonn ' . knows it . Bonn itself is reluctant to block trips by East Germans to its territory because that would be still another wedge driven between the two Germanies . As for East German travel to other NATO countries , one allied official here described it as " peanuts . " - By the end of the week , Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger and Foreign Minister Willy Brandt were warning against letting East Germany ' provoke Bonn into hasty countermeasures that would compromise West Germany 's long-range goal of achieving reconciliation with the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Berlin situation need not erode West Germany 's ultimate and chief goal of achieving national reunification Within the framework of a peaceful , stable Europe . Both Kiesinger and Brandt noted last week , for example , that among the Communist countries of Eastern Europe themselves there was criticism of East Germany 's ef-. forts to revive the cold war . In other words , by putting new pressure on Berlin , East Germany might be driving itself deeper into isolation . In this context , therefore , perhaps the most effective countermeasure taken so far was Brand't 's long secret talk in East Berlin on Tuesday with Pyotr Abrasimov , the Soviet Ambassador to East Germany . Brandt , who went to East Berlin at Abrasimov 's invitation , undoubtedly spoke at some length about Bonn 's objections to the new East , German rules . But in his eight-hour ; , talk he also . the ' , Whole field . Problems involved in ? SovietWest German and . East-West problems . It has long been acknowledged : in Bonn that Moscow and not East Berlin holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously were not holding peace negotiations . Moscow 's attitude toward Bonn is no doubt as adamant as ever . But Brandt 's adventurous trip into East Berlin was at least a step - forward on ' the long road toward the . kind of Soviet-West German ' Peade that would have to precede ; ' any solution of : the German Ainesti ? PHILIP SHASECOPP                     