@@722161

txt can Republic , Dec , 2 ? Thirteen ! Air Force pilot officers asked ! President Joaquin Balaguer , tonight to replace the Secretary of Armed Forces and prevent the establishment of " a new . military dictatorship " in the , Dominican Republic . The officers delivered their , letter , challenging Maj. Gen. Pedro Rafael Rodriguez Echavarria as Secretary of State for the Armed Forces in the midst of a political crisis , highlighted by this move . The officers said General Rodriguez Echavarria had " betrayed the ideals of the air force . " They recalled that the air force had inspired the revolt against the attempted coup by members of the family of the late Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina two weeks ago . Inquiry Hits Dictator 's Son Earlier today , a Government investigation of the killing of six prisoners held for trial in the assassination of Generalissimo Trujillo implicated the Gen. Rafael L. Trujillo Jr. , son of the late dictator , and two ; high-ranking military officers . At . the same time , the Government has decreed an amnesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 . The thirteen air force offi-1 cers indicated that they would no longer serve under Gen. Rod riguez Echavarria , who was air , force chief of staff until his ap-I pointment to the top Cabinet post last month . " We want to be on the side of the people , " said Lieut . Col. Milton Gonzalez Pomares , deputy , chief of staff of the Air Force , in a statement in behalf of the : group . Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria is , backing the continuance in office of President Balaguer against a general strike in support of a demand by opposition political groups that Dr. Balaguer resign . The letter , which offered the resignation of the thirteen pilots unless Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria was replaced , was delivered to a former Secretary of State for the Armed Forces , Gen. Rafael Gonzalez Cruz- , to be presented to President Balaguer during the evening . Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria was advised by telephone of the Officers ' move . Gen. Rodriguez Echavarria , under the Constitution , is next in line for the Presidency in his post as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " ultimatum " against him were represented by four of their number at a private home here , where they met with correspondents . A report of their stand ran quickly through Opposition political circles . Some of the officers later met leaders of the Opposition . The officers said that the plan to carry out the air force action against the Trujillo family 's control of this island republic after the assassination of Generalissimo Trujillo last May 30 was four or five months old . The leadership for this move was given by General Rodriguez , Echavarria two weeks ago when two brothers of the dictator , Hector and Arismendi , planned to take over from President Balaguer . They were forced into exile . " We want the armed forces to be truly out of politics , " the air force officers said tonight . " This is not what we understand General Echavarria is doing . " The Government 's inquiry , into the death of prisoners who ' had been linked to the assassination of Generalissimo Trujillo first became known during the day . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the six prisoners to the place they were slain had been ordered by Gen. Rafael L. Trujillo Jr. , a son of the late dictator , and two other officers . The two were identified as Col. Luis Jose de Leon Estevez , Inspector General of the Air Force , and Col. Gilberto Sanchez Rubirosa , brother of the vice president of the official Dominican party . Colonel de Leon Estevez is a brother-inlaw of General Trujillo . The general , who headed the country 's armed forces after his , father 's death , left the Dominican Republic last month . The ' two other officers also went into exile . The five-day-old strike was still widely effective despite exitraordinary efforts by the Gov , ernment and armed forces to break it . Armed patrols were on duty in the streets of the capital today , but there was no repetition ; lof the street demonstrations ; and clashes with security forces that occurred during the week . ) Attempts to bring together the Dominican Government and leaders of the opposition National Civic Union to resume talks on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Opposition radio to return to the air without censorship . The Opposition radio has been si- , Oppositio by the armed forces since the strike began . The prisoners were killed on , the afternoon of Nov. 18 , the day General Rafael Trujillo is believed to have left the country . The prisoners had been taken from the La Victoria Prison without judicial order . The Government announced ) that a police major , Americo ' , Dante Minervino , former commandant of La Victoria Prison , and a police second lieutenant , Francisco Antonio Tejada , secorid in command at the prison , had been jailed pending al further investigation of the ; death of the prisoners . Fereico A. Cabral Noboa , a lawyer who was head of the intelligence section of General Rafael Trujillo 's joint services command , was said to have been ' implicated by the Government 's report on the inquiry . Opposition leaders began showing mounting concern over the economic impact of the strike on workers and poorer , families . Business men who sympathize with the opposition were paying their strikers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and labor representatives met with President Balaguer and Opposition leaders in an effort to explore the possibility of resuming talks on a political settlement . The results were not conclusive . Dr. Viriato A. Fiallo , leader of the National Civic Union , asserted that any settlement must not subordinate the civil power to the military . He added that the " highly successful strike against the most adverse conditions " was a clear demonstration that Balaguer can not establish an effective civil Government . 1 The Secretary of State for Agriculture , Miguel Alvarez , has presented his resignation to Dr. Balaguer.                     