@@727647

txt Visitors to India are awestruck by the poverty and squalor , by the hunger and illiteracy , by the vast slum areas in the major cities where thousands sleep on the streets . Is American aid helping India , they ask , or is this Asian nation a bottomless pit ? The answer , happily , is encouraging . Some American and Indian economists predict self-sufficiency in food and grain for the country within the next few years ? and even the ability to do without foreign-government assistance by 1977 , perhaps earlier . Accomplishments noted American Ambassador Chester Bowles , long a supporter of foreign aid , concurs . " If you look on the positive side of the Indian balance sheet , " Mr. Bowles contends , " there are some impressive economic accomplishments which have been obscured by the impact of two serious droughts . " Some of these post-1950 accomplishments , according to Mr. Bowles , are : ? India 's electrical-power capacity now is five times its 1953 output , and it should double again in the next five years . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than 50,000 in 1966 . ? Four times as many youngsters now are going to school . ? The number of acres under irrigation has been increased by 30 million to 80 million . ? Last year , nearly 16 million acres of farmland were planted with new high-yielding wheat and rice , and this acreage will increase this year . ? A vigorous nationwide program has been launched in an attempt to reduce India 's annual population growth from the present : 2.4 percent to 1 percent by 1971 . " These basic achievements were made possible by American nearly $9 billion worth and other foreign assistance and by a generally able Indian administration , " Mr. Bowles maintains . During the past 12 years , the United States has sent 55 million tons of food grains to help meet India 's food deficits . At the same time it has been trying to help India // More rice for India A steadily increasing acreage of high-yield rice , plus other grains developed with United States help , is helping surmount India 's perennial grain shortage . Further reproduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-sufficiency in few years ? // become self-stifficient in food by supplying more fertilizer than any other country and by granting credits to build two large fertilizer factories in Visakhapatnam and Trombay . ? Along with the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations , the United States is assisting India in the development of high-yielding varieties of rice , wheat , and other grains . These were credited for last year 's bumper food crop . At the request of the government , Americans , now are assisting with India 's vital family-planning program . ( Unless the population explosion is contained , India will have a billion mouths to feed in 1990 , more than even the United States with its bumper crops can ever hope to feed . ) American aid is also backing nine major irrigation projects which will eventually bring water to nine million arid acres . And , to bring electricity to the farms , the United States has helped build a third of India 's 30 power projects . Among these projects are India 's first nuclear  --  power station at Tarapur , which is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the country in Bihar ; and the second largest hydroelectric project in South Asia at Sharavathi . Nonproject loans made During the past 15 years , the United States has made available machinery , spare parts , raw materials , and other industrial supplies valued at almost $21/2 billion , to modernize and expand Indian industries . In recent years , a substantial part of American aid has been in the form of non-project loans , so named because they are not designed for a specific project . This money is used to finance the import requirements needed for agriculture and industry as well as health and education . Because India desperately lacks foreign exchange to buy materials abroad , these nonproject loans make it possible for government projects and private firms to secure vital imports . Americans looking over this impressive aid program to India may ask what the United States can reasonably expect in return for such assistance . Mr. Bowles has this answer : " If our primary objective is to assure unquestioning support for our foreign-policy objectives or servile gratitude toward a beneficent Uncle Sam , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Many congressmen , even former President Lyndon B. Johnson , have been irritated by what often appears as India 's " anti-American " policy . As an example , New Delhi has long opposed United States policy in Vietnam . Prime Minister Indira Gandhi also followed Soviet policy in the Middle East war by siding with the Arabs against the Israelis . This lost India the friendship of the Jewish and many liberal congressmen . But , as Mr. Bowles points out , " though we may be angered on occasion by criticism of American policies by the very nations we are striving to help , we should not allow our irritations to obscure the central objective of foreign aid . " Mr. Bowles feels India is doing just that . First in a series on the impact of foreign aid in India .                     