@@721690

txt The Kennedy Administration increased today its efforts to push a relaxed Congress into action on the President 's anti-recession program . Unemployment and the general sag in the economy were pointedly dramatized for public and Congressional attention at a White House conference this morning among the President , Cabinet members and party leaders from the Capitol . Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas , spokesman for the Congressional group , left the White House saying that he believed the economic situation was the most urgent since the depression of the Nineteen Thirties . President Kennedy , he continued , will probably urge Congress to act swiftly on his antirecession program when he goes before the nation on television tomorrow night in a news conference . Need for Fast Action Cited Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg , who has just completed a five-state tour of economically depressed areas , did much of the talking in the White House session . The burden of Mr. Goldberg 's report , according to the men who heard it , was that the recession was critical and that quick action was needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hodges and Secretary of Agriculture Orville L. Freeman reviewed the economic picture from the perspective of their agencies . Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon covered the balance-of-payments situation . The President 's emphasis on the economic problem was received at the Capitol as an attempt to communicate some of his concern to a Congress that has been resting on dead center for six weeks . The annual spring complaints about Congressional sloth ? it normally kills time until after Easter  --  have arrived early this year , largely because the Capitol 's leisurely , business-as-usual pace contrasts so sharply with the White House 's calls for fiation . Despite Mr. ' Kennedy 's attemps to create a sense of crisis , Congress has so far shown no. sign of changing its habits - this ? year . Although it assembled six weeks ago , House Republicans did not complete their committee assignments until yesterday . The Serrate continues-in a state of chronic recess , meeting two days a week to vote itself housekeeping money and to let members insert editorials , old speeches , television scripts and similar material in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allow Republicans their annual week of . Lincoln Day speaking around the country . The go-slow attitude in Congress is not without political overtone . Essentially , a public relations contest is taking place between the Administration and the Republican opposition to determine the political atmosphere in which legislation will be written . The Republican leaders are determined not to be stampeded into acquiescence with Mr. Kennedy 's proposals by accepting his thesis that the country is in an economic crisis . Their general argument is that in some areas things could be better but that Mr. Kennedy is b overstatina the case for political effect . The Democratic leadership has been absorbed in problems of its- own , such as reconstituting the House Rules Committee . And Mr. Kennedy 's own appeals to urgency have not yet fired the bulk of the party to a point lthere members are : demanding to get on with legislation faster than normal . There are three important bills on which the President would like quick action . These are an emergency extension of unemployment benefits , a program for rehabilitating depressed areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps from $1 to $1.25 and extend its coverage to 4,500,000 nthre workers . Of these , the last is the most difficult at the Capitol and may fester through the session . The House Ways and Means Committee will start hearings tomorrow on the unemployment compensation measure : The depressed-areas bill has been in the Senate Banking and Currency Committee for several weeks . Mike Mansfield of Montana , Senate Democratic- leader , said today that he hoped : the committee could finish work en the bill next week . He ha .. also asked committee chairmen to start work on the minithumwage and unemployinOnt-bei.tefits bills . . . ? Meanwhile , the White House itself slackened the pace it had set itself for sending messages to the Capitol . The education program , scheduled for delivery today , was delayed because Congress was taking the ' week off and because the Administration wanted to do more work on it , according to Pierre Salinger , Presidential press secretary . Those from the Capitol ; in addition to Speaker Rayburn and Senator Mansfield , : weie Vice President Johnson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative John W. McCormick of Massachusetts , the House leader , and Representative Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the House whip ,                     