@@725499

txt Proposed changes in the state 's 179-year-old divorce law drew new criticism today from the state 's Roman Catholic Bishops . The criticism was expressed by the State Catholic Welfare Committee , which represents the Bishops , on the eve of a historic legislative debate to revise the divorce law . But sponsors of the divorcereform bill said they regarded the last-minute opposition as mild and predicted that it would not deter the Legislature from passing the measure . The Senate is scheduled to act on the divorce reform bill tomorrow in its first televised session . Assembly Speaker Anthony J. Travia said the Assembly also would vote on the bill tomorrow , if the Senate completes its action in time . Legislators Get Letters In letters to all legislators today , Charles J. Tobin Jr. , secretary of the Catholic Welfare Committee , said that proposed changes in the divorce law " created a distorted emphasis upon the liberalization of divorce " and showed " too little concern for the great evils which divorce creates . " Mr. Tobin 's letter continued : " We believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective  --  ease of marriage dissolution ; particularly in those provisions of the bill , which , in effect , permit divorce by mutual consent . More stress might have been placed upon action to strengthen and preserve family life . " The reference to " divorce by mutual consent " was an apparent reference to a proposed new ground for divorce , which would apply to couples who live apart for two years after entering into a separation agreement . Since 1787 there has been only one ground for divorce in New York State  --  adultery . The proposed divorce reforir bill would broaden this grounc I to include homosexuality and sodomy and would add other new grounds in addition to living apart for two years after a separation agreement . The proposed additions are cruel and inhuman treatment , abandonment for two years and imprisonment for three consecutive years . Also the bill would . put residence limitations on out-of-state divorces by New Yorkers and would establish a conciliation , procedure designed to salvage troubled marriages . Today 's letter from the Catholic group was its first comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group has registered objections to provisions in earlier drafts of the bill . I " We have insisted that we do not seek to impose our be , liefs upon the civil law , " Mr. ' Tobin said . " However , because lof our concern for the social order , we point out the great devastation that divorce and remarriage continue to levy upon family life . We have strong conviction that legal ease of marriage dissolution ? is a major cause of family disorganization . " As it stands now , the divorcereform measure is a combined version of bills drawn by the legislative leaders and a joint legislative committee , /leaded by Senator Jerome L. Wilson , Democrat of Manhattan . Speaker Travia , a Brooklyn Democrat , said he had not read Mr. Tobin 's letter but added : " I think we have a bill that is fair to everybody , and we 're going with it . " Assemblyman Percy E. Sutton , a Harlem Democrat and a co-sponsor of the bill , said he did not think the Tobin letter would change the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted that the letter did not urge new amendments to the bill or a vote against it . " I think it was intended merely to place Mr. Tobin 's position before the Legislature , " Mr. Sutton said . In the Senate , workmen began setting up television cameras in the gallery tonight to record the divorce debate bill on film and tape . It will be the first time that a Senate session has been open to television of still cameras , although cameras have been allowed in the Assembly . The debate will be covered for both commercial and educational stations through a pooled camera arrangement . New York City stations that decide to assume a share of the cost of the pooling can show the debate tomorrow evening . Senate leaders decided to permit the cameras in their ornate chamber as an experiment , and they chose the debate on divorce , since it is likely to be the most important issue resolved by the Legislature this session . The Senators also were preparing for the cameras . " Mr. President , do I have to wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat of Manhattan , asked during today 's session . " Yeah , a tie and a blue shirt , " replied Senate Majority Leader Earl W. Brydges , Republican of Niagara Falls .                     