@@726182

txt The go-ahead for today 's attack on North Vietnam 's Thainguyen steel plant was given by President Johnson last . month after the collapse of efforts to open peace . negotia- , tions with Hanoi , officials . disclosed today . The ' officials reported . thatthe step was part of an over-all ' decision to " increase the price " of the war for the Hanoi regime . Under that decision , American forces also began mining North Vietnamese Rivers , shelling targets in the North from positions - in South Vietnam , and bombarding coastal areas from American ships . - Cloudy weather over the steel ' mill , in a region 38 miles north rof Hanoi , and the time required. : for aerial reconnaissance and. ; other preparations for the air : . raid contributed to a delay of roughly three weeks . The attack on the steel plant , which is the centerpiece of North Vietnam 's ambitions for modern industrial development , is potentially touchy for both the Soviet Union and Communist China . Communist China sent technicians , industrial equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant . Chinese leaders , like the North Vietnamese , have attached great importance to it . The Administration 's decision to mine rivers and strike a major industrial installation such as the Thainguyen plant also involved a calculated risk with the Soviet Union , which showed new willingness last month to help promote peace talks , There is a danger , officials acknowledged privately , that Moscow may react to the new American moves in the war by refusing to take an active part in future diplomatic maneuvers to get peace talks under way . But so far , analysts of Soviet affairs report that Moscow 's public response has been " relatively routine " despite new propaganda attacks . Military Urged Raids The Joint Chiefs of Staff had included the Thainguyen steel mill , the only such plant in Southeast Asia , on their list of recommended targets since early 1965 . President Johnson and his top civilian advisers vetoed any attack , presumably for political reasons . Officials said the President lifted the embargo in mid-February . Officials conceded privately ' that the attack on the steel plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam , with increased risk of civilian casualties ' among the workers at the plant . But the Government took the official position that the raid did not constitute escalation . Robert J. McCloskey , the State Department spokesman , was asked directly today by newsmen whether the attack on the Thainguyen plant represented escalation or a change in bombing policy . " No , it does not , " he replied . " It 's a plant that is involved in fabricating steel that is used for barges , that is used to increase infiltration . It 's steel that is used in bridges , all of which falls into the category of legitimate military targets . " Question of Limitations " By this explanation , " a newsman asked , " is there anything which fabricates any construction material in the North Vietnamese economy which could be excluded from the category of legitimate targets ? " Mr. McCloskey replied , " I just do n't know enough about what other things there are . " Privately , however , officials said attacks against other industrial installations that had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first American air attack on a target of any industrial importance occurred Dec. 15 , 1965 , when American fighter-bombers raided the large Uongbi thermal power plant , northeast of Haiphong . That plant was attacked again last month . Other power plants , including at least one in the Hanoi region , were also bombed previously . But otherwise , American policy has been to attack North Vietnamese lines of communication and transportation , military installations and troop and supply convoys used for supporting the war in the South . Big Factor in Planning North Vietnam 's economic planners envisaged the sprawling , multimillion-dollar iron and steel complex as the keystone of the country 's industrial development . They intended it to fill North Vietnam 's needs for cast iron and to provide a necessary base for developing exports to offset the country 's need to import food . Construction began , with Chinese help , in 1959 , with a target of eventual completion by 1967 . Peking provided machinery and financial aid and sent technicians to help the North Vietnamese build the plant . No over-all estimate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections of the plant were reported to have been in operation by 1964 and , according to American estimates , the plant was producing roughly 100,000 tons of cast and pig iron annually . Government analysts said it contributed oil drums and some fabricated steel products , such as bridge girders and steel sheeting for canal and river barges , for the war effort . It was not disclosed what part of the plant 's production went into military-related projects .                     