@@728025

txt The elderly farmer escorts a visitor around his prosperous-looking farm near this quiet northern Indiana town . There 's the corn field , he says , and there 's the potatoes . And over there is the marijuana . The farmer hastens to point out that he does n't cultivate the marijuana ? it just grows wild . Indeed , he considers it a headache . " It gets so thick around my storage lot that I have to pay good money to spray it so I can find my machinery , " he says . " Then , I 'm always shooing away people who come on my land to pick the stuff . " The plaint is a typical one in this lush farming area not far from Chicago . The hardy marijuana plant , with its tall , thick stalk and narrow , green , saw-tooth-edged leaves , grows m weedlike abundance along roads and drainage ditches here . It 's difficult and expensive to kill , and it has made the region something of a mecca for enterprising devotees of the hallucinogen who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $15 to $20 an ounce that processed marijuana brings on the clandestine market . " We 've arrested every type of individual ? white , colored , male , female , young and old  --  a real cross-section of the population , " says Sgt. Harry Young of the Indiana State Police , whose members regularly inspect cars parked along the roads near hear . ( It 's against the law to possess or cultivate marijuana , but not to have it growing wild on your property ) . A Bit of Hemp Lore Marijuana came to North Judson , as well as to other areas of the Midwest where it grows in abundance , as the upright and respectable hemp plant , technically called cannabis sativa . Mills that converted the tough fibers of the plant 's stalk into rope used to dot the Midwest . One mill operated in Remington , Ind. , just west of here . The Pilgrims brought the plant with them from England and used it to make clothing George Washington is said to have grown a patch of the stuff on his Mt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rope for sailing ships . As recently as World War II , when America 's hemp supply from India was threatened by Japan and synthetic substitutes had n't been developed , the Federal Government subsidized domestic growers . Now , hbwever , hemp cultivation has all but ceased in the U.S. , but the plant hangs on . " It 's extremely hardy and adaptable ? we 've seen it growing in sandy soil and in the most swampy areas , " says University of Illinois botanist Alan W. Haney . " It 's also very hard to get rid of . It takes a high concentration of poison to do the job . I 've seen plants that wilted after being sprayed , but sprang back within two weeks . " The plant 's hallucinogenic effect comes from a resin called tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC for short ) , which is found in its leaves and stems . Experts say the plant is best harvested when it reaches its mature height of eight to 16 feet . The plants are cut and hung upside-down to dry , allowing the hallucinogenic resin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dried to a crinkly brown , leaves and upper stalk are removed and crushed . Grass  --  or Grass ? Despite the abundance of wild marijuana , most U.S. users continue to purchase their supplies from underground channels that originate in Mexico . This is partly because it 's easier and less risky to buy the stuff than to grow it , and partly because the Mexican product is more potent than the domestic variety . " The trouble with home-grown grass is that that 's just what it 's like  --  grass , " contends one user , a 23-year-old Chicago schoolteacher . Nonetheless , some intrepid users have taken to growing the stuff on their own . One 20-yearold college student who lives with his family in a Detroit suburb has cultivated a small crop in his family 's garden for the past three years . " Every year I tell my mother I 'm growing gourds , and every year when there are n't any gourds I tell her that I planted them late or something , " says the student . He admits to spending a nervous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw his father working around his plot . " But it was all right , " he says . " He 'd very considerately put stakes on my plants and tied them for support . " Once his plants are grown and harvested , the Detroiter speeds the drying process by tying his leaves in a pillowcase and running them through a clothes dryer . " At the end of the summer , you 'll usually find two or three of my friends waiting for their pillowcases " at a Laundromat near Wayne State University in Detroit , he says . Other amateurs go in for marijuana cultivation in a bigger way . A hip young farmer in upstate New York , where wild marijuana is scarce and local police are less vigilant , is raising 500 plants ' for his friends in New York City . " Why should they pay for the stuff , when I can grow it so easily ? " he says .                     