@@724452

txt Senator Frank Church has called for major changes in United States policy on Asia . The Idaho Democrat , a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said that the United States should not have intervened in Vietnam following the French defeat there in 1954 . He recommended neutralization of Southeast Asia as a proper objective for the United States and suggested that a role he found for the United Nations as a guarantor of national boundaries in that area . Senator Church said that he hoped that the United States would never be forced to withdraw , but that if it came to that " we must be prepared for that possibility . " " Neutrality for all of Southeast Asia , for the whole of that great peninsula , is a proper obThe New York Time Senator Frank Church jective. providing that it is not a camouflage for a Communist takeover , " he said . Senator Church opposed proposals for extending the Vietnamese war to North Vietnam . He said it was " folly " to believe that escalation of the war to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition , he expressed the belief that expansion of hostilities to the north would inevitably bring the Chinese Communists into the war . On another Asian topic , Senator Church recommended substantial reductions in United States military forces on the truce line in Korea . His views were given in an interview in Ramparts , a magazine for Roman Catholic laymen . " There is no military necessity for so large a continued American presence along the 38th Parallel in Korea , and I think that we would give added credibility to our oft-spoken purpose of leaving Asia for the Asians if we were to commence to withdraw American forces from Korea , " Senator Church said . Asked whether the size of the United States commitment was not properly based on the vast military forces of Communist China rather than those of North Korea , Senator Church replied : " If we were to accept that premise , then it would follow that American troops must remain permanently on the 38th Parallel so long as Red China endures . " Senator Church dealt exclusively with the United States policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the January-February issue of the magazine . Ramparts is published by the Laymen 's Press in Menlo Park , Calif . Other Democrats Also Critical He indicated with his answers that he was among several Democratic members of Congress who have expressed growing restiveness over the course of United States policy , especially in South Vietnam . Others are Senators Mike Mansfield of Montana , who is majority leader ; Ernest Gruening Alaska ; J. W. Fulbright of Arkansas ; George of South Dakota ; Wayne Morse of Oregon ; E. L. Bartlett of Alaska ; Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island , and Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin . Of these legislators , Senators Gruening and Morse would like I o see United States Forces withdrawn from Vietnam now . Senator Mansfield , along lines similar to those enunciated by Senator Church , has argued forj Considering neutralization proposals favored by President de Gaulle of France . Senator has proposed a 14-nation conference to seek a political settlement in South Vietnam . Many observers here believe that a major foreign-policy debate is building up for the next session of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the heavy opposition ! to the Administration policies /nay come from . Democrats. : The doubts among the Senators appear to have developed ! on the basis of personal stud- : ies and judgments . Senator Church 's office , for example said in answer to an inquiry that he had received very little mail on the subject from his constituents . Supports Cutting of Trail Senator Church , in his de-1 tailed answers , supported the idea of interdicting the supply ' routes to the Communist Vietcong insurgents in South Vietnam . These routes have been identified as coming from North Vietnam through Laos into South Vietnam along the so-called Ho Chi Minh trail . The trail , named for the head of the North Vietnamese ! Communist regime , is actually : a system of jungle routes . The Communists are believed to use these routes to move not , only military hardware and supplies but troops as well . One of the major supply centers along the trail is said to be the Tchepone Airport in Laos near the South Vietnamese border . In recent days . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laos have been bombed and strafed , presumably by Laotians in American aircraft . The State Department has said only " no comment " to these reports . While endorsing possible moves to cut off Communist supply routes in South Vietnam in the current fighting . Senator Church made clear in his interview that he differed with the major premises of United States involvement in Southeast Asia . " It 's especially hard for a free , popular government to change course , " Senator Church said . " We have a tendency to oversell our policy with respect to any given country in such a way that public opinion hardens behind it . and then it becomes very difficult to change course . " I think we have to find the statesmanship to do this . It 's possible that we have swung . on the pendulum of public opinion , from the extreme isolationism of 30 years ago when the prevailing opinion in this country was that it did n't matter to us what happened abroad , to the opposite extreme where we regard it as an American responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now nominally anti-Communist . " This , in a sense , is an imperial attitude , even though we have no possessions and even though we are riot attempting to impose American rule upon any of these countries . However , unless we come to accept the fact that it is neither within the power nor the interest of the United States to preserve the status quo everywhere , our policy is doomed to failure . " Says Dulles Erred Discussing the situation in South Vietnam , Senator Church said : " Looking back upon it , I would say that Mr. Dulles the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles was mistaken when he persuaded President Eisenhower that we ought to intervene in South Vietnam after the French defeat . " After all , the French had fought for years with an army of some 400,000 men in a vain effort to preserve French Indochina , and that proud army was defeated by ragged guerrilla forces which could not be overcome . Nevertheless , we did make that decision and we have to live with it . " The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . must continue to honor its ! commitments . Thus for the time being , he made clear , he believed in continuation of massive military and economic support . " But in the end , " he added , " the capacity of Saigon to win the war will depend on the cohesiveness of public support that can be achieved . " The Senator said that if it developed that the Saigon Government , despite United States assistance , could not " prevail , " because it simply lacks the indigenous support of the people , of the country , " then I would : hope that we would recognize that it is not our country and never has been . "                     