@@723163

txt BELGRADE SEEKING CLOSER SOVIET TIE But Tito Emphasizes Desire for West 's Friendship ? Assails Peking Views By DAVID BINDER Sperlal to The New York Times BELGRADE , Yugoslavia , May 18 ? President Tito indicated today that Yugoslavia was opening her window to the East a bit more while keeping the Western window up far enough to permit the cross ventilation necessary to the country 's policy of nonalignment . Marshal Tito put forward his views in a major foreign policy report to the Central Committee of the Yugoslav League of Communists . " I believe that our relations with the Soviet Union and other Socialist countries are developing ever more favorably , " he declared . " Our relations and cooperation will become ever better and stronger in the interest of Socialism and peace in the world . " " There exist favorable conditions , " he continued , " to have our cooperation and contacts with Socialist countries and with the Communist and worker parties strengthened and expanded further . " Affirmation of Policy The aim of his 13,000-word speech , which he made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appeared to be to renew Yugoslavia 's identification with the Soviet Union 's opposition to the militant ideology of Communist China . Moscow and Peking are due to confer in July on their differences . The 71-year-old Yugoslav leader heaped scorn on the Chinese Communist Government , which he charged with " errors of Himalayan proportions . " While avoiding invective , he condemned the bellicosity of the Peking leaders in a pointby-point analysis , concluding that they were " Trotskyist , " " dogmatic , " " sectarian , " " distorted , " " unprincipled , " " inconsistent " and " disrupting . " At the same time Marshal Tito voiced warm praise for the Soviet leadership , saying : " Thanks to Comrade Khrushchev and his associates we have succeeded gradually , though slowly , in improving our relations with the Soviet Union BELGRADE SEEKING CLOSER SOVIET TIE // Ind other Socialist countries . " In effect , he seemed to be paving the way for Mr. Khrushchev 's visit to Yugoslavia , which is expected sometime this summer . Speaking of the Soviet-Chinese rift the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep differences of principle have arisen in the international revolutionary movement , which can lead to a cleavage in that movement . " I still believe that matters will not go so far , but in order to prevent them from doing so it is necessary to be active , to participate in a principled way in clearing up disagreements among the Communist parties . " Marshal Tito took pains to stress the continuation of hiF stance of independence and nonalignment . He avowed that a closer tie to the Soviet bloc " does not mean that we thereby wish to see a deterioration in our state relationships with the capitalist countries . " Relations with the West The President also spoke of " our policy of establishing the best possible relations with the countries of the West , including the United States . " Marshal Tito 's speech was delivered a month before the 15th anniversary of the break between the Soviet-dominated Cominform and Yugoslavia . Marshal Tito chided those Yugoslav Communists opposed to closer links with the Russians , charginc , them with apathy and a " lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negative attitudes . " " It seems to me that there are people in the ranks of the Yugoslav League of Communists who do not grasp the tremendous positive significance of establishing not only normal but good relations " with the Soviet bloc , he added . Noting that there had been a great increase in the exchange of visits between Yugoslav and ' Soviet-bloc officials , including his own trip to the Soviet Union last winter , Marshal Tito told his party members that they were " faced with the task of becoming more comprehensively acquainted " with the other East European countries . He cited , specifically , Bulgaria , Hungary and East Germany . Yugoslays who failed to cooperate in this process could easily fall prey to " schematic approaches " and " foggy notions , " he said . In a polite bow to the West , President Tito said : " We know that our independence can not be brought into question , but neither should our independent foreign policy be pursued at the expense of the Socialist countries . " Views Similar to Moscow 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Laos , Cuba and the East-West arms contest , all of which were similar to the Soviet position . On this count , he said that during his visit to the Soviet Union he had found a " mutual readiness to have our relations built in such a way whereby we shall in the first place develop all that suits both sides and on which our views are identical or similar . " " And , comrades , " he added , " there is a great deal of this . " Another Soviet view that Marshal Tito appeared to share was that disarmament should be promoted so the Communist countries could spend more on aiding and influencing underdeveloped countries . " Selfless aid should and can came only from Socialist and progressive countries , " he declared . Marshal Tito also denounced the Albanian leadership . " They are not Communists or men having the least moral qualities but reckless adventurers , " he I said . " Apart from this they are only mouthpieces for the Chinese . " Mocking the Chinese for their accusations that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalist " policies , the Yugoslav President declared : " I am sure they would be extremely happy to find themselves in such a crisis . " Western observers who have followed President Tito 's recent speeches were somewhat surprised by what they termed the mildness of the address . They said he appeared to be calling for a kind of peaceful co-existence within the Communist camp .                     