@@721925

txt State motor vehicle officials discovered to their consternation today that thousands of speeding convictions on their records had been invalidated over the week-end . The mass forgiveness was accomplished at a single blow late last Friday when the State Court of Appeals handed down , a decision in a key case chal-I lenging a major type of speeding conviction . The result may gibe that many drivers will be able to regain suspended or revoked licenses or to remove convictions from existing ones , if they are willing to go to court . The court , the state 's highest , ruled that no driver could he convicted of speeding if he exceeded the limit in a zone where it had been set by the State Traffic Commission if the commission had never filed its ' orders setting the limit with ' the Department of State . The ' Secretary of State is the general recording officer of the state . It developed today that the ' Traffic Commission had never ) filed the orders for any of the 2,500 speed zones where it established maximum speeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' all speeding convictions in these zones became invalid . They can presumably be expunged from-any driver 's record if he goes to court and establishes that his case falls in the right category . The commission does not set limits in cities or villages , including New York City . It also has no jurisdiction over the Thruway or over parkways // that are controlled by other agencies . There is a statutory state speed limit of fifty miles an hour on roads in unincorporated areas , except for certain limited-access highways such as the Thruway . The court ruling generally affects lower limits set by the Traffic Commission on roads where the fifty-mile-anhour limit otherwise would apply . Thus speeding convictions on city or village streets , the Thruway or most parkways will not be affected by the court decision . However , the prevailing opinion was that virtually all others would be . The State Motor Vehicle Commissioner , William S. Hults , who is also chairman of the Traffic Commission , announced late today that he had arranged a meeting with state department officials tomorrow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Agency 's Argument The Attorney General 's office argued during the Court of Appeals case that the speed limits set by the commission were orders and not the type of rule or regulation that must be filed with the Department of State . As far as is known , no other orders or rules of the commission are affected by the decision . Mr. Hults said that the Motor Vehicle Department did not plan any general review of its files to determine what drivers had received invalid speeding convictions . Instead , he said , each individual driver will have to obtain a court order reversing or vacating his conviction or convictions and present it to the Motor Vehicle Department . Then his record will be altered to 1 reflect the change . Where eliminating one or more speeding convictions will remove the reason for which a driver 's license was suspended or revoked , Commisisoner Hults said , " the individual case will be re-examined . " A. driver 's license can be suspended if he accumulates eight points  --  or demerits  --  during two years or twelve during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Automatic revocation occurs ! if a driver is convicted of speeding three times during an eighteen-month period . In the latter case , a driver ' could now presumably regain his license if any of the three convictions dealt with a speeding violation in one of the State Traffic Commission zones . A driver who lost his license on the point system would be able to regain it only if it were a speeding conviction that put him over the limit and the conviction involved a traffic commission zone . As far as motor vehicle officials could determine , the court decision affected all convictions of violating Traffic Commission limits going back to the establishment of the commission in 11936.                     