@@727685

txt Say , " Cheese . " Grin , you honest English country cheesemakers. and bear it . Your champion from Yeovil , Somerset , capital not only of the Cheddar world but of the world of " gamesmanship , " has fought the good fight for you in Parliament but lost ? by 126 votes to 178 . John Peyton , MP for that place ( Yeovil ) , sought leave to introduce a bill in the House of Commons to prohibit the use of the term Cheddar for imported overseas cheeses , known more succinctly to some as " over-cheese . " Had he won his case then soon too all the other noble cheeses of England and . Wales would have been copyright ? CaerphiUy , Cheshire , Derby , Double Gloucester , Lancashire , Leicester , Stilton , and Wensleydale . They would not , of course , have to be made exactly on the spot named . But , sir , they would have to have been made by genuine British cheese craftsmen . In due course too a trend might start so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would know exactly where you were . Camembert would come only from northern France . Port Salut presumably from Haiti . Emmenthal from a particular valley in Switzerland . Danish Blue from Jutland . Gorgonzola from Lombardy , Italy . And so on . Cheese tasting once again could be restored to the position it once held , certainly in England , as an important and serious business . It is perhaps not always realized just how serious cheese traditionally is in Britain . But , to take just one example , every Whit Monday for more than 400 years big round cheeses have been rolled ceremoniously down Cooper 's Hill , Birdlip , Gloucestershire , from a flagstaff at the top that was originally a maypole . Is all this then to be placed in peril ? Mr. Peyton reported to the Commons that there is " massive and flagrant dumping " of cheeses with good English names from other countries overseas , particularly those of the European Common Market . " The plight of the British country cheese-maker , " he declared , " can only be described as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , opposed the motion . He answered that the term Cheddar has been in use in Australia since 1850 . It 's just a name for a type of cheese . And , anyway , " we do not insist that Brussels sprouts be imported from Belgium . " It was a powerful argument and was found convincing by a substantial majority . " I recognize that this will be hard cheese to the honorable gentleman , " said Mr. Morris , with some sympathy . And so it jolly well is . But doubtless the battle will be taken up again . The cheesemakers of England are not mice , you know .                     