@@724584

txt Boston Schoolteachers have a tiger by the tail . Its " new math . " Students are delighted with it . Parents are awed by it . Modern math , or new math , as it is variously called , is still in its infancy . During the past decade it has been introduced in varying degrees in elementary and high schools throughout the country . In some primary grades today it 's still so new teachers virtually are learning along with their students . More sophisticated than traditional mathematics learned by rote , new math combines the discovery method  --  think it out for yourself  --  with something more than arithmetic . Algebra , geometry , functions , and sets all get in the act now , even in the first grade . New ' Tools ' The hitch is new vocabulary which children learn as a necessary tool of modern mathematics . Even for parents who specialized in math in college and teachers who taught traditional math for years , a new language is involved . Communication becomes a problem . Imagine a first-grader confronting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory . " Even the six year old works with concrete objects which make up sets . Children draw sets of members of their family and group them into subsets . " It was all Greek to my husband and me , " said a Massachusetts mother of a sixth-grader . New math had been introduced last year in her daughter 's math class . Mom Relearns This past November . when the local Parent-Teachers Association offered parents a daytime course once a week , the mother , a college graduate , said she felt " an obligation to attend . " Now she is at the sixth-grade level and can discuss problems with her daughter . An elder daughter who is in the eighth grade has been studying modern math for three years . Both daughters liked new math from the start . " Now I can understand why , " the mother said . " It 's fun , It makes you think . You can see where you get the answers . " It is the terminology , she stresses , which is so different . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she feels she will be able to converse freely with him ! Parental Problems Many parents , too , have found that specific instruction in new Math has cleared up for them what no amount Of home study of their child 's textbook accomplished . This accounts for the popularity of adult courses in Massachusetts and throughout the country . A Winthrop , Mass. , mother is about midway through a 10-week course for parents of elementary school children . Of the 400 parents who applied about 100 are continuing with the course , she said . One night as the teacher was explaining a second - grade problem a father behind her leaned forward and said : " 1-1 , must mean second grade in high schuor Pupil Reaction Teachers say that the the enthu-siasm among both boys and girls for modern mathematics is almost unbelievable . Most children have nothing to unlearn . One Medford . Mass .. father , who has not been very successful in understanding his daughter 's textbook , is concerned that she is not doing well in new loath . After a parent session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been paying strict attention in class . " The old way by rote , " he said , " you did n't have to listen . i'oday if you do n't pay attention you ca n't reason . . . . It 's reasonable  --  this learning of the fundamental logic behind math  --  but you have trouble if you do n't dig in and ask questions . " Do n't Try to Help In this school the principal urged the parents to give encouragement but not help . Parents not properly trained arc apt to arrive at the right conclusion but in a way that will be confusing to the student . A Walpole . Mass .. mother , who now is " all for " new math , sat down with a teacher and had some of the vocabulary explained to her . She , like many other parents , wondered at first if modern math was practical . Another father . a former schoolteacher , is eager to try , one of the many self-study books for parents now on the ' market . While he says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missing out on the adult course held in his Wrentham , Mass. , community a couple of years ago . At the time . his boys were nut yet studying new math . Stems From Sputnik ? " I have been trying to see the point of it all , " he said . " I have a feeling it all sterns from ' Sputnik . Maybe this accelerated math will be especially useful to that portion of students who end up taking advanced training . " The whole point . a Cohasset Iligh School administrator said , is the new approach which it gives  --  an understanding of math , instead of rote , which is adaptable to the computer age . " We find in the 11th or 12th year . students are able to handle quite advanced mathematics  --  calculus , probability , and statistics . " Amazingly enough , the response many students give for liking modern math is that " it makes things easier . "                     