@@727183

txt The Soviet Union is believed looking for a naval base in Southeast Asia . The hunt coincides with a new , multifaceted drive by Moscow for increased influence in the area . One of the most desirable sites for the Soviets would be Malaysia or Singapore . Moscow has been wooing Malaysia with trade offers and might follow up with a proposition to establish a naval base . ' Malaysia is firmly anti-Communist . But it is disturbed about its defenses , now that Britain is scaling down its garrisons and naval forces East of Suez . The Soviets may believe that by deft diplomacy they can get a base agreement in return for guarantees that Soviet communism will never threaten Malaysia . Japanese lawmakers are urging a dialogue with their American counterparts on the subject of Communist China . They believe it is high time both Washington and Tokyo softened their stance toward Peking . Tokuma Utsunomiya , longtime pro-China " dove " in the Diet and a member of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party , will visit Washington in July to meet with members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. this fall between American legislators , including Senators Mansfield and Fulbright , and about 10 LDP members of the Diet . Bonn 's binoculars are scanning East Europe for reaction to East Germany 's latest squeeze on travel to and from Berlin . West German officials  --  through their embassies in Romania and Yugoslavia and their trade offices in Hungary and Bulgaria ? will point out the absurdity of Germans ' needing visas to travel in their own country ? especially now that several Communist nations have abolished visa requirements for foreigners . There is little or nothing Bonn can do to erase East Berlin 's new visa and freight charges imposed on West Germans . But the Kiesinger-Brandt government will emphasize that Walter Ulbricht 's regime is traveling in exactly the opposite direction from the friendlier relations which Bonn is cultivating in the southern tier of the East European Communist bloc . Trends Mother Volga , Europe 's greatest river and the symbol of Russian strength and pride , is having trouble . The river is becoming polluted . Its wealth of fish is disappearing . Tourism has fallen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much of it evaporates in the reservoirs of huge power stations . And the long-scheduled diversion of Arctic rivers into the Volga has never been completed . Result : From one end of European Russia to another a campaign is on to get and keep the Volga clean and to battle for a bigger water budget . The new Czechoslovakia is openly airing a topic which for years has been kept quietly under the rug  --  its national minorities . Some 650,000 Hungarians , 110,000 Germans , and smaller numbers of Poles and Ukrainians live within Czechoslovakia 's borders . As long as the Communists were running things , they gave the impression that this problem of national minorities , which had vexed Eastern and Southeastern Europe before World War II , had virtually vanished ander their regime . Now the " Cultural Association of Hungarian Workers in Czechoslovakia " has presented to the new government a series of demands . Its members want full equality and limited national self-government . President Svoboda and the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak party both acmowledge the validity of these claims . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to feel at home in Czechoslovakia . How and why Peking has published what purports to be an article by a " Stalin group " inside the Soviet Union . Its " strategic objective , " the article says , is " to eliminate the threat of capitalist restoration . . . and to consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat . " This article follows a manifesto  --  said to : ome from a Russian party of Lenin-Bolsheviks  --  which was broadcast earlier from Tirana , Albania . The Soviet Union vigorously denies the authenticity of both . Their genuineness does appear doubtful . Yet letters to the editor in Soviet newspapers show that some Communists are inleed concerned about the possibility of a peaceful evolution into capitalism .                     