@@721729

txt Organization and insurgent Democrats opposed each other at a City Council committee hearing yesterday over ' the issue-of Charter revision . The sharpest attack on a new state law allowing Mayor Wagner to name a Charter revision commission was made by Council Majority Leader Joseph T. Sharkey , who is also the Democratic leader of Kings County . He attacked the law as " political act by the Republican leaders in Albany designed to confuse and divide the Democrats in an election year . " But Arnold L. Fein , as spokesman for the insurgent New York Committee for Democratic Voters , put his organization behind the law , which was signed by Governor Rockefeller on Thursday and has been endorsed by Mayor Wagner . Council Presses Bill For the organization men yesterday 's hearing was part of a program for pushing through to enactment next Tuesday the Council 's own Charter revision bill , which was introduced by five . organization Democrats representing each of the city 's boroughs . The Council bill calls for a nine-member. commission , with three members to be named by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Controller and one each by the Council majority and minority leaders . Any Charter proposed by this commission could not be put befor the voters before next year . The state law provides for a vote at the general election in November on any Charter proposed by the commission named by theMayor .. Mr. Fein Called on the Council , which is dominated by organization Democrats , not to allow political differences or dis , agreements over the details of Charter revision to stand in the way of a vote this year . He said he was sure the Mayor would appoint public-spirited citizens to the commission . Sharkey Protests " Do n't kid yourself , " Mr. Sharkey said . " The Governor knows every name that the Mayor is going to submit for the charter revision commission , and he , the Governor , is going to pass on them . " At another point , Mr. Sharkey declared , " The Governor and the Mayor have been playing marbles together . " Some of the top names in the Committee for Democratic Voters include Mrs. Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former Secretary of the Air Force Thomas K. Finletter . Mr. Fein is chairman of the group 's Charter Revision Committee . The new state law permits the // Mayor to appoint a Charter revision commission of nine to fifteen members , but only within six months of an election . The commission would be required to hold public hearings and agree on a new Charter at least ninety days before the election . The Charter would then be presented to the voters for approval on Election Day . Once the Mayor appointed a Charter commission , it would be illegal for the Council or any other agency to draft and submit an alternate Charter . But some city Democratic leaders have said they expect the law , which was made to apply to any city in the state , to be tested in court as a violation of home rule . The organimtion Democrats ' opposition to the Wagner commission lies in their fear that it would give the Mayor more power at the ' expense of the Board of Estimate and the Borough Presidents . The Council bill was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Democratic , organization in the Bronx . Originally there were two City Charter bills . Both bad been referred to the General Welfare Committee . But at the outset of yesterday 's two-andone-half-hour committee hearing , Queens Democratic Councilman Eric J. Treulich , chairman , announced that one of the two measures had been killed in executive session . The abandoned bill would , have called for a voter referendum on the question : " Shall there be a commission to draft a new City Charter ? " Minority Leader Stanley M. Lsaacs , Manhattan Republican-Liberal , disclosed that he had vainly sought in the same executive session to have the remaining bill killed , too . Thirteen speakers , including many spokesmen for small Brooklyn and Queens civic groups , appeared in favor of the Council bill . Nine persons opposed the Council measure . George H P. Dwight , president of the insurgent Lexington Democratic Club , called for Charter reform under the new state law . He said : " Charter reform is long overdue and can not wait . The price of further delay is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are paying in money , in mismanagement and in frustration for the failure to adopt the kind of City Charter that New York City deserves as the first city of our country and of the world . " Others smiting in opposition to the Council bill included representatives of the Women 's City Club of New York , the Citizens Union , the Citizens Committee for Children and the Civil Service Flinn . Championing the Council measure were spokesmen for civic organizations including the Downtown Brooklyn Association , the Bronx Chamber of Commerce , the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce , the Rockaway Council of Civic Organiza " - tions and the South Queens Civic Council .                     