@@725385

txt When sitting with Sen. Vance Hartke , you soon see that he never really has left the farm country of Indiana . He is talkative in the friendly , small-talk way of small-town and country living . He joshes almost endlessly . The congeniality is quite disarming . One has to remind oneself that here is one of the rising political powers in Congress , a Democrat , no less , who has had the temerity to challenge the President on Vietnam . " What about the votes the so-called ' doves ' in Congress would cost the Democrats at the polls this year ? " the Senator was asked . Senator prepared " This breaks down into two general charges , " the Senator answered , obviously well prepared for the question . " First , " he said , " there is the charge that the discussion and debate of foreign policy and Vietnam gives aid and comfort to the enemy  --  to the Communists . " To this I would answer that if this had been coming out in the Kremlin  --  or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mere fact that they have adopted the cloak of censorship offers this excellent opportunity for us to show the world that in a democracy we can discuss these matters thoughtfully and openly . " Focusing on the specific question , he then said : " Then there is the argument that by raising these questions we give aid and comfort to the Republicans . I feel that the Democrats actually have everything to gain and nothing to lose by the free discussion of any issue , including Vietnam . " Those who imply , this will mean a Re- By a staff photographer Sen. Vance Hartke . . insists the ' Vietnam war itself ? not the debate over it ? is a liability to Democrats . publican victory ? " Then he rephrased his sentence : " Vietnam is a major political issue for the campaign of 1966 whether or not there is a discussion by the Democratic senators on the subject . " Turning to his home state for an example , the Senator said : " Let 's take Indiana for a specific . The Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion or debate comparable to the one today . Yet in that fall election six out of eight Democratic incumbent congressmen were defeated . " And you know what happened in 1952 . Still no debate or discussion on Korea . All of Indiana , from the White House to the courthouse , went Republican . " Thus , the Indiana Senator freely admits that the Vietnam war will be a great liability to Democrats who are running for office this year . But he insists that the liability is the war itself , not the debate over the war .                     