@@723275

txt Letters to The Times Why CORE Demonstrates Despite Laws , Bias Exists in City and State , Official Says To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tons : The Times 's general coverage of civil rights activities both North and South has been commendable . Two recent editorials , however , tend to echo the mind of Southern " moderates . " On July 9 The Times appears to have missed the point completely . The demonstrations at Jones Beach certainly did interfere with those attempting to gain access to the beach for a short time ; but that was just the point . CORE was trying , by sitting in the road , to show the extent of suffering minority groups must endure from the lack of jobs . It is unreasonable to suppose that a family unable to enter a beach on July 4 could be equated with a person denied a job because of his skin color . Of course this involves " Jimcent bystanders . " But are not the Negroes and Puerto Ricans who are denied jobs because of their ethnic backgrounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are demanding ? On July 10 The Times suggests that violating Police Commissioner Murphy 's order ( and it is interesting to note that the Police Department apparently did not agree that the order was violated ) was " building up resistance . .. . " Resistance is already so firm that whatever new resistance is built up because of demands for equality now would be negligible in our eyes . Timing of Protests The time is past when any person or group of persons can assume the prerogative of determining the time , place or type of demonstration which should be held to break down segregation  --  Northern or Southern style . If things were as they should be no demonstrations would be necessary . In Alabama , Mississippi and other Southern states CORE has found it necessary to use civil disobedience to gain rights so long overdue . There is no reason to assume that New York should be spared or coddled simply because it appears to be a free state . CORE hopes , through nonviolent direct action , to lift the veil of ignorance from the conscience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this , of course , both editorials were somewhat misleading . CORE has always been accused  --  particularly in the South ? of " publicity - seeking . " Now that the squeeze is on in the North , it seems that we are being charged here also . The truth of the matter is that CORE is " equality-seeking " and often ? if not always ? the only way to accomplish this is through Socratic gadfly techniques . After all , New York City and New York State both have laws which preclude discrimination ; yet it still exists here . If our methods of nonviolent direct action disturb many people , then so much the better . In 1963 more people need to be disturbed about discrimination . ROBERT BROOKINS GORE , Assistant Community Relations Director , Congress of Racial Equality . New York , July 10 , 1963 . CORE Picketing Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : I would like to add a point to your July 9 editorial " The Bounds of Protest " in which you scored the irresponsible picketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does CORE merit censure on the manner of its protest : it has lost sight of the matter which , indeed , deserves protest . The abolishment of segregation and discriminatory hiring practices merits CORE 's attention and action . The case of parents wanting a better school for their child is the type of problem generally dealt with by parents . Leonard Morris was not refused admission to Erasmus Hall High School because he is a Negro . Any child , Negro or white , of high school age who lived outside the Erasmus Hall school district would not have been accepted as a student in the extremely overcrowded school . If all parents of children unable to attend Erasmus were to find sympathetic groups to picket the Board of Education , what chaos would ensue ! CORE must itself discriminate ? between cause and complaint ? if it is to be effective in its attempts to eliminate racial discrimination . CLAIRE GALLANT BERMAN . New York , July 9 , 1963 . For More Visible Bus Numbers To THE Eorroa OF THE New YORK TIMES : The problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators , at least , seem to havp a " public be damned " attitude : often even the inadequate , semi-obscured , small numbers genPower Fight The " reform movement " is engaged in a power fight for control of Democratic party machinery . In this struggle it has embraced and endorsed persons of widely differing views on vital issues of the day . Even in matters of party organization and procedure there are widespread differences of opinion , with some reform clubs opposing patronage of any sort as a reward for party control , while other clubs have accepted sewer inspectorships , generally considered the least desirable form of patronage for their members . It would be indeed unfortunate if city primary elections are reduced to a struggle between two power factions . On one side , the candidates of the " regulars " chosen by the district leaders ; on the other side , the candidates of " reformers , " usually selected by an extremely complex nominating process , difficult to fathom except for those in the know . If this situation comes about due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primaries will hardly be democratic and certainly not reform . GEORGE N. SPITZ . New York , July 5 , 1963 . Mount Sinai 's New School Goal of Hospital 's ! dilutions ! Program Outlined The writer of the following letter was for many years chief of the First Medical Service and Director of Clinical Research at the Mount Elnal Hospital , New York , and Clinical Professor of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Burgeons , To Tin &not; or Tal /ire You Tam The comprehensive report in your July 8 issue concerning the establishment of a new medical school at the Mount Sinai Hospital did not reflect the years of study and planning that led to this decision , Since the conclusion of World War II the hospital has been moving progressively in this direction with the appointment of medical scientists and scholars from the faculties of Harvard , Columbia , Johns Hopkins and other leading American and foreign universities to full-time senior positions in its major clinical and basic science departments . Year by year its graduate training programs in the various clinical and laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to meet the rapidly growing and highly specialized needs of medical practice . As reported in The Times on July 8 , the Board of Regents of the State of New York has issued a charter to the hospital authorizing it to establish a new medical school as an aid in meeting the state and national deficit in medical education which has become of serious public concern . Outgrowth of Study This action was taken by the Regents after a study of the hospital 's educational facilities and resources had been made by a joint committee of the Association of American Medical Colleges and the American Medical Association 's council on medical education and hospitals , and subsequent encouragement of the program by the Muir Committee on Medical Education in the State of New York in its recent report to Governor Rockefeller . A committee of experts from some of the leading medical schools and research institutions of the country is now working with the staff and the trustees of the hospital in formulating the details of the program . Aside from its future contribution to the resources of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one aspect of the program deserves emphasis because of its significance . The school plans to offer affiliation and to share its educational resources with other hospitals in the city so as to aid them in acquiring and developing a medical staff of high quality , as was accomplished by the hospital during the past year at Greenpoint Hospital in Brooklyn at the specific request of Mayor Wagner and his Commissioner of Hospitals . This is in line with the philosophy that a major center of medical education and research owes a responsibility to the community in which it is located and should extend assistance to sister institutions and to the medical profession outside its walls so as to support them in maintaining adequate standards of medical practice . GEORGE BAEHR , M.D. New York , July 9 , 1963 . Against Indiana Dunes Park TO THE EDITOR OR THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial of June 26 " Protecting Fire Island " reference was made to the preservation of the Indiana Dunes . Several facts must be indicated about this lost cause of the conservationists . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the dunes is any longer pleasant or educative . The establishment of a national park would truncate the economic growth of the area , which is rapidly being populated with lakefront steel plants and wharves . Northern Indiana desperately needs more industry to support its urban population , not more parks ? there are already plenty in the area . Furthermore , the " Save the Dunes " campaign was never supported by a , majority of Hoosiers , but was primarily the product of residents of Chicago and of Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois . It is noteworthy that during the height of this campaign the Governor of Indiana spent many days in Pennsylvania persuading industrialists to build plants in the dunes . The creation of this national park was not favored by the people of Indiana , who much preferred the industrial development they so badly need . Hoosiers must be allowed to decide such matters for themselves , without Federal or outside interference . GERARD T. KEILMAN . East Orange , N. J. , June 26 , 1963 , erally used are missing ; recently I saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the windshield and another with no markings at all . And even if the riders are unimportant , I should think the drivers themselves would rebel . It must be annoying for a driver to have to slow down for a person who is hesitantly beckoning , while desperately trying to identify a bus , only to be waved on when the would-be rider finally discovers it is the wrong one . Why not put ' a large number not only on the front and sides , but also on the rear of each bus ? It would be nice to know what bus one has missed , too . It should not tax the ingenuity of the operators to devise a frame that would hold large ( perhaps 18 inches square ) interchangeable number cards . A frame could be bolted to each end of each bus . The saving in time and exasperation for both riders and drivers would be immense . PAMELA C. FORCEY . New York , July 8 , 1963 . Primary Listings Opposed Reform ' Democrats Criticized for Seeking Revised Method To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the New York Committee of Democratic Voters , parent body of the " reform movement , " has announced that his group will go to court to force the Board of Elections to list contestants in primary elections by slates , rather than allow each contested public or party office to be listed separately on the ballot , with all candidates granted the right to draw for top position . In taking this action the " reform movement " is adopting a stand at variance with reform movements throughout the country and contrary to civic groups in this city . This is strange , for ' Senator Herbert Lehman , Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and other founders of the Committee for Democratic Voters specified at its inception that they were organizing in order to make it easier for candidates to run for public office and thus lessen the often unhealthy influence that party bosses exerted over public officials . If Mr. Fein 's case is sustained in court , or if the Board of Elections reverses itself under pressure from the " reform movement , " it will be virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any hope of success . Under the slate method of voting machine arrangement it is extremely difficult for the uninformed and uninstructed voter to find an independent candidate . Malaya 's Chinese To THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your July 10 editorial on Malaysia stated : " The new state 's 4,000,000 Chinese will not have rights as complete as those accorded the Malays , Dyaks and other elements of the 10,000,000 population . . . . " This is no ) true . Chinese who are citizens will enjoy the same rights as citizens of Oho " ethnic groups . In Malaya now they are serving in the Cabinet and can even become Prime Minister . Malaya 's Permanent Representative at the United Nations and Ambassador to the United States is Malayan of Chinese origin . Mott A M ED SOPIEE , Director of Information Services , Federation of Malaya . Kuala Lumpur , Malaya , July 11 , 1963 . ( Singapore 's Chinese will have less than proportional representation in the Malaysian parliament . In some Malaysian territories Chinese access to citizenship and government posts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Times.                     