@@724483

txt House Republicans disregarded the expressed wishes of their newly chosen leader today and re-elected Representative Leslie C. Arends of Illinois as minority whip . It was a severe blow to the prestige and perhaps to the future effectiveness of Representative Gerald R. Ford Jr . of Michigan , who overthrew Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana as minority leader just 10 days ago . Mr. Ford 's announced choice for the job , which ranks second to his own in the party 's House leadership structure , was Representative Peter H. B. Frelinglhuysen of New Jersey . Mr. Arends , a genial and popular survivor of the Old Guard , won on a secret ballot , 70 to 59 , at a closed meeting of the Republican conference , or caucus , in the House chamber . Byrnes Drops Post In another development , Rep'resentative John W. Byrnes of Wisconsin resigned as the chairman of the House Republican Policy Committee in compliance with a new party rule . This rule , adopted at today 's caucus , prohibits the ranking Republican on any legislative ' committee from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Byrnes chose to continue as the senior RepubH lican on the Ways and Means Committee . Mr. Arends , who now has the same status on the Armed Services Committee , said he would step down to the secondranking place among Republicans on that panel . Representative William H. Bates of Massa ' chusetts will replace him . Representative Arends attributed his victory over Mr. Frelinghuysen to a 21-year record of satisfactory service as whip under two leaders , Mr. Halleck and former Speaker Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts . Pledges Loyalty " My loyalty to them was unquestionable , " he said to Mr. Ford as the two stood , arm-inarm , before television cameras . " It will be unquestionable to you . We will be doing the job to the best of our ability . " Mr. Ford said he did not regard the caucus vote as a " repudiation " of his leadership . Mr. Arends and Mr. Frelinghuysen agreed . The minority leader conceded , however , that it was to some degree a " rebuff " in view of the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the caucus to follow his leadership and vote for Mr. Frelinghuysen . Nevertheless , he said , " this will not interfere with the carrying on of the programs planned by the new leadership . " " Les Arends , " he continued , " has and will be a good whip . I am confident of his loyalty . The leadership will be unified . " The whip 's main duties are to keep party colleagues informed on the timing of important House votes , to assure the presence of as many as possible for such roll-calls and to conduct polls of colleagues on major issues coming before the House . As assistant minority leader he serves as acting leader when the leader is absent . He is a regular participant in high party councils and has a voice in the formulation of party policies . Mr. Ford put his finger on what was perhaps the main reason for Mr. Arends 's victory . Mr. Arends , he said , . " is a fine , personable , dedicated Republican who over the years has made many friends and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear from the comments of other Republicans that loyalty to Mr. Ford was largely neutralized by distaste for the idea of discharging a well-liked party functionary after long and faithful service . In addition , while the easygoing Mr. Arends had cultivated and retained countless warm friends in 30 years as a Representative , Mr. Frelinghuysen 's comparative aloofness in personal relations with colleagues and his sharply combative nature were obvious handicaps in what was to some extent a popularity contest . Linked to Easterners Another apparent handicap was his close identificiton with the party 's Eastern international wing and his membership in the Wednesday Club , a group of House Republicans who classify themselves as liberals or moderates . Informed sources said Mr. Arends had the backing of most Midwestern colleagues and also drew considerable support from Westerners and Southerners . Mr. Ford had picked Mr. Frelinghuysen for whip in response to demands by Eastern moderates and liberals for representation in the leadership structure . Mr. Arends 's election gave Midwesterners the party 's top four positions in the House for several hours . Mr. Byrnes 's resignation as policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posts . Easterners hope he will be replaced by someone from their region . The job will be filled by majority vote of the party conference at a date not yet fixed . Representative Melvin A. Laird of Wisconsin holds the fourth leadership post as chairman of the conference . Aside from falling to broaden the leadership 's geographical base , the re-election of Mr. Arends was a setback to Mr. Ford in his efforts to reshape , the party hierarchy along younger and more dynamic lines . Mr. Arends is 69 years old . Mr. Frelinghuysen will be 49 Sunday . .                     