@@724209

txt Washington The military draft has become a campaign issue . GOP presidential candidate Sen. Barry Goldwater in his campaign opener said flatly : " Republicans will end the draft altogether and as soon as possible . That I promise ' ' you . " The Pentagon , which is becoming used to replying to the Republican candidate , called the Senator 's statement " irresponsible , " because it was not accompanied by an alternative suggestion for recruiting needed manpower . What is more , it drew on the words of former Republican President Eisenhower to rebuff the newest GOP standard bearer . It said : " Any suggestion that the draft be ended without providing adequate substitute means to recruit soldiers for our armed forces is the kind of irresponsibility that was described by President Eisenhower in 1956 when he said , ' The issue of our military draft is no matter of a technical point to be scored in a political debate . ' The Democratic vice-presidential candidate , Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey , said Thursday it would be " premature and irresponsible " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still necessary to our national security . " Actually the two parties are not so far apart on the issue of the draft as this exchange makes it seem . Difference Seen The difference is the GOP candidate says he will do away with the draft , period . The Johnson administration says that it would like to end the draft too , but not until it knows where the men are coming from that are needed in the military services and how they are going to be paid . Last spring President Johnson ordered a Pentagon study to consider alternatives to the present draft selection system , " including the possibility of meeting our requirement on an entirely voluntary basis in the next decade . " But that study will not be completed until next spring . and so the White House and Pentagon are not now coming out flatly for or against the draft . The draft provided the majority of United States armed forces during this century 's two world wars-2,667,000 in World War I and 10,110,000 in the 1940-1947 period which included World War II . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 3,150 , - 000 inductees . The present draft law expires June 30. 1967 . New legislation will have to be passed before then , or the old law extended . At one point in his speech the Arizona Senator charged that the Johnson administration was using the draft to advance " political and social schemes . " a charge he did not elaborate . His press secretary later explained that the Sen ator was referring to the President Johnson 's proposals for special rehabilitation of draftees rejected in preinduction exams for physical or education reasons . Cost Estimated The Army , the only service that uses draftees to fill its needs , takes about 90,000 men a year through the draft . However , if there were no draft , it is argued , young men would not be as ready to volunteer in the Navy and Air Force , and those services would not find it as easy to fill their requirements as they do now . The core of the draft question seems to center on the matter of cost . The White House study is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voluntary military force would cost . The estimates cur rently floating around Washington set the increase in defense costs if the draft were ended at several billion dollars a year . There is little dispute but that the draft is frequently unfair , and there is wide accord that it possibly can be discarded . The difficulty now is in finding some means of making the services more attractive to volunteers . The only one that currently has any supporters is " sweetening " the entry pay considerably . But that would cost a lot of money , in the billions , it is estimated . The Pentagon , it should be noted , did not charge Senator Goldwater with being " irresponsible " for suggesting an end to the draft , only in suggesting an end without proffering a substitute . For what it is worth , the selective service people say the draft must stay , that despite its drawbacks it does get the needed manpower .                     