@@724154

txt New York On the eve of the Republican meeting of party leaders in Hershey , Pa . Sen. Barry Goldwater is making a vigorous effort to try Pa. , restore Republican party unity . He has answered a letter from Richard M. Nixon in which the former Vice-President asked for an explanation of the Senator 's comments about " extremism " at the San Francisco convention . At that time , Senator Goldwater declared in his acceptance speech : " I would remind you that extremism In the defense of liberty is no vice . And let me remind you also that moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue . " In his letter to Mr. Nixon , Senator Goldwater explained that in San Francisco he " was urging , in effect , that we understand and view the great problems of the day in their essence and not be diverted by global political catch words . " In that context the sentences that folloW were but examples . They were examples of a quality of devotion to liberty and justice ? ' firmness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which no Republican and , indeed , no American , need apologize . " The Goldwater acceptance-speech remarks were made after a convention floor debate over whether the GOP Party platform should be amended to include a condemnation of " extremist " groups . Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller led a group of Republican liberals and moderates  --  who also opposed the nomination of Mr. Goldwater ? who wanted the John Birch Society condemned specifically as an " extremist group . " Goldwater forces at the convention rejected all attempts to amend the platform to include such a condemnation , whether it mentioned the Birch society by name or not , When Senator Goldwater made his acceptance-speech statement on extremism , it generally was accepted by many delegates and interpreted by observers as his way of endorsing the action of his supporters in blocking the anti-extremist proposal of Governor Rockefeller . Later the Goldwater statement also was attacked by critics who said it gave support to those who would take the law in their own hands in outbreaks of violence in the streets . Shortly after the convention Senator Goldwater explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wag meant to apply to patriotic actions such as sacrifices in battle . But even his supporters , including Senator Dirksen , have urged him to make a fuller statement . In his communication to Mr. Nixon he said , " It goes without saying that such devotion would not countenance illegal or improper means to achieve proper goals . " " In short , " he said , " as stated in another setting in our 1964 platform ? ' goals must ever discipline ? means . ' " Mr. Nixon in his letter to Senator Goldwater had said that charges had been made which , in effect , said that the Senator was " approving political recklessness and unlawful activity in achieving the goals of freedom and justice . "                     