@@723245

txt The cry for Harold Macmillan 's political scalp in the aftermath of the Profumo scandal continued today , but the 69-year-old Prime Minister gave no sign that he was contemplating the surrender of power . Still , the conviction persisted among almost all political commentators that his days as Britain 's leader were numbered after the rebuff he suffered in the House of Commons last night . The Prime Minister sent a letter to Harold Wilson , Labor party leader , suggesting that they meet soon to discuss the form of a further inquiry into the security aspects of the scandal . The Government promised an inquiry in last night 's debate . Mr. Wilson immediately accepted . Twenty-seven members of Mr. Macmillan 's Conservative party abstained from the vote upholding the Government 's handling of security aspects of the scandal . The Government 's nominal majority of 102 fell to 69 because of the abstentions and the absence of six members . One Member Convinced One Conservative backbencher , Sir Frank Markham , member for Buckingham , who supported the Government , voice. : what are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " As far as I am concerned , I am quite certain the Prime Minister must go , " he said . He had made it clear , Sir Frank added , that his vote " must not be taken as approval of the present leadership of the party . " He suggested three possible successors : R. A. Butler , Deputy Prime Minister ; Viscount Hailsham , Lord President of the Council , and Reginald MauduMg , Chancellor of the Exchequer and current favorite of the party 's younger members . Sir Frank said Viscount Hailsham " stands a very good chance " if Parliament , as expected , passes during the next three weeks a bill to enable peers to renounce their titles and sit in the House of Commons . Sir Frank , who first sat in the House of Commons in 1929 , began fliS political career as a Laborite . He was Parliamentary Private Secretary to Prime Minister Ramsay GIVES NO SIGN OF LEAVING AS CRITICISM RISES But His Days Are Believed to Be Numbered Because of Profumo Scandal Donald when a National Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were other signs that a large part of the Conservative party scented Mr. Macmillan 's early fall . Friends of Mr. Maudling represented the 47-year-old Chancellor as ready to take over if the change could ? be made quickly . There was no comment from Mr. M.audling himself . Meanwhile , John Profumo , the disgraced former Secretary of State for War , returned to his London home tonight from a hideout in Warwickshire , in the Midlands , where he and his wife , the actress Valerie Hobson , have been in seclusion for 13 days . They dropped from sight the night before Mr. Profumo 's resignation was announced . In his letter of resignation , Mr. Profumo admitted having lied to the House of Commons March 22 when , with Mr. Macmillan at his side , he said there had been " no impropriety whatsoever " in his relations with Christine Keeler , a 21-year-old party girl and self-styled model . Miss Keeler was also having an affair at the same time , during the latter half of 1961 , with Capt . Yevgeni E. Ivanov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his recall last December . Before Mr. Profumo returned to London he issued a statement through his solicitors here expressing his " profound remorse . " The statement said : " Mr. Profumo appreciates that the press , radio and television are asking for some personal comment from his wife and himself . " In the statement he made in his letters , of resignation to the Prime . Minister and , the chairman of his constituency association , he expressed deep regret for his actions . " He wishes . to ' take this opportunity through the medium of the press to repeat to a wider public his profound " remofse . Beyond this , neither he nor his wife has anything further to say . " Motion of Censure Due There is still another bitter chapter about Mr. Profumo 's fall to be written . A start was made on it when the Government 's and the Opposition Labor party 's chief whips , Martin Redmayne and Herbert Bowden , met to frame a motion about Mr. Profumo 's March 22 statement to the.Commons . Mr. Profumo 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expunged . The motion , ' which will probably not be debated , is to make it clear that it was a " gross contempt " of the House to mislead it . The consensus on the debate yesterday was that Mr .. Macmillan had failed to satisfy even his own party on two vital counts : that the Government had been sufficiently vigilant about the security aspects of the scandal or sufficiently vigorous in uncovering the truth from Mr. Profumo . The ' subdued " hear , hear " from a few Conservatives that greeted Mr. Macmillan on his entrance to the House today contrasted with the normal cheer that goes up . From the Labor benches came derisive shouts , including " resign , resign ! " A few minutes later , while answering questions , he was in an altercation with a Labor member , Arthur Lewis , and ' the names of Mr. Profumo and Miss Keeler were again heard . Mr. Lewis was arguing that too many statements of Govern-1 ment policy were being made outside the House . Mr. Macmillan suggested that 4 was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lie down . " The allusion , to a time when Mr. Lewis , leading a strike , lay down on the road in front of a truck , drew laughter from the Conservatives and an angry retort from Mr. Lewis . " I certainly will not lie down with Mr. Profumo or Miss Keeler , " he said .                     