@@726303

txt What makes summers in the cities so " hot " ? It 's a question probers on the House Un-American Activities Committee have asked privately for the past six months . Now they may decide to air their query in public hearings . When staff workers launched their " preliminary investigation " last October , they obviously suspected that much heat in the big-city Negro ghettos was Communist inspired . The committee has n't yet decided whether to broaden its sleuthing venture into a major summer project . Some sources think the prospect likely  --  especially if a new series of riots should break out in the months ahead . Observers recall the committee 's latest study  --  an allegation of widespread subversion in the peace movement . It should furnish a clue , they say , to the committee 's outlook on ghetto tensions and their causes . Those faddish new paper frocks may be heading into hot water . They are included in . amendments to the Flammable Fabrics Act which both Senate and House committees are considering . Paper dresses are n't mentioned specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the general classification of such products as paper sheets , curtains , ( LTciTarrugs-.  - -   - -  - One argument against paper garments is  - -  that , " -. while they are said to be more flame resistant than most woven fabrics when new , their flame-resistant finish or substance may come out in the wash  --  or in cleaning , or if caught in the rain . Some congressmen are particularly concerned about paper clothing for children . They wonder whether it should n't be ruled flammable under the proposed amendments and banned from the market altogether . Or , it has been suggested , the Federal Trade Commission could assess the fire hazard involved and issue a safety standard for such items . Trends .. . State government has just been given a needed financial boost . The Ford Foundation has announced grants totaling $102,000 that will enable the National Governors ' Conference to make four studies of high-priority problems nagging the states . The topics : urban affairs , revenues , constitutional reform , and labor relations . The United States is expected to make a $32.5 million loan to an Italian auto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American machine tools for a factory it will build in the Soviet Union . The loan is being planned in the name of improved East-West trade  --  better bridges to the Communist bloc . And it 's all quite proper now that President Johnson has ruled that such United States machinery going to the Soviets is not contrary to national security . Some time back Fiat signed a contract to construct the plant . When the Italian credit company involved approached the Export-Import Bank ( a United States Government agency ) for help , it hesitated doing indirectly ( through Italy ) what it could n't do directly  --  finance machine tools for MoScow . Now the Johnson ruling permits it . The administration has narrowly won a preliminary test of the loan in the House Banking Committee . The issue is controversial . There is criticism in Congress over selling tools to the Soviets whose weapons are firing against American men in Vietnam . But legislation giving the nod to East-West trade is in the offing . Officials of the Export-Import Bank say they expect the loan to go through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations to mind their diplomatic niceties . The warning , polite but pointed , was buried in a speech by Secretary of Slate Dean Rusk to the Chamber of Commerce of the United States : Washington " attaches the greatest importance " to the " structure of diplomacy . " It worries that this framework , built up over centuries of diplomacy , is not being treated with appropriate respect . Mr. Rusk , it has been learned , was thinking in particular of Yemen  --  and of Pakistan , Indonesia , and Egypt in general . Two American officials of the Agency for International Development are still being held for trial in Yemen , accused of sabotage . The State Department holds the Yemeni Government responsible for their welfare  --  and for recent demonstrations outside the embassy branch office in Taiz . Officials here make it plain that Washing . ton is ready to pack up its whole embassy operation and leave Yemen , if necessary .                     