@@725075

txt Francis X. Morrissey 's prospects for Senate confirmation as a Federal judge improved today as a report by the Federal Bureau of Investigation supported his testimony about his early legal studies in Georgia . Attorney General Nicholas deB . Katzenbach released tonight a letter addressed to the Senate Judiciary Committee 's chairman , James O. Eastland of Mississippi . The letter ' stated , that the F.B.I . report had substantiated Judge Morrissey 's ' testimony that he studied law in Georgia from June to SepAerniaer of 1933 . It added that Judge Morrissey , who sits in Boston 's ! municipal court , " thereafter rernaMed for some Months In Georgia . " I conclude that there is no basis whatsoever to question either Judge Morrissey 's credi-1 bility or his recollection of the events surrounding his studies , in Georgia , " the letter said . The Attorney General 's letter challenged point-by-point the charges made at the hearings last Tuesday by Albert E , Jenner , chairman of the Committee on the Federal Judiciary of the American Bar Association . " Members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. B. A. did not provide facts to support Mr. Jenner 's assertion that Judge Morrissey spent a mere three days in the state , " he said . The latter accompanied the full F.B.I . report on the third investigation of Judge Morns ; sey since he was first mentioned for the Federal bench in 1961 . The report was not released to the press . Report Just in Time With the Senate vote on the appointment set for tomorrow afternoon , the bureau report seemed to come just in time to save Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , from being sorely em- , barrassed over his sponsorship of Judge Morrissey , a long-time friend of the Kennedy family , Judge Morrissey 's cause had been damaged earlier in the day when Senator Leverett Saltonstall , *Republican of Massachusetts , withdrew his prior acquiescence in the appointment . Senator Saltonstall issued a statement that said : " When the Senate Judiciary ' Committee sent me a notice relative to the appointment of Judge Morrissey , I answered ' no objection . ' " This has been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not well known to the Senator from his state . I " Since the Judiciary Commit-. tee has reported his nomination favorably , various matters have been brought to light that goes- ' tion the accuracy of the judge 's testimony before the committee . I therefore feel that I must withdraw my original response . I hope that the committee will check carefully these uncertainties if the matter is referred hack to it through the F.B.I . I also hope that further testimony from Judge Morrissey himself may be taken . " I trust the matter will be referred hack to the Judiciary Committee for these reasons and these uncertainties clearedl up . " Republican opposition to the ' appointment consolidated behind Senator Saltonstall 's call for more hearings . Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , announced today that he would move to send the Morrissey nomination back to the committee before a vote is taken on the floor tomorrow , Helped in Second Way The F.B.I . report also helped Judge Morrissey 's supporters overcome a new inconsistency ill his story that came to light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirmed today published reports that Judge Morrissey registered there to vote on July 26 , 1933 . This seemed to contradict an exchange between Senator Thomas J. Dodd , Democrat of Connecticut , and the nominee at the hearing last Tuesday . Senator Dodd ? " So you were there Georgia from June of 1933 to September of 1933 ? " Judge Morrissey ? " Right . For taking the review . " Senator Dodd ? " As I recall a few minutes ago you told us that you were down there in June of 1933 . " Judge Morrissey ? " That 's right . I did , " Senator Dodd ? " You were , taking courses until September . ) f 1933 ? " Judge Morrissey ? " That is ' right . " Date Sequence Noted Mr. Katzenbach 's letter noted that Judge Morrissey 's registration to vote came prior to his application as a Georgia resident for a law license in September . " This fact must be weighed against the recollections of several witnesses who attest his presence in classes in Georgia during this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department spokesman said no handwriting analysis had been used to determine if the signature on the registration was Jude Morrissey 's . The Attorney General 's letter said he had ordered the Investigation because of discrepancies between Judge Morrissey 's testimony and that of Mr. Jenner , Judge Morrissey said he went to Georgia in June , 1933 , studied law at Southern Law School until September , when he was admitted to practice . He said he remained in Georgia for several months and returned to Boston when he could not get law cases . Mr , Jenner testified his committee had been unable to discover any evidence that Judge Morrissey was in Georgia for more than the three days required to get his license , or that he had studied law at Southern Law School . Bona Fide School According to Mr. Katzenbach 's letter , the F.B.I . learned that Southern was a bona fide school teaching a two-year course in law to night students and a few day students . He sail that regular classes were held and examinations given . " At least three former students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the school during the period in question , " Mr. Katzenbach said . School ! records list him as having been ' graduated with eight other persons on Sept , 7 , 1933 , after having been admitted in June . On Nov. 2 . Judge Morrissey signed a registration card for the Staley College of the Spoken Word in Boston , listing his address as 880 Juniper Street , Atlanta . Mr. Katzenbach said it was unknown whether the nominee had returned to Boston at this time or subsequently . The Katzenbach letter also dealt with a statement in Judge Morrissey 's testimony that he " went back to evening law school in Boston College " after the Georgia period . Critics have pointed out that Boston College did not offer evening law courses at that time . The Attorney General concluded that this was a slip by Judge Morrissey , who has always before stated that these were undergraduate courses . in sociology . " I have concluded that this one reference to law ' was . inadvertent and does not bring into issue his credibility , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Georgia was further supported today by an interview in the Boston Herald with Charles Crowley , 59 years old . He is the " older friend " who had persuaded the nominee to go to Georgia in quest ' of a law . license , . according to Judge Morrissey 's testi ' The Herald quoted Mr. Crowley , now ' a retail salesman in Atlanta , as having supported Judge Morrissey 's statement that they studied law together in Athens and ' later lived together in Atlanta : This point has an important bearing on the - Judge 's veracity , since he stated he was a resident of Georgia when he was admitted to practice there . Mr. Crowley said he had been ' admitted to practice with Mr. Morrissey and they lived together in a $7 a week room on ' Juniper Street in downtown Atlanta for several months . According to Mr. Katzenbach 's letter , Mr. Crowley told the F.B.I , that he remained in Atlanta with Judge Morrissey for approximately 21h months and then returned to New York . At this ' afternoon 's White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered " no " when asked whether President Johnson in'tended to , withdraw the Morrissey nomination . A moment later , when . restating the answer , he qualified by saying " the answer at this time is no . " Senate sources said the vote was shaping up as a party-line issue , with Senator Kennedy cashing in many of his political ** to keep unenthusiastic Democrats on Judge Morrissey 's side . The most notable defection so far appears to be Senator Joseph D. Tydings , Democrat of Maryland , , a close personal and ' political friend of both Kennedy Senators . . Senator Tydings hinted broadly in a , Senate ' speech Friday that he'might oppose " a person who. has been , admitted . to the bar .. , wW7las no , ' trial . ence , arid probably little if any familiarity with the Federal rules of crimina/ procedure , or with the rules of evidence . " Because of the sharp tenor of Mr. Jenner 's charges against Judge Morrissey , tile " Georgia episode " has guhsequently eclipsed the bar 's objections to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial ' qualifica- ' itions. -o Mr. Jenner told the sub- , committee his investigation , ! showed that Judge Morrissey spent only three days in Georgia in obtaining his law license in September of 1933 , that he found " no evidence of Judge Morrissey having opened a text book " and thate tehe . Southern Law School had closed in 1933 after Georgia passed a law requiring bar , examinations of holders of Georgia law diplomas . Mr. Katzenbach 's statement , tonight supports Judge Morrissey 's story that he did study at the Southern Law School for three months and that he was in Georgia three months prior to September , 1933 , and somel months thereafter . Senator Kennedy 's office issued a statement today saying that the Southern Law School was a genuine teaching institu- , tion with a faculty of three , and a good library . It said the ' school continued after the law was changed in 1933 , and was listed in the Athens city directory as late as 1937 . Mr. Katzenhacn 's statement did not clear up the question about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1934 . The Massachusetts Constitution requires that a legislator be a resident of his home district for at least a year prior to taking office . Since Judge Morrissey would have taken office in November , 1934 , if he had won the election , ' this called into question his testimony that he stayed in Georgia until about March , 1934 . The Justice Department also said today that Judge Morrissey had tried at least a dozen cases before Federal , state and city courts in the Boston area including several full jury trials . The bar association officials had testified that Judge Morrissey had never tried a case to a jury in either state or Federal court .                     