@@725628

txt A number of New Jersey 's Democratic leaders , alarmed by an apparent growing , grass-roots dissatisfaction in the state with President Johnson 's Vietnam policy , are seriously considering breaking with the President on Vietnam in the fall election campaign . One of the Democratic party 's most influential state leaders firmly believes that Democratic candidates must come out emphatically in favor of de-escalation of the war and hope that President Johnson " brings a rabbit out of the hat " in time to avert Republican victories in November . " And any Democrat who thinks he can keep the Vietnam thing out of the election will be campaigning in dreamland , " the Democratic leader remarked . He made his comments in private conversaContinued tion . The Vietnam issue has created an agonizing dilemma for Democratic candidates : Should they try to support a policy they think is measurably losing support in voter polls , or should they risk embarrassing the President by abandoning his policy in search of something better ? This " crisis of support , " as one party leader called it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the official Administration line by assuming a decidedly " dovelike " Vietnam position . It also could cost the party its prime choice to oppose United States Senator Clifford P. Case , the Republican running for a third term in November . The freshman Congressman , Henry Helstoski of Bergen County , a heretofore loyal Administration supporter who owes his seat in the House to the President 's coattails , said today that the United States must end bombing of Vietnam and that the United Nations should be asked to resolve the war . Parsekian Undecided State Senator Ned J. Parsekian , the Bergen Democratic independent who has been asked by the party ' to run against Senator Case , may have to turn the nomination-down because of , among other factors , his misgivings over American Vietnam policy . Senator Parsekian will spend the next few weeks deciding whether he can support the President . The dilemma is particularly fretful for Senator Parsekian because Senator Case is expected to " dawk " the Vietnam issue , that is , attempt to mollify State Senator Ned J. Parsekian may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his misgivings over Vietnam . both the " hawks " and the " doves . " Senator Case is generally considered an administration supporter in Vietnam and he has said he will not " nit hit " the President 's posture . In a recent statement , the Senator said of the President : " He gets it from both sides . He gets it from the side of the people who want to get out , who feel it 's a cruel , senseless , stupid war and we 're acting as imperialists and worse and we ought to get out of there . " On the other hand , he gets it from those who think we ought to get out but first we ought to go in there with a bang and clean it up . " However , Mr. Case has said that the President has some explaining to do . Democratic strategists believe that Mr. Case also has some explaining to do . They hope , to . get him away from his position as merely reacting to the Administration and push him , instead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and positive alternatives on his own . In the Congressional races where the Vietnam issue may be decisive , Mr. Helstoski has taken one of the most exhaus ? tive polls on Vietnam made by any member of the House . He sent a series of questions on Vietnam to 165.000 families in his district and roughly 20 per cent responded . The number of replies were considered to be unusually high . All told , 57 per cent favored the President 's policy and 43 per cent did not , compared to a 75 to 25 per cent response in the President 's favor a year ago . A similar drop has marked soundings taken by the Democratic State Committee this Spring . Mr. Helstoski believes the President can not extend the " olive branch in one hand and bombs in the other . " Moreover , he favors an immediate session of the United Nations Security Council to take up the Vietnam issue . Mr. Helstoski 's Republican opponent , former Representative Frank C. Osmers , is expected to shadow Senator Case closely and " dawk " the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional reapportionment plan , James J. Howard of Monmouth County is given the best chance of the three New Jersey freshman Democrats " to survive the prospects of a Case landslide this fall . And like the two Republicans . Mr. Howard is expected to be a " dawk. "                     