@@723562

txt Control of the Seas Nuclear-Powered Carrier 's Rejection Said to Reduce Navy 's Role To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issue of Oct. 18 Hanson Baldwin reported , with accuracy , indications that the strength and " role " of our carrier fleet might be reduced and that future new carriers might be conventionally powered rather than nuclear-powered . The Department of Defense has since announced its decision , in direct opposition to professional naval opinion , to authorize the construction of a new carrier with conventional power . I agree with your Nov. 9 editorial criticizing that decision . Fred Korth , whatever his reasons for resigning his position as Secretary of the Navy , seems to have understood the Navy 's role . At a recent commissioning ceremony he urged all Americans , military and civilian , to keep in mind the basic principle that he who controls the sea and the air above controls the destinies of the world . It is unfortunate that so few other civilians in public life seem to understand this principle , the soundness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lessons of history ? unfortunate because it is more than apparent that the Soviet military leaders understand it . Timing Questioned With their enormous fleet of submarines , with the high seas off our coast scouted by many oversized " fishing " boats , and with a base only 90 miles from our mainland , this seems a very peculiar time for our own Defense Department apparently to downgrade a class of vessels that is the backbone of our capability of controlling the seaways in either limited or all-out emergency . Anybody who investigates the matter is driven to the conclusion that a nuclear-powered carrier is more effective than a conventionally powered one  --  not just a little better , but superior by a considerable margin . It is no accident that professional naval opinion is strong on this point , the validity of which has been demonstrated by the performance of our single nuclear-powered carrier , Enterprise . Secretary of Defense 's , decision to deny the Navy a second nuclear-powered carrier reduces the Navy 's future capacity for retaining control of the seaways , thus increasing the risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are inevitably exposed in case of a shooting war . Key Item Withheld By spurning the voice of professional opinion , which is the voice of experience in this case , our Secretary of Defense has withheld from ' our Navy a key item of equipment it urgently needs , while it is confronted by a more formidable threat than has ever existed before in socalled peacetime . The recent airlift of troops to Germany is a magnificent achievement , but the bulk of the supplies and heavy equipment for these same troops had already been or is being transported to them by ships . Decades will pass before the supplies needed to sustain such units abroad can be accomplished by air lift . In both world wars , our success in regaining the freedom of the seas , and thus setting the stage for ultimate victory , resulted from using the best available equipment , not the second best . Secretary is assuming a grave responsibility in insisting on pouring our national resources into the construction of a great ship that , to a marked degree , can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JAY SC HIEFFELIN . New York , Nov. 9 , 1963 . Ellis Island as Shrine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Mayor Wagner 's proposal that Ellis Island be developed as a memorial park is to be highly commended and has the full support of the New York Chapter , American Institute of Architects . The chapter and other civicminded groups have been fighting since 1956 to keep this site from being exploited by private interests . Its development as a shrine in an outdoor setting is consonant with the island 's historic past and prominent location in the harbor . Ellis Island has become a symbol for this great country to the millions who came here from all over the world . Commercializing it would be incompatible with the dramatic role it has played . The chapter is encouraged by the Mayor 's position and by the fact that he has joined the battle to convert the island to a shrine . We are hopeful that with his leadership the island will emerge as a national monument . We reiterate our proposal that this organization stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a design of the site as a shrine and a public park . WALKER 0 . CAIN . Chairman , Urban Design Committee , New York Chapter , American Institute of Architects . New York , Nov , I , UM Housing Aid for Negroes Work of City Civil Rights Group in Eliminating Barriers Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : The recent March on Washington did the job it set out to do : let this nation know that its black people have declared war on discrimination . People  --  Negro and white  --  are joined together in an all-out effort for freedom . One major goal is freedom in choice of housing . Even in places where laws prohibit discrimination in housing , freedom of choice for black people is almost unheard of . New York is one such place . Those of us who live in New York and'who want to do something about this situation should know about a remarkable organization in this city . It is the Committee on Civil Rights in Metropolitan New York ( C.C.R.M. ) , 225 West 57th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interracial group of volunteers concerned with the status of civil rights in Manhattan , C.C.R.M. was successful in virtually eliminating discrimination against Negro patrons in East Side restaurants , and in 1954 turned its attention to discrimination in housing . Record on Bias Many organitations in New York City work for human rights . But C.C.R.M. is the only one which concentrates exclusively on eliminating discrimination in housing in a systematic program dealing with those who are direct victims of discrimination . C.C.R.M. 's Partnership Apartment Seeking Exchange has enabled many Negro families to secure housing of their choice , with dignity and as their right . Now the committee needs the opportunity to expand this program . For now is the time to make the big assault on housing barriers ? now and over the next few years , or else the city is in deep trouble . C.C.R.M. is no mighty army , but more and more New Yorkers are hearing about it , asking about it , and joining it . I recommend it to any New Yorker who wants to do something about discrimination in housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board Member , Committee on Civil Rights in Metropolitan New York . New York , Nov. 1 , 1963 . Against Christmas Stamps To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I must express my outrage at the issuance of another Christmas stamp this year . With all the progress being made these last few months toward defining our religious and civil liberties and rights , I simply can not understand how such a gross violation of the separation of church and state can have occurred . It is useless to argue that Christmas has now become a national holiday . To most of us it is an international religious festival of great significance , and has absolutely no place in the American governmental scheme of things . I speak as a member of that apparently inarticulate group of strongly nonreligious citizens of this country . We must have a fuller discussion of this post office practice before it becoems an additional part of the annual American debasement of Christmas . LORETTE ZIRKER . Sunspot , N. M. , Nov. 5 , 1963 , Rockefeller 's Absenteeism To THE EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York law that permits its Governor to turn over the affairs of our state to his assistants so that he can spend considerable time seeking another office ? When I voted for our Governor , I was under the impression that running the state was a full-time job , that he would devote his full time to it . I did not understand that he would tend the store on a parttime basis . Governing New York State is as much a business as running any large corporation . What corporation , large or small , would permit its chief executive to remain on its payroll while spending a substantial amount of time away from his duties , looking for another job ? CHARLES ADAMS , New York , Oct , 25 , 1963. urther reproduction prohibited without permission . ?                     