@@723871

txt Washington , March 24-The House cloakrooms echoed to merriment today when astonished lawmakers heard that President Johnson and Gov . Kerner of Illinois had clashed in a head-on struggle over the controversial farm bill . With rare , bipartisan unanimity , Democrats and Republicans agreed that this encounter was the greatest mismatch in history . Kerner had lost , they said , before he could throw a punch . There were reports that President Johnson had " hit the ceiling " when he heard of Kerner 's appeal last week to Illinois Democrats to vote against the administration 's wheat-cotton bill when it is submitted to the House . Kerner Is Firm The President was said to have instructed Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman to get in touch with Kerner in an attempt to make him change his mind . The effort was described as futile . Interviews with Illinois Democrats disclosed that Johnson need not have lost his temper . Kerner 's appeal had switched no votes , so far as could be determined . Rep. Dan Rostenkowski D. , M. , while specify , ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expressing the common sentiment of Chicago Democrats when he said : " We will be running this year on a ticket with Lyndon Johnson at the top and he has made this farm bill one of his major pieces of legislation . I think everyone will go along with him . " Rep. George E. Shipley D. , representing a downstate rural area , said Kerner 's appeal had not affected his vote . He was already committed to voting against the bill . He predicted that Kerner 's appeal would be futile and that not more than three of the 12 Democratic members of the Illinois delegation would vote against the measure . Most of the 12 Republicans are against it . They enjoyed needling their Democratic colleagues about " joining us . " The responses were both jocose and profane . Cites Votes of Senators Kerner 's stand against the administration 's farm bill was revealed in a letter to William Kuhfuss. president of the Illinois Agricultural association , the Illinois branch of the American Farm Bureau federation , the nation 's largest farm organization , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed the members of the Illinois delegation of our feelings and position in this matter , " Kerner wrote , " and am hopeful they will cast their votes as our Illinois senators did . " Johnson Wo n't Forget Senators Dirksen R. and Douglas D. opposed the bill in the Senate . The House vote is expected to be close and Kerner 's urging of Chicago Democrats to change their usual stand could have threatened passage if it had resulted in a loss of 8 or 10 votes . President Johnson has been assured by his leaders in Congress that this will not be the result . Those who know him say he will not forget Kerner 's defection . He has specifically set passage of the farm bill as one of his major goals .                     