@@726838

txt Another Opinion One Way to Stop Crime The following are excerpts from an editorial which appeared last week in The Washington Evening Star under the title : " At Last  --  A New Crime Law . " When President Johnson signed the District crime bill this week , a 10-year-old struggle to soften the injurious impact on law enforcement of the Supreme Court 's ruling in the Mallory case came to a more-or-less successful conclusion . In deciding the Mallory case in 1957 , the justices , of course , did not intend to give an assist to criminals at the expense of law-abiding people . What they were trying to do ? and this really had its origin in the decision in 1943 ? was to ' provide safeguards against the third degree and extorted confessions during unduly long questioning by the police of arrested suspects . Any newspaperman who had an exposure to police tactics 20 , 30 or 40 years ago knows that the rubber hose was not a figment of some judge 's overwrought imagination . The Mallory case , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The sole ground for reversing his conviction as a rapist rested on something known as Rule 5-a , a rule of Federal court procedure which had no constitutional basis . The essence of this rule is that a criminal suspect must be arraigned ? brought before a magistrate ? by the police without " unnecessary delay " after his arrest . Unless this require . ment is satisfied , said the court , any confession made while in custody and prior to arraignment can not be used as evidence at the trial . The court addressed itself , not to detention for any particular number of hours , but to arraignment without " unnecessary delay . " What our lower courts , and especially our United States Court of Appeals , have done to this concept is a real shocker . To give just a few examples : In 1964 the Court of Appeals ? said a delay of 30 minutes in arraignment violated the Mallory ? Rule . A year earlier , a trial judge , sitting in District Court , threw out a confession because of a 15-minute delay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Washington police have been having a hard time of it . And it should be understood that the impact of these " activist " court decisions strikes primarily at law enforcement in the Nation 's Capital . For the Mallory Rule , in such crimes as murder , robbery , rape and so on , rarely if ever applies in other cities . State law governs there . But in Washington , where Federal Courts are in control , its application has given something of a green light to those who specialize in crimes of violence . Against the Capital Now , back to the new crime law . What does it do ? And what does it not do ? It modifies the Mallory Rule to some extent . Now , a policeman who makes a lawful arrest , which means an arrest based on " probable cause , " does not have to race the clock to get the suspect to a magistrate for arraignment . He can question the suspect for a period . of three hours , beginning immediately after the arrest and after advising him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the three-hour period he must either charge the suspect with a crime and arraign him . Or he must release the suspect without charge , so that no taint of an arrest record attaches to the incident . Is this an unconstitutional procedure ? We doubt it very much . But in the event that it may be , we are glad that the President decided to leave the determination of this qustion to the judges , and not to heed the shrill critics of the bill . Up to Judges There has been one other major complaint . Some people who should know better say this three-hour arrest provision revives in our city the practice of " arrests for investigation . " This is not true . In the first place , arrests for investigation , before they were banned by the District Commissioners , could be and were made on probable cause , on mere suspicion , or because the arresting officer happened to be in a blue funk on a particular day . Furthermore , the Senate committee report on the bill , and it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into court , states unequivocally : " Title III ( the pertinent section ) is not authority for investigative arrests . . . . This is definitely not a back door method of reinstituting investigative arrests in the District of Columbia . " How can language be more explicit ? The provisions discussed here as well as others in the new law , should be helpful in curbing crime in the Nation 's Capital . Of itself , this law is not by any means an answer to our crime problem . But if it will help , that is something to be thankful for , and we are glad that the President signed the bill . For him to have done otherwise would have been unconscionable.                     