@@728170

txt The Portuguese opposition failed to win a single seat in the election yesterday to the 130-seat National Assembly in the . first significantly contested election in the country in 43 years . Nearly complete results announced shortly after midnight by the Interior Minister , Antonio Goncalves Rapazote , gave approximately 11 per cent of the votes to the opposition and 89 per cent to the Government 's National Union . In some districts the results were even more lopsided . In Braga , the opposition won 5 per cent . and in Vila Real only 3 per cent . Mr. Rapazote said that the National Union had won " a solid and clear victory . " In Lisbon and in the industrial belt across the Tagus voters turned out in great numbers , standing in line for as much as two hours in the brilliant sunshine . Political observers here were surprised at the heavy vote , which emptied Lisbon 's beaches , normally jammed on a warm Sunday . Saldzar Casts Vote There were no over-all figures this evening to show how heavy the abstentions were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition made its strongest showing , gaining onethird of the vote , 53 per cent of the registered voters abstained . Since only about 18 per cent of the population of 9.5 million is registered , a high rate of abstention would considerably diminish the luster of the Government 's margin . Perhaps the day 's biggest surprise was the emergence of former Premier ** de Oliveira Salazar from his residence at Sao Bento Palace , where he has been confined with a stroke , to cast his vote . Traveling in the Premier 's limousine , Dr. Salazar , who has not yet been told that he was succeeded by Marcello Caetano last year , drove to the polling place and was allowed to cast his ballot without leaving the car . It was Dr. Salazar 's first appearance outside his home since he was stricken last year . Premier Caetano , for whom the election , despite the restrictions surrounding it , represents a victory , voted shortly after the polls opened in the upper-class Alvalade district where he lives . There were some 60 voters in line when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the National Assembly , went to the head of the line , deposited his ballot and walked out making a victory sign as the other voters applauded . The National Assembly has little real power under the present Constitution . However , it has the power to change the Constitution and Dr. Caetano is expected to propose some important constitutional changes to the new assembly , which will include a majority of National Union members who support him rather than the old guard in the party . Francisco Pereira de Moura , leader of the more radical of the two main opposition groups , the Democratic Commission , voted in the same polling station as Dr. Caetano , pausing to ask the chairman why the opposition 's observers , seated 15 feet away , were not closer . He was told that they had been even farther away , but had Complained and were moved up . A. series of random visits to polling places in Lisbon , across the river and in the surrounding countryside , indicated that the balloting went smoothly though slowly , with opposition observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bar Newsmen In Lisbon , journalists were allowed to visit the polling places . In the industrial districts across the river , where the opposition made a strong showing , many poll chairmen refused to allow newsmen in , sometimes after checking by phone with their superiors . Mario Soares , leader of the more moderate of the two opposition groups , the United Democratic Commission , turned up at noon after waiting an hour in line . The chairman of the polling station , though he was a National Union man , stood up and shook hands . The overwhelming Government victory reflectsin part Dr. Caetano 's popularity , and in part the heavy restrictions that stand in the way of the growth of an organized , effective opposition . A statement issued late last night by Mr. Soares said that in many areas the opposition bad not been able to place observers . Opposition sources say they find it suspicious that the rate of abstention appears to be much lower , according to the announced results , in places where there were no observers to check on what went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions on meetings and organization , and the presence of a powerful politicai ponce made a ire : : clet : - tion in any real sense impossible . " As we have been pointing out , ? these elections were not genuine , " Mr. Soares said in his statement .                     