@@727200

txt The United States Marines are pulling out of the combat base at Khesanh , where they withstood a bitter North Vietnamese siege for 77 days last winter , the United ' States command said today . In announcing the withdrawal from a base once described as vital to allied defenses near the demilitarized zone , the United States command said that enemy pressure was part of the reason . In an official statement , the cornmand said : " There have been two significant changes in the military situation in Vietnam since early this year  --  an increase in friendly strength , mobility and firepower and an increase in the enemy 's threat due to both a greater flow of replacements and in a change in tactics . " Defense Was Determined Khesanh is the first major base abandoned under such circumstances in the war . During the long winter siege , senior United States officers here and in the United States said the base would be held at all costs . However , when a relief force finally was sent to break the siege in April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made . The disclosure of the withdrawal came two days after The Baltimore Sun , in a dispatch sent from Khesanh on Monday , reported the withdrawal and said ' that United States forces were building up their strength at nearby combat bases a few miles to the east . John 9 . Carroll , the correspondent who wrote the dispatch , was disaccredited by the United States military command yesterday on the ground that he had violated security regulations . Military regulations forbid the reporting of troop movements in advance of official announcements . The disac- // creditation means that Mr. Carroll will be unable to travel on United States military planes or attend military briefings or news conferences . The Khesanh combat base was originally set up as a Special Forces camp to check infiltration along Route 9 from Laos seven miles to the west , and across the western part of the demilitarized zone 14 miles to the north . The marines were sent to reinforce Khesanh in 1967 because of increasing enemy pressure . The force , according to senior officers ' private estimates , was unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the base . The siege , which opened on Jan. 20 , was the result of an apparent attempt by the North Vietnamese command to overrun the base . The big assault never came , but during the 11 weeks thousands of artillery rounds exacted a heavy toll in American casutltties . About 10,0 died and hundreds more were wounded . The new western anchor of the American base system along the DMZ apparently was to be Landing Zone Stud about 10 miles to the east along Route 9 . The landing zone has been used for all resupply and , support of the eight battalions that were operating around Khesanh since the siege was lifted . The base has a landing strip capable of handling medium-size transport planes . Its big advantage is that it is out of range of the North Vietnamese artillery dug into Coroc mountain in Laos that severely punished Khesanh . The official statement said : " Mobile forces tied to specific terrain must be used to the utmost to attack , intercept , reinforce or take whatever action is most appropriate to meet enemy threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posture we adopted in western Quangtri Province with Operation Pegasus in April . " The decision makes operation of the base at Khesanh unnecessary . " In I Corps tactical zone there has also been a net increase in enemy strength . In January the enemy had at least the equivalent of six divisions , today he has at least the equivalent of eight . This gives him the capability of mounting several sizable attacks concurrently . " To meet this significantly increased threat , friendly forces must make maximum advantage of their superior firepower and mobility . "                     