@@725435

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 34 Letters to the Editor of The Times Lindsay Appointments To the Editor : I should like the opportunity to comment on one aspect of William D. Ogdon 's editorial page column March 21 on the first eighty days of Mayor Lindsay 's administration . In a commentary otherwise generous to Mr. Lindsay , Mr. Ogdon acknowledges that " many of his appointments have been undistinguished . . . a number of silly things have been done , owing largely to naivet ? and the inexperience of young appointees . " Appearing as it does in a newspaper that actively supported Mr. Lindsay 's candidacy , this acknowledgment is indeed worthy of note . The first thought that comes to mind is the strong implication that after having a go at it for a while these youngsters will then be able to handle their jobs effectively . One may rightly ask whether the people in our city can afford to have its complex administration used as a training ground . The other thought relates to the evidence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretense to nonpartisanship and of the emptiness of his oft-repeated declaration that fitness for the job and not politics would govern his appointments . One recalls how he vowed he would scour the entire country  --  from " coast to coast " ? to get the best men . Local and Republican There is little need to detail the evidence referred to . Political commentators generally agree that , his going to Philadelphia for his Police Commissioner notwithstanding , Mr. Lindsay 's administration is essentially both local and Republican . Even a casual observer of the political scene is well aware of the many " campaign aides " and " area coordinators " who have been given top-level positions . It would appear that just about every campaign worker who operated a Lindsay store front has been rewarded with a city job . Lest I be misunderstood , these comments are not intended as a criticism of Mr. Lindsay 's appointments as such , nor , for that matter , the political institution which gives rise to them . As a beneficiary of this vestige of the spoils system who willingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hardly be in a position to indulge in such criticism . However , it is difficult to note the appointments being made and not decry Mr. Lind say 's pretense that his adrninisteation is " above politics " and his implication that an administration politically based is somehow lacking in ability and virtue . Knowledgeable people know how little merit there is to such thesis and , in this regard , it is interesting to note that while Mayor Wagner made no claims to being above politics , , nevertheless most of his critics , including The . Times , conceded that , whatever his faults , his appointments were good . ABRAHAM SHALO Brooklyn , March 29 , 1966 The writer is the former Counsel to the Department of Investigation of the City of New York . ? Private TV Systems To the Editor : ? I disagree with your March 26 editorial " The CATV Network " which suggests that community antenna television systems be regulated as public utilities . CATV systems offer improved reception and increased program choice to subscribers for a monthly charge . Generally about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become subscribers . However , since CATV systems usually cover only part of a conununityrfand since 30 per ? cent of homes in the system area ' , itself . do not become subscribers , it would appear that CATV is more of an auxiliary service than a vital necessity . For instance , it is very hard to conceive of a city where 30 per cent of the residents would fail to subscribe to telephone service or electrical power . In my view , only vital services such as these should be regulated as utilities . CATV 's , which offer service to 3 per cent of U.S. homes , should not be placed in such a category . Moreover , I fear that rate regulation of CATV 's may ultimately lead to rate regulation of broadcasting stations . Experience has shown that if certain businesses ? re protected from competition then the profits of these businesses are ultimately regulated . Just the way rate regulation of gas distribution companies led to rate regulation of gas producers so may rate regulation of antenna distribution systems lead to rate regulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 29 , 1966 ? Rostow as Cold Warrior To the Editor : In the encomium April 2 on the occasion of Walt W. Rost ( w 's appointment to the President 's staff you cite as evidence of his scholarly and original mind the fact that he can argue for disarmament and for an Atlantic nuclear force with equal vigor . This ambivalence would seem to indicate , rather , an incapacity for defining choices . The " independence " you salute has led Mr. Rostow to turn away disturbing questions with scorn , as when he dismissed the vital matter on control in the MLF as of only " theological interest " Mr. Rostow has contributed a useful metaphor ( " take-off point " ) to the current jargon of socio-economic thought . But to claim that the man who recommended the bombing of North Vietnam " if all else fails " has a profound understanding of the meaning of " neutralism in the third world " is preposterous . ( All else ? Has a realistic attempt , to build a broadbased civilian government in Vietnam been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ) Rostow 's capacity for " comprehension both of the intricacies of world problems and of the options " is limited severely by the fact of his being a highly talented cold warrior . ANN EVANS BERTHOFP Bryn Mawr , April 2 , 1966 ? Atheist ' Father To the Editor : Theologians have argued that " God is dead , " and the news in The Times of April 2 confirms it . In Iowa it is reported that Harold Painter is about to attack the judgment of the State Supreme Court , which held him unfit to rear his own sorb because he is , among other things , " an agnostic or atheist . " In Arkansas the state prosecutor in the Epperson case has insinuated that " evolution is an atheistic doctrine , " as though that were both relevant and a point against a teacher who claims the right to teach biology in the public schools as , her best scholarly judgment dictates . In Connecticut 's United States District Court , Judge T. Emmett Clarie has found David Mitchell out of order in arguing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he enters the court with dirty hands . Precisely , he is " an agnostic who does n't believe in a Supreme Being . " The scandal of these remarks to and from the bench is that they should be tolerated for one instant by a judiciary and a legal profession sworn to uphold the Bill of Rights and therefore presumably familiar with its contents . In all three cases , the complaint of atheism and agnosticism is hypocritical and vulgar . It is perfectly obvious that such denunciations for theological heterodoxy are a cheap device , like the smear charge of " Communist , " to discredit those who dissent from prevailing social and political orthodoxies . It is pathetic , not to say sacrilegious , that the God of Abraham , Isaac and Jacob should be obliquely invoked in our courts to do this nasty business . God is indeed dead if He is made to speak in this way . HUGO ADAM BEDAU Associate Professor of Philosophy ( Visiting ) Princeton , N. J. , April 2 , 1966 ? For a Teach-In on Aid To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his March 28 column on the editorial page , has done a great service in calling attention to the need for a " Copernican revolution " in our response to the challenge of economic development in the poor nations . Of prime importance is his warning that the desperate situation of much of the world will remain a permanent fact unless our current policies In regard - to foreign aid are altered . What is most disturbing , however , is the fact that the academic and intellectual community has not been attracted to discussion of this situation . American political scientists , for instance , seem mainly concerned with their own attempts at a Copernican revolution in methodology , while progressive liberals and intellectuals expend great energy in elucidating the obvious about Vietnam . President Perkins 's suggestion that " the basic illogic " between our increasing affluence and the decreasing size of our foreign-aid effort can be misconstrued and result in increased opposition to that effort should be seen as a mlistie warning . Perhaps the " absurd'and misleading " annual Congressional debate on foreign aid can become an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will help inform the public of the transparent economic facts in regard to the developing nations . A. EARNHART Brooklyn , March 30 , 1968 ? Richmond Parkway To the Editor : Chairman William F. R. Ballard of the City Planning Commission in his letter to you , published . April 1 , refers to what he terms an inaccuracy in Robert Moses ' March 21 letter to you . On Oct. 28 , 1964 , the City Planning Commission , with Mr. Ballard as chairman , approved a report recommending modifications in the mapped lines and grades of the Richmond Parkway . These modifications were approved on Nov. 6 , 1964 , by the Board of Estimate . Chairman Ballard and all of the commissioners were present at the meeting held on Oct. 28 . No mention was made in the text of the report that the parkway route should be revised . The approval of the modifications in the map was in effect a ratification of the City Planning Commission 's previous approval of the map laying out the parkway . Furthermore , in his report to Mayor Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1965 , Chairman Ballard devoted several paragraphs to the Richmond Parkway and recommended only that it be built as an expressway instead of a parkway . Nowhere in this report did he recommend that any part of the route be changed . PETER 3 . REIDY Executive Director Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority New York , April 5 , 1966 ? Tax on Commuters To the Editor : Shame on The New York Times for the March 31 editorial on Mayor Lindsay 's tax program . Your tune on commuter taxation seems to have changed from a fair-share concept to a kind of " Berlin wall " penal philosophy to keep New Yorkers from " fleeing " to the suburbs . Since when are taxes levied as a penalty ? I disagree with the whole idea of commuter taxation unless there is some kind of corresponding representation to give the taxed a voice in how their money is used . However , since you believe in the Mayor 's concept , the least you can do is keep ut the fair-share facade . It 's a much better argument than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N. J. , March 31 , 1966                     