@@726415

txt ? The Federal Government has drastically revamped its food aid program in Mississippi in an effort to reach more poor people . The changes , which will be extended eventually throughout the South and the rest of the country , were in response to demands of civil rights groups and to the finding , by a team of doctors , of hunger approaching starvation among hundreds of Negro children . The changes are being made in the face of rising criticism of the Administration on ' grounds that it his not over'come the hunger problem in ' the South . At the same time , powerful Congressional forces , mainly Southerners , have balked at Administration efforts to increase aid in the South , Secretary of Agriculture Orville L. Freeman initiated the new program , which was worked out with state and Federal officials . It includes the following : 9A reduction of more than one half in the cost of food stamps , effective Saturday . 9A reduction in the required // minimum purchase by families ! rom $2 a person a month to 50 vents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been getting tickets For the purchase of $70 of food at prevailing prices at local stores . ( lAn attempt , through state Ind local officials , to get county boards of supervisors to underwrite the cost of minimum purchases of stamps for families that have no income . ( lAn increase of trained Federal workers to handle the increased efforts and to recruit , hire and train new " program aides , " including Negroes , to reach more of the poor people . Establishment of five new Federal commodity marketing and service offices in Mississippi by Sept. 1 , raising the total to 10 . The offices are operated by the Agricultural Department to distribute the food stamps . No immediate estimate of the cost of the program was made . The new " program aides " will be trained to work with the poor on nutrition , food buying and preparation of food . These aides will be solicited from civil rights groups and from employment agencies . Welfare Plan Conversion Findings of hunger among Negro children were made by a team of doctors who returned from Mississippi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The team was sponsored by the Field Foundation of New York , which focuses on child welfare and interracial relations : The revised program became known as Secretary Freeman flew here on a tour of rural development projects designed to overcome rural poverty and to bolster rural economies . Mr. Freeman-was scheduled to meet with civil rights leaders to explain the changes he plans to start by Aug. 1 . Mr. Freeman 's action will also include a longer conversion period for the changeover from the direct distribution of Federal food by state and local welfare agencies to the food stamp program , This will provide a transition period to make certain that some recipients will not be cut off from direct state aid before they are able to make use of the Federal food stamps . Mr. Freeman has been sharply criticized for not using his powers to make food stamps quickly available to all ' the poor , particularly , those without Income . He sought recently to cut the price of food stamps but was rebuffed by powerful Southern Congressional forces , who have sought to abolish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Agriculture and Appropriations committees that deal with the budget and program of the Department of Agriculture , because he does not want to antagonize them unnecessarily . Despite their disapproval , however , he used his administrative authority to carry out the change in the food stamp program . Many Southerners remain opposed to cutting the price of the food stamps on the ground that this would assist hard-core unemployed persons and discourage them from seeking employment . The conversion from direct distribution of welfare food to the food stamp plan has been a thorny problem and has left hundreds of families without aid , adding to the criticism of Mr. Freeman . For example , figures from the Department of Agriculture show that in April , 1966 , 208,000 persons in 28 counties in Mississippi were getting direct food aid . As a result of the change from direct distribution to the food stamp plan , the number being aided dropped to 128,000 in April of this year . In Washington County ( Greenville ) 20,218 were getting direct food aid a year ago , but last April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the most delicate areas facing Federal and state officials is that of inducing the county boards of supervisors to pay the cost of stamps for those unable to buy them . State officials , including Miss Francis Gandy , state welfare commissioner , were understood to have asked Federal officials to let the local people work on this problem . State officials will ask the Legislature at its next session in January to budget funds to provide stamps for the poor without money . An assistant to Mr. Freeman recently 4riefed Governor Paul B. Johnson Jr . on the proposed Federal actions .                     