@@720989

txt The Administration will not press for early Congressional action on a proposal to appoint Federal registrars in Southern areas where Negroes are denied the right to vote . That was the key recommendation in the Civil Rights Commission report last Sept. 8 . It has been made a rallying cry by civil rights organizations , and it is already looming as a major political issue in the new Session of Congress . Congress reconvenes next ' Wednesday . The President will deliver his State of the Union ' Message Thursday and submit his budget Jan. 18 . Early Action Seen No program has been fixed for either house , but the Senate is expected to hold an early debate on Federal aid fer school construction . Other big tissues of the session are likely to include farm policy , Govern- , ment bond interest rates and improved Social Security hone-. fits . The civil rights issue will be waiting in the wings . By all ' indications it will not wait long . The Senate majority leader . Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , has promised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the House , backers i are working , with good hopes of I success , to dislodge a bill from 1 the Rules Committee . The Administration nas not ' ' fixed its position on civil rights . But official thinking indicates , strongly that it will stand , pretty much on th.  --  relatively ' modest proposals Made by Pres-. ident Eizienliower last year . Bill Whittled Down A truncated version of the 1959 package was approved by , the House Judiciary Committee ; last summer and is now in the Rules Committee . The Houses bill would : cPermit inspection of state voting records by the Justice Department and require preser1 vation of the records for two years . Make it a Federal crime to interfere with court school desegregation orders by violence or threats . Make it a Federal crime to cross state lines in flight from prosecution for bombing or burning any building . CAuthorize Federal schooling for children or military person- , nel in communities where schools have been closed to avoid integration . In addition to these provisions , President Eisenhower had called for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of a permanent commission against , job discrimination by Govern- , ment contractors . The Judiciary ; Committee killed the proposal . The Civil Rights Commission report came in just before Congress adjourned last summer . By all indications the report , and especially the proposal for Federal registrars , will be a focus of this year 's debate ? and of the Presidential campaign to follow . Senator Hubert H. Humphrey declared for the registrar plan when he announced his candidacy for the Democratic Presidential nomination this week . The Minnesotan seemed to be challenging his rivals on the issue . Today Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts took a more equivocal position as he announced his candidacy . He said he was " inclined to support the concept " of Federal registrars but would want to explore it in hearings and discussion . Southerners Irked The Southern leader of the Senate , Richard B. Russell of Georgia , has made it clear that his forces would fight to the end against the registrar pmposal . After Senator Humphrey 's statement this week , Senator Russell denounced the proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's position will , of course , be critically important . Justice Department officials who will advise the President on the question privately praise the Civil Rights Commission recommendations as thoughtful and constructive . But for several reasons they incline against any push for early action on them . For one thing , hearings have been held in both houses on last year 's program . Any major expansion of the Administration program now would undoubtedly require new b hearine 's and might provide an excuse for delay and , probably , no action at all on civil rights this session . Court Tests Due Second , the Justice Department reasons that it persuaded Congress three years ago to pass the first civil rights legislation in generations . The statute included a new approach to the problem of Negro voting ? suits by the department . The voting provisions of the 1957 act have not been fully tested as yet ; two cases are pending in the Supreme Court . Officials feel it would he questionable policy to go back to Congress and ask for an entirely new plan before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers think the commission proposals need a good deal of refinement before they can be translated into legislation . Among the problems seen by the lawyers in the registrar plan , for example , are how the need for Federal registrars would he proved , what their relation to state registrars would be and how and when their job would end . Hearings Favored Justice Department officials emphasize that they are not opposed to the commission recommendations . They believe hearings and other steps to implement the , proposals should be pursued . Justice Department and commission lawyers have begun conferring on them . But the ideas are regarded as long-run possibilities , not immediate objectives . This reaction has disturbed some of the members of the commission , it is known . There has been talk of resignations . The commission is expected to take its case directly to President Eisenhower . One unknown that could upset everyoneks strategy is the attitude of Senator Johnson . It is understood that he has been urged by the vice chairman of the commission , Robert G. Storey of Texas , to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Presidential nomination who finds his Southern origins a drawback among Northern liberal voters , Senator Johnson could conceivably welcome an opportunity to demonstrate his non-southern attitude toward the racial issue .                     