@@723221

txt London President Kennedy and Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev are about to engage in summer exercises aimed at overcoming wintry stalemates . Fresictent nenneciy , it : is assumed here , will among other things throw the full force of his prestige , power , and presence into the American " hard-sell " campaign for the mixed-manned NATO surface nuclear force . Coexistence Theme Premier Khrushchev will be seeking to prove to the world that tolerable coexistence is possible ? not only between East and West but within the Communist world itself . The scope and probable intent of the forthcoming presidential trip to Europe was somewhat clarified with the President 's announcement that he had accepted Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's invitation to make an overnight stay at Birch Grove House , Chelwood Gate , Sussex . The President is scheduled to arrive in the United Kingdom June 29 and leave on June 30 . His itinerary now includes West Germany . the Republic of Ireland , Britain , and Italy in that order . He leaves Washington June 23 . The announcement of the visit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , said : ' ' As it is now six months since they last met and there arc a number of problems they can usefully discuss , President Kennedy and the Prime Minister have felt that it would be useful to take advantage of the President 's visit and have informal talks together . An arrangement of this kind has been facilitated by the recent change in the President 's European schedule . " Uncertainty in the Air The seventh meeting between President Kennedy and Prime Minister Macmillan is surrounded perhaps by more than even the usual degree of uncertainty . Because of pending civil-rights legislation in the United States , there was uncertainty in the administration as to whether this was an ideal time for the President . to be engaging in personal diplomacy abroad . There was uncertainty over President de Gaulle : Mr. Kennedy reportedly was reluctant to visit Britain , and thereby raise once more the Anglo-Saxon bogy , until it was clear whether a meeting might be on between himself and President de Gaulle . The General is said to have removed that uncertainty by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in French-United States summitry at present . Lukewarm Response The biggest uncertainties , of course , lie ahead . And these revolve about the development of the NATO surface force , which has of late been pushed so hard by the Kennedy ad- , ministration . The British , already maintaining their own V-bomber force and committed to the Polaris submarine program , have given lukewarm response to the latest United Ship Launching Pad Polaris missiles have been successfully fired from missile-launching ship USS Observation Island for several years . The United States now proposes that NATO countries sponsor a fleet of Polaris-armed surface vessels . States scheme for Western al-Hance nuclear defense . The British Government position is that very sizable economic . military , and political difficulties Nv011id have to be overcome if Britain %vere to join the multilateral force . Other Topics The British view of West Germany 's role in such a force is not altogether clear . Britain counts on , and has received recent proofs of . German support in connection with the European Economic Community . British politicians of whatever party must be most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans greater access to nuclear weapons . If President Kennedy can make some progress with his mixed-manned nuclear force idea , he will certainly achieve a sizable gain for American foreign policy . Messrs . Kennedy and Macmillan are also expected to discuss the Geneva disarmament situation , the KbrushchevKennedy - Macmillan correspondence , and the prospects for an East-West summit . Communist Stalemate As for that other part of the Kennedy " grand design " ? Britain 's entry into the European Common Market ? no early solution is seen by observers here . That alternative efforts would probably fail was demonstrated by French obstruction of British attempts to use its membership in the Western European Union as a kind of tQmporary substitute for membership in the Common Market . It is fair to say that the stalemate confronting the Communist world is at least as formidable as that challenging the West . The Communists will try to lied grounds for reconciliation vith the meetings in MosCOW in July to discuss the intramural conflict between Soviet and Chinese communism . British Tie Washington The key question of British membership in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Kennedy 's meeting with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan . The Americans want an early decision from the British on joining or not joining the multilateral force ( MLF ) . By meeting the Prime Minister face to face at the height of the stiff bargaining President Kennedy could make it more difficult for the British to refuse . Stiff Bargaining Planners here still believe the British eventually will join the multilateral force . But they admit the bargaining is difficult between the two nations , just for example as it was at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade talks in Geneva recently . In announcing the London visit President Kennedy said it has been six months since the two men met at Nassau , and that " there are a number of problems they can usefully discuss . " President Kennedy will fly to Great Britain on June 29 and extend the talks into the next day . Then the President will fly to Italy for a 21 , : 2-day visit . He has dropped plans for a visit to Rome and will meet President Segni in Milan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be willing to have the British provide nuclear warheads for the American Polaris missiles to be used on the 25-ship multilateral force and perhaps construct eight of the special ships . Pledge to Britain Admiral Claude V. Ricketts is thought to have discussed costs carefully in his recent visit to London to explain the multilateral force . He promised the British would have no foreign exchange loss , and perhaps a gain . American optimism that the British eventually will join the multilateral force is based primarily on the Nassau pact , in which the British flatly promised to join in the venture . On top of this the Americans are going out of their way to share as much necessary technique as possible with the British in the building of their nuclear submarine force . If the British do not join the multilateral force , the Americans now have a fallback position . Planners here argue that the multilateral force will be viable even if the British do not join . as long as the Italians do . British Value Debated German-Italian membership in the multilateral force is said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet , without the British . But there are many  --  among them officials  --  who argue that to have a multilateral force without the British makes no sense . It is admitted by officials that the multilateral force has a basically political drive , aimed at satisfying the Germans ' nuclear aspirations and keeping Bonn under the American aegis and out of the French " clutch , "                     