@@721883

txt New York , June 14 WIT  --  Prior knowledge that American lead ? ers in 1950 lacked " the courage to fight thru to victory " by bombing Chinese passes led to the communist Chinese mass intervention in the Korean war , sug-3IacArthur Gen. Douglas gested today . The former far east commander said no military commander in his right senses would have invaded the Korean peninsula as the Chinese Reds did " without prior assurance " that the United States did not intend to react in the traditional manner and use its full power to destroy the enemy 's bases of supply and attack . Suggests Britons Told said when he told then President Harry . S. Truman at Wake Island in October , 1950 , there was " very little " chance that the Red Chinese would enter the war , he was assuming the Reds believed such an act would bring the conventional retaliation . He suggested the Chinese could have been assured otherwise by Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean , the British foreign office officials who defected to the Russians in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been Russian spies for many years . The general 's statement was in response to a request for comment on published reports on a forthcoming army history of the Korean war to the effect that the book asserts Truman must share blame with in failing to predict Red China 's invasion across the Yalu river in November , 1950 . The volume is to be published June 25 , the 11th anniversary of the Korean war 's start . Truman Wo n't Comment Former President Truman , when asked for comment at his Independence , Mo. , office , re- ' plied : " No comment , no comment at all .. My suggestion is that you read my memoirs , if you want the true facts . " The statement on the  --  book said : . . : " Probably thru a misunderstanding of the text reported upon or for other unknown reasons , there has recently been published an incorrect impression of the references made in the excellent work , South * to the Nakton , North to the Yalu , ' by Roy E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' to a query during the Wake . Island conference concerning my views on the possibility of soviet ' or Red Chinese national forces formally entering into a state of war against us on the Korean peninsula . Tells His Assumptions ? " The author records ' in his text the assumptions upon which this reply was based . They were that any such act of war would cause us to react in our conventional , traditional and historic manner by employing our full power to destroy the enemy 's bases of supply and attack , thereby isolating his forces already on the peninsula where we had complete control of the air and adjacent seas in addition to possessing a practical monopoly of atomic power . " Under such adverse conditions no enemy commander in his right senses would have committed major forces to such a peninsula campaign without prior assurance that we would accord him a privileged sanctuary within which safely to mount and supply his offensive against us . Commander Not Informed " Such an assurance may well , indeed , have been communicated to the Red Chinese by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the soviet during the Korean war with full top secret information on the war plans and intentions of the United States , plans and intentions which insofar as they related to our reaction to formal acts of war against us by Red China were not communicated to me as the commander in the field . " Our field intelligence kept us informed of the deployment of Red Chinese troops on the Manchurian-Korean border but this deployment was a natural defensive measure in view of the conflict raging to the south . Moreover the decision of one nation to enter upon war against another involves a political decision quite beyond the reach of field intelligence . Objective Slated Clearly " The discussion concerning the accuracy of American estimates of Red China 's intentions with reference to the Korean conflict is , however , largely academic . The results would have been the same . We had publicly announced our national objectives as the clearing of North Korea and unification of the country , and such objectives could and should have been achieved quite regardless of any military intervention by others , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any nation or combination of nations on earth . " What we lacked was not measured in terms of military intelligence or of military power but in the courage of our leaders to keep faith with our fallen soldiers and fight thru to the victory for which they died . " Mentioned Them Before had mentioned Burgess and Maclean before as possibly delivering into communist hands the information that the United States intended to refrain from bombing Chinese bases and thus provide the Red army a " privileged sanctuary . " This was in 1956 in reply to a volume of Truman 's memoirs which said had been insubordinate to a degree which left the President with no alternative but to fire him , in 1951 , from his far east command .                     