@@726604

txt Cambodia now finds itself on both sides of the Peking issue . It is formally on record as a sponsor wishing to seat Communist China at the UN . At the same time , Prince Norodom Sihanouk , Cambodian head of state , is denouncing Peking as no less an imperialist than the United States . This situation has raised interest at the United Nations in what Cambodia will do as the annual China-seating vote approaches in the General Assembly . One school of thought avers that Cambodia will continue to sponsor Peking 's entry  --  but coldly  --  as a matter of principle . Other nations that have had altercations with China , but have long advocated its entry , take such a position  --  nations such as India , Britain , the Soviet Union , Yugoslavia , and Cuba . Another school maintains that Prince Sihanouk may well wish to emphasize his irritation at China by withdrawing as a sponsor this year . They point to the inconsistency of Cambodia 's having signed a pro-Peking memorandum containing such phrases as " the People 's Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dignity of other countries " while Prince Sihanouk denounces Peking for meddling in Cambodian affairs . The memorandum also speaks of " China 's scrupulous observance of the Geneva agreements of 1954 . " Among other things these agreements created and protect Cambodia 's independence from outside intervention . Cyprus talks  --  which got nowhere at recent Greek-Turkish summit meetings ? are to be quietly resumed at the UN this fall . Probably the foreign ministers of the two countries will do the talking . Hope is that some progress can be made because Of the apparent desire of the new Greek military regime to gain popularity at home by managing , a step toward " enosis , " union of Cyprus and Greece . But it is noted that the high-level talks failed because there was little give in Athens 's position . The Turkish delegation at the UN will be watching for any sign in the private talks that the Greek line is softening enough to permit serious bargaining . UN officials naturally hope progress can be made . The UN troops have now been keeping peace in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than anyone else , Mauritania 's Ambassador Ahmed-Baba Miske put his country 's name on the map for world leaders . Now he is jailed under degrading conditions . Secretary-General U Thant has taken the unusual step of interceding privately on behalf of Mr. Miske . So have more than a dozen African and Arab foreign ministers , as well as several heads of state . The only charge brought against the widely respected diplomat by order of Mauritania 's President was " irregularities " involving $1,000 . Most diplomats who knew him well are skeptical . They see the arrest as a product of political rivalry . His personal warmth managed to raise the prestige of Mauritania as much as the present jailing is lowering it . While the world belatedly tries to do something about the pollution of the petroleum age , a UN agency is getting ahead of the pollution crises in the nuclear age . The International Atomic Energy Agency has sponsored a number of information-exchanging conferences on safe disposal of atomic waste . It is currently holding a two-week course at Britain 's Harwell Atomic Research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radioactive-waste treatment . This is one atomic field in which all agree that proliferation is desirable , indeed necessary . How and why . . . The world will have plenty of fertilizer by 1971 , but spreading it around may be a problem . That 's the news that will be presented to a UN-sponsored symposium in November . UN specialists estimate that if current world goals in fertilizer-plant expansion are met , world capacity in 1971 will come near to taking care of needs through 1980 . If so , the world will be almost a decade ahead of itself where there often have been lags . The industrialized nations will have capacity to far outstrip their needs . But poorer nations in Asia and Africa ( though not Latin America ) are expected to fall short of meeting their own needs . Thus , fertilizer specialists are recommending concentration on reducing transport and distribution costs .                     