@@726120

txt Charles G. Moerdler , City Building Commissioner , said yesterday that widespread " substantial safety hazards " had been found during inspections of municipal , voluntary and proprietary hospitals in Brooklyn , the Bronx and Queens . Mr. Moerdler said that the city 's first comprehensive inspection of all 87 hospitals in the three boroughs had disclosed 1,259 violations , reflecting " hazardous and potentially hazardous " conditions in 78 hospitals . Investigations of hospitals in the remaining boroughs are continuing , Mr. Moerdler said . The Violations included leaky roofs , inadequate and obstructed exits , broken fire ladders , impaired sprinkler systems , missing fire doors , accumulations of debris , defective masonry , broken walls , loose guard-rails , combustible wooden ramps , peeling paint , and defective brickwork . Failure of an institution to remedy these conditions may result in fines or imprisonment of its officials . However , a prison sentence is rarely invoked . Grant Adams , executive director of the United Hospital Fund , an organization of voluntary , nonprofit hospitals , said that he had not seen the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious underfinancing of hospitals has forced hospitals to delay improvements in plant and equipment and necessary repairs . The detailed study of the Hospital Review and Planning Council last spring pointed out the critical obsolescence of plants of voluntary hospitals in the City of New York . " Oscar Gottfried , executive director of the Association of Private Hospitals , an organization of proprietary institutions , said : " The deficiencies that they found were not of any great importance , as far as I know . " In other hospital developments , Mayor Lindsay said that he agreed with many of the findings of a special Committee of the New York Academy of Medicine , which recommended that the city dispose of its 21 municipal hospitals . He added , however : " The city will not go out of the hospital business . " If the city turned over its hospitals to private groups the academy noted that Medicare and Medicaid would help to finance them . The Federal and state programs have virtually put an end to charity patients , because the Governments pay almost the entire hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they do now  --  as private patients . The Hospitals Department , meanwhile , reported that Joseph V. Ifierenzio , the Hospitals Commissioner , had stopped the 512 , - 000 renovation of a penthouse apartment atop James Ewing Hospital , which the Commissioner planned to use during " emergencies " when he was kept late in the city . Mr. Terenzio resides in New Jersey . The Buildings Department study found municipal hospitals to be the worst offenders . The city institutions had a total of 589 violations , or 47 per cent of all reported defects . The 21 municipal hospitals are being investigated by six agencies looking into allegations of widespread disrepair , shortages of staff and equipment , payroll padding , transfer of equipment , waste , neglect and other abuses . Kings County ilospital , a municipal institution , had 209 violations , the most of any hospital . These included leaky roofing , broken glass , defective masonry , rusted fire escapes and obstructed exits . Commissioner Terenzio could not be reached for comment , but Dr. Sander Smith , director of the institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Inspection was made last December , when hospital officials were notified of violations , the Hospitals Department said . All in Bronx Defective All 23 hospitals in the Bronx were found hazardous , including Montefiore Hospital , a voluntary , nonprofit hospital highly regarded in medical circles . The Buildings Department found 89 violations at that institution , including inadequate exit facilities , a broken fire ladder , a sprinkler system that was impeded because stock was stored within 18 inches of the sprinkler heads , inadequate fire-retarding asbestos , and missing exit signs . " Over 60 of these violations have been cleaned up , " said Jack Gerber , a public relations man who represents the institution . " Only six violations were really serious , and architects are working on them . " Mr. Moerdler said that Fordham and Morrisania hospitals , both city institutions in the Bronx , troubled him the most . " At Fordham Hospital , the physical conditions immediately translated into a feeling of despair , " Mr. Moerdler said . " Morrisania had the same kind of conditions . " Leonard R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violations , said , " We are haunted by the continuation of delays in getting contracts to make repairs and renovations . " He said that many of the violations were minor , and had been corrected , and that architects were working on such major violations as open stairwells with no fire doors and operating-room suites with doors that open onto a welltraveled corridor . Albert Einstein College of Medicine Hospital , which opened last year , was found to have six violations for obstructed exits . Mr. Moerdler noted that proprietary hospitals " are worse in many respects " than the municipal and voluntary hospitals . However , most of the proprietary hospitals had only 3 or 4 violations . In Brooklyn , 36 of 41 hospitals were found to have violations , and in Queens , 19 of 23 had violations , according to the report . Mr. Lindsay said at his news conference yesterday morning that the city was " refocusing " on the role the municipal hospitals should pay . He said that the city intended to raise the salaries of hospital administrators , who no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institutions .                     