@@722371

txt WASHINGTON , April 2 ? The United States expects to consult its Western Allies and decide this week on the timing and procedure of resuming negotiations with the Soviet Union on the Berlin issue . Officials said today that sug-1 gestions would then be communicated to Moscow . It appeared likely that the talks would be held in Washington between Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Anatoly F. Dobrynin , the new Soviet Ambassador . Mr. Dobrynin conferred briefly this afternoon with Foy D. Kohler , Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs , and with Charles E. Bohlen , special adviser on Soviet affairs . Later he saw W. Averell Harriman , Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs . Visits ' Courtesy Calls ' Mr. Kohler and Mr. Bohlen are among the department 's ranking officials involved directly in the Berlin question . Ambassador Dobrynin 's visits , described officially as " courtesy calls , " were set earlier today , according to a spokesman . The belief here was that the Soviet Union would press from the outset for the use of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the conversations . The Russians would thus take up where Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister , left off in Geneva when he handed Mr. Rusk a " working paper " on the subject . As it stands , the Soviet position is unacceptable to the United States . However , Mr. Gromyko modified his original attitude when he embraced the proposal of President Kennedy , made last fall , that the access to Berlin be supervised by an international control authority . Evacuation Is Opposed The United States objects that the Soviet counter-proposal links the creation of the international authority with Allied evacuation of Berlin through a change in the city 's status and provides that Moscow act as the representative of the other members in any dispute with East Germany . The Soviet proposal calls for East Germany 's participation in a control authority . It is understood that the United States is not opposed in principle to such an arrangement . The Soviet Union 's linking of the access issue with Berlin 's status was termed here the " fatal umbilical cord " in the Gromyko @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ALLIES DUE TO SET TERMS ON BERLIN // in many quarters against ex ' cessive optimism in the forthcoming round of talks . The Western Allies take the position that no settlement of the Berlin question can be permitted to affect their fundamental rights in the disputed city . It is basic Western policy Ito oppose the granting to East Germany of sole control ovet the access routes , implicitly or explicitly . Under the circumstances , it was felt that the West and the Soviet Union were still on a " collision course " regarding Berlin . Some officials felt that the Soviet interest in the concept of the international control authority at least isolated a specific issue that could be the subject of negotiations . The next attempt at an understanding with the Soviet Union over Berlin will explore therefore whether Mr. Gromyko 's proposal can point the way toward a real compromise , as some officials think possible . Although caution was suggested in evaluating the Soviet attitude , a hopeful impression has arisen here from the Soviet desire to continue the negotiations . Soviet Sought Resumption It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parted in Geneva , the Soviet delegation went to considerable effort to insure that the talks would continue . A school of thought here suggests that the Soviet Union does not wish to bring the Berlin problem to the brink of a crisis that could lead to a war . At the same time , it is felt that the East and the West are on the verge of engaging in a " qualitative " arms race through the development of new weapons ' systems . It was noted here that the Soviet Union faced deep internal problems , particularly in agriculture , with competition for the allocation of Russian resources between defense and space requirements and the civilian aspects of the economy . Officials viewed it as significant , therefore , that since Mr. Rusk left Geneva early last week the Soviet Union had again been ' Indicating through various channels its interest in arriving at some sort of settlement not only on the Berlin issue but also on the larger German question . But officials here ate not overlooking the propaganda features of the new pressure . Pact With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestions for a nonaggression pact between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact bloc . The view here is that such a formal arrangement can be deferred until after the settlement of issues like Berlin , over which the West and the Soviet Union are in direct confrontation . The Administration appears convinced that Premier Khrushchev 's threat to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany need not become a major crisis if the Soviet Union does not grant the East Germans the rights to control access to Berlin . Some officials believe the Soviet Union may be casting about for a new formula for East German sovereignty that would be acceptable , or at least not objectionable , to the West .                     