@@723333

txt Thousands of Chicagoans waited tensely last night and early today for a seiche in Lake Michigan , but its arrival was hardly noticed . The Chicago weather bureau had reported at 9:30 last night that a seiche was first sighted at Holland , Mich. , and was heading for Chicago from a northeasterly direction at 45 miles an hour . Recall 1954 Seiche Emergency measures to guard against injury or loss of life were taken by hundreds of policemen who recalled a similar lake front phenomenon , marked by a rapid rise in the water level , which drowned eight persons on June 26 , 1954 as they were fishing in Montrose harbor . More than 100 squad cars were dispatched last night to order everyone off the lake front and divert traffic off Lake Shore drive . Police and fire department marine units put out into the lake as a precaution . Police also ordered 2,000 persons in McCormick Place , the exposition center at 23d street and Lake Michigan , to leave the building . Campers on the Illinois Beach State park were evacuated from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then the period of waiting began . The weather bureau had forecast that the seiche would strike about 11 p . Ignoring police requests to avoid the area , thousands of persons gathered at points of safety to await the expected seiche . Expressways and arterial streets were crowded with cars as thousands of persons tried to reach the lake front to see the seiche , only to be turned away by police . A weather bureau spokesman said unofficial reports from policemen at Montrose avenue harbor said the water dropped four feet below and then rose six feet above normal . The spokesman said the coast guard station at Waukegan had reported earlier a 6.4 foot rise about 10 p. m . Capt . John J. Manley , port director of Chicago , said recording devices at Navy pier showed the water receded 1.8 feet about 11:50 p. m. , then rose 1.4 feet above normal about 12:25 a. rn . The weather bureau spokesman said it not common in a seiche for water levels to fluctuate drastically from one point to another . A seiche is produced by unstable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barometric pressure . At 12:18 a. m. , Michael Spiotto , acting police deputy sueprintendent , canceled the emergency plan and recalled units sent to the lake after the weather bureau canceled the seiche warn in g . Lake Shore drive was reopened , causing a traffic jam . " Chicago is especially subject to seiches and is more vulnerable than any place on Lake Michigan , " said the weather bureau spokesman , explaining the alarm at the approaching seiche . He said lines of thunderstorms moving across the lake create pressures and winds which form waves ahead of it . The effects are funneled on Chicago because it lies near the tip of the long , narrow lake , acting as a funnel .                     