@@727867

txt As the Faculty Senate of City College undertook a detailed examination of the dual-admissions proposal , a movement began yesterday at the college to have the controversial matter submitted to a referendum of all tenured faculty and others of professorial rank . A resolution that was prepared for submission to the Faculty Senate by other teachers rejected even the negotiations that produced the proposal . The tentative agreement , reached last Friday after negotiations between dissident Negro and Puerto Rican students and representatives of the college , provides that by the fall of 1970 , half the freshman class come from slum neighborhoods and be admitted without regard to grades . The other half would be admitted under the usual scholastic standards . Rockefeller Sees Drawbacks The proposal , which also provides fo-r the establishment of a school to deal with Negro , Puerto Rican and " Third World " affairs , will go to the Board of Higher Education after the Faculty Senate takes action . To become effective , it must be approved by the board . Political repercussions from the dual-admissions proposal continued yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the problem , but see the complications , " he said . " I understand the desire of the minority students , and I understand the desire of the other students . Both are right . It is a serious problem and is a perfect example of , how society should anticipate such problems . " Under the present proposal there would be two separate Ann distinct freshman groups , And I do n't think that would be beneficial to either . " Over the . weekend the plan was attacked by Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo , former Mayor Robert F. Wagner , Controller Mario A. Procaccino and Representative James H. Scheuer , all of whom are seeking the Democratic nomination for Mayor . State Senator John J. Marchi , who is trying to wrest the Republican nomination from Mayor . Lindsay was also critical of the plan . These five said that the plan would lower the scholastic standards of the college and that it was a " quota system . " But Norman Mailer , who also is seeking the Democratic nomination , supported the proposal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we learn more . " He added that " if this is a quota system , I am against it . " Two members of the 21-man Board of Higher Education joined another who had attacked the plan over the weekend . The critics yesterday were David I. Ashe and Dr. Renato J. Azzari . Mr. Ashe pointed out it was still a tentative agreement , but he said he was opposed to " any quota system " and to " a school of black studies , whatever the name is . " Dr. Azzari said that he was against admitting any student who did not have the required grades - and that he opposed " any quota system . " Board Opposed to Quotas Another member of the Board of Higher Education , who asked that his name be withheld , pointed out that on May 4 the board , in a resolution reemphasizing its support for open admission for all high schools under its master plan , declared its opposition to any " quota system based upon race or ethnic origin . " This point was stressed in a telegram @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter of the American Jewish Committee , to Porter Chandler , president of the Board of Higher Education . In effect , it would mean a considerable increase in the percentage of Negro and Puerto Rican students at City College . At present about 15 per cent of the 20,000 students are from these groups . The freshman class of last fall had about 24 per cent blacks and Puerto Ricans . In defense of the dual-admissions proposal , Betty Rawls , counselor of the SEEK ( Search for Education , Elevation and Knowledge ) program , and a member of the college 's English , faculty , said : " The political comments have shown a lack of real examination of the document . They are inflating an issue which we had hoped would be approached with calm and reason . This is not a quota system . If it is , then the one we 've had until now is even more of a quota system . The testing system we 've had until now has been geared to middle-class society . " Miss Rawls pointed out that elaborate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were admitted without regard to scholastic standards . Some students might take five or six years to get a degree , she indicated . " The scholastic standards of the school will not decline , " she asserted . Yesterday morning , before the Faculty Senate convened , Dr. Joseph J. Copeland , acting president of the college , said through a spokesman that he reserved the right to make recommendations to the board after the Faculty Senate had acted . A statement by him seemed to indicate that the negotiations that produced the proposal were just between representatives of the Faculty Senate and the dissident black and Puerto Rican students . However , Dr. Copeland sat In on a number of the meetings , and at a news conference last week one of the college administration representatives made it clear the administration was participating in the negotiations . The resolution for the facultywide referendum began circulating yesterday afternoon while the Faculty Senate was in a closed session that began at 1 P.M. The resolution said , in part : " We categorically reject all negotiations that have been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached by the negotiators since Tuesday , April 22 , the date the college was initially occupied and shut down by force . " We wish to emphasize that we do not regard the Faculty Senate as representing us in matters affecting the basic structure and operations of the college . " May Vote Thursday The Faculty Senate ended its meeting last evening by adopting a resolution to reconvene for discussions later last night and tomorrow . The group would then meet on Thursday , prepared to vote on the admissions proposal . The resolution on a referendum was entered into the agenda for the meetings .                     