@@721994

txt Chancellor Adenauer told Parliament today that the Berlin crisis would force West Germany to increase its military defenses . He also expressed hope that a way out of the situation might be found by negotiations . Dr. Adenauer emphasized that the increase in the West German military effort would be " within the framework of the Atlantic defense organization . " He said it would complement efforts made particularly by the United States . Mayor Willy Brandt of West Berlin followed the Chancellor 's statement with a plea in the Bundestag , or lower house of Parliament , that an initiative be taken to " brand the flagrant violation of human rights " in Berlin before the United Nations . Both Are Applauded Repeated references in the speeches of Dr. Adenauer and Herr Brandt , his rival for the Chancellorship in the Sept. 17 election , to " negotiations " led Bonn observers to believe that a Western approach to Moscow for talks on the German question would be made soon . The Bundestag applauded both speakers with a rare display of unanimity . The members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that the situation called for careful , pacific moves but also for a build-up of military strength as the best guarantee of national security . Dr. Adenauer laid the blame for the splitting of Berlin on the Soviet Union because " this reckless act has been carried out with the consent " of the Soviet Government . However , during most of his speech he condemned " the authorities of the Soviet zone " the East Germans and indicated a hope that they would be disowned by the Soviet Union . " It should be beneath the dignity of a great nation to protect creatures who are dispised by their fellow citizens , " he ' said . " The Soviet Government andi the Soviet people should not lend themselves to cooperation in the conversion into a concentration camp of part of a large neighboring country against the will of its inhabitants . " The Chancellor declared that " we are far from seeing in military measures a solution to the crisis artificially engendered by the Soviet Union . " He added that West Germany was ready to support " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin and Germany as a whole . " Guarantees Are Offered He said West Germany " reiterates that it is prepared to cooperate in plans giving the Soviet Union security guarantees in the event of a reunification of Germany . " He stressed that reunification would be possible only if it rested on the right of self-determination . The closing of the border in East Berlin showed , he said , that the people who live in the eastern part of Germany " can be prevented only by the use of physical force from leaving that paradise of workers and farmers . " He expressed hope that at the b beoinning of negotiations the border-closing measures would be revoked . Dr. Adenauer denied Soviet charges that West Germany was swayed by " militarism and revenge . " He declared that these words could be properly applied to measures taken in East Berlin and in the Soviet-occupied zone of Germany . He said that it was because the Soviet Union felt it could solve German problems " by sanctioning illegal actions " of the East Germans that the states of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to maintain our security and freedom . " The Western Potential " We know and the Soviet Union knows that the total military potential of the West is superior to that of the Soviet Union , " the Chancellor declared . " Hence the threats directed from time to time against one or another of the NATO partners by the Soviet Government to the effect that it would devastate their territory by atomic bombs are dangerous . " The Soviet Government must know that by any such blow it would touch off a counter-blow by which it would be annihilated . " In a speech tonight in Essen , Dr. Adenauer hailed the protest sent yesterday by the Western Allies to the Soviet Union . He said that critics who were dissatisfied with the protest could give no suggestion for what the Allies might have done instead . It would be a fateful error , he added , if the German people should become disappointed by the attitude of the United States . The Chancellor said that economic measures against the Communist bloc should be taken only in the proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this could hurt the East bloc considerably , notably the Soviet Union . The further build-up of the Soviet Union would be hampered or even made impossible , he said . Johnson Visit Welcomed Dr. Adenauer expressed satisfaction over the coming visit of Vice President Johnson , who is scheduled to arrive here tomorrow . Mayor Brandt also acclaimed the decision of President Kennedy to send Mr. Johnson here . He said the Berliners would show the Vice President how welcome he was in their city . Herr Brandt began his speech before the Bundestag with a warning against a passive attitude that would be " tantamount to an invitation " to Walter Ulbricht , East German Communist leader , to continue with the policy of fait accompli . " Herr Brandt said that West Berlin wanted convincing non-military counter-measures to be taken . " The Government of the Soviet Union must not be led to believe that it can slap us in the face and our answer is nothing but a smile , " he said . He suggested that since the protection of human rights was a task of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put the Berlin events before that organization . " A situation has developed in which the intervention of international institutions is necessary , " he said . The closing off of the East is no immediate threat to West Berlin , he asserted , but the credit of Western policy is at stake . At a news conference later Herr Brandt reiterated that he                     