@@722260

txt Letters to The Times TOTH E EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMM In your Feb. 6 issue a letter appeared from Jar ? Mayda , Professor of International Law of the University of Puerto Rico . This letter contains opinions and statements that are unfair and , above all , fundamentally inaccurate , regarding Mexico 's position at the recent meeting of consultation in Punta del Este , Uruguay . I realize this might have been due to the fact that for natural limitations of space the press in the United States had ' to publish only a brief r ? sum ? of the Jan. 21 address in which the Mexican Foreign Minister stated our country 's position. , I therefore believe that quoting a few paragraphs of that address is indispensable for whoever maY h ( 1 interested in knowing our position . As to the fundamental question under discussion , Secretary Manuel . Tello could not have been more definitive , for he was the first one to . , say at the meeting : " There is radk cal incompatibility between belonging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * With the same energy with which we defend the right of self-determination of peoRiles , consequently of the Cubar people , we maintain as irreconcilable the quality of member of our organization with the adoption of a government system whose characteristics are not those of representative democracies . " This explains why Mexico voted for Resolution Number One , which was rightfully considered by Secretary of State Rusk as the most important of all . Application of Treaty As regards the legal questions involved , the Mexican Foreign Minister did not ignore ? as Professor Mayda states  --  the provisions of the Charter of Bogota and of the treaty of reciprocal assistance . He merely felt that the organ of consultation " is not qualified to enlarge the interAmerican treaty of reciprocal assistance . " In his judgment the provisions of that treaty relative to juridical sanctions must be strictly applied . " International doctrine and practic : " - he said -- - " abound in support of the proposition --  of itself obvious and of elementary logic - that novalion or modification of tile obligations , under public as well as private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means and procedures under which the original obligation was contracted and , furthermore , under the same requirements as to the capacity of the parties , expression of consent , purpose and form . " This latter requirement is absolutely indispensable when the form is not a mere evidence of the juridical act , but belongs to its very essence , as certainly is the case of all international treaties and conventions in tile modern era . Of paramount importance is the fact that in almost all , if not in all , American nations the treaties must be ' submitted for approval by the legislative power ( frequently the higher house ) and , consequently , any reform or addition that may be introduced as well . " In short , as repeatedly stated by my Government , it was only due to the legal reasons quoted above that Mexico could not give her vote of approval to the resolution passed for the immediate exclusion of the Republic of Cuba from the Organization of American States . Under 110 circumstances is it right to conclude that the Mexican position meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will to fulfill them , obviously as seen by my country . No one Call do his duty except as he sees it . A. V ) CAHILL() FLORES , Ambassador of Mexico . Washington . Feb. 9 , 1962 . Reaching Other Galaxies To T IIE EDITOR oF THE NEW YORK TIMER : 15 not your editorial of Feb. 5 on " A New Look at Space and Time " susceptible of a pessimistic view ? For example , you write that today there are innumerable galaxies in the heavens , and that " many scientists now believe that intelligent life must be fairly common " upon them . " Furthermore , it is thought that the average civilization , within the galaxy , has reached a technological level so far above our own that it transcends our imagination . " Consequently , you continue , distinguished scientists have been speculating on how these civilizations may be trying to communicate with us . But are there not other inferences possible ? For example , if our imagination can not conceive of the technological level of these others that have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reach them ? Also , why make the effort , if when they do ever reach us they can either destroy us , if so inclined , or share their secrets , if so inclined . In either case , we can not oppose them . Finally , does this mean that peacetime will not bring the desired and required effort to reach the other civilizations , and that without war or its promptings we will stagnate , albeit stagnation here means continuous but slight increases in economic and social structures ? Fortunately , man 's search for the distant lands of knowledge has ever been with us , and will continue no matter what the implications of your editorial . Moms D. FoaKoseit . Brooklyn , Feb. 5 , 1962 . Lucia Defends Regulations Commissioner of Sanitation Says Six-Day Parking Rule Is Needed TO Tit E EDITOR OF THENsw YORK TINIER : Irwin Steucr , whose letter you published on Feb. 9 , feels that the restoration of alternate side parking on Saturdays in the area bounded by Seventy-second Street to 110th Street from Central Park West to Riverside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleaned on a five-day schedule . This is not so . Starting in 1958 , we cut back from six to five times a week sweeping in areas where we felt this could be done without detriment to the continuing " clean city " program . Experience proved otherwise , and required the restoration of the sixth day on which alternate side parking regulations must be in effect . Alternate side parking regulations were not imposed lightly , nor to bother car owners who wish to park undisturbed on Saturdays . Our first considerations were the health and sanitation needs of the countless thousands who live in the area , Our I " alternate side " plan is designed to help the majority of the people . Like many programs with far-reaching effects , it can be an annoyance to a few . In reply to G. M. R. ( issue Feb. 3 ) , who was concerned with litter in streets , subways and buses  --  and with tile appearance of rolling stock  - -  as Sanitation Commissioner I must confine myself to areas which come under the jurisdiction of this department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my definition of a clean city . Here it is : a city free of avoidable dirt and litter . I am aware that the full definition goes considerably beyond this generalization - to include , among other factors , a resident population which thinks in terms of municipal cleanliness and takes an active part in helping to bring it about . My earlier statement as to New York being 85 per cent clean ( whereas in 1955 it was 56 per cent ) was based on a survey made by the Citizens ' Committee to Keep New York City Clean . I believe we have made progress since this mid-1961 report  --  and that we shall continue to improve . Certainly there remain some congested areas of the city that ' are littered and are prime targets for all the improvement we can bring . Parts of the lower East Side are in the 15 per cent or so requiring and getting remedial action . G. M. R. 's innuendo that there 's more service on Madison and Park Avenues than in congested areas is unfair and in total error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need and get maximum refuse collection , alternate side parking and street-cleaning service . So-called " better areas " do not require such frequency and do not receive it . FRANK J. LUCIA , Commissioner , Department of Sanitation . New York . Feb. 9. 1962 . Mexico 's Vote on Cuba Foreign Minister 's Statement on Country 's Position Quoted Alternative to Dating Milk Tr , II E EDITOR OF TH E NEW YORK TIMES : Congratulations for your Feb. 6 editorial on milk dating . It will be regrettable , indeed , if the city reverts to this antiquated practice . The local milk industry spent much time adjusting its practices to non-dating after the ban went into effect in 1960 . The reform is now-a fact . If milk dating is resumed , this adjustment and readjustment becomes costly waste motion , with ' the consumer paying for it , as usual . The problem is how to get across to the housewife that the name of a day of the week on a container has no significance as to the age and quality of the milk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city intensify its efforts to assure adequate handling of milk in transit to the consumer , and , second , that the Department of Health conduct a campaign to educate the public as to the facts of milk container dating . Your editorial is an excellent beginning to this educational campaign . HELEN M. HARRIS , . Executive Director , United Neighborhood Houses of New York , New York , Feb. 8 , 1962 ,                     