@@727810

txt The Department of Health , Education and Welfare has notified Antioch College that it may operate its all-Negro black studies institute as long as nonblacks are not excluded solely because of race , color or national origin . The ruling announced today was first in the department 's investigation of possible civil rights violations in the black studies courses springing up at colleges across the country . It leaves the director of the institute free to exclude white students on the ground that their background is not " relevant " to the courses offered . At a news conference , Leon E. Panetta , director of the ' Federal department 's Office ? for Civil Rights , said that the ' ruling applied only to Antioch and that black studies sections at other colleges would be judged individually " as to the facts . " However , the ruling clearly indicates a favorable attitude toward the movement to establish courses and facilities and to instruct Negro students in black identity and history and the white institutions that have shaped their lives . Federal investigators found that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because none had applied . However , the department found that the director of the institute had violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 // by notifying incoming Negro freshmen that housing was available in all-Negro dormitory wings . Antioch was asked to stop this and to file regular reports with the department showing that there was no discrimination by the institute in violaton of Title VI , which bans racial exclusion in any federally assisted program . The small Ohio college receives about $1-million a year in Federal aid . The ruling was set out in a letter ' from Mr. Panetta to Antioch 's president , Dr. James P. Dixon . The Federal department has been using Title VI primarily to break up the dual school system in the South . The investigation of Antioch started when officials discovered that the director of the Afro-American Studies Institute had sent out notices about housing for blacks and was saying that the courses in the institute were relevant only for black students . Federal Inquiry Made On Feb. 28 , the department asked Dr. Dixon to submit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Dixon and three Negro students came to Washington and conferred with department officials . Mr. Panetta said that this conference had failed to clear up the " confusion " and that the department subsequently sent in a team to investigate . The investigation , Mr. Panetta said in the letter , " did not reveal that anyone had been excluded from either the AfroAmerican Studies Institute or the dormitory because of race color or national origin . " Most of the 120 Negro students on the campus , he said , are integrated into other courses . " Further , with regard to the housing facilities , it was found that they consisted of a relatively small number of contiguous rooms in a much larger dormitory complex and were occupied by 34 black students , " he said . Asked why there were no white students in the institute , Mr. Panetta said there was a feeling at Antioch that " the black students were doing their thing under an open policy . " Smiliar Programs Noted " The Afro-American Studies Institute is one of several educational programs that Antioch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panetta letter said . " The institute operates under principles historically applicable to the other institutes which have operated at the college , including the authority to evaluate applicants . " These principles were developed long before there was any thought of an Afro-American institute and they have no exclusionary racial or ethnic connotations . " The letter , however , did not seem to clear up the matter of exclusion for lack of " relevancy . " Mr. Panetta said that a white student could not be excluded because of his race but could be excluded because his background was not " relevant " to the courses taught ; that is , he might be- required to have come from a slum or undergone experiences common to Negroes . Mr. Panetta was asked who would decide whether the student qualified on this basis . The Director 's Decision " The director of the institute , " he replied . " We wish , " the Panetta letter said , " to indicate our - support and approval of Antioch College 's sensitivity to ' high risk ' students as indicated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal educational opportunities for such students . " " Under this program , " it went on . " The college has I served students of various racial and ethnic groups , including white , black and Spanishsurnamed individuals . We emphasize , however , that your efforts must be constantly evaluated to ensure that they do not constitute a violation of the act we are responsible for enforcing. "                     