@@725919

txt President Johnson , a ! - hough unhappy at Democratic osses , accepted with philosophical resignation today the . arge Republican gains in the midterm elections Tuesday . In his first public comment on the election results , the President acknowledged that the Republicans had done better than his intelligence reports had indicated they would . They exceeded by a margin of 5 to 10 " what our better people who had reports on it would indicate , " he said . Question 11 , Page 18 . Mr. Johnson also conceded that the new Congress " will be more difficult for any new legislation we might propose . " Democratic Majorities Cited However , he said he was heartened by the knowledge that the Democrats still possessed sizable majorities , consoled by the thought that the pendulum always tends to swing at midterm away from the party in power , and confident in the belief that there would be no change in " our course of action in connection with security matters . " In Washington the Republican National Chairman , Ray C. Bliss , hailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looks as if we have a very live elephant . " Page 24.1 The President gave his assessment to newsmen on the lawn in front of his ranch home , where he is resting and clearing his desk before undergoing minor surgery on his throat and abdomen . Surgery Date Uncertain Mr. Johnson said that no decision had yet been made as to the time or place of the surgery , indicating that one problem was to coordinate the busy schedules and commitments of his doctors . At least eight doctors will participate in the surgery . Question 13 . Asked about his general health , the President said he felt " fine " despite " a little huskiness in the voice " caused by a polyp in his throat and " a little pulling on the side " caused by a small protrusion from the scar left by his gall bladder surgery last year . The polyp is to be removed and the protrusion is to be repaired in the surgery . " There are some things that we ought to observe " about the election , the President said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good American , I think we are all glad to see a healthy and competent existence of the two , party system . I think there is no question but what the other party strengthened its position . " Second , I believe , as the leadership of the Republican party ? President Eisenhower , Senator Dirksen , and others ? believe , that it will not in any way change our course of action in connection with security matters . " Mr. Johnson said that he had had " rather good cooperation ' from the Republicans on matters of foreign affairs and national defense , and that he expected such assistance to continue . His third point , to which the President returned again and again , was that he had not only enjoyed an unusually large margin in the 89th Congress but would still have a fairly healthy majority in the 90th Congress next January . " A. 65 majority in the House and a 30 majority in the Senate is a reasonable working majority , " he said . The party lineup in the new Congress will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats and 36 Republicans in the Senate . Mr. Johnson said that with this kind of margin his proposals would at least receive " adequate and fair consideration , " even though new legislation would obviously face greater hazards in the new Congress than the old . " I think it is very clear , " he said , " that a House with 295 to 300 Democrats is more likely to approve Democratic recommendations than a House with 245 to 250 . " The President gave no clear indication of the substance or scope of the program he would propose , although he said it would certainly include " new " recommendations . Question 14.1 Mr. Johnson is said to believe that he and Congress have already accomplished much in terms of enacting not only many New Deal and Fair Deal ' holdover programs but also new departures such as the rent supplement , teacher corps and Demonstration Cities programs . Accordingly , he is said to believe that at least part of the work of the next Congress should be devoted to improving these programs and maintaining tlrir m-trwntiim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said " if I did n't tell you that I am sorry we lost any Democratic seats . " But I would also tell you that over a period of years the American people have a way , I guess , rf balancing things . " Mr. Johnson was reluctant to pinpoint the factors that had contributed to the strong Republican comeback . He said , for example , that although the so-called " white backlash , " against Negro rights had played " some part , " it was only one of several factors . He insisted that much of the Republican gain was attributable to the vote-getting power of " popular " men who headed state tickets and pulled a number of Congressmen into office with them . As examples , he mentioned Gov . James A. Rhodes of Ohio , Gov . George Romney of Michigan and Gov. - elect Ronald Reagan of California .                     