@@723659

txt Six persons were reported dead tonight after a giant wall of mud and water from a hilltop reservoir had surged over the exclusive Baldwin Hills residential area . Hundreds of homes and apartment houses were wrecked when the reservoir 's retaining wall broke . An estimated total of 200 homes were wiped out , swept from their foundations . About 1,500 to 2,000 more homes were believed damaged by the flood that in some areas submerged second floors . Police Capt . Robert M. Gaunt of the Central Division , the officer in charge of the disaster area operation , said a pieshaped section about one square mile , with the reservoir as its apex , was inundated . Cause Is Unknown Bisecting it was a giant furrow carved by the surge of water , which fanned out at the end of its downhill run , he said . The Los Angeles police esti. mated the toll early this evening at six persons dead . But hours later only two bodies had been recovered . The coroner 's office identified these victims as Hattie Schwartz and Maurice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community , between downtown Los Angeles and International Airport , when at 3:38 P.M. the sloping 100-foot earthen wall of the bowl ! shaped reservoir exploded with a cannonlike roar . The reservoir contained 300 million gallons . No one knew the cause of the break , but the effects were intides ? each 10 feet high ? as it ' spewed across Coliseum Road , at the , foot of Baldwin Hills . It swept down two northsouth streets into a block-square apartment development called Village Green . Whole rows of apartments vanished in the flood . Roofs were ripped from two-story structures , flipped through the air , and landed crazily in trees hundreds of yards away . A woman screamed at rescuers from one of the apartment houses : " My husband is gone . He 's gone ! I saw him get in the car , and he was swept away . " At Rodeo Road and La Brea , on the edge of Culver City , a car containing two elderly women was swept into a sewer excavation . One was rescued . The other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Creek , a mile from the reservoir , and poured west toward the sea . The water began to subside in the stricken area almost immediately . It left behind whole blocks swept bare of homes . Intersections had disappeared . Men searched frantically for lost wives and missing children . Wives pleaded with the police DAM BREAK KILLS 61N LOS ANGELES // stant and terrifying . The water surged over houses in the $80,000 to $100,000 class at upper levels , then raced on to less expensive houses on lower slopes . Then , reaching for a flat area , it smashed into apartment houses , Along the way , the water bowled over cars , swept houses off their foundations , then ripped out the foundations . , In the two hours before the disaster , police cars with bullhorns patrolled the area , order , ing residents out , when a leak was first detected . Within an hour after the dam burst , Mayor Samuel W. Yorty declared the community an emergency area . Later , Gov . Edmund G. Brown declared it a disaster area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot of the reservoir 's earthen front . The catch basin was filled in moments , however , and the water , spuming 50 feet in the air and shaking the earth with its fury , raced from the catch basin and into the residential section below . Terraced homes were swept from their steplike sites , disappearing in seconds , one by one , into the flood . In the area ahead of the water 30 rr otorcycle policemen were roaring through the streets , warning people from the flood 's path . Most people got out in time . However , several cars were caught as the water poured three-quarters of a mile down the canyon , spreading through the area . Motorists and policemen abandoned their vehicles and climbed to rooftops . The flood was two massive to find husbands who had become separated from them . Helicopters flew overhead , their landing lights shining down into the area of desola ; . tion , seeking survivors on rooftops , Rescue crews began to move in bulldozers and rubber-tired tractors to search wreckage.for possible victims . Nearby schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defense . worker 's sought to get separated families back together . As the water subsided , one police car appeared with its red lights still flashing . The police said 29 motorcycles were lost when officers jumped off them and fled to rooftops just ahead of the swirling waters . An official of the Department of Water and Power said that there had been no earthquakes recently and no , rains heavy enough to have endangered the 13-year-old reservoir . A leak in the dam was spotted by a caretaker at the reservoir at 11:15 A.M. Forty-five minutes later , a mud slide occurred on Cloverdale Avenue directly below the reservoir , and water began rushing down nearby La Brea Avenue . Work crews began to drain the water . At 1:45 P.M. , city engineers and the police decided to evacuate those living below the dam . Red Cross and civil defense authorities were notified , and Ian announcement was broadcast Ion radio and television . The Department of Water and Power , owners of the reservoir , said it had not yet been established if the utility would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , however , that the department was covered by $14.8 million in insurance , placed with 12 major carriers . A spokeman for the Insurance Information Institute said that private dwellings were generally not covered by flood water protection , because of the high costs of such coverage in South-I ern California . Most owners of commercials plants have water damage insurance , the spokesman said , and autos covered by comprehensive insurance policies are protected . The worst flood disaster in southern California history came in 1928 , when the St. Francis Dam burst and killed 500 persons . When the dam collapsed , near midnight on March 12 , the residents of the valley were asleep .                     