@@727984

txt Anatoly V. Kuznetsov , the Soviet writer who found asylum here last week , renounced all his published works today as having been ruthlessly distorted by political censors . In a long statement published in The Sunday Telegraph , he said , " Kuznetsov is a dishonest conformist , cowardly author . " From now on , he said , he would write in freedom using the name A. Anatol . Mr. Kuznetsov also wrote letters of resignation to the Soviet Communist party and to the writers ' union . He resigned from both and said he rejected Marxism-Leninism as obsolete and naive . " I beg the Soviet Government not to persecute my mother , my son , my wife or my persona ; secretary , " he wrote . " I swear that they knew nothing at all . " He was referring to his plans to escape , which he said he had been preparing for a year . He was even ready to swim underwater across a frontier , he said , after he had twice been refused permission to travel abroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to hide his " dangerous " and " doubtful " manuscripts in jam jars buried in the ground . Before coming to England , he said , he dug the manuscripts up , photographed them on 35-mm. film and buried them again . He brought the uncensored works to England , Mr. Kuznetsov said , as film sewn into the lining of his clothes . Mr. Kuznetsov , at age 39 one of the best-known of the young liberal writers in the Soviet Union , came to London July 24 in response to an invitation from the Society for Cultural Relations With the U.S.S.R. Last Tuesday , the Soviet Embassy said he had disappeared and asked the British Government to find him . The next day Mr. Kuznetsov , whose latest work , " The Fire , " has been under attack at home , requested and received permission from the British Government to remain in this country indefinitely . . Soviet Embassy officials , angered by the surprise defection , have been seeking to question the writer , but Mr. Kuznetsov has refused all approaches . Today he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union had granted complete freedom to Czechoslovakia and withdrawn its troops forever . The copyrighted statement in The Telegraph said that literature in the Soviet Union was " controlled by people who are ignorant , cynical and themselves very remote from literature . " Socialist realism  --  the prevailing Communist doctrine of " usefulness " in the arts  --  was denounced by Mr. Kuznetsov as " idiocy . " " If Stalin is on top , then praise Stalin , " he wrote . " If they order people to plant maize , then write about maize . If they decide to expose Stalin 's crimes , then expose Stalin . And when they stop criticizing him , you stop too . " In his 25 years as a writer , Mr. Kuznetsov said , not one of his works had been published in the Soviet Union as written . The works ? short stories , memoirs and novels ? were either banned altogether or else censored and distorted " to pie point of making them comtletely unrecognizable , " he said . A crisis apparently arose for Mr. Kuznetsov with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novel " without faith and without hope , " knowing in advance that " they would ruthlessly cut everything human out of it . " . At best , he said , " The Fire " mould " appear as just one more ' ideological ' pot-boiler , " He said that this was exactly what happened . Despite the attacks on this novel at home , Soviet officials clearly felt that they could trust Mr. Kuznetsov . Just last Associated Press . Anatoly ' V- Kuznetsov month , his name appeared for the first ' time on the editorial board of Yunost , a magazine with a circulation of more than two million . The magazine , particularly popular among the young , first published " The Fire , " which depicted a demoralized people in an imaginary metal works town . Several second-rank So-1 viet publications , reflecting the views of conservatives , at- , tacked the book for portraying workers in the town as cynics and self-seekers . Both the publication of the novel and the author 's promo- , tion to the board seemed ' to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received in 1966 when he published " Babi Yar , " a documentary novel praised in the West . Critics in Moscow charged that the book , which described the murder by the Nazis of thousands of Jews in a ravine on the outskirts of Kiev , failed to mention fully the Nazi crimes against Russians and Ukrainians . Recalling the concealment of his controversial works , the writer said : " Oh , the number of holes I have dug in the ground to conceal my jam jars full of ' dangerous ' and ' doubtful ' manuscripts ! I could n't keep them in my desk because whenever I was n't there my flat could be broken into and searched and my manuscripts confiscated , as happened with Solzhenitsyn and many others . " My writing desk in fact had no drawers at all . The Russian earth itself served as my desk and my safe . " Later in his statement he added : " For some months I dug my manuscripts up from their hiding place in the ground , photographed them and buried them again . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with me ? thousands of pages on film , everything I have ever written in my life . They include my known works , such as ' Babi Yar , ' but ' in its true form . They also include things that could not be published in Russia . And some that I doubt whether I shall be able to publish in the West . " Mr. Kuznetsov , who speaks no English , eluded the " translator " traveling with him on the pretext that he was going to find a prostitute in London 's $oho District . He went to the home of David Floyd , a Russian-speaking reporter for The Daily Telegraph , who helped put him In touch with British authorities . Letters Reject Marxism Letters by Anatoly Kuznetsov were made public last night by Time magazine , which has obtained North American rights to publish his papers here this week . One letter was addressed to the Soviet Government and another to the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party . The full text of the letter to the Central Committee follows : " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union . Declaration : " After much serious reflection over many years I have arrived lat the complete rejection of Marxism-Leninism . " I consider today that this doctrine is uttrely obsolete , rigid and naive . It is utterly incapable of resolving the contradictions in society today , and , what is worse , it has led , continues to lead and threatens to go on leading to frightful social tragedies . " I- can no longer remain a member of the Communist party which bases its policy on this doctrine . I request you to release me from membership in the C.P.S.U . " I hereby withdraw from my duties as party secretary of the Writers Organization of the Tula region . I have left my party membership card there . " In his letter to the Soviet Government , Mr. Kuznetsov wrote in part : " I am remaining in Britain so as to be able to carry on in freedom the work which is the very essence of my life  --  literature . I took this decision a long time ago , after having thought about it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it out for a whole year . " Nobody else knew about this but me . Conditions of life in the Soviet Union , where everybody is obliged to spy on everybody else and where hypocrisy prevails , does not allow anyone to take the risk of entrusting a single person with such a secret . " Mr. Kuznetsov then called on the Soviet Government in his letter " not to persecute my mother , my son , my wife , or my personal secretary , " and he added : " I beg you not to confiscate their possessions and not to deprive them of their accommodation . I swear they knew nothing at all . "                     