@@725822

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Judicial Fallacy in Russell Tribunal To the Editor : In his Oct. 6 letter Bertrand Russell points out that criticism of his War Crimes Tribunal on the ground that judges should not also be accusers rests on a basic misconception of the nature of his tribunal . It will not function , he says , as a court in an " adversary proceeding " but rather " as a commission of inquiry , formed by . men who have prima facie evidence of crimes and , like a grand jury , have brought an indictment . " He suggests that " those who raise procedural points in objecting to the International War Crimes Tribunal would be better occupied in assessing their own responsibility for the horrendous acts against the people of Vietnam . . . . " Implicit in Lord Russell 's argument is the assumption that the substantive truth regarding the alleged crimes can be ascertained without paying any attention to procedural safeguards . Here lies the fallacy of his position . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury with that of a judge . Nor can he find support by quoting Justice Jackson that we would be willing to have invoked against us a rule of criminal conduct which we ask to be applied against others . Justice Jackson - had reference to a tribunal of independent judges , not to a commission masquerading as a court . U.S.-Soviet Differences This is clear from a reading of the minutes of the International Conference on Military Trials which were publi.ned in 1949 after the Nuremberg trials were concluded . The United States and the Soviet Government had substantial differences of opinion as to the function of the International Tribunal to be established . The Soviet position was that " there is no necessity in trials of this sort to accept the principle that the judge is a. completely disinterested party with no previous knowledge of the case . The fact that the Nazi leaders are criminals has already been established by the Crimea and Moscow declarations . The task of the tribunal is only to determine the measure of guilt of each person and mete out the necessary punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not accept the Soviet assumption that these declarations " already convict the parties and that the charges need not be tried before independent judges empowered to render an independent decision on guilt . These declarations are an accusation and not a ConvictiOn . That requires a judicial finding . We could not be parties . to setting up a mere formal judicial body to ratify a political decision to convict . " Suppose the Nuremberg International Tribunal had been founded on the Soviet concept . Would it-have merited the reputation for integrity and fairness which the tribunal has , and would Bertrand Russell 's self-appointed Commission of Inquiry rush to appropriate for Itself the label of International War Crimes Tribunal ? ' MoRRIS AMCHAN Former Deputy Chief Counsel for War Crimes , Nuremberg Arlington , Va. , Oct. 7 , 1966 lescent or adult , should ignore the challenge of a law enforcement officer . Also , far too many adults consider car-stealing by youngsters as a prank , which does nothing to curb this unfortunate situation . My alarm is with the everincreasing rate of all manner of crimes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions of police officers , allowing their challenges to be ignored with impunity . H. MCSMANE New York , Oct. 9 , 1966 ? Reactions From Hanoi To the Editor : Your call editorial Oct. 4 for a renewed moratorium on the bombing of North Vietnam is both timely and appropriate . The only way in which the United states can hope to reestablish its credibility in making renewed pleas for negotiations is precisely to carry out a series of planned initiatives which will signal its intent to the enemy beyond all doubt . As has been pointed out by the Secretary General of the United Nations , U Thant ; by Prime Minister Gandhi of India and by the Russian and French Governments , there is no single step which will be so effective in this respect as an unconditional end to the " counter-productive " bombing of North Vietnam . It is unfortunate , however , that your otherwise excellent editorial repeats the fallacy that there was no response from Hanoi during either previous bombing pause when in fact there was such a response during both occasions . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a willingness to negotiate without American troop withdrawal as a prior condition . This was reported by SANE in August of 1965 and The Times carried a partial admission by a State Department spokesman on Nov. 18 , 1965 . During the second bombing pause , usually reliable sources report that Hanoi acquainted the United States Government with a significant shift in its negotiating position from insisting that the " Four Points " " must be " the basis of negotiations to " ought to be . " It is to be hoped that the Administration will not continue to couple its offers of negotiation with renewed escalation of the war if it wishes to be convincing in its proposals . DONALD F. KEYS . Executive Director , SANE New York , Oct. 4 , 1966 ? Charlotte Towle 's Views on Human Needs To the Editor : In the obituary for Charlotte Towle published Oct. 2 , the impression was given- that Miss Towle subscribed to the popular over-simplification that the Aid to Dependent Children program as such is a cause of family separation and out- of-wedlock births . Actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance program of which A.D.C. is a part . Hex ' book , " Common Human Needs , " was widely used in training staff for these programs . In the Columbia University speech , to which you referred , she was by no means protesting against the giving of aid to these families . On the contrary , she was speaking in favor of strengthening this program . She was protesting against the excessive emphasis on investigation of income in a " spirit of finding people out , " against the use of " investigation squads , " inducing fear in mothers and children alike . Professor Towle was pleading for adequate financial assistance as both humanitarian and , in the long run , economical . I hope that you will pay a final tribute to a woman who has given distinguished leadership to the development of public and private social services in this ' country by conveying to your readers this statement of her point of view . FLORENCE HOLLIS Professor of Social Work Columbia University School of Social Work New York , Oct. 10 , 1966 ? On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 carries a news article by Tillman Durdin on the economic development problems of Western Samoa . One aspect of this , story gives me cause for concern  --  namely , the comment that " New Zealand officials do not welcome the idea of American influence in this area . " I know of no act , statement or decision of the New Zealand Government which would justify this assertion . It is true when the United States was contemplating the annexation of Hawaii in the 1890 's the Prime Minister of New Zealand once called on President to warn him of New Zealand 's interest in the - islands , but since that time the history of the Pacific area has been one of close cooperation between the two countries . In any event , Western Samoa has been fully independent since 1962 , when New Zealand 's trusteeship terminated . Western Samoa is responsible for its own domestic and external policies and , accordingly , " New Zealand officials " can not , and do not , attempt to determine those policies . It is also a long-standing element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States interest and participation in the economic , de. - fense , social and political affairs of the Pacific region . This is essential to the security and well-being of the area in which we New Zealanders live . New Zealand and the United States are partners under the ANZUS Treaty and in SEATO , both of which are concerned with the security , stability and progress of the Asia-Pacific region . We are partners , too , in the Colombo Plan for economic development in the same region ; and are both members ( along ' with Western Samoa itself ) in the South Pacific Commission , which is dedicated to the economic and social welfare and political evolution of the peo  --  I ples of the South Pacific . Similarly , the United States , New Zealand and Western ' Samoa are all members of the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East , the cooperative objectives of which are embodied in the United Nations Charter . If any further testimony is required , the fact of New Zealand 's participation in the struggle , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this whole area . In the field of economic development New Zealand is itself providing substantial assistance to Western Samoa , including a guarantee for a loan of s2.8 million for the construction of Asau Harbor , to which your correspondent referred . Annual financial grants are also made by the New Zealand Government for other developmental and social needs which Western Samoa can not meet at this stage from its own resources . But the New Zealand Government is only too well aware of the limitations on its own aidgiving capacity . It would Le foolish indeed if New Zealand were to attempt to discourage the active cooperation of the United States in promoting the economic and social progress of the Pacific area , or any other part of the world where people are striving for economic and political security . G. R. LAKING New Zealand Ambassador to the United States Washington , Sept. 23 , 1966 ? Courtesy From Young To the Editor : Instead of picketing the Transit Authority for a redyiction .. in fares , we elders might , petition them to insist that youngsters , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in subways or buses to women and older men who are forced to stand It irritates me to see s-ureve boys and girls clamber ab +are buses and trains , take all the available seats and sit while older people have to stand . We might take a lesson from Holland , where signs are displayed on buses saying : " If you are under 21 , you must relinquish your seat to an older person . " It , is considered a disgrace there if a conductor has to remind a youngster to give up a seat to an older person . ANNA DAViSON New York , Oct. 11 , 1966                     