@@726374

txt It is a reasonably obvious deduction from latest events that Washington and Moscow have been equally determined and successful in restraining their respective clients in the Middle East . Washington has restrained Israel from attempting to restore by force the situation which existed before May 22 when the Egyptians reoccupied the whole of the Sinai Peninsula , including the guns at Sharm el-Sheikh . Moscow has restrained Egypt from going beyond the reoccupation of land territory which everyone agrees is in fact Egyptian . The danger still exists that one or the other of the clients will get out of control , or misunderstand the amount of support it enjoys from its respective " big brother . " There are some in Israel who urge fighting rather than to accept any restraint on their rights in the Gulf of Aqaba . And there are those in Egypt , and other Arab countries , who shout for a " war of extermination " against Israel . But , barring a sudden explosion which takes matters out of Moscow-Washington control , the Middle East crisis now is fairly well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains . Meanwhile , there is a transition period . This is where all the talk of " clear declaration " by a group of " maritime powers " comes in . Washington and London are prime movers in a project which would begin with an assertion of general interest in freedom of traffic in the Gulf of Aqaba and would end with a " convention " patterned in general style after the Montreux " convention " which regulates use of the Dardanelles . Transition midpoint ? In theory there would be a midpoint in the transition process where British , American , the Netherlands , and other national naval units would stand by and make sure that neutral shipping moves freely through the Tiran Strait . And it does seem probable that if the Egyptians attempt to prevent a British or // Hundreds of youths demonstrate against Israel in Jordanian section of Jerusalem , calling for the ' liberation ' of Jordan . They carry pictures of the United Arab Republic 's President Nasser and King Hussein of Jordan , along with a cartoon depicting Premier Levi Eshkol of Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Embassy . // American vessel from passing through the strait there will be difficulty . Yet there still had been no such incident at the end of two weeks of the crisis . And the only things the Egyptians have said they would stop would be Israeli flag ships and " strategic goods . " Traffic to Israel through the Gulf of Aqaba consists primarily of Liberian-flag tankers bringing crude oil to Elath . And Cairo has indicated that it does not consider crude oil to be " strategic . " Incidentally , in normal times ships have been arriving at . Elath at the rate of about one a week . The traffic is not absolutely vital to Israel 's survival , in the view of some observers . There is little doubt in Washington that the document which will some day regulate shipping in the Gulf of Aqaba will recognize the Strait of Tiran as being in Egyptian territorial waters and that Egypt enjoys special rights over the strait . The model cited in most discussion is the fact that Turkey is regarded as having special rights over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will pass thrbugh those straits so long as a state of war exists between Egypt and Israel . But it seems most likely that arrangements now under way will permit safe passage for neutral shipping carrying nonstrategic cargo . West views prospect The above is the prospect seen by Western diplomats and aimed at by American diplomacy . It is assumed , one hopes accurately , that Moscow is thinking along similar lines and will make sure that no " holy war " is unleashed against Israel by any Arab state . A reason why this is likely to be managed is relevant to the long-term problem . The chances are that the military advantage still lies on the Israel side ; although the margin is far less now than it was in 1956 . Thus there is an element of bluff in Arab talk of a " war of extermination " against Israel . Washington has had the harder task in curbing Israel . It can be reported that when Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban returned to Israel from his Washington talks a long and anxious 24 hours followed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than he felt he had been promised by Dwight D. Eisenhower and John Foster Dulles in February of 1957 that those who gave him less could not be sure the Israeli Cabinet would agree to hold back . The greates moment of danger is believed in Washington to have come when the Israeli Cabinet learned that Washington had not the slightest intention of firing a single shot to open the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping . That was the moment when Israel might have elected to " go it alone . " It was also the last clear chance for a restoration by force of the pre-May 22 status quo . Setback for Israel seen The net meaning of it all is that Washington has persuaded Israel to accept the undoing of the defeat Egypt suffered in the Suez crisis . This is a setback for Israel . It . has raised a question about the shape of Israel 's long-term future . Up until May 22 Israel had know only success and increasing strength . Some Israelis dreamed of new conquests . The question was whether Israel 's frontiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the past . The gains of 1956 have been wiped out . Israel again stands to arms along all its frontiers . And Washington has made it abundantly clear that it does not intend to go to war for anything more than the bare survival of Israel . Egypt knows that there are limits to the aid it can expect from Moscow . Israel now knows the limits of what to expect from Washington . The lesson already has been a hard one for Israel . It will cause more pain before it is fully absorbed . The meaning is that Israel can no longer base its long-term survival on Washington . The time will come when its survival will depend on its own ability to come to tolerable terms with its Arab neighbors.                     