@@724827

txt Washington A bell rings five or six times on a teletype machine in a small room on the second floor of the Pentagon . Military communications technicians and an officer-translator watch intently as a message starts to print itself out . Although the message is in Russian , and is coming from the Kremlin , no one gets excited . The first four words are , " This is a test message . " Then comes a short passage from Turgenev 's " Notes of a Hunter . " ? At some time during the following hour , a bell will ring in a room in the Kremlin . It will signal the sending of a test message from the United States . 12 times a day In place of an excerpt from a Turgenev nature study , the United States message will be one of several 200- to 400-word pas- sages from Encyclopedia Americana dealing with theories of communications and electronics . This is the famed " Hot Line " between Washington and Moscow . Twelve times a day , for almost 22 months , each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hot Line been used for emergency communication between the heads of government of the two countries . The Hot Line was agreed to by representatives of President Kennedy and Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev June 20 , 1963 . Its primary purpose was to provide almost instant communications in times of crisis . Contrary to the popular image ( furthered by recent novels and movies ) of a president and premier shouting at each other over a telephone , the Hot Line actually offers the leaders only an undramatic Teletype system . The two leaders can still shout their feel.ings into a phone at the White House or the Kremlin , if they so desire . But before being transmitted , the words must be reduced to writing and sent via Teletype . Both President Kennedy and Premier Khrushchev realized , as do their successors , that the inflection of a voice or the impression one might receive in a hasty telephone conversation could trigger disaster . In Pentagon The American end of the Hot Line is in the Pentagon 's National Military Command Center of the United States Joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times in direct communication by special secure Teletype or telephone lines to the White House or to the President if he is airborne , at the LBJ Ranch in Texas , , or wherever he may be . The other end of the Hot Line , according to scanty information from the Soviet Union , is in a Kremlin room " not far from the ' office of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of the U.S.S.R. " This information , however , was published prior to the succession of Alexei N. Kosygin and Leonid I. Brezhnev to the coleadership , of the Soviet Union . It is not known which of the Soviet leaders would be on the final Kremlin receiving or sending end of the Hot Line . " Greetings " The Hot Line goes by a different name inside the Pentagon terminal . There it is officially termed " Molink , " an abbreviation for Moscow link . And the officers and enlisted men maintain Mcilink as if the next bell they hear might be the real thing  --  and not just practice . Three-man military teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work eight-hour shifts around the clock at Molink . Once during each odd-numbered hour ( 1 a.m. to 2 a.m. , 3 a.m. to 4 a.m. , and so on ) a test message is sent to Moscow . Once every even hour , a test message is received from Moscow . The exact times for sending and receiving are never known in advance . In the 22 months six messages have been sent over ' the Hot Line that were neither Turgenev nature essays nor encyclopedia excerpts . Greetings on the first anniversary of establishment of the Hot Line ( Aug. 30 , 1964 ) and on New Year 's Day 1964 and 1965 were exchanged by Americans and Russians supervising the communications link . Alternate lines ready Molink 's officer in charge and chief presidential translator , Lt. Col. William H. Patterson , keeps his officers and enlisted men busy with training and practice , including translating documents under conditions simulating a crisis . Officer-translators also do special Russian translations for other government agencies , and they keep in touch with current events by assisting the command center in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hot Line on Aug. 30 , 1963 , there has never been a single major " outage "  --  a time when the line was not operative . Occasional news stories about breaks in the cable line have been misinterpreted to indicate the Molink itself had been affected , says Colonel Patterson . The primary cable circuit goes under the Atlantic Ocean to London , and then to Copenhagen , Stockholm , Helsinki , and Moscow . Should a break occur , alternate lines are available . And there is a secondary radio Teletype backup circuit held in readiness at all times . Both in the Pentagon and the Kremlin , there are also standby Teletype machines . Automatic coding Speed , accuracy , and security are basic components of the system . Messages can be sent in both directions at the same time . It takes only a split second for transmission and the machines operate at the rate of 66 words per minute . Messages are prepared in the form of paper tapes which are put through an automatic coding machine . At the Moscow end of Molink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coding is based on the use of identically perforated code tapes supplied in advance so as to be available at both terminals . If the Teletype bell should ring in the Molink room and it was " the real thing , " the President would be immediately notified by telephone that a Hot Line message was on the way and informed of the general subject . Instant translation As the message was printed out on the Teletype , Colonel Patterson ( or whoever was on duty at the time ) would stand over the Teletype and dictate a simultaneous rough translation to a Teletype operator who would send the message in English to the White House and State Department . The tape of the Russian text also would                     