@@722990

txt Washington With the Communists roosting in Cuba , President Kennedy 's trip to Costa Rica will be an effort to accent the positive  --  a Central American " common market " now solidifying . Those three days at San Jose in Costa Rica , from March 18 through 20 , will deal primarily with the developing ' economic integration movement in five nations , and stress close consultation among the presidents on how best to counter Cuban-Communist subversion . President Kennedy 's trip ( he leaves Sunday ) is part of an administration effort to look on the Caribbean area as a whole . This meeting follows the well-publicized swing by Venezuelan President Betancourt to Puerto Rico , the United States , and . Mexico . Many signs here indicate that Republican Party leaders have moved about as far as they intend with the Cuban issue for a while . The GOP has maintained that Communist infiltration of the Caribbean is most serious and more militant tactics are needed . Now with the splashy Kennedy trip the Democrats will try to show that the Caribbean has hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Honduras , El Salvador , Nicaragua , and Costa Rica ? with Panama and Mexico watching carefully ? intend to accomplish the economic integration of the isthmus by 1970 . This in-eludes the elhnination of tariff barriers and the unification of all customs . Policy Survey President Kennedy will talk ' with the six Central American presidents ( including Panama ) on a bilateral economic-political basis on Wednesday . On the first two days , Mr. Kennedy will give the officials a size-up on the global foreign policy ' situation . The seven presidents will try to assess the Com ' munist threat to the Caribbean , and formulate further plans for a " common market . " The presidents will discuss the progress and further plans for the Central American Economic Council , the Executive Council which settles disputes , the Permanent Secretariat , the Bank for Economic Integration , the Clearing House , the public administration school , the industrial research center , the council of the five universities , and the Organization of Central American States . Economic Agenda What the United States hopes is that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and talk of some kind of future loose political unification . With a Communist Cuba saying in its propaganda it is beginning to get up economic steam , it is felt here that the Kennedy visit and plans for the " common market " are the most useful " anti-Castro " action to appear in the Caribbean . apart from the eventual elimination of Communist control of Cuba . On the issue of the spread of " Communist control , " the presidents will in both full sessions and in bilateral talks study just how the nations can stop the movement from Cuba of arms , people , money , and propaganda into Central America . A blueprint will be discussed for coordinating an integrated transportation and communication network , setting up a region 's grid electric power , improving the five - nation Clearing House for payments balances , and unifying the customs service .                     