@@721075

txt The Atomic Energy Commission will offer a ten-year reactor program to Congress this week . It is designed to achieve economic nuclear electricity by the late Nineteen Sixties in areas of the United States that have highcost power . The plan will be presented to the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy as it begins its annual hearings Tuesday on the status of the atomic program . From a political , technical and psychological standpoint , the hearings should mark a turning point in the atomic power program , which in the past has been notable more for political bickering and technical setbacks than progress toward generating electricity . Long Urged by Congress A long-range plan for development and construction of nuclear power reactors is a step that has long been demanded by I the Congressional committee but 1 until recently has been resisted by the commission . The reactor program , on which the Government has been spending over 8100,000,000 a year for several years , would , undergo a fundamental revision . under the ten-year plan . Instead of the past approach of pursuing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrating on a lim ' ; ited number that seem to hold ! the most promise of producing ' economic electricity in the neari future . Also implicit in the plan is ' a shift away from the past . philosophy  --  much criticized by Democrats on the Congressional committee ? of relying primarily on private industry to carry the load of building developmental atomic power plants . Will Develop Prototypes The commission , in effect , will assume a responsibility to build atomic reactors up through the ' prototype stage , where their economic feasibility has been proved , either in cooperation with private industry or on its own if industry is unwilling to cooperate . On the basis of commission studies , the reactors to be pushed would include the pressurized and boiling-water types and the organic moderated and cooled types , on which the most developmental work has been done thus far . The commission would also continue its research and development work on other types of reactors , such as the gascooled , the sodium-cooled , the aqueous homogeneous and the breeders , which are designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , would not attempt to push these relatively less advanced reactors into the prototype stage as quickly . The ten-year program reflects the cross-influence of the Congressional committee and , Commission chairman , John A. McCone , as the two groups have tried to bring some purpose and objective to a controversy-ridden and slow-moving reactor program . McCone Backs Committee The committee 's view that the program needed a long-range plan and an objective was seconded by Mr. McCone last year . Mr. McCone , in turn , came to the conclusions that the reactor program should be narrowed in scope and that construction of plants that would demonstrate the feasibility of atomic power should be pressed . In contrast to the political differences of the past , there is now general agreement between the committee and the commission over the broad outlines of the program . If there are reservations among some committee members , such as Representative Chet Holifield , Democrat of California , they are that the commission has narrowed its approach too soon and too much and should include some other types , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether the harmony will prevail now depends largely ' upon the willingness of private industry to go into the largescale application of atomic power . The basic philosophy of the commission is that the Government should carry the development of a reactor up through the prototype size  --  around 60 , - 000 kilowatts ? and then let private industry build the largescale plants of up to 300,000 kilowatts capacity . This philosophy is now being put to an important test . Commission studies show that the pressurized water-reactor could be built now in a 300,000-kilowatt size , which would produce electricity at a 9-mill rate . This would be nearly competitive with conventional power in high cost areas , such as California . An intensive effort is now under way to convince at least one utility , particularly in California , to build the 300,000-kilowatt plant . If private utilities fail to accept this challenge ? as it is viewed within the commission ? then the pressure will be resumed this year and next from committee Democrats for the Government to construct large-scale plants . It was precisely this issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past , with the undertones of private vs , public power .                     