@@724604

txt Bookies Here Turning to housewives to Take Calls . Bookmaking operations . chased from city streets and candy stores by the police , have fled to the kitchens . The Police Department disclosed yesterday that bookmakers were hiring housewives to operate illegal telephone answering services in their homes while the children are at school . The women involved are paid $50 to $100 a week . They do not actually take bets ; instead they receive telephone calls from bettors , take their telephone numbers and then pass the information on to the bookmaker . The police said that 24 housewives who had no other connection with crime had been arrested in the operation . The scheme makes it difficult for the police to trace the bookies , because much of this work must be done by court-order wire tapping . Police Commissioner 7kiiehaei J. Murphy said that " we have driven bookmakers from the street . from candy stores and bars and grills. from conventional answering services , from hotel rooms and from ordinary wire services . " Issues Warning He conceded that the housewife operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he warned that " we will spare no effort to root out this new development in bookmaking operations . " Housewives taking part , he said in a written announcement , can be charged with bookmaking and aiding a criminal operation . Shortly after Mr. Murphy issued the warning , the police raided a downtown office suite and ill rest ef 1 two men barged with conduct ing a S.100.000-a-we.ek bookmaking business . The police said that the men , who did not employ housewives in this operation . had been skipping from one location to another in the area before they were caught . Of the 21 women arrested , Mr. Murphy said that nine were picked up in Brooklyn , five in Manhattan , six in the Bronx , three in Queens and one in Staten Island . Mr. Murphy said that the operation worked this way : The bookies advertise in newspapers for women who want to earn money working part time in their homes . When the women applied for the jobs , the bookmakers arranged to have them take calls from persons who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call the housewives and say . " This is AI . Is Joe there " " When the housewife says no , Al leaves a phone number where he can be reached . Several times a day , the bookmaker would check in with the housewife from a public pay telephone , collect his messages and then call the bettors , who would place their bets . The bookmakers would use a number of different pay phones , moving constantly to keep from being tracked down . Other women become involved in the scheme through friends . Some of the women believed that they were working for legitimate salesmen and that the telephone calls were from customers , according to Deputy Police Commissioner Walter Arm . The operation is so suc // cessful . Mr. Murphy said , that sonic bookmakers hire several housewives to handle their business . In other instances , some housewives work for several bookmakers , he said . The women , Mr. Murphy added , " found it convenient to engage in this work since it coincided roughly with the school hours , and in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said the whole thing was " particularly evil " because it " invaded the privacy of the home and induced women to engage in criminal activities . " The police do not know , but suppose that in most cases the husband knows how the wife is making her pin money . A high police official said that the scheme was uncovered by the Commissioner 's Confidential Squad , which found out certain women were involved and then , armed with court orders , tapped the phones . Only a few of the 24 women arrested have been convicted , the police said , and those convicted were fined $50 or more . with an occasional jail term of five days . Women . often housewives . have been involved in gambling operations before , They are hired to he " fronts " to rent apartments in buildings for bookmakers who use the space for wire rooms . Housewives also are used in the numbers game to collect bets from the players and carry the number slips in their shopping bags and purses to the policy bankers . Working women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day while they are at work . Commissioner Arm recalled that after the Harry Gross gambling scandal in Brooklyn in 1950. many bookies went to the suburbs , particularly Bergen County , and rented telephones from suburban housewives . However . at that time the bookies manned the phones themselves or had their colleagues answering them , not the housewives . The two men who were arrested yesterday in the office suite on the 19th floor of 42 Broadway . at Rector Street , were indentified by the police as Louis Marone , 5S , of 07 Lienmare Street , and Stanley Pushkin. 06 , of the Lus.or Baths . 121 West ? 6th Street . They were charged with bookmaking.                     