@@722454

txt Austin , Tex. , May 19 ? Among the notables of the Democratic party with whom Billie Sol Estes hobnobbed in the days before he was indicted for fraud was Frank G. Clement , former governor of Tennessee , who is now running again for that office . Clement and Estes have one thing in common . Both were named by the . United States Junior Chamber of Commerce as  --  among the 10 outstanding young men of the year  --  Clement in 1953 and Estes in 1954 . Files in Texas Atty . Gen. Will Wilson 's office show that they had both a social and business relationship . There is no evidence , however , that there was anything illegal in Clement 's business transactions involving Estes . Clement a Keynoter Clement was governor of Tennessee from 1953 to 1959 , was the keynote speaker at the Democratic convention in 1956 , and had been prominently mentioned as a possible vice presidential candidate that year before his fellow Tennessean , Sen. Estes Kefauver was tapped for the role . The attorney general 's files contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a business named Delta Homes Investment company , in which Clement , his brother Robert Clement , an at-torney , and a Russell Brothers ' I of Nashville also had interests . ' These same individuals also had interests in a cotton warehouse partnership , named the Sudan Storage company . Partnership Income Split A 1959 income statement for the Sudan company shows that Frank . and Robert Clement each received $3,556.90 from this partnership , while Brothers and Estes each received $21,341.40 ; The records in Wilson 's office do not show any statements for this company in 1960 or 1961 . Clement , Estes Corresponded Frank Clement and Estes corresponded with each other on social , as well as business , matters . A letter from the governor to Estes , dated Jan. 17 , 1959 , says : " Day after tomorrow my tenure of service as governor will be completed , but before leaving the office , I wanted to write you again of my deep appreciation for t h e encouragement your friendship has afforded . " The associations in your home and in my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I hope that our paths will cross often in the future . " Delighted Over Car On Feb. 25 , the same year , Clement again wrote to Estes : " Willie , the boys and I can never tell you how very delighted we are with the wonderful new automobile . Since we had not purchased a personal car , certainly no gift could have been more welcome . " On Jan. 8 , 1962 , Clement wrote to Estes , thanking him for remembering the family over the holidays . At the bottom of the typed letter was a handwritten note : " Hope to see you soon . Thanks for everything , " with the word , " everything underlined .                     