@@728004

txt Israeli jets today shattered sections of the Ghor Canal ; the most vital irrigation project in Jordan . The strike was in retaliation for a new wave of Jordanian attacks on Israel , which were resumed 10 days ago despite what Israel said was an agreement for peace in the area , understood to have been arranged last month with the aid of the United States . The announcement of the air strike , which lasted about an hour this afternoon and included " a number of military targets " in Jordan as well , was the first official acknowledgment that Israel had agreed to refrain from hitting the $85-million canal in exchange for Jordanian commitments that the shelling of Israeli settlements in the Jordan and Beisan valleys would cease . Agreement Reported Israeli commandos brossed the Yarmuk River last June 23 and inflicted serious damage to the canal under the Israeli pol7 icy of retaliation . In subsequent days , Israeli troops with . their fire prevented . the Jordanians from repairing the damage . A secret agreement is said to have been worked out on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which the Jordanians were free to repair the canal if their regular troops and Palestinian guerrillas halted their attacks on the Israeli territory . Starting 10 days ago , however , bombardment of the Israeli settlements and positions was resumed , presumably after the canal was repaired , and today Israel decided to resume the attacks . Plea by Jordan Described In recent days , it was understood , the Israeli Government conveyed through the United States a warning to Jordan that the Ghor Canal would no longer be safe from attack if the Jordanian actions were not immediately stopped . After five attacks on - Israeli settlements in the area last night and this morning , the Israeli aircraft were sent to smash the canal works . , A statement Issued tonight by the Foreign Ministry , after the military commurliqud reporting the air strike , said that " after the canal was damaged in the previous actions , the Jordanians asked for Israeli consent to repair the Ghor Canal so as not to , make life difficult for the farmers in the Jordan Valley . " " Jordan undertook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop the Jordanian Army from firing at Israel , " the ministry said . " On the basis of this understanding , Israel consented to the repairs , " the statement added . " While the repairs were being carried out , aggressive acts against Israel eased off to ' some extent , but as soon as . the repairs were completed , they were resumed with even greater intensity . " " The ministry said that " not only do the terrorist gangs operate from Jordan , but the Jordanian Army also began firing systematically with all types of weapons , including artillery , on civilian settlements and villages in Israel . " Nightly Bombardments ? It said that in the last week there had been " nightly bombardments " of the Yardena settlement and other settlements in the Jordan and Beisan valleys . After the latest incidents , the Foreign Ministry said , " the Israeli action was to demand again from Jordan to end these acts of aggression , but to no avail . " The statement did not indicate how the demand was made , but diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Government . Both the Army and the Foreign Ministry communiqu  --  s emphasized that 38 attacks on Israel took place along the eastern front in the last 10 days , including the blowing up of a bus by a mine detonated by remote control from Jordan and the shelling of a potash plant at Sodom on the Dead Sea . There was no detailed assessment tonight of the extent of the damage caused to the Ghor Canal , which brings water from the Jordan River to the Yarmuk River and was built to irrigate land for some 80,000 Jordanian farmers . Military sources said , howThe New York Times Aug. 11 , 1969 ever , that water had been seen spilling out of the Yarmuk back into the Jordan River . They said the damage today had appeared comparable to that inflicted in the Israeli commando raid in June . The Israeli authorities denied Jordanian contentions that three Israeli planes had been lost in the mission . The attack on the Ghor Canal and the Jordanian actions preceding it raised the question whether diplomatic channels would be of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern front . Specifically , the diplomatic sources suggested that the United States , having acted as a confidential mediator , might no longer be in a position to provide good offices in an effort to maintain relative peace along the Jordan Valley. - The disclosure that a " gentleImen 's agreement " had existed may also rule out any such arrangements in the future . King 's Role Questioned Another question raised by the weekend events was whether King Hussein of Jordan would be able to control not only the guerrillas but also his army commanders in actions against Israel . Under the circumstances , Israel was prepared , in the words of an Israeli official , to control the guerrillas and the Jordanian Army " where the King can no longer act effectively . " An Israeli military commentator , speaking over the state radio network , said tonight that'the use of Israeli air power against Egyptian forces along the Suez Canal had succeeded in decreasing the intensity ' of combat along the waterway and in reducing the number of casualties in recent days . He said , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " necessarily a local action , but part of an over-all policy . " The suggestion was that in the wake of the Israeli air attacks at Suez , the Arab command had deliberately switched the scene of the action to the Jordanian front and that Israel would apply the same retaliatory tactics there .                     