@@724377

txt Nov. 25 is now a A forgotten date in New Forgotten York City , yet no more Date than 100 years ago it was celebrated with illuminations and with military display , bonfires and speeches . The occasion was Evacuation Day , marking Nov. 25 , 1783 , when Sir Guy Carleton and the last remnant of the British Army in the East had sailed down the Narrows , and what was left of the army of the States made its entry into the city . The crowds that lined the waterfront to see Sir Guy off and those that later applauded General Knox and his Continentals included hundreds who had stood by the Revolutionary cause throughout the city 's long occupation , and who had been made to suffer for their beliefs . Of all the large cities , New York had fared worst from the British and from the Tories . The British had been driven from Philadelphia and Boston early in the war ; but from the day Howe entered New York in 1776 until Sir Guy quitted it the British had never been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reason , the A ' churches and the jail Tory were filled most of the Refuge time with prisoners of war . The prison ships Stromboli and Jersey lay at anchor off the Battery . Privateers were fitted out in the harbor . The city , too , became a refuge for Tories ; the Whig citizens were driven from their homes , their property was confiscated and occupied under military orders . Many patriots were sent penniless across the Hudson to starve or to live upon the charity of Dutch farmers in New Jersey . Little wonder , then , that the Tories remained at home on Evacuation Day and left the celebrating to those who had not been summer patriots . But if the Tories acted in the hope that this show of propriety would save them from retribution , they miscalculated . " When the banished , Their despoiled and persecuted Hour of Whigs were free to reTriumph turn and take vengeance on their persecutors for the ills they had borne for many years , " one historian recalls , " they did so with the exultant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for revenge , are beside themselves with joy in their hour of triumph . " Even so , acts Of summary vengeance were rare , although a number of outspoken Tories were warned that the watchman , as he went his rounds at night , would cry them out : " Past 10 o'clock , and is a vile hypocrite and an enemy of freedom . " Eventually , many Tories left New York for Nova Scotia or New Brunswick and for London , where they wearied George III with their pleas . Some went also to New Jersey . around the Amboys . Two who transplantNew ed to Jersey were Elias Jersey 's Barnes and Thomas Welcome Crowell , who elected to seek the hospitality of Woodbridge . No sooner had they arrived than a town meeting was held , and a committee named to welcome the men . The committee called upon Barnes and Crowell , and told them rather elaborately of ' ' the great joy entertained " by the village at their arrival . Much pleased , the two Tories thanked the committee for its kind words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then one of its number stepped forward and expressed " regret " at being obliged to inform Barnes and Crowell that the good people of Woodbridge had determined that no Tories should settle among them until they had first been tarred and feathered . Recovering from a moment of dumfounded silence , Barnes and Crol.v , ell protested stoutly , but to no avail . In minutes they were stripped naked , and tarred and feathered " as completely , " a witness said , " as if it had been done in one of those seminaries of the art , Boston or Connecticut . " With the years , of course , passions subsided , and as memories of thei Revolution faded so did the ardor to celebrate Evacuation Day . But it is not inappropriate to remember once in a while that our forebears could be joyous in victory , angry in their vengeance and , on occasion , dryly humorous in executing it .                     