@@723995

txt New York , May 24 ( AP ) - Former President Eisenhower said tonight in a copyrighted statement in the . New York Herald Tribune that the Republican Presidential candidate must be a man not impulsive in foreign affairs and willing to meet " new needs " of the people . Eisenhower 's statement also reminded Republicans that as members of the party of Lincoln they " have a particular obligation to be vigorous in the furtherance of civil rights . " . Wo n't " Name Names " Saying that it was " not my proper role " to name names , and " I do not intend to attempt this , " Eisenhower added that the . Republican nominee should be a man who " will uphold , earnestly , with dedication and conviction , the principles and traditions of our party . " Referring to actions of his own administration in the fields of social security , minimum wage s , hospital construction , medical research , medical aid for the aged , highway building , urban renewal , and legislation for depressed areas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples not to . applaud a past record but to illustrate the positive nature of true Republicanism  --  spotting new , needs , sizing them up and acting decisively when the national nature and scope require it . " As a party that looks to the future , not just to the present , we Republicans believe in paying now for what we need now , not saddling those yet to come with the burden of our debts . But we believe in meeting our needs . ' Eisenhower said the party 's " overriding concern . . must be the maintenance of peace while protecting and extending freedom . " The text of the statement follows : " Many concerned people have urged me to indicate my preference among the possible Re-1 publican candidates or to try to dictate the Republican party 's choice of a Presidential nominee this July . " I do not intend to attempt this . It is not my proper role . I do fervently hope , however , that the person selected to lead our party in the coming campaign will be a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the principles and traditions of our party . " There is no mystery about Republican principles . They have been spelled , out at length in our national platforms  --  most recently that of 1956 , on which I was proud to run for reelection , and that of 1960 , for which I was proud to campaign . " These platforms represented the responsible , forward-looking Republicanism I tried to espouse as President , the kind that I am convinced is supported by the overwhelming majority of the Republican party , the kind I deeply believe the party must continue to offer the American people . Stresses Limited Government " We Republicans believe in limited government , but also in effective and humane government . " We belive in keeping government as close to the people as possible ? in letting each citizen do for himself what he can do for himself , then making any call for government assistance first on the local government , then on the state government , and only in the final resort on the federal government . " But we do not shrink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national solutions . When they arise , we act . " During the Republican administration of 1953 - 61 we established the department of health , education , and welfare , we extended social security coverage and increased its benefits , we raised the minimum wage and brought more workers under its coverage than ever before . We increased aid for hospital construction , we increased aid for medical research , we introduced a new program of medical aid for the aged . We inaugurated urban renew al , passed the first depressed areas legislation , launched a new program to help ' low income farmers and began the most gigantic highway building program in the history of the United States . Needs Must Be Met " I cite these er-imples not to applaud a past record but to illustrate the positive nature of true Republicanism ? spotting new needs , sizing them up , and acting decisively when their national nature and scope require it . " As a party that looks to the future , not just to the present , we Republicans believe in paying now for what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the burden of our debts . But we believe in meeting our needs . " Right now the nation 's most critical domestic challenge involves man 's relation to his government and also to his neighbor ? the issue of civil rights . " The Republican party was born of a crusading concern for human dignity ; it retains that concern today . " There is reason for Republican pride that in the eight years of its last administration the nation made more progress in civil rights than in the preceding eighty . We did this thru vigorous executive action , thru steadfast enforcement of court decisions and thru passage of the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960  --  the first such acts passed since Reconstruction . Moral Obligation Cited " Equal opportunity and mutual respect are matters not only of law , but also of the human heart and spirit , and the latter are not always amenable to law . But the nation has a profound moral obligation to each of its citizens , requiring that we not only improve our behavior but also strengthen our laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full benefits of citizenship-benefits which no agency of government , national , state or loco 1 , has the right to abridge . " As the party of Lincoln , we Republicans have a particular obligation to be vigorous in the furtherance of civil rights . In this critical area , I have been especially proud of the dramatic leadership given by Republicans in Congress these past two years . With equal emphasis , I can say the same of , our Republican governors . Tells Concern for Peace " In the foreign field , the overriding concern of the Republican party ? of either party - must be the maintenance of peace while protecting and extending freedom . This is not easily or simply done in a dangerous , volatile and uncertain world . " It requires military strength second to none , backed by a vigorous and expanding economy . Military adequacy must be our minimum . We must not , however , permit unnecessary and wasteful military expenditures to weaken the aggregate of American strength . " It requires loyal support for the United Nations in its peace-keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the infinitely complex situations that confront us ? whether in southeast Asia , in Cuba , or wherever danger threatens or opportunity beckons  --  followed by firm decision and prompt but carefully conceived action . In today 's nuclear-age diplomacy there is no time for indecision , but neither is there room for impulsiveness . There is great need for imagination and inventiveness , not only to treat successfully with today 's crises , but to probe into those areas where , step by step , the barriers between east and west can be lowered . Reviews His Administration " The last Republican administration acted both firmly and prudently in such danger areas as Berlin , the Formosa Straits , Iran and Lebanon . It acted constructively and imaginatively in such matters as enlarging its network of alliances and making them effective , evolving new concepts of social progress thru foreign aid , promoting cultural and technical exchanges , and developing proposals for open skies and the peaceful use of space . " Our party 's approach in the future must be no less firm , no less prudent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Republican party as I so devoutly do , I have for many months urged that Republicans from coast to coast be given a fair chance to work their will , in careful deliberations , at the national convention  --  and therefore to make that convention truly representative of the party . " I hope they will have that chance . . And I earnestly hope the party will select a nominee who skillfully and wholeheartedly would apply to our problems , both domestic and foreign , those principles which I have noted here , "                     