@@724872

txt A poll ordered in mid-June by Democratic leaders is ; said to have shown Representative John V. Lindsay soundly defeating any of the five Democratic contenders in the mayoral race . The Manhattan Republican 's margin over the strongest of the five , City Council President Paul R. Screvane , is reported to have been about three to two . In a tally limited to registered Democrats , Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , who announced on Thursday that he would not run , is said to have shown much greater strength than any of the five Democrats who have entered the race . That indicated that he might have won a Democratic primary . There are conflicting reports on how Mr. Roosevelt , who is head of the Federal Equal Opportunity Employment Commission , fared when matched against Mr. Lindsay . Different Margins Cited Some Democratic sources say that Mr. Roosevelt outpolled Mr. , Lindsay by about 52 to 48 per cent . Others . while acknowledging that Mr. Roosevelt did far better than any other Democrat , insist that he was beaten by Mr. Lindsay by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the RooseveltLindsay contest was the only one that was even close . That was evidently a big disappointment to Roosevelt backers , Who had looked for a sizable victory . The effect was to chill most of what enthusiasm there had been for a Roosevelt campaign . Informed sources say the poll was taken by Oliver Quayle &; Co. , of Bronxville , N. Y. , which has often made such surveys , for Mayor Wagner and other Democrats . Among those reported toi have commissioned the poll were Edwin L. Weisl Sr. , the Democratic National Committeeman for New York . Following are some of the ' other specific figures said to have been compiled : ( iMr . Roosevelt polled about 45 per cent of the vote in the , test of how he might have fared in a Democratic primary . 611r . Screvane came in second with about 30 per cent of the total . 9Just about tied in third place were Controller Abraham D. Beame and District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor , who received about 17 per cent of the vote between them . Tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Ryan . Vote Switches Debated With Mr. Roosevelt out of the race , political observers were trying to assess which of the remaining candidates would be likely to inherit his strength in the primary battle . Beanie supporters argued that , since Roosevelt support had always been large among the Jewish community , much of his vote would go to Mr. Beanie , the only Jew in the race . Others contended that , despite the fact that Mr. Roosevelt 's law firm once represented Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo , Roosevelt support still , came in good measure from liberals . They concluded that Mr. O'Dwyer and Mr. Ryan might therefore expect to benefit most from Mr. Roosevelt 's withdrawal . A third argument was that the Roosevelt vote would probably be distributed evenly so that Mr. Screvane , who had come in second to Mr. Roosevelt , could now expect to win a primary . The belief in many quarters was that perhaps two of the ' five Democratic candidates might eventually drop out of the primary contest . A more remote possibility , in the eyes of political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rally most of the party around a single candiH date and thereby avoid a major ' primary fight . If there were to be withdrawals , which candidates were : likely to do it ? Beanie and O'Connor Linked There appeared to be some hope in the Beanie and O'Connor camps that they could combine on a ticket . But both camps seemed to want their own man to remain at the head of the ticket as the mayoral candidate , rather than settle for a subordinate spot . It was also considered possible that Mr. O'Dwyer would eventually agree to run for City Council President . The Democrats will attempt to clear up some of the confusion at important party meetings next week . J. Raymond Jones , the New York County leader , announced that he had called an executive committee meeting for Thursday at noon to endorse a mayoral candidate and discuss contenders for other places on the ticket . Among the contenders listed by Mr. Jones were Deputy Mayor Edward F. Cavanagh Jr. , Deputy Mayor John Connorton , Orin Lehman , business executive and educator who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an independent Democrat for the Council Presidency ; Hilda G. Schwartz , director of the Department of Finance ; R. Petei . Straus , president of radio station WMCA , and Ruth Whitehead Whaley , secretary of the Board of Estimate . The Committee for Democratic Voters , the citywide Reform Democratic organization , will meet on Wednesday to consider candidates for endorsement .                     