@@725794

txt Robert M. Shelton Jr. , imperial Wizard of the United Klans of America , was found guilty today of contempt of Congress for refusing to produce records for the House Committee on Un-American Activities . A. Federal District Court jury that included three Negroes announced the guilty verdict after deliberating for a little more than an hour . Judge John J. Sirica said he would impose the sentence after a routine probation study was completed . These usually take about six weeks . Shelton could receive as much as ' a year 's imprisonment ' and a $1,000 fine . He was released on *500 bond pending the probation study . Lester V. Chalmers Jr. , Shelton 's lawyer , told newsmen the verdict would be appealed to the Supreme Court if necessary . Shelton , shedding his taciturn demeanor for the first time since the three-day trial began , denounced the trial as a " kangaroo court . " He said it was dominated . by the Government Robert M. Shelton Jr . before he was found guilty . through the eight Federal employes on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accused the House committee of suffering insults from " beatniks , sex perverts and tennis shoe-wearing Communists " during hearings on Vietnam war critics . The committee chose to cite him for contempt , even though he behaved as " a Christian gentleman , " he said . The verdict " will help boost the Klan , " he said . " Just as the declaration of war against the . Klan by LBJ serves as a recruiter ' for the Klan . " Spectators ' In the half-filled courtroom showed no surprise at the ? guilty verdict , which came after the defense offered no evidence , and after Judge Sirica decided most of the case 's issues against Shelton . Therej was little left for the jury tol decide . Judge Silica ruled that Shelton did not cite legally acceptable reasons when he refused to produce Klan books , records and documents before a subcommittee hearing on Oct. 20 , 1965 . Shelton had contended that the subpoenaed records would not help Congress in passing any valid anti-Klan law , and , that they might tend to incriminate him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jury 's consideration was the defense contention that the subpoena was so loosely drawn that Shelton could not tell which records to produce . Lawyers for both sides avoided emphasizing the case 's racial implications during the trial . They concentrated instead on making legal points to be raised in future appellate court battles . In the last five years 13 contempt prosecutions initiated by the Committee on Un-American Activities have failed as a result of decisions in the court of appeals here or the Supreme Court . No convictions have been upheld : Each case involved investigations of alleged communist activities . The appellate courts ignored the witnesses ' contentions that their constitutional rights had been violated by the committee 's procedures , and instead threw out the convictions on narrow procedural grounds .                     