@@723167

txt This is a moment of bloc fence mending . Major participants in both the East-West could war and the North-South " have " versus " have not " struggle are using the current lull inn interbloc collisions to review strategy and try to patch up divided alliances . In Washington President Kennedy is reportedly preparing to discuss Western rapprochement with President de Gaulle . In Moscow top ideologists are preparing to salvage what they can of Soviet-Chinese Communist relations in a July meeting with their intransigent opposite numbers from Peking . In Addis Ababa , Ethiopia , memberg of the contending Monrovia and Casablanca groups of African powers have assembled to talk unity and possibly form an organization of African states . Continuing Struggles In Manila next Friday the foreign ministers of the Philippines , Indonesia , and Malaya are to meet to discuss differences that have arisen out of varying reactions to the retreat of European colonialism and the threat of Chinese Communist colonialism . Here at the United Nations , leaders of all three worlds  --  West , East , and underdeveloped ? have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the UN through the next ( possibly final ) six months of Congo costs so that the world organization can recover from the long squabble over policing expenses . If there is a common theme to all these meetings and prospective meetings , it  --  is felt here , to be the way in which the East-West struggle has been altered by the growth of the nonaligned world  --  and vice versa . The Chinese Communists are fighting with the Soviets as much over how to pursue the uncommitted world as how to defeat the West . Presidents de Gaulle and Kennedy are as much involved in the question of how to integrate the trade of the British and American " commonwealths " ( the bulk of the underdeveloped world ) into European markets as the ques tion of how to contend with the Communist bloc . Tightrope Operations The 31 African states meeting at Addis Ababa are concerned with profiting from cold-war competition ( more technical aid , more investment ) but also with keeping it out of their internal affairs and their common drive against colonialism and apartheid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mine the cold war and its Chinese-Soviet , American-French subwars while trying not to become involved in them . Inclo-Pakistani relations over Kashmir are an intricate example . Cairo 's acquisition of aid from East and West while subjugating local Communists and threatening Western oil interests around the Arabian Peninsula is another . Nowhere is the interacting nature of the east-west and north-south struggles more specifically evident than here at the UN . The current struggle over financing of peace - keeping operations is a good example . The Afro - Asian powers , coming late to power in the world club , threw their votes generally on the side espoused by the United States  --  that the UN should have the power to police trouble spots free of Security Council veto . They threw their political support in this direction , but not always their financial support . During the " membership explosion " of the past few years the Afro-Asian members have tended to vote the Secretary-General power to carry on peace-keeping operations , even vote him funds , but not necessarily agree on how to pay those funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            