@@723406

txt A few days in Mexico City ? however pleasant and invigorating ? obviously give one only the most slender and atmospheric concept of the role our dynamic neighbor to the south plays in the unfolding panorama of inter-American relations . However , the occasion which brought us to Mexico was special . Under the joint auspices of the National University of Mexico and the Advertising Council of the United States , five Mexicans and five North Americans took part in a dialogue which we were told was unprecedented . I am always dubious about " firsts " but perhaps this was . The uniqueness , allegedly , was that Mexicans of sharply divided views , and Americans , publicly debated the most controversial aspects of their mutual concern . Two Environments It was a good discussion . The crux of the matter was the interplay of governmental controls and private enterprise in the two American environments . There are very great differences between the two countries . The purpose of the talk was to understand them better , on both sides . Government officials , private businessmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two groups . The subject , set by the Mexican hosts , was " Problems of Economic Develop-ment and Population Growth . " Very little was said about population growth . It was simply postulated . The North Americans , from government official to newspaperman were hopeful our Mexican friends would get a more constructive idea of the relationship of the public and private sectors in a free , dynamic economy . They clearly wanted us to understand the larger role government plays in controlling Mexican economic development without assuming that socialism is in the saddle . The word socialism was not used once . Panel of Experts One of the Americans , Walt W. Rostow , chairman of the Policy Planning Council ' of the State Department , is an outstanding authority in the history and theory of economic development . Another , Prof. Raymond Vernon of the Harvard Business School , is an expert in Mexico 's development . A third , Prof. Paul N. Rosenstein-Rodan of Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is one of the " Nine Wise Men " panel of inter-American experts for the Alliance for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge of international operations of Sears , Roebuck &; Co. , and the fifth was myself . The Mexicans ranged from Hugo B. Margain , Undersecretary of Industry and Commerce , to Prof. Emilio MUjica , director of the School of Economics at the National University of Mexico , which has a leftist reputaton ; to Juan Sanchez Navarro , president of Mexico 's Confederation of Chambers of Industry ; Heriberto Vi , dales , another widely known businessman ; and Victor Urquidi , professor and Bank of Mexico consultant . Issue Defined Professor Rostow , speaking with the dual advantage of responsible official and eminent scholar , emphasized that the issue is not between developed and underdeveloped countries , but countries which have both developed and underdeveloped areas within themselves . Thus , Mexico needs to bring up the large agrarian areas where the prosperity of Mexico City has not ? touched . And the United States , as he put it , can contribute most to Mexico by being prosperous itself . Then it can buy more Mexican exports and share its own advancing technolo-gic Kindred Mexican and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions brought sharp internal dissidents together . The experiment in frank , intelligible , public discourse was a complete success . First of three articles .                     