@@725694

txt To the Editor : The current controversy among aspirants for the Democratic nomination for Governor demonstrates the need for a direct statewide primary which I long advocated . The bill which the Legislature passed last year and which the Governor vetoed was totally inadequate . Modeled after the Connecticut procedure , it would have permitted only a candidate who obtained 25 per cent of the convention vote to run against the designee of the convention . This obviously does not answer the problem of controlled delegates voting as they are told . Nor would a secret ballot among the delegates to the convention . The . suggestion that , elected delegates vote by secret ballot does violence ' to . the theory of representative government . Delegates are elected and are accountable to the Democratic voters , who are entitled to know how they vote . It is no more proper for a delegate to vote secretly than it would be for a member of Congress to do so on legislation . As long as we have a convention system , the delegates ? controlled or independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those who elect them although they may not reflect their wishes . Experience shows that the only way the people will have a direct voice in the selection of party candidates is through a truly open direct primary . This reform is long overdue in New York State . WILLIAM F. RYAN Member of Congress 20th District , New York Washington , Aug. 3,1.966 ? War Casualty To the Editor : What bad luck Paul Mathews has ! He thinks I " castigated him for asking James Reston and The Times editorial staff not to criticize President Johnson 's conduct of an increasingly horrible struggle in Vietnam . I did not castigate anyone . I only said that truth . was the first casualty In this , as in any other , war . So , pat on the same day ( Aug. 2 ) as Mr. Mathews 's rejoinder , The Times prints a story in which a Pulitzer Prize winner and a veteran Times reporter and a Los Angeles Tithes correspondent all agree about the suppressions of fact , the manipulations of faked news , the evasions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their briefing officers in Saigon . These correspondents on the scene point to the unacknowledged war in Laos and Thailand , the use of napalm and anti-personnel bombs , the fact that the Vietnamese conflict seems basically a civil war rather than an aggression from the north . Mr. Mathews asks if I " presume to speak with certainty and authority about truth . " Of course not ! As a college administrator I 'm just skeptical about the lies of other folk . I have learned humility in a hard and wonderful school . I ' am used to professors who will not be shut up . If only the Pentagon public relations crowd ? had to face a City College faculty in a hot meeting ! SAMUEL MIDDLEBROOK Associate Dean The City College New York , Aug. 3 , 1966 ? Peronism 's Role in Argentina To the Editor : There are Communists and dogmatic Marxists in the Argentine universities , just as in the universities of many other American countries , including our own . The threat they pose , to political and academic freedom is not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that posed by any attempt to silence and intimidate them , especially since such attempts are generally more harmful to liberally inclined non-Communists than to the more realistic and foxier Communists themselves . The real problem in Argentina is not Communism but the integration into national life of a sector comprising roughly two-thirds of the population : the Peronists . No government which neglects this disenchanted and now disenfranchised majority of the working class can hope to solve Argentina 's manifold social problems . Arturo Frondizi in 1962 and Illia in 1966 both fell because of their attempts to reach an accommodation with Peronism ; accommodation which the military is determined to prevent . Peronism is the real target of the recent coup d'etat ; but because this is inadmissible in view of the continuing popularity of Peronism , Communism was selected as the ostensible target . Regime 's Plans The question is not , therefore , whether the recent seizure of the universities , with its accompanying violence , was justified by the presence of Communists , or even whether there are Communists in Argentina , but rather , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Lincoln Gordon seems to have missed the point  --  as the Argentine Government probably hoped he would  --  in his stammering rebuke , reported in The New York Times Aug. 5 . One hopes that in future consideration of policy regarding Argentina , our State Department will not be so easily distracted from the real problem by the smoke screen of the artificial one . MARGARET DICKEY WILDE New Haven , Conn. , Aug. 5 , 1966 ? Epidemic of Strikes To the Editor : Neither Congress nor the President seem exactly eager to send the airline machinists back to work . According to reporters they hesitate " to be responsible " for ending the strike . The implication is that they fear reprisals at the polls . I suggest that the true situation has been grossly misappraised . I believe that a great majority of the public is completely fed up with the inconvenience , personal hardship and financial loss suffered in the increasing epidemic of strikes against the public interest . The public must be given protection . And those who supply that protection , far from losing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resounding approval from the voters . And I 'll wager that substantial support will come , too , not only from nonstriking employes who were thrown out of work by such strikes but from many members of the unions directlyconcerned . WILLIAM H. CLARK Greenwich , Conn. , Aug. 5 , 1966 ? Air Mechanics ' Wage To the Editor : Allow me to commend you for finally presenting the public with the facts that are the underlying reason for the current airline strike . In the Aug. 2 news article Charles Ruby of the Air Line Pilots Association gets to the crux of the matter when he stated , " Just as a private observer , maybe the mechanics ' salaries are pretty low compared to people of lesser skills outside the industry . " Everyone is so shocked by the fact that the aircraft mechanic is finally demanding a fair and equitable wage . Considering the . skill and responsibility needed to be an aircraft mechanic , he ' is certainly justified in his demands . We have been pleading tho plight of the aircraft mechanic for the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position to speak for the aircraft mechanic , we have offered our services to President Johnson to assist him in settling this strike . LORETO A. ANTONELLIS Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association Jamaica , L. I. , Aug. 2 , 1966                     