@@723154

txt Cape Canaveral , Fla . For the sake of 10 seconds of data Maj. L. Gordon Cooper Jr . was forced to abandon his first try for 22 orbits only 13 minutes before launchtime . This decision was heartbreaking to Mercury officials who had brought the mission so close to launching with all systems " go " except for radar data conversion at Bermuda . The importance attached to safety in these manned space flights is demonstrated by the fact that in this case the launch was scrubbed for a reason that might not have kept an unmanned instrument package on the ground . The Bermuda radar is the primary backup for launching guidance decision . As explained by Walter C. Williams , deputy director of flight operation for NASA , if the main guidance system were to have functioned properly there would have been a normal mission . But were it to malfunction and were the Bermuda radar also unavailable he said Mercury control would have had to make the " go-no go " decision as to whether the spacecraft Faith 7 were going properly into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added , they did not care to do . Tht final scrub culminated a morning of delays due to minor factors , especially a faulty fuel pump in a diesel engine . ' Power for Gantry This engine provides power to move the gantry tower away from the rocket before launch-. ing . Replacing its fuel pump delayed the countdown about 2 hours and 9 minutes . With the gantry finally pulled back and all in readiness Mercury officials and astronaut were eager to launch . But it was decided it would be unwise to do so without the Bermuda radar data . Commenting on this further , Christopher C. Kraft , Mercury Flight Director , told a post-scrub press conference that at stake was a mere 10 seconds of data  --  albeit potentially vital data . If the ordinary guidance system , he explained , did not give clear data on impending orbital insertion , controllers , would take 10 seconds of data from the Bermuda radar show- , ing spacecraft , position and velocity . This would enable them tai determine whether or not the craft were traveling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed for it to be allowed to go into orbit . Minor at First The radar picks up the spaceship about 31/ , minutes after launching . Its information is converted into a special digital form for transmission by high-speed data link to Goddard Space Flight Center , where are located the computers to service Project Mercury . Somewhere in the data conversion at Bermuda a breakdown occurred . Mr. Kraft said that early in the morning there had been trouble with the azimuth data from Bermuda . This was corrected . Then the range rate data began to deteriorate . This led to the decision to scrub . At first when the azimuth trouble was fixed there was only minor trouble with the range rate data . Mr. Kraft said they were losing about 1 percent of the data . Forty minutes before launch they were losing 18 percent of the data . When a test was run 20 minutes before launch time the information was completely unusable . Now all systems are being recycled for a second try at the longest space flight yet attempted by an American astronaut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a flight . Brilliant sunshine with scattered clouds had dispersed earlier concern about local weather . Indeed everything seemed right for launching and the postponement came as a shock to all observers . However , the care being exercised by Mercury officials now is what has insured the success of their project to date .                     