@@723685

txt Senator Barry Goldwater accused President Johnson today of " arm-twisting " to get members of the House and Senate to support the foreign aid bill . " I recall , " the Arizona Republican said , " that President Johnson in ' his speech to us on Nov. 27 spoke of the Congress as his home and indicated his respect for an independent legislative branch . His actions on the foreign aid bill contradicted that by trying to treat Congressmen as his personal errand boys . " Mr. Goldwater , who has been an apparent but undeclared contender for his party 's Presidential nomination next year , made his accusation in a telegram to Mark Trice , secretary to the Senate Republican minority . Harold E. Stassen said in Philadelphia Thursday that he would seek the Republican Presidential nomination . The only other announced candidate , Governor Rockefeller of New York , disclosed plans for four forays into New Hampshire next month in his Presidential primary campaign . Senator Is Recuperating Mr. Trice had sent a telegram to each Republican Senator reminding him that the Senate would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each whether he would be present . Senator Goldwater 's reply was made public by his office here . It was sent from Phoenix , where he is recuperating from an operation to remove a calcium deposit , or spur , from his right heel . During the Month of mourning for President Kennedy there was no surcease from political contention on Capitol Hill or from political planning by party leaders . But there was a moratorium on open political warfare . Senator Goldwater 's attack on President Johnson came four days after the end of the mourning period . It was interpreted here as the opening move in an effort to regain ground that the Senator is generally acknowledged to have lost as a consequence of Mr. Johnson 's succession to the Presidency . President Johnson , although a New Deal stalwart as a freshman Representative , has generally been regarded as a moderate . As Democratic leader of the Senate , he made conciliation and compromise his guiding principles . He has never allowed differences on particular legislation , , including civil rights bills , to damage his friendships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been agreed ? that , as the Democratic standard-bearer next year , he could hold ' many disaffected Democrats in the South and rightward-leaning independents in the North who might have preferred Mr. Goldwater to President Kennedy . It was regarded as significant that Senator Goldwater chose the foreign aid bill and President . Johnson 's intervention in the battle . as the ground on which to : open his drive to recover the lead he enjoyed over other potential candidates before Mr. Kennedy 's : assassination . For it was on this issue that the House Republicans and a large group of conservative Southern Democrats struck an alliance in the last week . After four days of intricate maneuvering and acrimonious debate , the House passed the $3 billion foreign aid bill last Tuesday morning , 189 to 158 . By this action , it finally killed a provision prohibiting the Export-Import Bank from giving credit guarantees on wheat sales to the Soviet Union by private , American traders . Twice before the final vote , the House supported this ban . President Johnson insisted on ' its removal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . Only two Republicans joined 187 Democrats in killing the ban . Twenty-five Democrats lined up with 133 Republicans to support it . " I deeply resent the President 's attempt to play politics with Christmas by stampeding votes on the highly questionable foreign aid bill during the holidays , " Senator Goldwater said today . " Most Americans , I am sure , are opposed to the amount he The New York Times Senator Barry Goldwater has demanded . and even more , 1 . am sure , are opposed to the use of their tax dollars to guarantee the sale of wheat to the Soviet Union , " he said . " The arm-twisting of Senate members to bring them into town to do nothing but rubberstamp the Executive 's demand is rash and altogether out ' of order , " he went on . " The House of Representatives was subjected to a similar tactic which probably succeeded only because it came on Christmas Eve . " No Comment by Johnson Special to The New York Times AUSTIN , Tex. , Dec. 26 ? President Johnson had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldwater of Arizona . Pierre Salinger , the White House press secretary , however , said : " I guess the Senator is running again . " . Mr. Salinger said he believed President Johnson - was not aware of Senator Goldwater 's remarks .                     