@@722417

txt To THE EDITOR OF THE NNW YORK TIMES : Apropos the steel crisis , a renewal of inflation in our export sector would have forced curtailment of our commitments abroad and . continuation of high unemployment and slow growth at home . The extraordinary steel price increases of the Nineteen Fifties cost us at least $750 million in the basic deficit of our balance of payments by deteriorating our cost position in steel , machinery and other industries . It was necessary for the President to apply the powers of his office to prevent another price rise . The problem of financing the modernization of the steel industry remains . Several of the companies have complained about the profit squeeze , and have put the country on notice that they hope to increase prices when conditions permit . Four basic facts must be recognized . First , the industry is in serious trouble ; the operating rate of capacity has averaged between 60 and 67 per cent for four successive years now , a condition not seen since the depths of the depression . Even if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the steel industry will fully recover in the next several years . Second , the decline of the industry is partly due to the general slack of the economy , partly to the industry and its labor pricing themselves out of their markets . After-Tax Profits Third , considering the low operating rate and high fixed costs , the steel industry has succeeded astonishingly well in maintaining a large internal cash flow . During 1958-61 , cash flow , defined as after-tax profits plus depreciation , averaged 10.8 per cent as a margin on sales . This is only slightly lower than the 12.4 per cent for 1954-57 , when the operating rate was 85 per cent , and is higher than the rates of the very prosperous late Nineteen Forties and the Korean War years . Nor is there a declining trend since 1958 . More of the cash flow is now depreciation and less profit , but this has little significance except to produce tax savings . In earlier years , the industry would not have earned present cash flows at current operating rates . The figures suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices and by technological progress . Perhaps they also indicate that the industry is resigned permanently to low operating rates , and is seeking to maintain constant earnings even in the face of the decline in its position . Fourth , given the continuing cash flows , the companies have maintained their dividends , even though the fraction of profits paid out is now very high . General economic recovery will produce considerable additional profits , perhaps enough to finance modernization . If the industry feels more funds are needed , it can seek to obtain them by three methods : by raising prices , by external financing or by cutting dividends . Effect of Higher Prices The price-raising strategy is sure to prove disastrous , as it has through most of the postwar period . Raised prices have not produced higher profits  --  only higher wage demands and less sales . More and more steel customers have turned to foreign suppliers or found substitute materials . If the companies should attempt this strategy again , they will force the Government to tighten fiscal and credit policies . This will reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has already been employed heavily by some of the companies . For others it is still an available alternative . Reduction of dividends is an appropriate economic method . The major companies have marketed no new common stock in ten years , and made only two small issues in the last twenty years . Hence , the higher dividends have not served the function of attracting capital . The present dividend rates were established in the prosperous years 1953-57 , when they were doubled . With the proceeds applied to cost reduction and improvement of quality , prices could be reduced in the future and the slide of the industry 's position halted . Even in the short run , before a price rise has further eroded sales , a modest reduction in dividends would yield as much capital for modernization as the recent price increase would have produced . OTTO ECKSTEIN . Cambridge , Mass . May 6 , 1962 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NSW YORK TIMSS : As the mushroom clouds again loom up over the Pacific it is quite apparent that the crisis of the Unit- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a structural one which can no. longer be concealed . So long as the United Nations is only a body of sovereign states it can do no more than protest against testing . If such acts are to be outlawed in the future , it is the sover. ! eign state itself that will have to 6 . The United Nations has reached a point in its development where - it must choose between transformiftw itself into a limited world govetit7 ment or going out of business . This is the real crisis in the United Ns . Lions today . Despite the gloomy outlook at Geneva the disarmament conference has made some headway . It has adopted a preamble to a disarms. ment treaty . It is a statement of principles looking toward universal and complete disarmament , a goal on which East and West are fundamentally agreed . This in itself Is encouraging , but it is interesting to note that this end is to be achieved within the present U. N. framework . Since the United Nations has not been able to abolish atmospheric nuclear testing , how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are agreed on limiting their sovereignty to prevent outrages against humanity , disarmament will remain a lofty goal but will nevai. become a reality . They must become convinced that human survival itself depends upon limiting the operations of sovereign states . Sovereign states are not going to abolish war , for war is an expression of the essence of their sovereignty . Above and beyond the mushroom clouds that are poisoning the atmosphere there is one bright spot on the horizon . This is that the peace forces of the world are aroused as perhaps never before in history . No longer can they be tossed aside as mere Communist sympathizers . Their ranks are growing every day and they are determined to be heard . If they are aroused enough to demand that the United Nations be transformed into a genuine world government whereby nations exist under world law , perhaps some good may come from this resumption of nuclear testing . NORMAN BOARDMAN . New York , May 3 , 1962 . Welcoming Visitors to City To THE EDITOR OF T HS NEW YORK MOS : Your editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new kind of welcome " to foreign visitors prompts me to reply , as it did Ambassador Angier Biddle Duke , Chief of Protocol , Department of State . Ambassador Duke pleaded the case of our ticker tape parade , . so ably organized by Commissioner : of Public Events Richard C. Patterson , and I agree with the points he makes . I should like to point out also that New York City offers another kind of welcome to its foreign visitors , especially to those connected with the United Nations . Mayor Wagner had in mind just the friendly but " less ostentatious " welcome you advocate when he created , last January , the position in his office of New York City Commissioner to the United Nations . Acting as liaison between the city and the United Nations , our office provides a personal yet practical welcome by making the city 's services available to visitors . In the three months in which our office has existed we have extended the city 's hospitality to members of twentyfour delegations and to other foreign visitors . This has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , arranging placement of adults in English classes , ascertaining tax status and helping with many other problems . To better acquaint visitors with our city 's programs , we arrange visits to whatever is of special interest to them . This , I think , is a worthwhile , friendly " new approach " to welcoming foreigners to our city . Although official , it is on a person-to-person basis and has already evoked expressions of appreciation . ELEANOR CLARK FRENCH , New York City Commissioner to the United Nations . New York , May 1 , 1962 . White Councils ' Bad Faith To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taos : The free rides given by the White Citizens Councils are charity with malice aforethought . We hope ? that whatever blessings result from the adversities of the donees will hot be credited to the bad faith of the donors . ? MORRIS . HOROWITZ . Newtonville , Mass. , May 4 , 1962.                     