@@721063

txt AIR FORCE HOLDS MISSILE  --  GAP VIEW IS TOO OPTIMISTIC Dissents From Estimates of National Intelligence Panel on Progress in Soviet SYMINGTON IS ATTACKED G.O.P. Scores His Threat to Give Data  --  Gain Cited on Minuteman ICBM By JACK RAYMOND Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 ? A new item of controversy was added today to the " confusion " over the national intelligence estimates of Soviet missile progress . Officials confirmed that the Air Force had taken exception to the estimates prepared by the National Intelligence Board . Allen W. Dulles , Director of the Central Intelligence Agency , is chairman of the national board . The Air Force credited the Russians with a greater advantage than that conceded in the estimates that were presented to Congress . The prevailing published view is that the Soviet Union is likely to have a three-to-one lead in intercontinental ballistic weapons in a few years . A Key Point in Dispute A major point of dispute is whether the lead is being narrowed and whether the latest estimates may be interpreted in a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate Preparedness subcommittee , which has been holding hearings on defense , announced that it would recall Mr. Dulles , who had been its first witness , to clear up " confusion . " The subcommittee cited the apparently conflicting testimony that it received at a closed session yesterday from Gen. Nathan F. Twining , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . It appeared from the general 's earlier public testimony that he had not seen certain secret estimates of the relative strength of the Soviet Union and the United States in the missile race , although these had been given to Congress by Mr. Dulles . Estimates Differ Another impression of General Twining 's testimony was that he believed the missile gap was being narrowed , whereas the national intelligence estimates were said to indicate that this was not the case . Meanwhile , sonic quarters found optimism in reports that progress in developing the 5. - 500-mile Minuteman missile had beer so rapid that its Air Force planners were now programming its deployment and sched- 1 ling the numbers needed . It has been indicated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests i toward the end of this year 1 insteady of early next year . However , actual production of // the weapon is still three years off . The attraction of the Minuteman comes from its simplicity . This is attributed largely to the use of solid propellants . Its mobility is another feature . It is planned ? so that it can be fired from special railroad cars capable of moving wherever there are railroad tracks . This would make it less vulnerable to enemy destruction than the fixed-site liquidfuel missiles , the Atlas and Titan . No Date Set For Dulles The date for Mr. Dulles ' appearance before the Senate subcommittee has not been set . Meanwhile , testimony from Secretary of Defense Thomas S. Gates Jr . has been deferred . The pause in the hearings was marked today by a political exchange between the Republican National Committee 's publication , " Battle Line , " and Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , The Republican publication assailed Senator Symington for threatening to reveal the percentage rise in Soviet ballistic missiles , as forecast in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's record as Secretary of the Air Force in the Truman Administration , charging that these were the " lost years " in the development of missiles . Mr. Symington , an aspirant for the Democratic Presidential nomination , replied that " Cistorting the history of the Nineteen Forties will not close the missile gap of the Nineteen , Sixties . " The current debate over the intelligence estimates began when Secretary Gates testified before the House Defense Appropriations subcommittee that new intelligence estimates ineluded a prognostication of what the Russians probably would do not alone a statement of . what ' they could do , in producing missiles . Defense critics immediately charged that this was a dan ; emus method of estimating a potential enemy . This aspect of the debate was modified when 's Mr. Gates and other officials suggested that they now had ail great deal more information ' ) about tile Russians , and thus could detect trends . A new controversy developed rom the Administration 's conention that additional informaion indicated that the threeto-one Russian lead in ballistic missiles , which was forecast last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense critics asserted that the intern ? gence estimates presented by Mr. Dulles to Congress showed that the lead was in fact being increased . The National Intelligence Board that prepares the estimates is composed of ten Executive agencies . These are the Central Intelligence Agency , the Air Force , the Navy , the Atomic Energy Commission , the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the State Department and the National Security Administration . Drawing material from their own resources , representatives of these agencies meet at the C. I. A. to prepare a consensus , or " agreed , " set of estimates for use by the President , Congress and other Government units . Dissent is permitted . The transcript of the hearings of the House Defense Appropria- , tiong subcommittee , released last week , disclosed that the ' Air Force had dissented . In view of that , an official source was able to call attention to the dissent today .                     