@@727177

txt The House of Lords , so packed that scores of peers had to stand or sit on the floor , today narrowly rejected a Government order for tighter sanctions against Rhodesia . The vote was 193 to 184 on the measure , which would implement a United Nations Security Council decision of May 29 to impose a trade and travel blockade against Rhodesia 's white minority regime . The Government order was approved yesterday by the House of Commons , 319 to 246 . The peers acted in the face of a threat by the Government to deprive the House of Lords of its remaining powers if it voted against the order . Lord Carrington , the Conservative leader , said in summing up before the vote that the Lords ' veto did not mean that the Government could not continue its cooperation with the United Nations in imposing the stricter sanctions against Rhodesia . lie said the Government order would remain in force until July 8 , when the Lords ' veto becomes effective after the , ttatutory 28-day period from die issuance of the order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it for approval . Lord Carrington said that if the Government did in fact Camera Prese-Plx Carrington renew its order he would not again advise the Conservatives to vote against it . Thus the struggle between the Lords and the Labor Government would he cut short . The Lords , having made their gesture , would in effect acquiesce . His remark was interpreted by Parliamentary observers as a move to preserve the interparty negotiations for an agreed reform of the House of Lords . Sonic Laborites are demanding that these talks be broken off and the Lords either abolished or reduced to impotence by Labor legislation . The result of today 's vote was announced in absolute silence as Lord Gardiner , the Lord Chancellor , bewigged and grave , rose from the woolsack , the traditional seat of the Speaker in front of the throne . All indications were that in spite of the great crowd present many abstained from voting for fear of precipitating a constitutional . crisis . It would have been difficult to get one more person into the public , diplomatic  --  and press galleries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sit on long red-leather benches , four rows on each side of the chamber facing one another . As Lord Gardiner spoke , a buzz went round among the peers , delighted by their victory . but bewildered by .. its narrow nine-vote margin : The conservative peers for the last two days had been voicing defiance of the Labor Government , and the close vote suggested that many ConserVafives and independents had heeded ' the Government 's plea not to interfere with foreign policy . Jenkins Made Threat The Lords ' vote , however narrow the margin , made the point that Lord Carrington had urged them to make . It was " that the House of Lords is not Mr. Jenkins ' poodle " and that threats to abolish the house and its hereditary system would not move them . Roy Jenkins , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , had voiced the threat of depriving the Lords of power . " What sort of people would we be , " Lord Carrington declared , " what sort of person would I be , if I trimmed my sails over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance . " Lord Carrington , like Lord Jellicoe yesterday , indicated that the Conservatives feared Britain was losing control in central Africa ? y abdicating her role in Rhodpsia to the United Nations . The ; Conservatives fear that the United Nations may ? draw Britaininto an economib struggle with South Africa ; which has continued her trade with Rhodesia in defiance of the United ' Natiqns'Since South Africa is ? on of ; Britain 's most imPortizetrade ' Partners , and particularly a:source of foreign exchange , ' Britain can not afford such an expansion of the ' conflict . Laborite Lords were critical of their . Conservative colleagues . Lord Shepherd said the vote would be interpreted as encouragement to the Rhodesian white-minority regime , which Britain considers illegal . The Rhodesian Government declared its independence from Britain in 1965 in the face of British demands for preparation for eventual rule by Rhodesia 's black majority . Lord Snow Decries Vote Another Laborite , Lord Snow , who is C. P. Snow , the author , declared that the Conservatives had apparently " learned nothing and forgotten everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of preserving their house by acting in a fashion that " would have been slightly old-fashioned 100 years agO . " Lord Alport , whom Prime Minister Wilson sent on a mission to Rhodesia a year ago , declared that , though a Conservative , he supported the Government 's sanctions policy against Rhodesia . Conservatives who are still for negotiations with Prime Minister Ian D. Smith of Rhodesia are deluding themselves , he said , adding that his own experience showed that Mr. Smith had " no power to negotiate an agreement which would be acceptable politically to the present Government of Britain . " Lord Byers , a Liberal peer , taid : " It is intolerable that the British Government should be expected in the execution of its foreign policy to bow to the wishes of the Conservative right wing of the House of Lords . No Government can be expected to tolerate such treatment from a nonelected house , "                     