@@725115

txt WASHINGTON , ; Nov. ** limited scope of last Tuesday 's voting did not deter political observers and , professional politicians from drawing conclusions from the returns that only a general national election can substantiate . This is because one of the expressions of popular choice occurred in New York City , the largest urban community in the United States , and was a rejection of the party organization whose candidate for Mayor has been elected by huge majorities for 20 years . Some of the interpretations are supported by demonstrable facts . Rep. John V. Lindsay was elected as a nonpartisan , for which he qualified by casting off identification as a Republican in the immediate context and by seeking and receiving the nomination of the Liberal party , a far-left democratic affiliate , and the endorsement of a like-minded group , the Americans for Democratic Action , The voters of New Jersey overwhelmingly re-elected the Democratic incumbent , Governor Hughes , over a regular Republican who subordinated the state problems which concerned them to an issue of whether the people or the administrators of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who said , out of classroom , he hoped the Viet Cong would prevail over United States armed forces in Vietnam . ' Also , the Democratic organization in Virginia , at a price , repelled the most determined challenge to Its control of the state offices that Republicans have made since Reconstruction . The price paid was a relaxation of the organization 's hitherto rigid opposition to Federal equal rights legislation and the political positions of organized labor . Other demonstrable facts are that Republicans won by two millions the statewide election to the Court of Appeals in New York ; recaptured power in three large suburban New York counties ; gained legislative seats in New York and Kentucky ; lost their long-held majorities in the two branches of the New Jersey Legislature ; won a Philadelphia city election by nominating a registered Democrat ; and ran third , to two Democrats in the mayoralty contest In Cleveland . Nevertheless , many oracles and professional politicians have read these large and durable meanings in this confused pattern : That Lindsay 's victory marked a national resurgence of the Republican party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal Democratic political philosophy of President Johnson 's Great Society . That independent groups in the cities , whose purpose is or is successfully represented to be the punishment of candidates who have defected from either of the major parties , can not make the essential contribution to the outcome the Liberal party has made , for instance , in several New York City and state elections . And that the outcome in New York and Philadelphia reflects a general urban uprising against the bosses of political machines . Future Behavior Some or all of these hopeful hypotheses may prove to be constants in the future behavior of American voters . Certainly one of them is fortified for Republicans by Lindsay 's plurality in a community which registers a 7-to-2 preference for the Democratic party . This hypothesis is that when urban Republicans are confronted by the problem of whether to endorse a candidate who wears or sheds the party label according to the occasion is certified by a liberal by the groups which claim official title to the name , and is endowed with the personal attributes that attract a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory is to get on his band wagon , even if they must take its dust  --  as in New York . But the combination is not likely to be found just anywhere . " Nor can all city Democratic organizations be relied on to nominate a rival candidate whose personality , as in New York , suffers by contrast , and who carries the additional burden of having been the choice of political bosses who are vulnerable to steady arraignment in the press . Therefore , while the formula embodied by Lindsay commends itself by success to the Republicans in other cities , its application is limited by the difficulty of matching it . And what passes for political liberalism is not always the winning position in large centers of the population , as witness the elections to the school board in - Boston : of the candidates who opposed the artificial racial integration of- ; . reds : ' tributing pupils to break residential patterns . But even in New York City the winning combination embodied hy ' Lindsay stopped short of electing his running mates . The Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council and Controller , and an effective majority in the Council . On the Board of Estimate , which fixes the fiscal policies-of the ' city , the Mayor-elect can ' eontrol.e only six votes of the total of 22 . And . of the five borough presidentselected with him , four are Dentocratie - regulars and the fifth a Conservative Republican who is aligned with William F. Buckley . Thus the voters -- of the metropolis opted for the experiment of a bipartisan government . Still heavily weighted on the Demo- - erotic side , in sharp contrast with the elections in which the last maverick - candidate , Fiorello LaGuardia , car- , , tied his entire Fusion slate into citywide office with him . This and other aspects of the scattered election pattern of last Tuesday have made highly questionable : some of the readings of its hearing on the future of American politics , immediate and prospective . But ? has shown , to the considerable degree that the largest urban voting mass-. : in the nation can show it , that the , minority party lacks the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they were morally bound by party law to sup-z port it by fully participating in they , lawful convention process by which it was chosen . In the Nation The Mixed Election Bag                     