@@726280

txt Thirty leading international biologists are urging their fellow professionals around the world to " offer their services in explaining the reality of population problems . " Meeting recently in Paris , the 30 spoke gravely of the relation of population to food shortages . They said many biological discoveries to help relieve starvation , while promising , would simply not have wide effect in time to roll back the serious threat of malnutrition in large areas of the world . ? The prominent biologists were in Paris to help complete plans for a five-year-long international biological program . Like such preceding international scientific programs as the International Geophysical Year , IBP is intended to further cooperative efforts . In some ways it is the most ambitious . It has been three years in preparation . Its five-year span of action begins in June . Nutrition is a central subject for research . It will encompass land , fresh-water , and marine biology and explore nature from the tropical rain forest to Arctic tundra . Some 40 nations are participating . Trends ... " Peace research , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific and widespread . A UNESCO study shows there are now some 80 institutes for peace research in the world-30 of them founded since 1960 . Despite the connotation of impractical idealism it raises in many minds , such peace scholarship is becoming more concrete and pragmatic . The UNESCO study shows a concentration in two fields : The negative one of controlling violence , racial conflict , civil war , and arms races and the positive one of promoting cooperation in many fields among human groups . Emphasizing new realism on this subject , the report cautions : " Even the best peace research may never in fact bring the world nearer to peace . . . . Even the best insight may be rejected , ignored , or misapplied by the decisionmakers. " ea Rich-richer , poor-poorer has become a stock description of the contrast between the world 's industrial and underdeveloped lands . But the exact measurements , when they come , are still sobering . The UN Statistical Office recently released figures showing that the poorer nations ' share of world exports during the past decade fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Industrial countries  --  both West and East ? increased their share of world export sales from 66.2 to 69.4 percent during the decade . Within the , relatively richer world , there were spurts and slowdowns . Common Market nations increased their export share from 20 to 26 percent . The rival West European Free Trade Area lost slightly  --  from 14.7 to 13.7 percent . Communist-group nations made a gain from 9.8 to 11.5 percent . Biggest single exporter of all , the United States , saw a drop from 18.3 to 14.7 percent . But , its exports turned upward in 1966 with a one-year increase of 10.9 percent over 1965 . How and why ... African diplomats are concerned that the impending departure of Wayne Fredericks from the State Department is a symbol of a gradually more conservative Washington approach to African problems . Mr. Fredericks , Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs , is reportedly leaving in June . He has long been considered by both African leaders and American specialists on Africa as one of official Washington 's best links to new nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States has taken a moderately pro-African line here on such issues as Rhodesia and South-West Africa largely at the urging of UN Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg . But these stands have been largely verbal , or ones tailored to aid an ally , Britain . Now Africans feel that the momentum in Washington is slackening , practical steps are being put off , and the State Department is lowering its African priorities . They fear it does so because of " safe " military regimes and the inability of Africans themselves to do anything about Rhodesia and South-West Africa . Ambassador Goldberg warns the American people of a potential " revival of McCarthyism . " Departing from his usual practice of not getting involved in the United States political scene , Mr. Goldberg twice recently has warned against- " equating dissent with disloyalty . " He took the occasion of a speech to midshipmen at Annapolis for one such discussion of dissent . The following day he ' answered a televised question about Dean Rusk 's linking of peace marchers to communism . He first exonerated Mr. Rusk but then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  