@@725630

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Appointive System for Judges To the Editor : The victory of Justice Samuel Silverman in the New York County Democratic primary of June 28 was the preferable ; if lucky , result , but for the wrong reasons  --  primarily partisan political sponsorship . There was quite inadequate emphasis on the relative professional and personal merits of the two real candidates for a fourteen-year judicial term , which should have been the sole standard of choice . The appeals which were most widely publicized were : alignment with " Reform " vs . " Regular " Democratic sponsorship ; and charges ( equally vigorously denied ) of an alleged " backroom deal " for division of Surrogate Court " patronage " and of abuses in the appointment and fee allowances of guardians for minors in estate proceedings in that court . The smear from Justice Klein 's camp that the Silverman candidacy was tarred with racial discrimination directed at Democratic County Chairman A. Raymond Jones , a Negro , rightly fell flat . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand 1piew whether there had , in fact , been a political deal ; if so , what this implied and whether it was discreditable ; nor did any but a privileged few understand the patronage abuse issue so widely trumpeted or how it could be resolved . One may surely be highly skeptical of how many of the 128,000 Democrats voting in New York County  --  even practicing lawyers  --  had knowledge sufficient to form a sound judgment of which candidate was inherently the better qualified to be a surrogate . In spite of wide publicity , only 27 per cent of the registered Democrats took the trouble to vote . Struggle for Power Why , then , did Silverman get seventy votes for every fortyseven cast for Klein ? One can conclude that the result was due far more to a combination of sympathetic allegiance to the Reform group and the charisma of the Kennedy-Roosevelt names than to the other factors sketched above . This was overwhelmingly a struggle for political power between Regular and Reform Democrats , where political sponsorship should have no standing . The post-election news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the real loser . A judgeship , however , is not properly a political office . Judi. cial selection by popular vote is an area in which this democratic process is an illusion , in participating numbers and in voter understanding . Such a contest bows to the wrong labels , the wrong seats of power ; it is hit-or-miss , degrading the judiciary and the responsibility for party designation is diffused , temporary . Scrap the whole party nomination and election process , put the power and responsibility to appoint judges where it can be more intelligently exercised , viz. : in the state governor or in the mayor of a large city in which alone the judge will serve . The probability of a better choice for the right reasons  --  proved where the appointive system operates  --  is much stronger . ERNEST ANGELL New York , July 6 , : 1966 His programs to cut expenditures and make facilities pay for themselves have met with nothing but criticism from political foes and the citizenry in general . Exemplifying this is the recent subway-bus fare hike . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were paying one of the cheapest fares in the nation and that even now , at 20 cents , transportation ' is one of the best bargains for the money . New Yorkers paying the least for the most do n't realize how many others are paying much more for much less . Since Mayor Lindsay has decided to deal with New York 's problems realistically , the very least the citizens can do is to support him in his actions . WAYNE L. TAYLOR Jamaica , L. I. , July 7 , 1966 ? Victory Through Conquest Rejected To the Editor : Mrs. Van H. Cartmell , in her letter published July 7 , seeks greater escalation of the war in Vietnam . The United States is in Vietnam and will remain there for the foreseeable future ; no realist , hawk or dove , contests this fact . College professors hold opinions which are as varied as the opinions held by any segment of American society . Although am in sympathy with America 's involvement in Vietnam , ? I reject outright the military logic of victory through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . We seek a settlement with , not obliteration of , the opposing force . Military conquest and la patrie are timeworn solutions to political problems which have proved totally inadequate and ultimately nihilistic . The stoppage of the war is the beginning of sanity . President Johnson is trying to impress this upon the minds of the North Vietnamese and Chinese leaders . It seems that this lesson must also be taught to certain segments of our own society . GERALD H. EVANS Associate Prof. of Economics Monroe Community College Rochester , N. Y. , July 7 , 1966 ? Prospects for Mendez Regime To the Editor : We have noted your July 1 editorial " Two New Presidents " particularly as it concerns the prospects of the hew Mendez Government in Guatemala . Your prediction about the future of this regime , which stated that Mendez was starting " with lots of good wishes but not so much hope that he will survive his four-year term , " was an unfortunate and ambiguous turn of phrase . In Guatemala it has been interpreted as a prophecy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affront to Guatemala at a moment when congratulations and encouragement would be more appropriate . Pessimism on the part of a leading North American newspaper can only assist the enemies of constitutional government in Guatemala . Guatemalan elements which represent a potential threat to the fledgling regime have seen fit to give it at least a chance . The prestigious New York Times , which receives the attention of the foreign as well as the domestic public , might do the same . DANIEL JAFFE ROBERT L. SOLOMON STPHEN B. STRAUSS ROBERT A. TAFT II Guatemala City , July.4 , 1966 ? Governor Queried on Textbook Aid Law To the Editor : Sidney Schanberg 's June 28 news article reports from Albany on developments involving this year 's expanding amendments to last year 's textbook aid law . Both before and after the amendment the law provided for financial aid to private , sectarian schools in the form of textbook i allowances . The article notes that Attorney General Lefkowitz warned that the law raised serious constitutional questions , in the light of Article XI , Section 4 , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " directly or indirectly " to aid sectarian schools . Editorial of July 12.1 Mr. Schanberg , then reports that , according to Governor Rockefeller 's aides , the Governor felt he need not concern himself about constitutional questions because " the question of church and state was decided when the Legislature passed the original bill . " If the attribution to the Governor is accurate , it reflects a deplorable misunderstanding of the significance of constitutional limitations . The very meaning of a constitution is to provide limits to the power of the Legislature . There are some things that the Legislature may not do , because the Constitution expressly forbids ft . There are , ' sometimes , disagreements as to ' the extent of the constitutional limitation on legislative power ; and then the courts must in- r , terpret the Constitution and rule on the specific statute . Arid , of course , there are pro- I cedures for amending or completely revising. the Constitution . But it is elementary that one of the purposes of a constitution is to protect certain funda mental principles , against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goyernor justify a law abolishing free speech , Or permitting racial discrimination , simply because the Legislature enacted it ? To assert , therefore , that the constitutional question is settled because the Legislature has acted , is to misconceive the power of the Legislature , the meaning of the Constitution and , uniortunately , the proper responsibility of the Chief Executive as the leader of public opinion and the defender of the Constitution. ? - MARVIN M. KARPATKIN New York , July 10 , 1966 ? Male Attire To the Editor : Surely the ridiculous has been achieved by male office workers , during this hot season . We work in our shirt sleeves in air-conditioned space , but before going : . out in the broiling streets and into the boiling subways , we put on our coats , Common sense surely would dictate just the opposite course . Women ' are much the more ! reasonable creatures . If they have nothing more to take off when they ' reach the air-condi= tioned working space , they at least do n't put on more clothing to go out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonsense is frightening . If we fall for this farm during scorcher after scorcher , what other weird practice of conformity are we compelling ourselves to follow ? in personal , business and public life ? Hereafter on hot days I 'm going to carry my coat from place to place , but not wear it . And I 'm going to examine my other practices and lines of thought . DONALD B. WOODWARD New York , July 11 , 1966 ? Bias in Reverse To the Editor : I find it difficult , in philos- ' 1 ophizing about civil rights , to understand why if the Negro-. or any other group  --  has the ' right to rent or buy property'l where he chooses , I , let us say ; ; do not have an equal right to ' rent or:sell to whom I choose . In other words , how can civil rights be established for one group without denying them to another ? I am 100 per cent for estalllishing the Negro 's rights , but do n't understand the rationale for achieving this objective . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no , ? Mayor Backed on Fare To the Editor : The residents of New York City never fail to amaze . In November they elected a man who honestly believed he could help solve the many problems the city is beset with . In approaching these problems higher taxes were all but inevitable .                     