@@725885

txt Nearly 1.300 priests in the Chicago Roman Catholic archdiocese completed the basic structure yesterday of an organization designed to give them a unified voice in archdiocesan affairs . The organization , called the Association of Chicago Priests , met in McCormick Place . Leaders of the group have asserted that the association " is in keeping with the spirit and the decrees of the Second Vatican council . " Cody in Agreement Archbishop John P. Cody , head of the archdiocese , agreed with the leaders in his address at the afternoon session . " The council has expressed the for a closer unity , such as witnessed here today , " the prelate said . He spoke of the meeting as an " historic gathering " and praised the zeal of the priests who compiled reports and formulated the constitution for the association which was adopted . Speaking of one of the organization 's aims , cooperation with the archdiocesan head in his pastoral role , Archbishop Cody said " a bishop is not apart from his priests ? but one among them . . primus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communication One of the first steps the group took was to adopt resolutions envisioning more exten- ' sive use in the archdiocese of modern job placement practices . Other resolutions dealt with provisions for the retirement of priests . They also adopted resolutions on communications a mong priests residing in the same rectory and on the post-ordination education of clergymen . The Rev. John J. Hill , chairman of the Coordinating Committee of the Clergy , said the measures were in keeping with the new organization 's aim to depict and deal with priests as persons . Father Hill is an assistant at Presentation Catholic church , 758 S. Springfield ay . At a press conference after the morning session spokesmen for the priests stated repeatedly that the association is not a union . They quoted the Rev. Barnabas Mary Ahern of St. Aleinrad , Ind. , noted theologian and , keynote speaker at the meeting , as saying the organization is unlike a union because " it is not independent , not autonomous . and certainly not hostile " to the members ' superiors such as Archbishop Cody . Asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national union of priests being created in California , the Rev. Francis J. Koziol , professor and assistant procurator of Quigley Preparatory Seminary North , said the Chicago group has had no cornmuniet.tion with the union . A link would be possible , he added , only if the union 's aims and structure were compatible with the Chicago association 's . No Challenge to Cody He and other spokesmen said that nothing the association may do will challenge the right of Archbishop Cody to have the final word in archdiocesan affairs . One of the resolutions on the retirement of priests asks that Archbishop Cody adopt a policy providing that " priests are expected to retire from administrative duty at the age of 70 , but may do so at the age of 65 " Older priests joined with younger priests to approve the measure unanimously The placement resolutions urged the archbishop to establish a personnel board . Six of its nine members , the legislation said , should be chosen from a panel of 12 priests nominated by the association . The legislation also outlined means of letting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being assigned to a new post . Board To Be Elected Father Hill said at an afternoon press conference that a coordinating board to lead the association will be elected next spring . Until then , he and the other members of the Coordinating Committee of the Clergy will continue as the organization 's administrative officers . Priests interested in what the Chicago archdiocesan clergy were doing came from Detroit , St. Louis . New York City , and other dioceses to attend the meeting . The Chicago archdiocese has 1,437 priests serving directly under Archbishop Cody and ' 1,582 priests who belong to re ' ligious orders . It was estimated that about 1,000 of the clergy , men at the meeting were diocesan priests , and the rest , were religious order priests . The movement to establish the association began in April i when nine priests invited others to attend a discussion meeting . About 400 did so . The C. C. C .. was elected at meetings June 20 and 21 , which Archbishop Cody attended . Since then , a five-member steering committee of the C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     