@@728169

txt A coalition of 13 unions representing 147,000 General Electric workers began a nationwide strike at 12:01 A.M. today against the country 's fourth largest industrial corporation . The confrontation between G.E . and some of the nation 's most powerful unions could be a long and bitter one , with critical implications for next year 's bargaining in the trucking and auto industries and for the Nixon Administration 's anti-inflation campaign . Paul Jennings , president of the ? International Union of Electrical Workers , representing the largest unit ( 88,500 ) of G.E . employes , said at a news conference that his union 's conference board had voted unanimously yesterday to begin the strike today . Earlier Albert J. Fitzgerald , president of the independent United Electrical Workers , representing 16,000 of the company 's employes , and James J. Matles , union secretary-treasurer , also called a strike for today . Mr. Jennings said that the 11 other unions in the coalition , including the nation 's largest independents  --  the United Automobile Workers and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters  --  were also supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions whose contracts did not expire today ? as did those of the International Union of Electrical Workers and the United Electrical Workers  --  had been authorized to strike over unresolved grievances , a spokesman said . Efforts of a mediation team , headed by Walter A. Maggiolo , director of mediation for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , to resolve the dispute over the weekend failed as each side held firmly to its position . A last-minute offer of both electrical unions to submit outstanding differences to arbitration was rejected by General Electric . It was not immediately clear whether a strike at General Electric . would affect defense production that the Administration would consider vital . About 20 per cent of the company 's output , in terms of sales dollars , consists of products and services for defense and aerospace programs . These include missile and space systems , jet engines , radar , - sonar and other equipment . Neither the company nor the unions according to spokesmen for both , want or expect White House interference in the dispute , such- as occurred three years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington for a concentrated period of bargaining under pressure from top Pentagon officials to settle the dispute . Although President Nixon appealed to labor and business leaders on Oct. 18 to help him curb inflation , the union leaders gave no indication yesterday of any inclination to , reduce further their demands ' in the face of General Electric 's stand . The President 's appeal , urging a " sense of responsibility " in price and wage decisions , , was contained in a letter mailed to 2,200 " major business and labor leaders . " But Mr. Jennings said yesterday that he had not received the letter . Prices have been rising at a Irate of more than 5 per cent a ' year , wiping out in the marketplace the effectiveness of wage gains of millions of workers in the last two or three years . The coalition unions have emphasized this point in their bargaining and their demands are not only for new wage increases but also compensating adjustments for future cost of living rises . The Administration foresees , potential strikes ahead , but Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration generally wanted to a ' ? oid interference in free collective bargaining . The General Electric strike appears likely to test that philosophy . Mr. Jennings saId that the strike would be the first nationwide walkout by General Electric employes since 1946 , and he predicted that 93 to 94 per cent of the company 's production and maintenance workers would join in the strike . Of the company 's 310,000 employes , slightly under half are union organized . A General Electric spokesman said that its plants and facilities would be kept open for those who. wanted to work . Accusation of Union The I.U.E. leadereaccused the ' company of an , " arrogant refusal " to alter an offer of increases of 20 cents an hour across the board , as well as increases ranging up to 25 cents for highly skilled ' workers , that it first made on Oct. 7 . I " We 're going to do . what has to be done on the picket linP , " he said . " Evidently that 's the only thing they the company recognize . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages , benefits and working conditions , however . The coalition , with the full - backing of the . American Federation of , Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and ' the independents , is challenging also General Electric 's long-established policy of assessing union demands and then making what lit ' describes as a " whole " or " complete " - offer with nothing I held back for subsequent concessions in later bargaining sessions . This technique is known in the labor relations field as " Boulwarism , " a term attached to the policy because of the man who devised it , Lemuel R. Boulware , a former General Electric - vice president now retired . Mr. Jennings and Irving Abramson , a lawyer for the International Union of Electrical ' Workers , contend that the company has used this technique once again in this year 's unsuccessful negotiations . Mr. Abramson said that this procedure constituted an- unfair labor practice and that he would file charges today , at the offices of the second region here of the National Labor Relations Board . General Electric , for its part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor practice and asserts that the offer it made early this month , and has refused to improve upon , was " the best " it has ever made . Details of G.E . Offer The proposal , rejected by the coalition unions , would have given the 20 cent increase in the first year of a suggested three-year pact , with 5 to 25 cents additional for the high skill workers . The average hourly wage now is $3.25 , according to I.U.E. officials . The General Electric offer did not provide for any further wage increase in the second and third years of the proposed contract , but included a reopening clause that would allow the company and the unions to negotiate on wages in each of those years . The union would retain the right to strike if agreement on a - wage increase , was not achieved . The offer also inI eluded improvements in pensions , vacations , insurance , a new sick pay plan and other benefits . The electrical unions countered with ? a proposal for a 35-cent-an-hour increase the first year , 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the start of the third year . But the unions proposed a 30-month rather than a 36-month contract . The unions also insisted on a provision for adjustments for cost-of-living increases and for an additional 50 cents an hour for the high skilled workers . A long strike against the huge corporation that makes products ranging from kitchen appliances to jet engines and sophisticated defense and aerospace systems might have widespread repercussions . But its direct effect in the New York metropolitan area would be small since the company 's plants are situated throughout the nation in 130 cities . Some of its largest and most important facilities are in Schenectady , N.Y. ; Syracuse ; Lynn , Mass. ; Bridgeport , Conn. ; Philadelphia ; Pittsfield , Mass. ; Louisville , Ky. ; Evensdale , Ohio ; Cleveland , and Fort Wayne , Ind . The United Steelworkers of America , a member of the coalition , was already on strike yesterday at the company 's plant in Coshocton , Ohio , because of an unresolved grievance , which it said the company had refused to send to arbitration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a spokesman said . The 12 unions cooperating in the negotiations as the Coordinated Bargaining Committee are : I.U.E. , the International Association of Machinists , , the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , the American Federation of Technical Engineers , . the United Steelworkers of America , the International Brotherhood of Carpenters , the United Association of Plumbers , Allied Industrial Workers , Sheetmetal Workers , , and American Flint Glass Worke , rs , all A.F.L.-C.I.O. , ' and also the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the United Automobile Workers , independents . U.E. , another independent , is also cooperating closely with the others . Pickets appeared . outside General Electric plants across the nation after the strike deadline passed , and , in ? some cases , before . The first pickets were reported upstate in Hudson Falls , near Glens Falls , where lines formed at 9:30 P.M. last- night because of a shift change at 10 P.M. In Schenectady , at the oldest and largest plant in the G. E. system , police handling traffic arrested . four pickets , including the local 's business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The four , taken away in paddy wagons , were charged with disorderly conduct for blocking a public road the police said . Paul O'Dwyer , seeking the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate , joined 75 pickets there . There are nearly 13,000 employes at the Schenectady plant affected by the , strike .                     