@@723688

txt Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota placed first in a national poll of Democratic county chairmen on the party 's best choice for the Vice-Presidential nomination this year . Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy was a close second in the poll , taken by The Associated Press . Mr. Humphrey received 185 votes and Mr. Kennedy 166 . Mrs. John F. Kennedy and Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts , youngest brother of President Kennedy , also received some votes in the poll , indicating the Democratic leaders ' belief in the political power of the Kennedy name . Associated Press correspondents received replies , by telephone or mail , from 1,429 of those polled . Of those who answered , 710 named their pref'erences and 719 said , , " Too early to say , : ' " Have n't thought about it , " and so forth . Others said the choice of a running mate should be left to President Johnson , assuming he was the Presidential nominee Associated Press correspondents polled the county chairmen and other Democratic leaders in the last three weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the top 10 were : Senator Humphrey ? 185 votes . Attorney General Kennedy166 . Adlai E. Stevenson , delegate to the United Nations-75 . Mayor Wagner of New York ? 47 . Sargent Shriver , head of the Peace Corps , a brother-in-law of President Kennedy-43 . Gov . Edmund G. Brown of California-37 . Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota-28 . Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut-24 . Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , Assistant Secretary of Commerce ? 21 . Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri-14 . Among the others mentioned ) were Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Senator Frank J. Lausche of Ohio , Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Assistant Secretary of State W. Averell Harriman . Commenting on the poll , Mr. Humphrey said , " It is , of course , an honor to be associated with President Johnson . and it would be a singular honor to be with him on the Democratic ticket . " Up to the Convention He said he was " honored and flattered " by the poll results . " The decision , for Vice President , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am confident willl respect the wishes in this matter of President Johnson , " he said . The bulk of Mr. Humphrey 's votes came from the Middle West , but he had some support in virtually all parts of the nation . In naming him , the leaders most frequently said that a Northern liberal would be needed to balance the Democratic ticket next November . Much the same thinking was expressed by those who said they thought the Attorney General would make the strongest runningmate for Mr. Johnson . " I feel in my own mind that they will nominate Bob Kennedy , " said Fred G. Klunk of Adams County , Pa . " He has done a tremendous job as Attorney General . Geographically , it would be a tremendous asset to the party to have Johnson from the South and a-runningmate from the Eastern part of the country . " In Massachusetts , Edward P. Grace of Fall River said he favored Mr. Stevenson but he called Mr. Humphrey " a formidable candidate . " Support for Kennedys A. Massachusetts backer of the Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they usually go after things they want ? they are pleasing to the public ? they have charm , grace , brains . I think it Mr. Kennedy 's nomination would help President Johnson a lot . " Mrs. Kennedy was mentioned for the nomination by chairmen in Rhode Island , Kansas and Kentucky . In Kentucky , Mayor R. D. Graham of Bowling Green said , " There is some talk that the G. 0 . P. is planning to nominate Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith Senator from Maine as their Vice-Presidential candidate . If they do , then I think the Democrats should nominate Mrs. John F. Kennedy . " Although he has been in the Senate only a little more than a year , Senator Kennedy has been advocated for the nomination by some chairmen in Montana , Oregon , Kansas , New Hampshire , Missouri and Alabama . Texans Urge Shriver In Texas , President Johnson 's home state , Mr. Shriver and Mr. Humphrey received three votes each , and there were two each for the Attorney General , Mr. Wagner and Mr. Ribicoff . Mr. Symington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination . In the poll of leaders in Missouri , the Senator led all others . When advised of the results , he said , " I certainly appreciate that honor . But I am entirely disinterested . " In New Jersey , the poll showed Gov . Richard J. Hughes as the favorite . Mr. Hughes is a Roman Catholic . Those favoring him were asked whether they thought the religious issue might be raised if he , or someone else of the same faith , were nominated by the Democrats . They replied that President Kennedy 's election in 1960 had buried the issue .                     