@@723971

txt Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy can count on Liberal party support and is also likely to have Mayor Wagner 's backing if he runs for the Senate from New York State this year . This became known as many high-ranking , Democrats reacted favorably to the report that Mr. Kennedy was considering a race against Senator Kenneth B. Keating , the Republican incumbent . The Liberal party often represents the balance of power in New York elections . In 1960 , the 406,116 votes cast on the Liberal party line enabled the Kennedy-Johnson ticket take the state 's 45 electoral votes . Mayor Wagner and William H. , the Democratic state chairman , were among prominent Democrats welcom4ng consideration Of a Senate race by the Attorney General . Praise From the Mayor The . Mayor described Mr. Ken , nedy as a good friend and an outstanding public official who , ' should be given serious consideration if he 's really interested . " Mr. said there was " no question that he would be a great candidate ? and , I am convinced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senatorial nomination . " " Our own sources indicate , " the chairman said , " that he has substantial strength in every part of the State of New York . " Rumblings of dissent , where heard , were based not on any lack of qualification on Mr. Kennedy 's part but rather on the fact that he is a resident of Massachusetts , not New York . This is not a legal bar to his candidacy . The Federal Constitution specifies only that a Senator shall be living in the state from which he is elected at the time of his election . Early Choice Opposed The Liberal party has opposed an early designation of a Senate candidate before the state nominating convention in September . The opposition is based on the fact that an early choice would shut off a number of qualified and well-known candidates who , for various reasons , can not declare for the race so early in the year . Both Mr. Kennedy and Adlai E. Stevenson , United States representative at the United NaItions , fall into this category . Both rank high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitment on a Senate race could hamper selection of a national ticket . Others in this category are W. Averell Harriman , Under Secretary of State , and Ralph J. Bunche , Under Secretary General of the United Nations . Like Mr. Stevenson , both hold highly sensitive posts and , if forced to declare early , might choose instead to ask that their names be withdrawn from consideration for the Senate . Liberal party leaders will meet next week with Mayor Wagner on the 1964 campaign generally and the Senate race in particular . At that time , the Liberals will press two basic points : the Democrats must bear the responsibility for tak- // ing the lead in the choice of a candidate but , if the Democratic.Liberal alliance is to be continued , the Senate candidate must be acceptable to the Liberals . " We do n't want to call the shots for the Democratic party , " said Alex Rose , state vice chairman of the . Liberal party . " All we want is. a highly qualified candidate , well versed in national and world affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . , The Liberal party 's warm approval of Mr. Kennedy as a possible candidate thus makes it clear that it would back him as readily as Mr. Stevenson , Mr. Harriman or Mr Bunche , whose names it had put forward earher . Both Mr. Rose and- David Dubinsky , Liberal vice chairman , have long been close to Mr. Kennedy , President Johnson and Mayor Wagner . The party declaration thus has wide significance . It is known that Mr. Rose saw Mr. Kennedy two weeks ago in Washington and that both he and Mr. Dubinsky have been frequent White House visitors . As a Senate candidate in New York , Mr. Kennedy could conceivably be more helpful to the national ticket than as a Vice-Presidential . running mate . His strong civil rights position might alienate Southern voters but conversely attract wide support here . President Johnson , of course , wants to reduce Republican seats in the Senate . Mayor Wagner said again yesterday it was " nonsense " to suggest that he seeks to block Representative Samuel S. Stratton 's bid for the Senate nomination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner 's friends hope that Mr. Wagner will run for Governor in 1966 and that they do not want any possible rival built up who might seek the post himself . They would have no fear from Mr. Kennedy on this score . The State Constitution sets up a five-year residence requirement for candidates for Governor . Thus Mr. Kennedy , even if elected to the Senate , * would not be eligible for a gubernatorial race until 1970 . Rejected Race for Governor It is known also that Mr. Kennedy , stricken by his brother 's assassination last fall and weighing his own political future , was once urged to establish a residence here with a view to a possible race for- Governor in 1966 . The idea was dropped when the residence requirement was pointed out . The Kennedy family lived for some years in Westchester and long maintained two Park Avenue apartments . The Attorney General still has an apartment here though his voting residence is in Massachusetts . - Richard A. Brown , executive director of the Committee for Democratic Voters , expressed unhappiness about the possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I have the highest regard for Robert F. Kennedy , " he said , " but it is a sad commentary on the strength of the party that a state of 15 million people has to go outside its boundaries for a candidate . This is what the Buckley-De Sapio leadership has brought us to . " At Syracuse , George Van Lengen , Onondaga County chairman , who is a Stratton backer , said he was opposed to backing anyone " who is not a bona-fide state resident . "                     