@@728046

txt Vice President Agnew is reported to have told the nation 's Governors in a closed session today that the Nixon Administration will announce on Friday a severe cutback in federally funded projects in all the states.1 Although the Governors were sworn to secrecy , reports spread through the National Governors Conference that there would be an immediate halt to projects that are 100 per cent federally funded and a cutback April 1 in projects 75 per cent financed with Federal money . Such programs as highways and new post offices were said to be among those affected . Reports Confirmed Gov . John N. Dempsey of Connecticut , a Democrat , confirmed the reports in a late night news conference . He said the Vice President 's announcement had come " as a great shock and a great disappointment . " The Governors were under- ' stood to be preparing to go to the floor of their conference tomorrow in a bipartisan protest . " I know it 's not going to be well-received , " Governor Dempsey saw , Details on the Administration 's plans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference professed ignorance about the scope of the apparent slash in funds . One source indicated that the plans still were in the discussion stage but would be announced soon . Mr. Agnew is reported to have tempered the announcement of a freeze on Federal spending  --  which was portrayed as a move ' to halt inflation  --  by saying the Administration would seek to prserve the tax-free nature of state and municipal bonds . The House-passed tax reform measure would tax such bonds , but Mr. Agnew was said to have pledged Administration efforts to seek to change the reform bill in the Senate . Governor Dempsey said he and his colleagues would be heard " loud and clear " on the Adminstration 's proposed cutback . " Nothing shocks people quicker than to say the old buck is n't coming from Washington , " the Governor said . Earlier , the Vice President made it clear he was in disagreement with the Adminstration on its approach to two major domestic programswefare and mass transit . ' Mr. Agnew said in a news conference that he supported a full Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a final objective . " He also said that the development of mass transit systems across the nation could best be handled by trust funds , as is the case with the interstate highway system . The Administration has said that the welfare programs should continue to be a partnership between Federal and state governments , although Mr. Nixon has proposed that the Federal Government assume more of the cost . The President has rejected the trust fund approach to mass transit in favor of " contract authority " from Congress to allocate funds five years in advance . Both Positions Favored The Governors went on record in favor of Mr. Agnew 's positions . Mr. Agnew told reporters that the conference action on welfare funding " brings back memories . " As Maryland 's Governor at past conferences he said he was " one of the few voices in the wilderness " proposing the Federal assumption of the costs . He reminded his former colleagues that they had taken a long time to adopt his position . The Vice President made it apparent that his minority position within the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that when the Administration decided against a trust fund approach to expanded mass transit he went along because " I am part of the Administration . " He said he had to accept the judgment and best thinking of the Administration majority . Mr. Agnew said that the President 's welfare reform plan , which calls for minimum Federal levels of support in all states , was moving in the right direction . Calling it a radical reform , Mr. Agnew said he had to agree that " you ca n't jump headlong into a fully implemented Federal system . " But he added that he would recommend full Federal funding of welfare if more money became available . Child Adoption Plan As further evidence of Mr. Nixon 's interest in social progress , Mr. Agnew said that the President would soon propose a program aimed at liberalizing child adoption procedures . The proposal will call for assistance in staffing adoption bureaus and assuring that more children receive foster parents , Mr. Agnew said . He said it could eventually save considerable money . The new plan could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption proceedings , but Mr. Agnew said that it had to be weighed against the $25,000 needed for raising a child without parental support . Mr. Agnew restated his belief that the space program should have a high priority in the Federal budget . The benefits to the country from space exploration are " vital to our way of life , " he said . Just as many people did not realize the benefits that would be derived from the United States purchase of Alaska . Mr. Agnew said , there is " no way of knowing " what great benefits may come from space exploration . The Vice President denied in an interview news accounts that dissident lawyers in the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department believed he had intervened in Mississippi school desegregation proceedings to allow the state more time to integrate its schools . " I never interfere in Justice matters , " Mr. Agnew said . The Governors met for more than an hour in a closed session this afternoon and decided against a joint statement on methods they might use to quell campus disorders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was clear very soon there was no agreement in the room . " ? The Governors plan to take up the matter again tomorrow in closed session , but Mr. Crihfield said he doubted they would reach a united position .                     