@@726612

txt Greece 's military government is not letting its unpopularity abroad deter it from needed reform at home . Busingssmen , investors , and merchants here are heartened by a broad series of measures designed to ease credit and stimulate economic growth . " The economy of this country was in a mess before the April 21 Army take-over , " said one Greek industrialist . " This government means to clean it up . It must have a chance to show what it can do . " The Central Bank of Greece announced Sept. 19 that it had lowered its discount rate from 5.5 to 4.5 percent . A bank statement said it was hoped this would encourage other banks to draw from the Central Bank and so encourage business activity . Credit loosened Col. Nicholas Makarezos , Minister of Coordination , announced a series of measures to ease borrowing by businessmen . The measures especially affect hotel and other tourist enterprises , domestic trade , shipbuilding , public works , and housing construction . Construction has already shown a sharp upswing since April , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business activity here . The government has drastically tightened tax collection , Severe penalties for evasion and stricter bookkeeping methods have increased tax revenues by about 25 percent since the new government took office , according to government spokesmen . Independent businessmen confirm this . Results unfold Unnecessary costs are being cut everywhere . The Bank of Greece has just slashed $2.5 million from its annual operating expenses . Government boards and offices are drastically cutting useless clerking or doorman jobs which overloaded payrolls . These were often sinecures for the families and friends of officials . A liberal law passed last month to attract foreign investors has experienced its first results . An Italian firm , Simafer , has contracted to build a new chemical plant in the growing industrial complex around Salonica . The new foreign-investment law has con- , cerned Lebanon , whose own free-enterprise economy is still staggering from the effects of last June 's Arab-Israeli war . Lebanese Government officials say the law sets Greece up in competition with Lebanon 's liberal banking and company laws . Hundreds of copies of the Greek law have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executives in Beirut . Industry stressed Economists say that Greece has one of the fastest growth rates of all semideveloped countries . But its economy is vulnerable to political shocks . The April coup , followed up by the June Middle East war , seriously cut tourism . Closing of the Suez Canal has affected Greece as it has all other maritime powers . The new Greek rulers say they want to industrialize the country rapidly and seek a solution to Greece 's big balance-of-payments problem . The value of imports , including those made under United States and other foreign-aid programs , now is about three times greater than that of exports . Remittances from Greeks living abroad and , above all , tourism helped bridge this gap in past years . This is why Athens is seriously concerned about propaganda directed at the military government abroad , especially in Scandinavia . Denmark , Norway , and Sweden complained Sept. 20 to the European Human Rights Commission about what they termed " the violation of the basic human rights " of Greek political prisoners . Denmark closed its exhibit at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid Greece .                     