@@724283

txt Washington , Oct. 9 ? Barry Goldwater tonight called on the American people to cast fear out of their hearts and get about the business of restoring confidence and dignity to the country . " Cast it out . and your shame and confusion with it , " said the Republican Presidential nominee , " Be confident and strong . Be proud again . Let us be America again . With God 's blessing , let us be Americans again . " In a nation-wide telecast. , Goldwater said he is deliberately running a campaign that steers away from political promises . His purpose , he said , is to restore to the American people real control over their lives and public affairs . Wo n't Try to Boy Votes He charged President Johnson and the Democrats with using the government to buy votes . " I will not attempt to buy the votes of the American people , " Goldwater said . " I will not treat any of you as just so many special interests . I will not appeal to you as if you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by self-serving concerns . " Former Vice President Richard Nixon appeared with Goldwater on the program . Goldwater said the purpose of his talk was to explain " the real job of the Presidency . " Nixon said be backed Goldwater 's conception of the office because he had seen the office intimately in eight years under former President Eisenhower . Backs Barry on NATO And on the controversial issue of giving the North Atlantic Treaty organization commander authority over tactical nuclear weapons , Nixon said that Goldwater was right . He attacked President Johnson for calling Goldwater a warmonger and trigger-happy . Nixon said the NATO commander had this authority under Eisenhower . " I was there when this decision was made , " the former Vice President said . Nixon introduced Goldwater on the show , which was taped in advance for viewing tonight . The Goldwater approach was unorthodox and novel both in content and delivery . The G. 0 . P. nominee did not speak as a political candidate but as a philosopher . His delivery was that of a neighbor who had stopped in for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his theme was clear -- that America is suffering from a hangover of do-gooders who do not know where they are going or where they have been . No government ever made a people great , Goldwater said . But there is political campaigning , he told his audience , and sunch campaigning promising the people everything , using the people for everything , and deceiving the people is considered by some to be fair game to get elected . Goldwater said he deliberately avoided this because he wants a change in the trend of American government . This , he said , is why he has gone into the heart of Appalachia to attack Johnson 's " phony war on poverty " ; why he has gone into the heart of Florida 's retirement country to " expose the hoax of medicare , " and why he has gone into the farm area to call for the gradual transition from a controled to a free agriculture . Sees Dread of Truth Goldwater said he believes that there is dread , akin to fear , in the heart of America . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep that the people prefer to pretend it is n't there . Many people are unwilling to admit they want a change , he said , because to admit they want a change they have to ask why . And to answer that question they would have to face things they do n't want to face . Goldwater asked his listeners if they remembered when they were children crawling up in their mothers ' laps in a thunderstorm seeking reassurance that everything was all right . He said Americans today are reassuring one another that everything is all right by the oddly reverse method of insisting there is no need for a change . Insists We Need Change Everything is not all right . and we do need a change , Goldwater said . Goldwater cited foreign policy , which he described as a shambles . He said crime has filled the streets , that pornography is accepted as normal , and that the family has deteriorated along with morals and manners . This is due to one thing , the philosophy of modern liberalism and a government that is running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominee . Nixon said that above all the man in the White House needs character . Puts Character First " You must not give power to a man unless , above everything else , he has character  --  character is the most important qualification that a President of the United States can have , " the former Vice President said , " and on that score , a cloud hangs over the White House tonight . " Nixon said the President has refused to disassociate himself from political hanky-panky and corruption in his official family . Nixon touched briefly on the extremism issue being used by the Democrats . He said President Johnson 's definition of an extremist is " a Mayor Daley Democrat in Cook county who only votes once . "                     