@@722477

txt ' Washington , June 4 MDBob Hope , who never finished high school , was made an honorary doctor of humane letters today because of his achievements as a comedian . The ski-nosed funnyman was awarded the degree by Georgetown university at an outdoor commencement exercise in which his 22-year-old son Anthony was graduated with honors as a bachelor of arts . The House of Representatives earlier today passed a bill to let the treasury spend up to $2,500 for a gold medal for Hone because of his " career of good works " on behalf of servicemen and charity . Approved by Senate The measure , previously approved by the Senate , now goes to the White House for President Kennedy 's signature . Wearing a black gown and cap with yellow tassel at the Georgetown graduation , Hope heard himself cited for having " made us laugh when we had but too much cause for tears . " He in turn enlivened the otherwise solemn occasion with some of his celebrated quips . The Very Rev. Edward B. Bunn , president of the university , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an honorary degree to speak at a graduation ceremony . Clowns for Graduates But he said he knew the audience would never forgive him if he did n't ask Hope to give some response . " I would n't forgive you either , " Hope said . Flourishing his citation , which was written in Latin , the comedian said , " I ca n't wait Mail I get home and have my son read it to me . " He said he had n't been so thrilled " since the government let me declare Bing as a dependent . " But , he added , " I feel as out of place as President Kennedy at a meeting of the American Medical association . " At first , he said , he could n't understand how he could receive an academic honor . Then turning to the Roman Catholic educators who operate the university , he said , " but you specialize in miracles , do n't you ? " Actually , it was the second honorary degree for Hope . He received one fiveyears ago from Quincy college . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proud of his son , who had learned " to write home for money in five languages . " Hope said his advice to the young men about to go into the world was : " Do n't go . " He paid he went out last week but when he saw the stock market he came right back . Hope left his fellow scholars with the admonition to " ask not what you can do for your country but what your country can do for you . " " That 's a line I picked up kohl Billie Sol EsteS , " he said .                     