@@721179

txt ALBANY , April 18 ? State law-enforcement officials got new weapons ' today for waging war on professional gambling syndicates . In signing two measures to curb big-time gamblers , Governor Rockefeller denounced rackets as " a serious cancer . " He charged that the rackets provided revenue to finance many other criminal activities , including international narcotics traffic , and asserted that this revenue also was used as a " constant financial temptation " to corrupt police and other public officials . " The first bill makes mandatory the fingerprinting of persons arrested for lottery or bookmaking violations and provides for minimum jail sentences for " persistent violators . " It sets a minimum jail term // of ten days for second convictions and a term of at least thirty days for subsequent convictions . The bill also changes the present law on the policy , or numbers , racket to apply its sanctions to collectors , bankers and other professional gamblers rather than to persons placing bets . This change brings the policy law into line with the bookmaking law . The second bill makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a felony for anyone to organize and profit from gambling syndicates . The Governor said the bilis would subject professional gamblers to more substantial prison terms and should provide new weapons to curb " hand bookies " Lind " wire reetra . " The Governor noted that he bad also approved a measure transferring the jurisdiction of gambling misdemeanor cases in New York City from the Court of Special Sessions to the Magistrates Courts , where they could be processed more rapidly , Other Measures Signed Two other measures dealing with crime also were signed . The first sets up a new procedure for committing or releasing from mental institutions persons acquitted of crimes on the ground of insanity . The new law . would require , rather than leave to the court 's discretion ; the commitment to a mental institution of any defendant acquitted by reason of insanity . It would permit the release from the ; institution of such a person by the court upon competent psychiatric evidence that he no longer was a danger to himself and to others . As an alternativg , the measure would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were no longer a danger to himself or to society , but if he still required psychiatric treatment . The next bill signed would permit interpreters and guards , when necessary , to be present in a grand-jury room during proceedings . In a memorandum , the Governor noted that the right of the grand jury to have such persons present for the jury 's assistance and protection recently had been challenged . Also on the crime front , the Governor said that the Legislature had given initial approval of a proposed Constitutional amendment that would permit a defendant charged with a felony that was not punishable by death or life imprisonment to waive indictment by a grand jury . He said that many prisoners wished to plead guilty immediately to a crime , but often had to wait months until after they were indicted , as required by law , Other measures signed do these things : I/Authorize county police departments and police districts to appoint school - crossing guards . This right had been restricted to cities , towns and villages . I/Require school teachers to give school authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the bill was designed to prevent classes from being disrupted by sudden departures of teachers . 411Establish restrictions on advertising signs in the vicinity of the proposed Verrazano Narrows bridge in New York City , as well as the Whitestone and Throgs Neck Bridge projects in the city . ' Require two amber reflectors on the front of trucks . SiSet up a housing authority for the village of Suffern.                     