@@726364

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to thetor of The Times Editor Arab Homeland To the Editor : Your June 6 editorial entitled " The Long Accounting " calls for an answer . Toward the end of the editorial you state that the Jews belong to that part of the world together with the Arabs and Iranians . We have always said that people of the Jewish faith should have continued to live in Palestine side by side with Moslems , Christians and those of other religions as citizens of the State of Palestine , just as they have been living in other countries of the world . Because Jewish people were persecuted in Germany there is no justification for creating a state for them in Palestine at the expense of dislodging more than 1.5 million Arabs from their homes , driving them out to five in camps under very severe conditions and dependent on charity , and ignoring them for nineteen years . You can not correct a wrong by committing another . The Arabs are all for peace , but peace must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on these Palestinian Arab refugees . Restore their homeland to them and there will be peace in the Middle East . RASHAD MOURAD Permanent Observer of the League of Arab States to the United Nations New York , June 7 , 1967 ? Commercial Banks as Lottery Distributors To the Editor : Your recent editorial comments regarding the purported demand of banks for excessive fees for handling lottery tickets have clouded an issue that has been both confusing and confused from the outset . We believe we can help clarify the situation . While commercial bankers certainly favor the furtherance of the state 's educational program , many of them have been opposed to the lottery concept from the start and have not sought participation in the lottery-ticket sales program . Now the banks have been asked to act as agents for the state . While some banks will still not participate , most of them , we believe , will try to cooperate with the state financial officers , knowing that the commercial banking system provides a useful vehicle for implementing many of the state 's programs , particularly like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervision and security can be so helpful . Cost Estimates Even though there was no precedent on which to base cost estimates , most commercial banks have agreed to assume the burden of receiving , distributing , selling , collecting and accounting for an estimated 360 million tickets annually . Commercial banks feel this is a commendable response to the state 's request for cooperation , and does n't warrant the criticism leveled at them , especially since they had not put a fixed price on their services in the first place . At the present time nobody knows what it will cost the banks to service the state 's sale of lottery tickets . It will take months of study and analysis before cost figures can be determined . Banks are most anxious to have the element of cost resolved because their participation in the program is in the nature of a public service . On the other hand , however , commercial banks feel that the state would not expect them to be penalized simply because they are in a unique position to furnish this service . Until such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state have agreed to accept 5 cents per ticket as a fee . They recognize that this may result in a temporary loss to them , but are willing to take that risk in the public interest . We believe the public can have confidence that the arrangement finally arrived at between responsible public officials and the banks will be reasonable and fair to all parties concerned . ALBERT L. MUENCH Executive Vice President New York State Bankers Association New York , May 26 , 1967 ? Rent Inequities To the Editor : I was shocked to find in your June 2 editorial " A Gun at the City 's Head " your statement about the duty of the city to protect " the vast army of lowincome tenants . " I have read of no survey made by the city or any other group which found that all tenants in rent-controlled apartments were low-incomed or that their wages remained the same or were just 15 per cent better than in 1943 . I know people who have an income of more than $15,000 a year who pay $100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income ) ; others who have three cars , etc . I know other individuals living in decontrolled apartments ( they are young ; were in the service and could n't get a rent-controlled apartment ) who are paying 40 per cent of their income for rent . What is happening in this city , among other things , is that we have two classes of citizens  --  one subsidized and the other not . We have a Welfare Department and there is also a program of subsidized rents . Let us have a survey and determine the income of tenants in rent " controlled apartments and what proportion is going toward rent . Although profit is becoming a dirty word in this city , we still live in a society based on pri- , vote ownership , and private money is invested ( in many cases , life ? savings ) in real estate , These owners are not an adjunct of the Welfare Department . TesSIE S. ERLITz Brooklyn , June 2 , 1967 ? State 's Court of Claims To the Editor : As a former assistant attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take exception to your May 25 editorial suggesting abolishment of the New York State Court of Claims and its consolidation with the Supreme Court . Since its inception as a court in 1897 this tribunal has compiled an enviable record in providing a just , equitable and expeditious forum to resolve claims of aggrieved citizenry against the State of New York . Its members are appointed by the Governor with approval of the Senate ( thus already effectuating a suggested reform lacking in all other state tribunals ) . The court embodies a unique and expert knowledge of the vast and ever-increasing body of law concerning-eminent domain and , waiver of sovereign immunity in respect to tort and contract actions . To disperse such proved ability would not ' appear prudent or in the public interest . Unlike State Supreme Court calendars , where trials are delayed for five and even six years , a claimant in the Court of Claims can expect swift redress , often having his ' claim tried within nine months from its filing with the court . In large measure this reflects the profound knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court . In addition , the court sits without a jury  --  another suggested but never implemented reform to relieve overburdened Supreme Court civil calendars . Aside from the desirability of avoiding delay , this swift disposition of claims saves the public millions of dollars in interest ( 6 per cent ) charges . Separation of this court from those of general jurisdiction is in accord with the organization of the Federal judiciary . The New York State Court of Claims continues as a prototype for her sister states , exemplifying the fairest and most efficient method for dispensing justice . It would be a. sad retrogression , inimical to the public interest , to abolish this proved servant of the public . Accordingly , we respectfully urge that the independence of the Court of Claims be continued . JOSEPH C. SHAPIRO Margaretville , N. Y. June 5 , 1967 Twelve other former assistant attorneys general join in support of this statement . ? Crisis in Nigeria To the Editor : I have been reading carefully and critically reports published in your paper on the Nigerian crisis since Jan. 15 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been a tendency , perhaps not deliberate , but owing to lack of understanding , to give wrong impressions to the public on . the following : That the Commander in Chief , Lieut . Col. Yakubu Gowon , wants a loose federation for Nigeria ; That the trouble in Nigeria is between the Moslem Hausas of the north and the Christians and animists of the east , thereby indicating that the trouble is religious ; That all the oil produced from Nigeria is from the east ; That the greater portion of Nigerian revenue is from that oil . On the question of federation , the Commander in Chief has been consistently and sincerely advocating and working for a true federal system of government , with a strong center based on the principle of small states with almost equal population strength , so that one state would not , because of its size , dominate the rest . I wish to make it clear that the crisis in Nigeria is political and economic rather than religious or tribal . Moreover , there is not a quarrel between the Hausas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival of a nation  --  between the overambitious who want to split Nigeria and those who want to see Nigeria remain a sovereign , independent , strong nation . Further , not all northern Nigeria is Hausa ; there are the Fulahis , Tivs , Kanuris and numerous other ethnic groups : In the east there are also the Ibibios , Calabaris , etc. , who constitute about half of the population , and who are not prepared to go with Lieut . Col. Ojukwu. 011 Revenues The New York Times should ' know that one-third of the oil produced in Nigeria is front midwestern Nigeria , which is strongly for a strong federation . Relative to its population of 2.5 million , the midwest oil revenue is greater than that of the east . In addition it has been estimated that more of the offshore oil will be discovered in the midwest . May I add that oil constitutes about one-third of the total revenue of Nigeria and therefore it is not the mainstay of the Nigerian economy . It has only helped to boost it . Further , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , Nigeria lived on the revenue derived from products from other parts of the country . One should see the trouble in Nigeria as that between Tshombe 's Katanga and the rest of the Republic of the Congo . The Nigerian Government or the information media in Nigeria would never lend weight directly or indirectly to any part of a country wanting to secede , in one of the great countries of the world or the mall countries . We expect the same measure from countries which are friends of Nigeria and which Nigeria regards as friends . The United States of America is one of such . ABDUL-AZIA OAKUM Vice Consul , Information Consulate General of Nigeria New York , June 1 , 1967 ? Church Realty Taxed To the Editor : In your May 23 editorial " Taxing Church Property " you criticize " tax exemption to churches ' for businesses or real estate properties operated for a prafit . " I agree . with your position . Many people , however , do not seem to know that the City of New York regularly assesses for taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious purposes . For example , the church of which I am pastor has paid such taxes for many years on property on Fordham Road which we lease to merchants , Thus in the current year our church is paying real estate taxes totaling 815 , - 317.10 . LUTHER W. KING Minister , Fordham Methodist Church ? New York , June 1 , 1987                     