@@727724

txt New Orleans , March 19 The Federal Bureau of Investigation said an FBI agent among the 69 passengers aboard a Delta Air Lines jet disarmed and captured a would-be hijacker tonight after the air liner landed here for refueling . One shot was fired from the gunman 's .22-caliber pistol during the struggle , but no one was hit , the FBI reported . The other passengers bad just left the plane . Flying to Alabama The agent was identified as John Reed , recently transferred from Mobile , Ala. , to Oklahoma , City . He was flying back to pick up his family and take them to their new home . The first FBI report said another passenger was involved in the capture , but later it said Reed disarmed the gunman single-handedly . Boarded in Dallas In Washington , FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover identified the gunman as Douglas Alton Dickey , 26 , who boarded the plane in Dallas . Dickey , charged with air piracy , was in federal custody , Hoover said . Air piracy carries a maximum penalty of death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow morning . According to FBI agents ; the flight originated in Las Vegas , Nev. , this afternoon and made a stop at Dallas before Dickey took over . When the craft landed in New Orleans to refuel , Dickey permitted all of the passengers to deplane . Reed Tells Story Reed stationed himself so as to be the last passenger off . He said he became aware of the hijacker about 15 minutes after the plane left Dallas . " A passenger across the way - told me there was a man near the back of the plane with a gun , " Reed said . " Just about then the man started up the aisle . " He said the man told a stewardess he wanted to take over the plane and that he pulled a gun on the girl . Reed said he talked to the man briefly , trying to persuade him to put down his gun . Threatened By Dickey " Then he said he would shoot me in the leg , so I thought I would do something , " Reed said . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three short transmissions from the plane . He said the pilot advised him that the plane was going to land , that a hijacker was aboard , and that there should be " no police " in the area . A gate agent for Delta , Ted Hall , 35 , said he saw a struggle in the plane when he first went aboard . Hall Sees Struggle " They were struggling in the rear of the plane , " he said . " Then Reed got him with his arms behind him and tied him with his Reed 's belt . " Hall described the hijacker as a " glassy-eyed type " weighing about 160 pounds . Hall said the man was " not neatly dressed . "                     