@@724183

txt Washington , Aug. 18-Sen . Barry Goldwater 's plane . was diverted to an alternate airport here today on its return from Illinois because of a threat on his life . Goldwater , who earlier spoke at the state fair in Springfield , said he understood a bomb threat had caused his plane 's landing to be switched from National airport to Dulles In-1 ternational . In Springfield , Police Chief Silver Suarez said someone called the department there and said that Goldwater was going to be shot by a Puerto Rican between 3:30 and 4 p.m . Calls from Chicago The call was received by Detective Sgt. John Nolan at 12:52 p. m . He said the party deposited $1.75 in a pay phone at the request of the operator and- identified himself as a Lt. Bruce Allen . " They 're going to hit Goldwater , " the caller said . " Do you know what a hit is ? " he asked of Nolan . The detective said he did and then the caller warned that an attempt was to be made to shoot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? was coming from . The party said Chicago and hung up . Records show the call came from a pay telephone in Chicago . Get Orders in Air Suarez said he was notified at the fairgrounds , where he was heading a security detail for Goldwater 's visit . The senator 's personal security guards were then notified , he said . Goldwater was driven from the airport , 28 miles from Washington to his apartment . National airport is just across the Potomac river ' the capital . The pilot of the senator 's Lockheed Electra received orders to change airports while en route from Springfield , it was disclosed by Paul Wagner , press secretary for Goldwater . Wagner added that word of the threat came from the Federal Bureau of Investigation . FBI authorities had no comment on the report . At Dulles , a jet terminal , planes land on- runways far from the terminal . Mobile lounges are used to take passengers to the terminal . National is a more compact , busier airport . Wagner said officials at National ordered the plane diverted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land at Dulles instead of National . Reporters and staff members on the plane with Goldwater were advised of the change over the intercom system without explanation . The explanation by . Wagner and Goldwater 's comment came at the jet service area when the plane taxied to a stop . The service area was well removed from the terminal . Barry Target Before Threats are nothing new for Goldwater . During a week-end stay at his home in Phoenix , after the G. 0 . P. national committee convention , police there received four bomb threats on his home . Asked shortly thereafter by reporter 's whether he favored secret service protection for candidates , as it is given to Presidents and Presidents-elect , he disclosed the threats and . said he thought no amount of protection could assure the safety of such a public figure .                     