@@722631

txt The first major income-tax legislation in eight years has now been passed by both houses of Congress . It represents a meaningful first step toward tax reform and greater tax equity , and its provision of a 7 per cent investment credit will prove to be the most effective measure of recent years to bolster the underlying economic health of this country . Critical comment in The Times and elsewhere has centered around claims that neither the House nor the Senate version bears much resemblance to President Kennedy 's original proposals and that the bill , as , passed by the Senate , is far weaker than the bill passed by the House . These are not the facts . Obviously the final version of the bill will differ from the President 's original proposals . It is equally obvious that some of the changes are more acceptable to the Administration and the President than others . In any major legislation , especially that involving many matters of long-standing controversy , there are bound to be differences of viewpoint , and some changes are inevitable . Withholding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of withholding of taxes on interest and dividends ? was resisted by the Administration with every resource at its command . This provision was dropped by the Senate after an unprecedented letter-writing campaign of opposition , despite the President 's repeated , strong appeals both to the public and to members of Congress . The Senate 's elimination of withholding is , of course , regrettable . But the Senate version of the bill does impose new and stringent requirements that payers report dividend and interest income both to the Government and to the recipients . Moreover , the withholding provision will be further considered by the Joint Conference Committee . In all respects other than withholding , the Senate bill retains the main aspects of the House bill . Some of the Senate modifications , in fact , represent movement toward , rather than away from , the objectives sought by the President . For example , the expense-account section of the Senate bill imposes tighter control over travel expense deductions and imposes higher taxes than the House bill on savings and loan associations organized as stock companies . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is , of course , true that in other particulars  --  for example , the provisions on entertainment expenses ? the House bill more clearly fulfills the objectives set forth by the President than does the Senate version . But Senator Kerr , the floor manager for the tax bill , explicitly stated during the Senate debate that the conference committee should report a provision more nearly approaching the House version . Over all , the bill contains important advances in every area covered by President Kennedy 's proposals , with the single exception of the request for repeal of the dividend exclusion and credit . Escape Devices Barred It contains provisions which will eliminate a broad array of taxescape devices in the foreign income area , effectively barring , for example , existing opportunities for flagrant tax avoidance on income earned overseas by American citizens and American business subsidiaries , and ending the tax-avoidance potential of such devices as foreign trusts , foreign investment companies , and purchase of foreign real estate . The legislation will result in substantial curtailment of luxurious expense account living . It makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions , mutual fire and casualty insurance companies and cooperatives , and it eliminates the present unjustifiable capital gains treatment of earnings from the sale of overdepreciated personal property . As a long-time tax lawyer with years of experience both in and out of . Government , I believe the present tax bill makes advances in more broad areas of income taxation than any tax legislation since 1942 . STANLEY S. SURREY , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury . Washington , Sept. 10 , 1962 . An editorial on this subject ap-1 pears elsewhere on this page . Teachers on School TV TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : WNDT 's ruling that it will recognize the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ' interMisconceptions Charged Concerning Prime Minister Eric Williams TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The sketch in your news columns on Sept. 1 of the new Prime Minister of Trinidad - Tobago , Eric Eustace Williams , is almost entirely misleading . The article was full of inconsistencies and contradictions in its obvious efforts to be unsympathetic . It refers to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caribbean , " as though this small new nation holds a monopoly on economic and racial problems . It seems trite nowadays to report that such and such a new nation faces economic difficulties . New nations emerge from economic oppression into a world already beset by serious economic problems . Trinidad-Tobago will be no exception . In the same vein , the emphasis placed on the racial problem the leadership of Trinidad faces seems more like wishful thinking than reporting of facts . In all of Trinidad-Tobago 's history , blacks and Indians , Chinese and Europeans have lived in harmony and in respect for each other as individuals . The travel advertisements have boasted of this fact in every language , everywhere . The racial problem in the United States is itself greater than can be coped with at the present time . Nevertheless , for any foreign news reporter to compare its magnitude with an ocean would seem to be tendentious exaggeration . Even Balance Your correspondent referred to the hundreds of thousands of followers who consider Eric Williams a prophet and other hundreds of thousands who hate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is a pretty even balance , give a little here or there . Yet he says that Dr. Williams has never lost a political fight of any consequence . The article , after stating that the Prime Minister is of Negro descent , says that Dr. Williams deplores racial issues in political or social life , but goes on to accuse him of introducing racism into his political campaigns . After a very contradictory analysis your special reporter is at his most inaccurate when he stated that Dr. Eric Williams was a " prime mover in sinking the old West Indian Federation . " Even a limited knowledge of recent West Indian history would reveal this statement to be untrue . CYRIL C. OLLIVIERRE , M. D. , President , Trinidad and Tobago " Gayap " Organization of America , Inc . New York , Sept. 2 , 1962 . No Monopoly on Gerrymander TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Times reported from California ( Aug. 24 ) that " here in the Golden State the fine old art of political cartography , loosely known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result , California Democrats expect to win as many as eleven extra seats in the House this year , and certainly no less than seven . " Those who criticize the G. 0 . P. for the new Congressional apportionment in New York may , therefore , note that the tendency to bear in mind party considerations when drawing district lines is not peculiar to Republicans . Indeed , historically , the word " gerrymander " derives from the name of a member of what is now known as the Democratic party  --  from Elbridge Gerry . SIMEON H. F. GOLDSTEIN . New York , Sept. 9 , 1962 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NM YORK plus : Continual editorial prodding of the Mayor and the City Council by The Times in favor of . the Lower Manhattan Expressway is a sad surprise in view of the more enlightened solutions to urban congestion offered in The New York Times Magazine and elsewhere in this newspaper . Although Mayor Wagner approves of the highway " in principle , " the Board of Estimate has again postponed decision . This postponement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay of the Thirtieth Street Expressway , sterna not from a disagreement " in principle , " but from political pressure exerted by local groups facing relocation . These groups merit sympathy , but there is a broader basis for opposition to highway projects in the heart of the city . The assertion that the expressway will remove 75,000 vehicles a day from the streets is contrary to experiences in most American cities ; that an increase in road and parking capacity will only lead to an increase in the number of cars using the facilities has become axiomatic in city planning theory . Crosstown expressways should be opposed " in principle " if we care to maintain the present high density form of Manhattan and to prevent the permanent blighting effect of overhead structures ( only recently diminished by removal of the elevateds . ) In their recent acrimonious debate over which street to darken with the Midtown Expressway , neither Mr. Barnes nor Mr. Moses offered any fresh alternatives nor analyzed with any insight the ultimate causes of traffic problems in Manhattan . Would these public officials ' positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would benefit if the commissioners showed sympathy with the imaginative suggestions of Victor Gruen ( in The Times Magazine several years ago ) or of Paul Goodman ( in his book " Communitas " ) to limit rather than expand car usage south of Sixtieth Street . DAVID GURIN . New York , Aug. 28 , 1962 . Debarking in New York To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The excellent Aug. 29 article by C. L. Sulzberger  --  says your correspondent George C. Cobean on Sept. 4 ? strikes a sympathetic note with him . ' I am sorry I missed Mr. Sulzberger that day , but Mr. Cobean himself strikes a sympathetic note with me . In fact , " Hear , hear ! " Recently the United States Travel Service has been using time on your radio station , WQXR , to urge us all to be polite to foreigners . I think that 's fine , too . I think it would even be nice to be polite to each other . But the U. S. Travel Service might be even better advised to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hudson River piers  --  to keep them as clean as the customs space at Idlewild , say ; to supply racks for depositing the luggage so that it may be inspected with a maximum of comfort and efficiency ; to reorganize the delivery of the luggage from the steamship and the orderly supply of inspectors so that an immigrant or returning American need not become a combination hard-sell executive and messenger boy before submitting to the lie-detecting procedure deemed necessary for admission to the rest of our city ; and to whip the members of the tough longshoremen 's union into a sufficiently tractable mood to comply with the fairy-tale signs which tell us that there is no charge for bringing luggage off the pier . That would be one way to encourage foreigners to spend money here  --  and to make coming home less horrendous for the rest of us . HENRY W. SIMON . New York , Sept. 5 , 1962 . Aid for Cuba 's Oppressed TO THE EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMES : Quite rightly , The Times ' Aug. 27 editorial on Cuba and subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own national security . Yet another aspect of the terrible dilemma facing us merits consideration . That is the fact that the yoke of Communist tyranny is making the life of Cubans intolerable . The misery of their plight can not be ignored by their neighbors . Inevitably Cuba will cry out for rescue and we will have to respond courageously . DAVID A. LURENor : Chestnut Hill , Mass. , Sept. 5 , 1962. ests as they relate to professional artists and announcers but not to college professors amounts to a " double standard " that the teaching profession should not tolerate . WNDT is unable to ask AFTRA to allow its members to offer their services without pay to educational TV because of AFTRA 's solid bargaining strength . Yet , when the matter of remuneration is discussed with college professors , they are asked to accept a token fee or to offer their services gratis because of WNDT 's limited budget . Either AFTRA must adjust its scales when its members participate in educational TV or , in this instance , WNDT must raise adequate funds as colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they justly deserve . Until equity is established , college professors ought to display.the same united front as AFTRA . What 's good for the goose is good for the gander . HAROLD STAHMER , Associate Professor of Religion , Columbia University . New York , Sept. 6 , 1062.                     