@@724167

txt The Congressional drive for adjournment came to a virtual halt today as the Senate battled over legislation designed to thwart the Supreme Court 's ruling on state legislative apportionment . The Senate made no progress on germane amendments to the foreign aid bill . as a small group of Northern Democrats began talking at length against an apportionment amendment offered by Everett Dicksen , the Republican leader . Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana , the majority leader , said indications were mounting that Congress would not be able to finish its business by Aug. 22 and would have to return after the Democratic National ConIvention at Atlantic City , which , begins Aug. 24 . Dirksen Unmoved Mr. Dirksen appeared unmoved by threats of the Northern liberals to try to talk to death his amendment . It is I aimed at countering the SuIpreme Court ruling of June 15 that districts for both houses of state legislatures must be " substantially equal " in population . " I suppose they will keep the talk rolling until we have to come back into session after the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how long it takes . I 'm going to get a vote on this matter . " However , the prospect that Mr. Dirksen would get a vote on his amendment was not as favorable as it was yesterday . The more the Senators studied the amendment , the more converts the opponents won to their argument that it might create more " chaos " than that Senator Dirksen asserts has been let loose by the Court 's , decision . Modification Suggested Some highly placed Democratic Senators were saying today that if the Dirksen amendment was to pass , it would have to be modified . Tlie critics were not in the least mollified by the fact that Justice Department officials cooperated with Mr. Dirksen in framing the language of the amendment or by the fact that Senator Mansfield had co-sponsored it . They are aware that Administration officials cooperated because Mr. Dirksen appended his amendment to the foreign aid bill , which he knows is vital legislation for the Administration . Officials said the Administration also believed that Mr. Dirksen hoped to make political capital of the widespread re- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amendment also say Mr. Mansfield had to go along with Mr. Dirksen for " practical " reasons . The majority leader has been at pains to state that he does not share Mr. Dirksen 's motivation in offering the amendment , which the Republican leader has acknowledged to be " the puchase of time " for the states to ratify a Constitutional amendment he has offered . This amendment would require that only one house in a state legislature be based on population . Mr. Mansfield has said that he approves the Supreme Court ruling , but that he believes some way should be found to give the states a reasonable time to conform with it , just as the court itself in 1954 gave school districts time to put its desegregation ruling into effect . The Democratic leader says he has doubts about Mr. Dirksen 's Constitutional amendment . Proceedings Would Wait Mr. Dirksen 's amendment to the foreign aid bill would require Federal courts , except in " highly unusual circumstances , " to stay all reapportionment proceedings until Jan. 1 , 1966 , to permit elections this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would further require stays of court orders to give the states reasonable opportunity to apportion according to the Supreme Court 's so-called oneman , one-vote ruling . Senators William Proxmire , Democrat of Wisconsin , John 0 . Pastore , Democrat of Rhode Island , and others said today that the proposal would compound the confusion . What concerned the critics was a sentence in the amendment stating that Federal courts " shall stay the execution of any order " on reapportionment . It was pointed out that 27 states had , in one way or another , reapportioned since the Baker U. Carr case from Tennessee in 1962 and that several had reapportioned since the ruling June 15 involving six states . What effect would the Dirksen amendment have , the critics asked , on states that have already implemented court orAssociated Press OPPOSES AID RIDER : Senator John 0 . Pastore , Democrat of Rhode Island , who is against reapportionment rider to the aid bill . ders or are in the process of doing so ? Again they asked , would th Dirksen amendment affect those states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court ? Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , the Democratic whip , cited the situation in Michigan . There , since June 15 , the Legislature has redistricted both houses , but it did so in response to an order of the State Supreme Court . At the same time , there has been a parallel proceeding In the Federal courts , and this is still alive . Connecticut Cited What happens , Mr. Humphrey asked , if the state pays no attention to the Dirksen amendment because it followed a state court order , and then , because of the pending case in the Federal courts , a District Court order that the status quo ante be restored ? This is a pressing question , Mr. Humphrey said , because Michigan has a primary election on Sept. 1 , and it intends to conduct it under the new apportionment . The Connecticut Legislature is now in special session to implement a court order . Senators asked what ' the Legislature asked , under the Dirksen amendment became law . Delaware , they pointed out , has already redistricted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution on apportionment . To what would the state revert , they asked , under the Dirksen amendment and would there be time before the November elections ? Trouble was also brewing in the House of Representatives . There yesterday the Rules Committee cleared for floor action a bill sponsored by Representative William M. Tuck , Democrat of Virginia . It would deny all Federal courts jurisdiction on state apportionment cases . Some Raise Questions Some prominent members who yesterday supported the Tuck bill were having second thoughts today . They doubted its constitutionality . And even if it is constitutional , they said , there is a danger of setting a precedent for withdrawing the jurisdiction of the Federal courts . Some Republican leaders were discussing possible amendments to the Tuck bill when it reaches the floor next week . One idea was a modification along the line of an earlier Dirksen proposal , which would stay all Federal court proceedings for a period . The difficulty here again was the question of constitutionality in denying citizens , even for a limited time , of a. judicial forum in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asserted by the Supreme Court . Since there was virtually no chance that the Senate would accept the Tuck bill , no matfi ter how it was amended , Some Senators thought the best course was to alter the present Dirksen amendment so that the clock would be stopped for a reasonable time in states that had not redistricted but would not be set back in states where reapportionment was in effect or under way . It was believed that the House , under adjournment pressure , would go along with this .                     