@@726074

txt The President 's remarks on crime have raised unhappy eyebrows on the National Crime Commission . It bothers certain members and staff that in his state-of-the-Union message Mr. Johnson said flatly that on the basis of the commission 's preliminary recommendations " we are ready to move . " And then he promptly proposed a " Safe Streets and Crime Control Act " of 1967 . In the first place , the commission had submitted no preliminary recommendations . Secondly , there is objection to the President 's emphasis on safe streets . This is interpreted as a political counter to Barry Goldwater 's crime-on-the-streets issue of the 1964 campaign . Safe streets will be only part of the commission 's recommendations . What the group intends to emphasize is the need for reform in the whole system of police procedures , court system , prison and probation methods . And the need for combating organized crime . 0 In his message last week the President said few words about urban affairs . White House sources say this is no indication of dwindling interest on Mr. Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full $400 million for 1967-68 which it had previously authorized for the demonstration cities program . And he has programs not yet ready to announce which will : ? Encourage research in order to obtain lower housing costs . ? Help slum tenants in their relations with landlords . But the President 's top target in urban affairs is to secure his beachheads  --  make sure the demonstration cities and rent-supplement programs already enacted get full implementation . Trends ... A billowing birth rate is eating up benefits brought about by the Alliance for Progress . At the same time , private groups are speeding up their efforts in the Western Hemisphere to find solutions . This year the The organization includes family planning groups in 44 countries . Discussion will center on such topics as the meteoric population growth , unprecedented expansion of cities , the worldwide problem of abortion . It will air research into the physiology of reproduction . Meanwhile , the 37-year-old Population Reference Bureau , headquartered in Washington , has opened a new office in Bogota , Colombia , to gather information and study population trends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale is doing what he says some others are n't ? " making waves " in Washington . Dr. Chris Argyris is . chairman of Yale 's department of administrative sciences . He 's rocking the boat considerably by taping candid conversations with 49 senior foreign service officers and three noncareer ambassadors in the Department of State . He finds overwhelming evidence of a desire to " play the game " ? to avoid cricitism , round sharp corners off telegrams , write innocuous memos , advance no striking policy initiatives , and avoid anything that might offend others , particularly superiors . Dr. Argyris recommends that the very top level of State Department officials do much more to encourage subordinates to take responsibility fearlessly . This just is n't being done , he says . Of course , all State Department people do n't fall in this " cautious " category . Dr. Argyris pays tribute to their " professional competence . " But his findings have sucked in a sudden tide of self-examination and debate . Washington wants to know who initiated the recent Romney-Lodge get-together in this capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michigan Governor himself who set the wheels rolling . It 's true that George Romney had a keen interest in meeting and talking with Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge . For his own enlightenment he wanted to discuss the Vietnam situation in depth . But he felt it might put Ambassador Lodge on the spot politically if he , Governor Romney , asked for an appointment . In the end it was a third party , a friend of both the Governor and the Ambassador , who took it upon himself to bring the two together . Mr. Lodge , who was to be in Washington , was asked if he would meet with Mr. Romney . Mr. Lodge 's answer , in effect , was " delighted . " Then Mr. Romney was asked . The time coincided with a trip to Washington Mr. Romney had previously arranged .                     