@@725238

txt The accommodation on prices reached between the steel industry and the Johnson Administration seems a perfect compromise . The United States Steel Corporation , as de facto leader of the industry , demonstrated that private management can find a way to make selective price changes without fear of Government interference or reprisal . Speaking for the White House , Chairman Gardner Ackley of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers dismissed as " inconsequential " in its total economic impact U.S. Steel 's increase of $2.75 a ton in structural steel prices , which was coupled with cuts in some West Coast steel prices . He had earlier termed Bethlehem Steel 's proposed $5-a-ton rise " unjustified and inflationary . " The country will welcome this amicable adjustment of the views of the President and the industry , and the consequent avoidance of any repetition of the scaring conflict of 1962 . Nevertheless , this compromise , with all its overtones of a carefully workedout deal , really raises more questions than it answers about the Administration 's attempt to enforce its wage-price guideposts . How far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and must they be combined with some price reductions ? Must one company or another take on the role of a public villain for seeking an unjustifiable rise so that another can be depicted as a hero for proposing something that looks a little more justifiable ? Does the Administration intend to impose its guideposts only on what it considers are " basic " industries  --  industries in which profits are often relatively low  --  while ignoring other industries , where profits are high but where wage and price boosts can be just as inflationary ? And are the guideposts , in fact , proving as efficient a yardstick and as effective an anti-inflationary tool as the Administration suggests ? Certainly the broad publicity given the guideposts may have contributed to the remarkable stability of prices and wages over the past five years . But other factors  --  competition , a comparatively large measure of unemployment , tax concessions , rising productivity and profits  --  were also at work . So the guideposts have not really been tested until now . Instead , they have been used spasmodically and capriciously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in tinplate prices put through by the steel industry , but attacked the rise on structurals ; its guns were silent when prices were hiked on such basic materials as food and cement , but blasted away at aluminum and copper . And the guideposts have rarely been used to put the brakes on inflationary wage settlements . Restraint on wages and prices is essential , but what is needed even more is a full-scale debate on the best way to achieve it . The guideposts were originally intended merely as a " contribution " to public discussion , yet they have become doctrine without any real discussion of their rationale or how they have been applied . The nation should have a chance to discuss whether the uneven application of the guideposts is really fairer than direct controls and  --  much more desirable  --  whether there is some way to encourage greater private restraint without more public intervention . A thorough debate that calls attention to the need for restraint might well make both business and labor more conscious of their public responsibilities . And it might even make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public sector may be the most promising means of inducing restraint in the private sector .                     