@@727125

txt Moscow is facing in acute form a problem which has long troubled the United States is well ; the problem of the proper attitude if the great power toward its smaller neigh- ) ors . Most diplomatic observers and experts do lot think that Moscow will send its tanks trashing through the Czechoslovakian frontiers in these times , as it did not so long ago against Hungary . But there is no doubt that many a top . , . figure in Moscow must be : empted to retkat that performance . Washngton has fingers crossed , hopefully . The new leadership in Prague is obvibusly ) utting a heavy strain on Moscow tolerance . Dile measure of the delicacy of the situation . s that the West German Government has 4uietly advised Prague to go slow . Much as the Germans want easier relations with the - 2. zechs , they do not want Moscow given any excuse for armed intervention in Czechoslovakia . Advice : ' Play it cool ' And Washington has been scrupulously quiet about the latest events in Prague . In 1956 it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an excuse for sending in their tanks . The Hungarians had looked to Washington for help , and had been given some reason to expect such help . It can be assumed that any advice from Washington to Prague these days has been to " play it cool . " There has not been the slightest hint of Washington planning or intending to do a thing to help Czechoslovakia if attacked . As a matter of fact there is nothing Washington could do to aid ; other than keeping hands off . Any Washington attempt to exploit the new trends in Prague would only induce what Washington would deeply regret and deplore . There is a factor present in Washington today which was absent in the eager days of John Foster Dulles when many a top official in Washington believed that American troops should be sent across Europe to " roll back the Iron Curtain . " It is an awareness that Moscow also has its " small neighbor " problems . In this case it is assumed that the men in Moscow are even more afraid of a revival of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China . And the men of Moscow , rightly or wrongly , believe that the only security they have against a revived Germany is firm control over a buffer area between themselves and Germany . The essential part of the Russian buffer is the combination of Poland , Czechoslovakia , and East Germany . This area is Russia 's military forefield . The Kremlin regards any move or trend which might threaten Russian control of the " forefield " as being unfriendly , even hostile . Alexander Dubcek has promised that Czechoslovakia will remain a loyal member of the Warsaw Pact alliance , and will continue to be a " socialist " country . If MoscOnt believes him , and believes that he can keep his country with him on such policies , then there is a reasonable chance that Moscow will not intervene . But if it doubts either Dubcek sincerity or capacity then intervention must be expected . The most likely form of such intervention would be a political maneuver to overthrow Mr. Dubcek and restore his predecessor Antony Novotny to power . Mr. Novotny 's " loyalty " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still can control or influence nearly half of the membership of the Czech Communist Party Central Committee a coup d'etat is not impossible . Economic sanctions would probably be a first step . Military action is expected only as a last act of desperation , not a first step . It probably would not be necessary , considering the ability Moscow has to exert economic pressure and to manipulate people inside Czechoslovakia . Occupation frequent The Moscow attitude toward such matters is probably about on a level with that of the United States before World War I. Even as humanitarian and liberal a president as Woodrow Wilson did not hesitate to have the United States Navy shell , and occupy , the Mexican citycof Veracruz as a means of putting political pressure on the Government of Mexico . And he also allowed an American Army to invade Mexico . During the turn-of-the-century era United States Marines frequently occupied and controlled Central American states . Washington regarded Mexico , Central America , and the Caribbean islands of Cubh and Puerto Rico as being an American " sphere of influence " in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hesitate to do whatever it deemed necessary to assure its full control of the area . A more " enlightened " attitude toward small neighbors to the south dates from the administration of Herbert Hoover . Only from then has Washington gradually moved toward the idea that small neighbors should be permitted independence in their internal affairs . To this day , Washington expects // *Moscoiv : What kind of neighbor ? // them to coordinate their foreign policies  --  with Washington . That was of course what caused all the trouble in the Cuban missile crisis . It was the first time since the French put an army in Mexico  --  during the American Civil War ? that a European power had tried to establish a major military position in the Caribbean . Tolerance slowly learned Washington has learned , gradually and painfully , that it is in the long run better to allow the small neighbors as much independence as can possibly be tolerated . Tolerating Fidel Castro is itself painful , but probably less so than using force to unseat him . This was a matter which Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Yalta conference . Mr. Roosevelt hoped that Russia would be as tolerant toward its small neighbors in Eastern Europe as Washington had by that time become toward its own small southern neighbors . Mr. Roosevelt came back from Yalta thinking that he had made some impression on Stalin . He was , of course , mistaken . Stalin imposed a heavier and bloodier imperial control on Eastern Europe than anything that had ever existed in the Western Hemisphere , except in the original Spanish conquests of Mexico and Peru . Certainly there was no tolerance in Moscow for nonconformity in Eastern Europe while Stalin lived .                     