@@723188

txt WASHINGTON , May 26 ? The Air Farce has undertaken a series of studies of its future that could conceivably lead to dramatic new missions in space  --  or to a sharp reduction in IL present roles and missions . The critical reassessment of the Air Force is due to be completed in the next few months . At this stage , it can be reported , the Administration is by no means convinced of the necessity c ; some ambitious military space proposals . The studies were prompted by the changing character of air-weapons technology and Government strategy for nuclear weapons . But an important impulse for the reassessment was the Administration 's refusal to accept past Air Force estimates of its requirements for the future . A Change of Mood The studies have been named Project Forecast . They have been compared with the famous report , " Toward New Horizons , " that was drafted by a team headed by the late Dr. Theodore von ' Oxman at the end of World War II . The difference between that earlier report  --  ordered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Force Chief of Staff ? and the one now in preparation ; however , is that a mood of great prospects prevailed then . Now the mood is that of a service approaching a fight for existence . Most of the studies are being conducted at the Air Force Space Systems Division in Inglewood , Calif. , because the facilities for study and analysis are said to be there . About 203 persons are helping in the studies . Studies Ordered No publicity has been given the new Air Force studies . They were ordered quietly April 17 by Secretary of the Air Force Eugene M. Zuckert and Gen. Curtis E. Lemay , Air Force Chief of Staff . The order came after Secretary of Defense Robert S. turned down some proposals for manned spacecraft that seemed outlandish to him . Gen. Bernard A Schriever , commander of the Air Force Systems Command , was given over-all responsibility for the studies of the Air Force 's future , and Maj. Gen. Charles H. Terhune Jr. , commander of the Electronics System Division at the L. G. Hanscom Field , Bedford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to officers and civilian officials of the Air // Force , civilians from univer- ' sities ; industry and the Government are working on the project . The official explanation of its purpose is that the studies are " designed to assure the in tegration of available scientific ; knowledge with the Air Force requirements for new systems , to support future national security posture . " Official sources attributed the , self-analysis to the " accelerated ' ? The studies are being undertaken at , a time when , despite new technological . advances , the Air Force feels restricted in its opportunities for gowth in military operations in space . The major deterrent mission remains in Air Force hands , but much of the glamor of Air Force operations is beginning to wane . Manned bombers are on their way out . Missiles are taking over the role of many interceptors . The only pilots of the future , it appears , unless the Air Force is granted a manned space mission , will be in tactical and transport units . Secretary has indicated to Air Force planners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space missions . But he believes that they must be justified along two lines . First of all , he has explained , there are obvious space tasks in the field of communications , and major communicationssatellite programs have been authorized . Second , he has said , it is important to develop manned Spacecraft techniques , even when a military mission is not obvious for the moment , to permit the military forces to keep pace with technological advances . . Deputy Secretary of Defense Roswell L. Gilpatric recently pointed out to the Senate Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee Some of the Pentagon 's basic space policies . These form an interesting backdrop for the Air Force studies . First , Mr. Gilpatric said , the country has , a single national space program , with the Defense Department and NASA sharing roles . Second , he went on , space is a medium that affords the possibility for exceptional defense objectives , but through means that are not necessarily military such as communications . projects were integrated on a functional basis- and that space programs competed with other programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary- consideration in space today is to gain military advantage . They point to the strong military orientation of Soviet space programs . The studies now under way are classified secret , but certain sources conceded that much of the policy basis ' for them underscores the importance - of space as ari exceptional area for military operations . Sources outside the . Air Force say that , if the pending report can persuade the Administration of these military-oriented views , the Air Force will once more rise ' as the dominant military service . The Air Force has already been designated as the space service . On the other hand , if the new report is no more successful than other Air Force presentations seeking military space missions , many observers believe this 16-year-old service may well contract into a minor role .                     