@@725300

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 177 Letters to the Editor of The Times Strains in Teacher -- Student Relationship To the Editor : Gen. Lewis B. Hershey 's announcement that a draft deferment will be based upon college students ' standing in class , as well as tests that will be administered , adds one more strain to the student-teacher relationship ? a relationship upon which there are already too many strains . There was a time in America when a student merely had to pass his courses and a student and teacher could work together with this objective and degrees of excellence in mind . Now the classroom work is put in doubt by a whole host of examinations which re-evalue the education that the student receives  --  the graduate record examination , the legal aptitude tests , the medical aptitude test , the Selective Service test , etc . The standards of graduate schools have risen sharply . A student without a " B " average in his major can expect that his college education is terminal . For those who succeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , private foundations and universities ? incentives in terms of cash money , as well as scholarships . In many respects , perhaps , graduate students are making more money going to school than they will make during the first years upon entering their profession . Carrots and sticks have multiplied in the collegiate educational process . Anxiety Over Failure It is not surprising in the midst of this outside management of the collegiate educational process that friction should develop between teachers and students , reflecting students ' anxieties as to whether they are going to make the grade or be consigned to the dump heap . The additional introduction of the draft system makes the misery of the student greater and the punitive powers of the professor more terrifying . The professor who marks a student down not only prevents him from continuing his education , but consigns him to the swamps of Vietnam . We have come a far distance in American education from the days when James Garfield could say that his concept of a college education was Mark Hopkins at one end of the log and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essence of the learning situation , and no matter how many comprehensive examinations a student passes , nothing will happen to him until he comes into close contact with a truly creative mind . This kind of relationship can provide the motivation for achievement , the insights for learning and creating in a field as well as the guidance to achieve . Guidance for Achievement Jonas Salk , when he was receiving his honorary doctorate at The City College , made exactly this kind of reference to his graduate professor at the University of Michigan as an explanation for his ability to push back frontiers in his field . The teacher-student relationship is in some respects a parent-child relationship . If it becomes mechanized , determined by outside agencies , and dominated by the punishment which the teachers ' marking may bring about , it can not succeed . It should be remembered that it is basic to behavior that the animal , including the human animal , when frustrated , either engages in aggressive behavior or does nothing . The carrot and the stick will serve no purpose once this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rage against their teachers or to become " beat . " JOHN A. Davis Chairman Dept. of Political Science The City College New York , Feb. 10 , 1966 Homage to Bhabha To the Editor : When Homi Bhabha of India was killed in the airplane crash on Mount Blanc on Jan. 24 , the world lost one of its greatest citizens . The New York Times referred to him as " his country 's foremost atomic scientist . " He was more than that . He is quoted as having " denied secret preparations to set off an explosion " ? a vast understatement , one that omits his high sense of international morality and deep dedication to the cause of peace . True , he was a distinguished physicist , one of those few who collaborated with Niels Bohr in the late twenties , creating the quantum theory on which the edifice of nuclear science is erected . It was , however , as an administrator that he contribiited most significantly . Atom Power Program He combined an understanding of science and an uncanny sense for people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! deflation biology and cancer research . He had the vision to see , now more than ten years ago , that atomic energy was the logical source of power for Ins dia 's industry . His program was launched when other countries were in doubt . ? He was much concerned with medicine and India 's health . He eecognized instantly the possibilities for progress in scientific discovery . In medicine , as in physics , he demanded excellence , winning the devotion of all who worked with him . He was an accomplished , perceptive artist as well as promoter of the arts . He earmarked 1 per cent of the building costs of the several research institutes for sculptures and paintings to beautify the structures . He held it imperative that governments spend such money to encourage and support young artists . Control of Bomb In view of the present state of the world , all of these accomplishments seem as nothing compared with his concern for the welfare of the world . He was an internationalist , and it is in relation to the bomb that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Energy Commission , he championed international control of nuclear energy and the outlawing of nuclear weapons . He spoke repeatedly to the scientists of the world of the futility of the bomb . He strove for the international atomic energy agency . As adviser to Prime Ministers Nehru and Shastri , he helped formulate national policy not only on nuclear energy but in science and education . His vision and leadership were felt in many ways . For his extraordinary understanding and achievements the world should now thank him and applaud his memory . JERROLD ZACHARIAS , VICTOR F. WEISSKOPF , JEROME B. WEISNER , OLIVER COPE Boston , Feb. 2 , 1966 The first three signers of the above are scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Dr , Cope is a surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital .. Canyon Dams Opposed To the Editor : I was delighted at the excellent editorial in your Jan. 17 issue titled " Choice for Grand Canyon . " I have camped in and out of the Grand Canyon for over twenty years . Your arguments are articulate and correct . Both Bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroying much of- the value of this wonderful canyon . Further , it 's been proved that the generation of electricity with nuclear power is at least as economical as the construction of these huge dams . Both Lake Mead and Lake Powell are behind schedule in filling , and the Government has not as yet explained where they expect the extra water to come from to fill two more reservoirs . Not only is it an odious project because of the damage it will do to the canyon , but is not justifiable on any other basis . It is a tragic situation and we thank you for mentioning it . DANA BURDEN Wickenburg , Ariz. , Jan. 27 , 1966 a Four-Year House Term To the Editor : As a non-American observer of the American political scene I should like to pass some comments on the issue of lengthening the terms of members of the House of Representatives to four years . This issue was dealt with in your two Jan. 23 editorials International edition Jan. 24 : " Reform the Electoral College . . " " . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politician with certain Atlantic responsibilities , I believe that a constitutional amendment as envisaged by President Johnson ? . whereby House members are elected for a four-year term at the same time the President is voted for ? will greatly enhance the United States position in the domain of international politics and be of great benefit to the world at large . Under the present electoral system for the House , the President will in the year preceding midterm Congressional elections tend to shy away from taking certain difficult , but nevertheless perhaps vital decisions because they might affect the outcome of the midterm elections . The same situation repeats itself again two years later , that Is a year before the President 's own re-election or before the reelection of a Congress with which the President 's successor will have to work . Two out of the four years of a Presidential term , or at least eighteen months out of 48 months , are hence very often turned into periods of relative indecision . For the most powerful nation in the world to be electorally bound approximately half of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least of all the United States itself . Campaign Atmosphere The perennial electioneering atmosphere in American politics  --  elections every two years ? in my opinion is detrimental to the interest of the United States and an unsettling factor in world politics . Hence my support for President Johnson 's proposal and the reiteration of a statement I made many years ago before the NATO Parliamentarians ' Conference that " one of the greatest benefits which the United States could bestow upon the world would be to change its Congressional election system to a four-year tenure system running concurrently with the Presidential term . " Moreover , in my opinion , the task of a United States Representative entails more than to be merely a walking or talking barometer who holds the pulse of the people , day and night , all the year round  --  a role , I found , which the United States Senate holds to be the task of Congress . Congress has its own constitutional responsibilities which invoke the need for Independent reflection and unhampered thought . In the highly dynamic latter half of the twentieth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieve either in sufficient quantity . A. E. M. DUYNSTEE Member of the Netherlands Parliament ; President Political . Committee , NATO Parliamentarians ' Conference Maastricht , the Netherlands Feb. 1 , 1966 Formula for Vietnam To the Editor : Neither Hanoi nor Saigon dares advocate negotiations without built-in defenses in the event of noncompliance with agreements . In America there is reluctance to negotiate in a situation that could enable a Communist takeover by force of arms . These fears in Hanoi , Saigon and Washington prevent even agreement to attempt to agree . Therefore it is now a major tasks of diplomacy to define the crucial issues involved in a cease-fire and the formation of a government which takes into account the major reservations of Saigon , Hanoi and Washington . Policing Cease-Fire A cease-fire could be policed by an international force of ten to twenty thousand light-weapon-armed men , equipped with excellent transportation and communications . This organization would enforce the cease-fire agreement , including holding present military positions and a prohibition against import of any new military personnel or materiel , excluding food , clothing , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are easily controlled , and helicopter patrols can insure cornpliance with the forces ' positions declared at the moment of the cease-fire . The international force should be drawn from a combination of , say , five neutral nations , with a directorate of five senior officers  --  who rotate every ten days In holding the post of chief . All nations have a stake in the success of this plan . Therefore the force should be paid by international subscription . A. well-policed cease-fire agreement could be abandoned by either side without loss of military position . Pre-election Council The interim period between the beginning of . cease-fire and the conduct of elections would be a short period , say three months . The shortness of the period desensitizes the issue of the composition of an interim government . During this limited time a three-month interim council of government could operate the government machinery of South Vietnam , this council to be named by U Thant , Secretary General of the United Nations . The council could include . representatives of the Buddhists , the Catholics , the National Liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The interim council must have no part in the direction of the elections . The election process is to be organized , supervised , and policed by the international force to provide for free formation of electoral slates , guaranteed access to the population by radio , voting by secret ballot for all Vietnamese over 18 years of age in South Vietnam , and simultaneous election of village , province and national officials . Election procedures could include the following : guarantee of one-man , one-vote by marking the wrist of each voter with an indelible dye upon entering the voting booth . Ballots , or voting machines , could have election slates identified by symbols which could be readily understood by illiterates . Viable Government The elected officials should take office 48 hours after the election results are counted . A well-designed and carefully policed election process is the plausible way to give South Vietnam a viable government : viable because it will represent the people of South Vietnam . This should meet the requirement of Americans for free choice of government by the people of South Vietnam . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hanoi and to the National Liberation Front , confident as each seems that its movement would receive popular approval . The combination of a wellpoliced cease-fire and an election within three months should meet reservations which now deter leaders in Saigon , Hanoi and Washington , from moving toward peace . SEYMOUR MELMAN New York , Feb. 9 , 1966 The writer , Professor of Industrial Engineering at Columbia University , is author of " The Peace Race " and " Our Depleted Society . " No Time for Fear To the Editor : Senator J. W. Fulbright is quoted as having said , " I am fearful that if the war in Vietnam is not handled extremely well , the Chinese Communists will come in . " Just what does the Senator fear ? Red China ? I did n't know that there was any nation on earth that we feared . Or does he fear war itself , against some small nation that ca n't reach us with its weapons ? If it becomes evident to the world that either we fear the foe or we fear the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participating in one " limited war " after another without hope or expectation of victory and peace . A. DOUGLAS ALLEN Upper Montclair , N. J. Feb. 8 , 1966 Evil of War To the Editor : I have been told that Communism is an evil and must be stopped . Some day , therefore , my sons will go to war to kill and be killed . I can not conceive of an evil greater than this . FRANCES GRASSO Cleveland Heights , Ohio Feb. 7 , 1966 ? Teaching Methods To the Editor : Many of the approaches to the teaching of reading , which are reported in the press as " new , " are really old methods that have actually been tried out in the past and dropped . A case in point is the " Diacritical Marking System " illustrated in " Teaching Johnny to Read  --  New Methods " which appeared in The Times of Jan. 30 . This system was used In the early 1900 's . The method based on the onesymbol , one-sound principle was employed in a schoolbook published by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   