@@726382

txt week , it had scored one of the most spectacular victories in 3,500 years of recorded history of the Jewish people . Children probably will learn about it alongside the triumphs of Moses , King David , and prophetess Deborah . Opinion here is that the feat has no parallel in the military history of modern times . If the present opportunity is missed to bring about conditions capable of ensuring lasting peace in this part of the world and a resumption of hatred and violence is allowed , many here could feel the fighting has been in vain . I have just returned from an extended tour deep into what still was Jordanian territory earlier this week . We first drove up to the Mount of Evil Council , former headquarters of the United Nations truce observ* Please turn to Pare 4 *Eyewitness escribes Holy Land damage // ers which had been stormed and taken by Jordanian troops shortly after hostilities started Monday noon . Two hours later the Israelis drove out the Jordanians . The brass plate over the gate to the fortresslike palace was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U " in the French wording of " Nations Unies . " Famed road to conquest We turned our car toward Bethlehem . Along this road marched the ancient Israelis and Philistines ; Assyrians , Babylonians , Persians , Greeks , and Romans ; Moslem warriors and Christian crusaders , Turks , British , Egyptians , Jordanians , and now Israelis again . Mary and Joseph made their way here to reach the City of David for a census of Caesar Augustus . Abraham the nomad must have driven his sheep here on his way to Hebron . From high up the mount , about 100 yards from the road , the Greek Orthodox monastery of Mar Elyas looked forbiddingly at us . Because of its height , the Jordanians had here one of their strongest positions . For years this post controlled and occasionally disturbed the peace of Jerusalem . Five archaeologists looking at excavations at Ramat Rachel in Israel were killed by Arab Legion fire from this mountaintop about a decade or so ago . The ground now is scorched black from Israeli artillery shells . But the ageless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues its majestic lone existence with gray-green branches gathering strength for the next in the endless chain of crops . Historic places visited " Welcome to Bethlehem " the banner across the highway reads . The dome of Rachel 's tomb is on our right . The Israel Army chaplain Rabbi Shlomo Goren preceded us for prayer and obtained the key for the monument . A burned-out Patton tank of Jordan 's Arab Legion and three civilian automobile wrecks were on the roadside . A deserted gasoline station was livened up with a huge portrait of Ahmed Shukeiry , leader of the most violent Anti-Israel organization among the Palestine Arabs . Perched atop the hill is Bethlehem 's Manger Square with the Church of the Nativity in its corner . Ever since the first church was built here by the Byzantine Empress Helen , mother of Constantine the Great , in the fourth century A.D. , pilgrims from around the globe have been converging on this spot on Christmas Day . Today , however , Israel Army jeeps , trucks and two Sherman tanks were stationed in the Manger Square . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few score of local Arabs were watching from the other side of the square . Israeli soldiers already were established at the police station dominating the approach to the square . It is here that short but tough resistance was given by the Jordanians against Israeli troops . In the exchange of fire , three shells fell in the square ; one scratched the Church of the Nativity 's outside wall ; two slightly damaged the Armenian convent in the same compound . Pieces of fallen masonry and two charred cars parked near the church bore testimony of the fight . Twenty persons were killed in Wednesday 's battle for Bethlehem according to three Franciscan priests . They were , in the main , people watching the struggle instead of taking shelter , the monks said . At five p.m . Wednesday , Bethlehem Mayor Elias Bendak and four priests representing the Roman Catholic , Greek Orthodox , Moslem and Armenian communities went to the Israeli commander and signed the surrender of Bethlehem . According to the Mayor only a very few , if any at all of Bethlehem 's 17,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-dressed Arab distributing boxes of cigarettes to Israeli soldiers . He was a shopkeeper , he said , " I am a great friend of King Hussein . The King has been forced against his will to make a pact with Nasser . The only enemy we all have here  --  Jews and Arabs  --  is Shukeiry . I do not want to hear his name any more . " Church routine continues We went into the Basilica . A few priests of various denominations continued their daily routine regardless of political changes outside the church . They kneeled , they prayed , they lighted candles . A few steps down , an Italian monk was explaining the Grotto of the Nativity to Israeli soldiers who obviously had left their arms outside the church . An Israeli noncommissioned officer talking with the rapid smoothness of a professional guide , conducted another group of sight-seeing Israeli troops , still tired from fighting . Looking at the more than 1,600-year-old mosaica , another soldier in the group took over the role of guide and went into detailed particularities of the Byzantine mosaic technique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli Government just arrived and began taking stock . Their first task , they said , was ensuring the functioning of public services in Bethlehem , particularly water and electricity . The Army is charged with protecting these against possible sabotage by diehards . Meanwhile , there is a dusk-to-dawn curfew in the town as in most localities of this area . However , the population is not allowed yet to circulate in the streets  --  only to stand in front of their houses . There are severe punishments for looting in the entire former Jordanian Palestine .                     