@@727181

txt A beleaguered Supreme Court has blandly ignored its critics and concluded a historic term with a magnificent pyrotechnical display . It may be the last time the present nine justices sit together . And in any event a new president in 1969 will almost certainly appoint one or two new justices in the next four years and perhaps alter the delicate balance of America 's supreme tribunal . By a 7-to-2 ruling the court dredged up from somewhere an all but forgotten 102-year-old civil-rights act which , by a judicial flick of the wrist , seemed to throw the ball of fair housing farther than Congress did in months of hesitation . In doing so , however , the Supreme Court courteously pointed out that the fair-housing title of Congress 's Civil Rights Act of 1968 is more comprehensive in some respects than its own version . The high court dealt with several other major issues before adjourning until October . Version knocked down It knocked down Alabama 's version of the " man-in-the-house rule " that excluded welfare support to dependent children whose mothers cohabited with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring welfare checks to a quarter-of-a-million children now excluded in 19 states and the District of Columbia . The court ruled , 5 to 1 , that community-antenna TV companies under present law do not have to pay for programs they take from the airwaves and carry to customers ' homes by their own cable . And , among other decisions , the court split sharply , 5 to 4 , in upholding the jailing of a chronic alcoholic as not in violation of his constitutional rights . No other big country gives such power to a high court . The tribunal exercises it under the system of divided powers as a kind of permanent constitutional convention . Attacks persist For most of its life the Supreme Court has been under attack . Liberals attacked it for conservatism in the Coolidge-Hoover days . Conservatives attack it now as the Warren court shifted direction in 1966-67 to liberalize the rights of criminal suspects . The Senate presented the extraordinary spectacle the other day of conservative John L. McClellan ( D ) of Arkansas waving his arms and angrily denouncing the august court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . " Title II of the omnibus crime bill contains provisions designed to undercut the Supreme Court 's efforts to discipline police procedure in handling suspects . Some lawyers think the provisions of Congress are themselves unconstitutional and will be thrown out by the courts if tested . But even as congressional critics warmed up for the attack the court itself , June 10 , took the popular position for a change , and ruled 8 to 1 , that the police have the right to stop and frisk dangerous-looking suspects . Critics unanswered This did not seem to be a pullback by the court but rather a recognition of the possible ; a pragmatic decision that courts ca n't police policemen beyond a certain point . The court does n't answer its critics . Some writers like Chicago University Prof. Philip B. Kurland think the high tribunal should decide less and explain more . But historians say that is how it has always been . There have been many proposed confrontations of Congress and court , with an acute new one now , over the emotional " crime in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they add , the Supreme Court has a tradition of squaring its views with " the felt necessities of the time and concluding that constitutional law , like ' politics , is a science of the possible . " One member of the present court is hospitalized , William 0 . Douglas . Seniors of the court are Chief Justice Earl Warren , 77 , and Hugo L. Black , 82 . Some conjecture that if the Chief Justice , often described as a " liberal , " sees a conservative elected president in November , he might retire to give President Johnson the chance to name his successor . Momentous term The present term has been one of the most important in years . Outstanding cases include : The new open-housing ruling . This has enforcement problems : it applies to sale and rental , not advertising and financing ; it requires that racial discrimination must be proved ; and there is no provision for damages , nor for the federal government to intervene for a Negro family . The court upheld the New York law that provides public funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see this as a retreat on church-state separation . It declared unconstitutional the automatic elimination of opponents of capital punishment from juries in capital cases . One of the most important matters in the present presidential election , therefore , is who will pick the members if any vacancies occur between 1969 and 1972.                     