@@723474

txt Washington Is Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev now ready to launch into a massive revolution in farm technology ? The question of whether he will be able to take billions of dollars from the military and industry and spend it on farm programs may well come into the open at a Communist Party " chemical " plenum set for November or December . Every indication is that the center of the technical discussion will be on fertilizers . This is the opinion of officials here ? who say that the purchase of $500,000,000 of Canadian wheat only will take the edge off the Soviets ' chronic food proOlem . This year the Soviet Premier faces another below-average harvest and will have a grim time keeping the nation 's food supply at last year 's level . U.S. Policy Statement United States Secretary of Agriculture Orville L. Freeman told an audience of Iowa farmers in Monticello , Iowa , Wednesday that he would be willing to sell some American wheat to the Soviet Union but only at a nonsubsidized price . American wheat currently has about a 70 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compete with foreign exports . The New York Times reported Thursday that . Soviet representatives informally have approached American traders with offers to buy wheat , causing some stir , A formal overture was expected soon , the paper said . Farm experts here will not be surprised if the Soviet Union is forced into sonic type of disguised rationing of food . New restrictions already have been placed on the sale of bread in Moscow . Bread , the staple food , is being restricted to one 1.1 loaf of white bread per person per day and the same amount of black bread . Retail sales of wheat flour have been discontinued altogether . Troubles Assessed Already the Soviet Union is sending out feelers to see where modern fertilizer plants can be bought in the West . Officials here feel that unless the ? oviet fertilizer plant purchases arc extensive they will have little impact on the Soviet crop troubles . And of course the development of modern - fertilizing techniques will take years . The immediate troubles for this year 's harvest now can be sized up with some accuracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands in Kazakhstan and part of Siberia the rainfall has fallen well below the average of 16 inches . It is closer to 10 inches on the average . This is close to arid conditions . On top of the new lands ' low rainfall , summer climate was extremely hot . This was coupled in June and July in the new lands with less than 11/2 inches of rain on the average . In the Soviet Union there was a cold and protracted spring . Then it became overseasonly hot . What all this amounts to is that the overall Soviet harvest this year is expected to be below last year 's which was also below average . There has been an underaverage harvest for the last five years .                     