@@722979

txt Hong Kong Peking has offered the Communist world a comprehensive restatement of Marxist doctrine in a new militant article published in the ideological journal Red Flag Monday . Taken in its entirety , the article amounts to a declaration that the faith which Marx established in Germany and which Lenin embellished in Russia has been perfected by Mao Tse-tung in Peking . Let the Communist world choose , the article in effect says , between pure Marxism as represented by the Chinese Communist leadership , and the " modern revisionist ' heresy as represented by Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev and his European henchmen , Comrades Togliatti of Italy and Thorez of France . ( Small Olive Branch There can be no compromise between the two viewpoints and there is no longer any question of " reining in at the precipice , " as a previous Peking article urged . " Let them go on creating trouble if they must , " Red Flag says of the revisionists . " The masses , and history , will pass judgment on them . " Peking does hold out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will respond to a Soviet initiative for interparty consultations . But since the previous People 's Daily editorial has made plain that such an initiative will have to include apologies for past wrongs , there is not much likelihood that Moscow will take up the gesture . Area Accent The main body of the Red Flag article .. which is ostensibly addressed to Palmiro Togliatti and which the People 's Daily carried in four installments from Friday to Monday . restates Peking 's well - known positions on war and peace , on proper relations between Communist countries and parties , and on the sins of revisionism . It reminds the Communist body politic of such Jolorful Leninisms as " parliamentary cretinism " and a host of Mao-isms including " beancurd tiger . " One of the most interesting implications of the article is that the Soviet Union and the European Communist Parties are Europe-centered and incapable of understanding or responding to the aspirations and " national liberation struggles " of colonial and semicolonial peoples in Asia , Africa , and Latin America . What hope does Peking actually have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its arguments ? From the lines of argument advanced in Red Flag it would appear that Peking 's primary appeal is to Asian Communist parties . If it can persuade most Asian parties ( except perhaps for Ceylon and the major wing of the split Indian Communists ) of the justice of its position , it will present Moscow with a highly embarrassing prospect  --  a Communist bloc divided not only by ideology but also by color and race . On a broader front , Peking seems to be marking time , waiting for some new dramatic turn such as an American invasion of Cuba to take place . Red Flag accuses Mr. Khrushchev of playing a Trotsky role in the November Cuban crisis . Any new crisis which would entail the possibility of the loss of Cuba to the Communist bloc would furnish Peking with a concrete issue whereby it might seek to topple the present Soviet leadership .                     