@@723655

txt Senators investigating the dealings of Robert G. Baker , former secretary to the Senate Democratic majority , have reached an impasse on , procedure that threatens to stall the inquiry . The immediate issue is sex , but many observers believe the outcome of the dispute will determine whether the investigation will have a wide scope or will be limited strictly to Mr. Baker 's business affairs . On Thursday , the investigating committee is expected to , vote on whether it is authorized to look into " improprie'ties " other than financial conflicts of interest . The vote could determine whether the inquiry can proceed smoothly , if at all , these observers believe . The dispute is over the terms of the Senate resolution authorizing the special inquiry by the Rules Committee There have been widely published reports that the committee would hear testimony on incidents involving " party girls . " However , the committee chairman , Senator B. Everett Jordan , Democrat of North Carolina , reportedly ruled last week that questioning on alleged ' moral improprieties was not germane to the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that L. P. , who has been engaged as chief counsel for the Baker inquiry , in effect supported the chairman 's ruling over the objection of Republican members of the committee . Neither Senator Jordan nor Mr. was available for comment today . A spokesman for the Senator said he could neither confirm nor deny the details of the dispute . It was evident tonight , how1 ever , that Republicans on the committee were determined to force a showdown on the issue , I which is alleged to have a substantive bearing on the inquiry . The Democrats have a 6-to-3 majority on the Rules Comlmittee . One Republican spokesnan said he expected " a partyline vote . " The dispute arose last Friday when Republican members of the committee attempted to question a witness in executive session about what were described as " certain moral im , plications. " 1 When the witness declined to answer on the ground that such questions were not properly part of the inquiry , the chairIman upheld the witness 's refusal . Committee sources said the , witness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fifth Amendment , which guards against self-incrimination , " and the matter was dropped . " Republican committee members , however , did not drop it . Emerging from a closed committee meeting this afternoon , Senator Hugh Scott , Republican of Pennsylvania , told newsmen that the next session , at 2 P.M. Thursday , would involve a general discussion of " the scope of the resolution . " He referred to Senate Resolution 212 , passed last Oct. 10 , three days after Mr. Baker 's resignation . The resolution was introduced by Senator John I Williams , Republican of Delaware , who had demanded a public accounting of the business interests that led to Mr. Baker 's resignation . Will ' Clarify ' Issue 1 Senator Scott said that " the committee wishes to clarify what is contemplated by the Williams resolution . " It was learned elsewhere that the " clarification " would be made by a vote of the committee , members . The language of the Williams resolution directs the Rules Committee " to make a study and investigation with respect to any financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or former ofterest or other impropriety . " It was apparently this section upon which Senator Jordan based his ruling . However , Republicans noted that the language immediately following declared the Investigation should be " for the purpose of ascertaining ( 1 ) whether any such interests or activities have involved conflicts of interests or other impropriety . " A. second stated purpose is whether there is a need for ' additional laws and regulations ' governing the conduct of Sen-1 ate officials . The resolution adds ' that " the committee shall re port to the Senate at the earliest practicable date . " Another Republican commit- , tee member , Senator Carl T. , Curtis of Nebraska , said he was , pressing for a full-scale inquiry that would involve alleged , " moral impropriety " as well as , the financial transactions of Senate employes . Mr. Baker 's varied business dealings were questioned after a suit for $300,000 was filed ' against him ; his law partner , ' Ernest C. Tucker , and the Serv- ' U Corporation , a vending com-1 pany in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capitol Vend- ' ing Company of Washington ' asserted that Capitol had lost , a profitable contract with Melpar , Inc. , a defense plant in , Falls Church , Va. , because of , the actions of Mr. Baker and , others .                     