@@727215

txt Leaders of the wildcat strike against the Chicago transit authority met secretly yesterday with union leaders and were told bluntly to order their followers back to work . The union said it would act on their complaints only when the strike is ended . The union demand was rejected . CTA officials said there was no way of determining service capabilities today because of the holiday week-end and indications that many drivers intend to return to work . The striking CTA workers held a mass rally last night . It was attended by more than 500 persons , including the Rev. Jesse Jackson , militant leader of the Southern Christian Leadership conference , in the Fellowship Baptist church , 45th place and Princeton avenue . The rally was held to encourage continuation of the strike . But George DeMent , chairman of the CTA , said he was hopeful the rally would produce agreement to end the walkout . Reject Court Move DeMent said an injunction against the dissident workers had been discussed but wasp turned down for the time being because it would have to-apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike . " You can rest assured that anyone who has not worked will not be paid , " he said . The strike began Tuesday on south and southwest side bus routes . It spread thruout the city to include elevated trains by Wednesday . However , the CTA reported elevated train service was normal for the holiday yesterday . Bus service was satisfactory except on the south and southwest sides , the CTA said . Assails Strike Leaders James J. Hill , president of Local 241 of the Amalgamated Transit Workers , and six members of the striking faction , the Concerned Transit Worker s , met for 30 minutes in the union headquarters at 14 E. Jackson blvd . During the meeting with Waymon Benson , chairman of the dissident group , Hill assailed the group for tying up 600,000 CTA commuters and interfering with drivers who wanted to work . Benson denied he was part of any black power movement . He was told by Hill that the union would not deal from the standpoint of white power or black power , it was learned . Strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill they would report their discussions and Hill 's recommendation to their membership . They did this at a meeting held later at the Congregational Church of Christ , 1139 W. 69th st . After the meeting , which was attended by 200 drivers , the striking faction asserted that the strike will continue . Robert E. Samuels , president of the Yellow Cab company , and Jerry Feldman , president of Checker Cab , issued a joint statement yesterday calling on cab drivers voluntarily to cancel their days off during the bus strike . Four buses containing passengers bound for the fireworks display at Soldiers field turned back last night at Jacks on boulevard a n d Paulina street , leaving their passengers stranded . CTA officials reported that rapid transit service flowed on all lines yesterday .                     