@@721902

txt A long-awaited committee report and a warning from the new president of the American Medical Association hit upon the same point here yesterday : organized medicine in the United States must discipline itself . The committee report suggested that some physicians were guilty of a long list of abuses ranging from unnecessary medical or surgical treatments to failure to respond to calls for medical help . Among the recommendations that members of the association are now considering is a proposal that would allow the American Medical Association to suspend o  --  revoke the membership of a physician guilty of a violation of the principles of medical ethics . Heretofore , such action has been left to component or local societies . The 216-man House of Delegates , the governing body of the association , heard the commit tee report and received its recommendations at the opening of its annual session . The recommendations will be considered in committee today and perhaps will be finally acted upon tomorrow . The subject of medical discipline was introduced at the delegates meeting by the president-elect , Dr. Leonard W. Larson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , // must be concerned with hnproper or incompetent practice and with unethical actions of every nature . There are two general realms ' the area of medical selfdiscipline , Dr. Larson said . One is the grievance committee , ' which handles patient complaints and matters in which the patient has been affected by a doctor 's action , The other is the disciplinary committee , a ' function of the medical society , which assures that physicians live up to self-imposed ideals . " By far the most frequent cases involving the ' grievance committees are those of alleged overcharging ? " Dr. Larson said . " Other complaints by patients include abuse of health insurance , failure to respond to requests for service , and unnecessary service . ' " The disciplinary committee must concern itself with ethical violations such as advertising , fee-splitting , association ? with cultists or faddists , professional incompetence , overcharging and abuse of health insurance . " The association , Dr. Larson said , has an urgent duty to strengthen self-discipline both in the state and county . societies . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law or . the dictates of good conscience was " infinitesimal " compared with the number . of ? dOctors who conklentiously provided the best possible medical care . In part , Dr. , Laison 's address to the delegates was based on a seventy-six-page report of the Medical Disciplinary Committee , which was established , by the association 's board of trustees in November , 1958 . Dr. Raymond was chairman of the committee . The committeet report was read at the delegates , meeting and copies were distributed : The committee , over the last two and one half years , has studied the question of Medical discipline by questionnaire and by interviews in all the states . The major disciplinary problems listed by states were overcharging , which includes excessive fees , high fees , failure to explain in advance to the patient and double sets of fees ; abuse of health insurance plans , including overcharging and charging , for services not performed ; narcotic addiction ; advertising , unnecessary surgery ; fee-splitting , professional incompetence , and association with cultists . County societies , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incompetence , refusal to respond to requests , for service , perversion of medical testimony , fee-splitIting , and abuse of health in- , surance plans . It . Was ? reported that , there has recently been an improvement " in the matter of discipline , " and that medical discipli- , nary mechanisms do exist and are used : " The frequency and effectiveness of their use , however , are less impressive , " the committee reported . " There has been a failure in some areas to act promptly , impartially and , objectively when the necessity arises . ' Among the findings of the committee is that in 1960 a total Iof 672 disciplinary procedures were started against the pityIsieians by state boards and state medical societies . Action was taken against 349 physicians and sixty-eight licenses were revoked during the year . Prompt Action Is Urged In a portion of its report , the committee stated : " If medicine , hopes to maintain its dignity , 1 honor , and integrity , it can do no less than to take prompt , specific and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The committee urged action by medical schools , state boards of medical examiners , state medical societies , and the American Medical Association itself . Action was urged so that by a demonstration of good faith , " medicine will be permitted to continue to discipline its own members when necessary : . This committee report was one of a hundred-odd reports and resolutions that were presented to the House of Delegates . Each report or resolution has the backing of a state society or of a special committee of the association 's Board of Trustees . Among other matters before the members are studies of the relationships between physicians and other workers in hospitals , resolutions on insurance practices and resolutions voicing the association 's continued opposition to proposed Federal legislation that would extend medical coverage to the aged under Social Security .                     