@@724968

txt Washington What will be the national goals in space after landing a man on the moon ? A manned spaceship to Mars ? Astronaut voyages to other planets ? Huge earth-orbiting laboratories or space stations ? A still secret military space mission ? While the Gemini 5 astronauts continued their adventures in orbit , earthlings crowded a Senate hearing room to open a public inquiry on the United States 's future in spa cc . Landing a man on the moon by the end of the decade was set as a national goal in 1961 by President Kennedy . Space agency officials are confident the goal will be achieved by 1970 . If all goes well , it might come by the latter part of 1969 . The reason for the interest now in post-1970 is that the lead time for building new space rocket boosters and spacecraft is roughly five years . Thus 1970 is practically just around the corner . Stories cited Sen. Clinton P. Anderson ( D ) of New Mexico , chairman of the Senate Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee , called three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anderson had read stories in the papers that the next important United States goal has already been established : a manned flight to Mars . He did n't think the stories were true . But if anyone was planning to spend 60 billion dollars on such a project , the Senator thought that at least the American people should have an opportunity to make themselves heard as to whether they thought it was worth the money . As explained by the witnesses , led by civilian space chief James E. Webb , the administration has not set a man-to-Mars flight as the next national space goal . At present , the policy is one of watchful waiting before any recommendations arc made for new projects on the order of Gemini or Apollo . The three-man Apollo spacecraft systems and the rocket boosters now under development , could , with some modifications . be Ised for a variety of missions orbiting the earth or the moon or exploring the lunar surface . These missions include refueling and transfer of supplies in space , orbiting voyages of up to two months ' duration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and landing an unmanned spacecraft on Mars . Plans formulated Earth orbital stations of long duration could be built for six to nine men . Economic benefits from a complex of these earth-orbiting stations might include increased accuracy in long-range weather forecasting and worldwide simultaneous television broadcasting . The programs for the early 1970 's called the " Appollo extension system , " now are being worked out , and decisions on the first of them can be expected by next July . For one thing , there are just too many unknowns at present to even come close to estimating the cost of a project such as a manned landing on Mars . It is not yet known , for instance , whether or not it will be necessary to place artifiical gravity in a spacecraft for extremely long flights . Such a requirement might greatly increase the weight of the capsule and the power requirements for the booster rocket . The more significant practical consideration at the moment , however , is the priority that can be established for large additional space expenditures among the many other types of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Webb said the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will need an annual budget of $5.75 billion a year until the end of the decade to execute the currently approved missions . NASA 's 1966 budget is $5.25 billion . And indication was given that the NASA budget during the next few years will stay in the $5 to $6 billion range . Within these limitations , and if present scientific probes and manned shots are to be continued , there would be no possibility of developing a new family of boosters on spacecraft .                     