@@721937

txt Mayor Wagner directed they City Commissioner of Investi-1 gation yesterday to make an ! immediate and intensive inquiry ! into certain activities of Dr. ) John J. Theobald , the Superintendent of Schools . The Mayor said he had instructed Commissioner Louis I. Kaplan to " dig right to the very bottom " of the circumstances in the construction of a boat for the Superintendent last year by i students at the East New York Vocational High School in Brooklyn . The inquiry will also go into Dr. Theobald 's purchase of building supplies for work he did himself at his Sands Point , L. I. , home . The Superintendent has said that occasionally he obtained the supplies at whole ? sale prices , and that in some instances they might have been bought from concerns doing business with the schools . Inquiry Is Welcomed Dr. Theobald said yesterday he welcomed Mr. Kaplan 's inquiry , and he reiterated previous assertions that he had committed no improprieties . In a statement last night , Dr. Theobald said : " Insinuations and accusations have been hurled against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks . In the last few days similar tactics have ! been directed at me , To remove any doubts or suspicions in the minds of the public , I have today requested Queens District Attorney O'Connor for the opportunity to appear before the grand jury which has been impaneled to investigate school affairs and to submit to full inquiry relating to any of my ' activities . " A spokesman for the Board of Education said yesterday that the principal of the school , Edward N , Wallen , owned two boats built by his students . Mr. Wallen was said to have produced receipts for the materials used in building ' the boats , a rowboat and an eighteen-foot outboard motorboat . The building of Dr. TheoMayor Orders Kaplan to Make Wide Investigation on Theobald bald 's boat was disclosed last Thursday , after it had become known that-District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor of Queens was looking into the matter as part of a wider investigation into alleged irregularities in the : school administration . Dr .. Theobald said that the fifteen-and-a-half-foot runabout had been built by students studying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover the cost of supplies . Hel explained that anyone : who would pay the cost of materials and was willing to accept the finished product no matter how it turned out could avail himself of the same service from the school . The $37,500-a-year school executive conceded that the boat had been built in the name of his brother-in-law , Francis J. Murphy . He said that was done because the school 's principal felt that it was better if " the kids did not know they were building a boat for the school superintendent . " The principal , ' Dr. Theobald said , wanted to avoid the possibility that the students would give the project " special treatment . " The craft , now equipped With an outboard motor , is kept at the superintendent 's waterfront home . Charles H. Silver . the president of the Board of Education , said that Dr. Theobald explained the boat building incident to the members of the board some weeks ago and that he had " no reason to doubt " the superintendent 's account . Soon after the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Education said all records concerning the boat-building activities of the vocational high school would be turned over to Mr. Kaplan 's department . The spokesman said the records would include all financial transactions as well as the names of about 150 persons who had boats built at the school over the last twenty-five years . Mr. Wallen , principal of the school at 1 Wells Street . opened the school safe yesterday and turned over all the records to city investigators , but it was found that no list of boat purchasers had apparently ever been kept . However , it was said The New . Yerk Times Louis I. Kaplan ! that an effort would be made to prepare such a list from various entries in the records . Mr. Wallen spent the next ' several hours at the investigation department 's office at 50 : Pine Street explaining the records and the details of the : boat-building program . He told ) : Mr. Kaplan that if it were no ( ! for the outside boat orders the ! school would be unable to pro- ! vide work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , questioned Dr. Theobald for , ! several hours Thursday evening ! and spoke to him by telephone ! yesterday . The Commissioner said the Mayor wanted top priority given to the inquiry and had ; asked to be kept informed . I The Mayor 's action drew a comment from Jacob Grumet , a member of the State Investigation Commission , which recently held a public hearing on the city 's school building program . Mr. Grumet said : " It is about time that Mayor Wagner recognized his responsibility with regard to the school problem . He can not divorce himself from it because it is part and parcel of this administration . He has always prided himself on his accomplishments in the school area and now we see that they are not all they are cracked up to be . "                     