@@723101

txt From Canada With 130 supporters in Parliament , only three less than a majority , the incoming Canadian Liberal government under Lester B. Pearson expects to hold office for an indefinite period , perhaps for a full parliamentary term . In any case , Mr. ' Pearson says he will govern as if he had only four years of power before him and will try to implement his program regardless of political consequences in the next election . Canada now awaits the first steps in this program during the next 60 days of vigorous action which Mr. Pearson promised in the recent election campaign . The timetable ahead of the government is tight , the immediate problems formidable . Trade Pressure Before the end of May , Canadian trade policy must be laid down , at least in a general way , at a meeting of the Commonwealth finance ministers in London and of the GATT nations in Geneva . Defense policy , including Mr. Pearson 's decision to accept American nuclear weapons for Canadian forces , will be discussed at the NATO meeting in Ottawa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest legal date , and the government 's first budget will follow in June . For a new Cabinet team learning to work together this schedule is onerous and wilt require the cooperation of the three opposition parties , as already assured . But the nation 's chief concern is the actual policies that the government intends to undertake . As outlined by Mr. Pearson in the campaign . they will be advanced under a definite system of priorities . First , the government will attempt to reduce the heavy deficit in the federal budget which has occurred annually since 1957 . The next budget can not be balanced but Mr. Pearson hopes to effect a balance within two years . Growth Factor Since he also proposes new capital expenditures and business tax incentives to stimulate the economy , increased consumer taxes of some sort may be necessary . That will depend on the growth of the economy , the government 's second and overriding priority . Only when growth is achieved on a sufficient scale will the government expand the state 's social services , the third priority . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be introduced but will represent no extra burden on the national treasury . The order of business is thus laid down in broad terms , but the details arc so complicated and involve so many grave decisions that the new Parliament is unlikely to approach most of them until autumn . The session opening in May , before a probable midsummer recess , will be important mainly as it begins , and only begins , to reveal the government 's specific plans for economic and financial reform forecast in the generalities 61 an election .                     