@@726235

txt American air strikes and artillery bombardments were credited today with having killed 80 per cent of the enemy soldiers who fell in two days of bloody fighting in the jungle northwest of Saigon . Most of the 591 enemy dead . counted so far were killed when American troops repulsed a reinforced regiment of about 2,500 men that attacked before dawn yesterday . American losses in the massive attack and in a four-hour battle the day before in the same area were 10 killed and 64 wounded , a military spokesman said . The fighting took place about 70 miles from Saigon in the area known as War Zone C , near the Cambodian border . The United States command said that five American warships bombarded the coast of North Vietnam Saturday in the war 's biggest sea assault in a single day , according to The Associated Press . The vessels  --  four destroyers and a cruiser  --  pounded enemy coastal defenses and points along the supply route to the South . Intensive Air Assault In the two days of fighting northwest of Saigon , 170 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ napalm . Artillery was fired almost continuously and , at times , five to six batteries totaling up to 36 guns were delivering barrages at once . Capt . George Joulwan , a 28-year-old West Point graduate serving as operations officer of the First Battalion , 26th Infantry Regiment of the First Infantry Division , appraised the effectiveness of the air strikes and artillery fire at a news conference this evening . His judgment that 80 per cent of the enemy casualties were due to ' air and artillery came without , hesitation in response to a question . Captain Joulwan , of Pottsville , Pa. , had played a major , role in directing troops and the supporting artillery and air // strikes during both days of the fighting . The troops are taking part in Operation Junction City , the largest allied offensive of the war . At 4:45 A.M. yesterday , a single mortar round exploded in front of a neighboring unit , Captain Joulwan said . The commander of the First Battalion , iLeut . Col. Alexander M. Haig of Arlington , Va. , heard it and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes later they hit us with one of the heaviest barrages of mortar fire I 've ever seen , and I 've been in four or five mortar attacks during this operation , " Captain Joulwan said . " It lasted for about 20 minutes . Miraculously , we did n't take any casualties . " Captain Joulwan said the first indication of a ground attack came with rifle fire at the northwest corner of the battal ion 's perimeter at 5:25 A.M. " Then they just started coming heavier and heavier and heavier , " he said . " They overran two of our forward positions . We brought artillery to within 25 meters 68 feet of our own men , but the V.C. came right through the artillery . " Captain Joulwan said there was a lull of about 25 minutes , with five minutes of almost absolute quiet . Then , at about 7 o'clock , enemy violence erupted again . Tide of Battle Turned " We brought napalm to within 20 meters of friendly troops brought in heavy bombs .. In my opinion , that was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . " In the next hour the AmerTied out yesterday while ' bad weather limited air attacks on the north . Full details of the damage inflicted on shore installations was lacking . The only answering fire from the shore came from an area near Donghoi against the guided-missile destroyer Waddell . The destroyer 's crew reported sighting four The other ships in the assaults were the guided-missile cruiser Providence and the destroyers Turner Joy , Alfred R. Cunningham and the Duncan . He was called out in darkness yesterday morning when the enemy attack was imminent . When Major Savage reached the ' battle scene , armed helicopters ' and an Air Force C-47 equipped with rapid-firing Gatling guns were " hosing down the area " with their weapons . " It was dark and there was a ragged ceiling and smog , so at first high-angle bombing was impossible , " he said . " But we finally got In with the goods . " Saturday alone , we had 105 aircraft on the target ? 40 flights , " he said . " At times we had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in . This went on through 6:30 last night . I think they 're going to find a lot more bomb damage and Charlies Vietcong before this thing is over . " All Planes Escape Damage " They threw everything they had at us , but none of our aircraft were damaged , " Major Savage said . At one point , the Vietcong detonated a claymore land mine with a range of about 150 yards in an effort to bring down a dive-bombing F-105 Thunderchief . It missed . The brigade commander charged with over-all responsibility for the American troops engaged was wounded early in the morning by mortar fragments . The wounded officer , whose name was not made public , was replaced by Brig . Gen. James Hollingsworth , assistant division commander , who for six hours cruised over the battlefield in a helicopter , helpinr , coordinate the fire support with commanders on . the ground . ? The attack yesterday was . the ? third of regimental size mounted , by the enemy within two weeks against American troops participating in Operation Junction City . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the Americans were declared to have lost 33 killed and 139 wounded . An Air Force spokesman said that Operation Junction ' City had received more tactical air strike and airlift support than any previous allied offensive . Air Force fighter-bombers have struck 2,243 times at enemy targets and cargo planes have carried 19,909 tons of supplies , men and equipment , he said . North 's Coastline Bombarded SAIGON , April 2 ( AP ) ? The United States Command reported today the bombardment of the coast of North Vietnam by five American warships in the war 's biggest naval assault in a single day . The vessels pounded coastal defenses and points along the supply line to the south and returned to their sea stations unscathed , a spokesman said . The naval attacks were car-                     