@@726606

txt The southern end of Lake Michigan and tributary streams were searched yesterday in an effort to find the source of huge oil slicks that stretched along a 75-mile span of the lake . Coast guard boats searched the lake from dawn to dusk . A fire department helicopter and plane were called on to aid in the job . There were signs that the pollution stemmed from the Indiana Harbor ship canal , an area pinpointed by TRIBUNE reporters Sunday as one of the prime pollution areas of the . lake . " This is the worst case of pollution I 've ever seen in a body of water , " Vinton W. Bacon , general superintendent of the metropolitan sanitary district . said after examining the situation by helicopter . Fears Wind Shift He cautioned that if winds changed , beaches in the Chicago area could become as fouled as those in England after the Torrey Canyon , a tanker , broke up off the coast , spilling millions of gallons of oil into the sea . " We found evidence of pollution from Glencoe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port cantain of the coast guard in Chicago . " Most of it was in globs and patches , but they were in evidence off Glencoe , Howard street , Devon avenue , Belmont harbor . Fullerton avenue , and from 15th to 31st streets as well as in the Indiana Harbor area . " Capt . Natwig said the source had not yet been determined , but he said the investigation is centering in the Indiana Harbor area where the oil seems to be thickest . Quarter-Inch Thick James C. Vaughan , head of the city 's filtration plants , said the oil seemed to be thickest in the Indiana Harbor ship II canal . He estimated the oil there was about a quarter-inch thick . It fanned out of the canal into the harbor . The city 's filtration plants are in no immediate danger , he said . Unless the wind shifts to the southwest there should be no problem . If some oil should float into the cribs , the amount of carbon introduced into the water at the filtration plants will be increased , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called bunker type C , commonly used on lake freighters . He said the oil poses a great danger , and he has ordered Dr. Jerome Stein , director of research for the district , to conduct an immediate investigation . Penalty Is Jail , Fine The 1899 rivers and harbors act provides a maximum penalty of a year in jail and a $500 fine for discharging anything but storm water into navigable waters . Capt . Natwig indicated the coast guard will press its investigation into the source and will push for prosecution when the source is located . He said that the coast guard has equipment standing by that can encircle the oil slicks and contain them until they can be removed . " A change in the wind could put us in a lot of trouble , and we have to be prepared , " be said .                     