@@725899

txt The Federal Aviation Agency is studying the possibility of shifting all International flights from Kennedy International Airport to a lesscongested airport . The move was disclosed yesterday by Oscar Bakke , regional F.A.A. director , who indicated that such a step might be taken if local authorities failed to reach agreement " in the near future " on a site for a fourth jetport . Mr. Bakke , a jetport advocate , warned that the Federal Government was growing impatient over the long-stalled jetport search . He said that shifting international flights away from Kennedy was " a possible avenue of relief " from congestion open to Federal authorities , and he added that the agency was " disposed " to a new location farther east of New York than Kennedy . The Port of New York Authority , the operator of Kennedy , Newark and La Guardia Airports , has been conducting studies of a possible fourth site since 1959 . So far It has been able to find only one satisfactory . site  --  in Morris County , N. J.  --  but opposition there barred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a jetport site is expected to be submitted to the Governors of New York and New Jersey in about a month , according to the bistate agency . Mr. Bakke said in an interview that he had been asked in the last 60 days by William F. , F.A.A. Administrator , to study " the feasibility and desirability , in the public interest , " of designating another airport as the New York area 's port of entry for overseas airliners . Kennedy International , in Idlewild , Queens , has served this role almost exclusively since it opened in 1948 . The exceptions have been occasional international flights that have been shunted to Newark Airport in bad weather . On such occasions Federal customs and public health and immigration officials have been temporarily assigned to Newark for passenger clearances . Mr. Bakke said that no site had been selected for a possible new port of entry , but he added that his agency was " disposed to look east of New York for that airport , " because most overseas flights to New York came from an easterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would consider whether it could afford to go more than 50 , and as much as 100 , miles from New York , including areas on Long Island , and in Connecticut and Rhode Island . The F.A.A. official said that moving international flights away from the city would benefit international passengers , by reducing the delays frequently experienced by inbound flights at peak periods . Delays in New York 's air-traffic pattern , he noted , run up to two hours . International flights account for 15 to 20 per cent of Kennedy 's operations , Mr. Bakke said , and 7 to 8 per cent of the total traffic in the New York area . Kennedy handled 11,139,000 domestic passengers in 1965 , a gain of 9.6 per cent above 1964 , and 5,069,000 international travelers , an increase of 14.1 per cent over the previous year . If international flights were moved out of its jurisdiction , the Port Authority would stand to lose airport revenues . Last month the authority announced a $150-million expansion program to help Kennedy keep pace with air-traffic growth and to reduce delays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study , a Port Authority spokesman said yesterday that the Federal agency " has never discussed any such plan or study with us . " Spokesmen for Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines  --  the two major United States overseas airlines ? said they would have no comment on the F.A.A. move . Jetport Issue Mr. Bakke , an advocate of a fourth jetport as a means of alleviating growing airport congestion here , carefully tied the F.A.A. study to the jetport issue . He said the study was undertaken " on the assumption that local government might not be able to come up with a solution in the immediate future " on a jetport site . " I do n't know what the Port of New York Authority has recommended , or is going to recommend , to the Governors , " he said , " and conceivably they may be developing something completely new , of which I have no knowledge , but I do know that the Federal Government is becoming impatient , and if some solution is n't forthcoming shortly , I think it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does possess . " The Government , he said , has no power to require changes in airline schedules , nor can it limit aircraft movement except for air-traffic control purposes . But it does have power , he said , to designate airports for international airline use . That authority is vested in the State Department . The F. A. A. normally recommends such designations to the State Department , he said . He noted that the Government also had control over the assignment of the necessary inspection services of public health , immigration , customs and agricultural agents . As part of its study , the F.A.A. will investigate the points of origin and destination of air travelers in the New York area , to help it select an airport site . Mr. Bakke said that he expected to make a recommendation on a possible new international airport by early next year .                     