@@725356

txt American census takers soon ? probably in May ? will start asking a startling new question . Something to this effect : Have you recently been the victim of a crime ? Some 35,000 American households ? a carefully selected cross section ? will be asked that . The question is a major innovation of the President 's Crime Commission . Presidential crime assessors want to know more about how many crimes are actually committed every year . They believe present statistics are inadequate . Those who admit that they have been victimized by a serious crime will be asked if they reported it . If not , why not ? What effect did the crime have on their lives ? And what have they done to prevent being victimized again ? The commission feels that many Americans do n't report crimes because they fear reprisals , embarrassment , or publicity . Or they simply do n't think it will do any good . The Census Bureau will carry out the survey along with their regular monthly question-taking on employment and unemployment . A Senate probe light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orb . Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut , an ever-vigilant Senate crusader , is shocked by the " appalling " failure rate among auto insurance firms . The probe , by his antitrust and monopoly subcommittee , could prove more explosive even than the stir kicked up earlier by the rate of bank failures . Senator Dodd told the Senate it " literally staggers the imagination when we calculate that the insurance failure percentage is 89 times higher than the banking failure rate . " Since 1960 , some 58 companies have failed , leaving more than 1,200,000 people uninsured . Subcommittee sources say that about 90 percent of those failures involved fraud or something equally illegal . Senator Dodd has already rapped the lack of state examiners . And he is likely to press for federal guarantees for insurance firms  --  similar to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guarantees for banks . Trends . ? ? Kennedy 50 cent pieces are still being hoarded instead of spent . Though 250 million have been minted , too few still clink into cash registers around the country . Production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has concentrated instead on minting the new copper-content quarters . Copper-content Kennedy halves will start rolling off the mint lines this year , too . But coin collectors who have been paying 55 cents for Kennedy halves with high silver content , figure their value will soar still more in the year ahead . Treasury officials in Washington deny this . They insist that though the half dollars might not be turning up in marketplaces , there just is n't a real shortage . Too many millions have been minted . How and why ? ? ? Washington officials have been pouring over their intel'igence reports on the Viet Cong 's National Liberation Front . What they see reinforces their resolve to reject any promptings  --  such as New York Sen. Robert F. Kennedy 's last weekend  --  to negotiate with the NLF . The two leading figures of the front ? First Secretary-General Nguyen Van Hieu and Chairman Nguyen Huu Tho ? have been known Communist agitators since the end of World War II . The NLF , American experts insist , is forced to put such men in top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Diem period or since has been willing to associate with the front . " It adds up to another reason the Johnson administration balks at negotiating with the NLF . That man who appears evenings on the White House lawn and goes around pounding a pasteboard box with a paddle is n't disoriented . He 's only chasing starlings . He has had many predecessors . An armada of starlings peck in the suburbs by day and come croaking and squawking by night back to the nice clean , government buildings . Officials scratch their heads and employ many devices to be rid of them  --  from electrically wired ledges to balloons . Balloons were among the earliest anti-starling devices . One astonished newsman once while interviewing trust-buster Thurmond Arnold , saw a man walk through the room clutching a cluster of gay balloons and saunter out an open French window onto a ledge two stories above Pennsylvania Avenue . He soon materialized at another window and walked back through the room , out the door . And Mr. Arnold never batted an eye .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      