@@723555

txt CITY INTENSIFIES DRIVE TO REDUCE WASTE OF WATER Vacations Canceled to Add Men Needed to Locate and Repair Leaks 80 ? PREDICTED TODAY Air Pollution Falls to Normal Forest Fire in Rockland Controlled by Planes By MARTIN ARNOLD All vacations and leaves in the city 's Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity were canceled yesterday in a move to conserve water . They were canceled so that enough manpower would bE available to make quick repair ; on broken mains and fast in ? spections where water wastE was reported . The city acted as the unsea ' sonably warm , dry weather anc continued drought increased the fire peril to the withered field ; and forests of the Northeast . New York State sent out E call to other states and Canada yesterday for additional fire ? fighting airplanes to battle the nearly 100 brush and woodland fires in scattered sections of the state . Planes Are Used The state 's own planes were used successfully yesterday to bring under control a fire in the Ramapo Mountains that had been blazing for 12 days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked the Sanitation Department to use chlorinated river water , rather than city water , to flush the streets . The City Housing Authority , the country 's largest landlord , with nearly 150,000 families as tenants , was asked to eliminate all water leaks and wastes in its projects and to conduct an educational campaign on water conservation . Schools ' Help Asked A similar request was made to the Board of Education , which has 800 buildings , and to various other city , - state and Federal agencies . Meanwhile , the , Weather Bureau reported that no break in the drought and the warm weather was likely this weekend . The high in New York yesterday was 78 degrees at 3 P.M. The bureau predicted that the high today would be at least 30 degrees in the city , on Long Island and in most of New Tersey and Connecticut . Yesterday was the 23d consecutive day without precipitaLion in New York , equaling the record for the month of October , set in 1924 . The air-pollution alert that // was declared for much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Public Health Service was still in effect , but 1the air pollution level in the city yesterday was back to normal . That was because factories were shut , householders had cooperated by not burning leaves and a breeze had puffed pollutants out of , the city . The Weather Bureau said that there would be some relief today and tomorrow from the fog haze that has slowed some road traffic in the morning and at night , particularly in New Jersey . The relief will come from drier air flowing into the area , the bureau said . The haze that has been produced in the metropolitan area has resulted from what weather officials call ideal fog conditions . These have been warm days and long nights with the ground soaked by sun during the day , losing its warmth at night . As this heat from the ground escapes , the air near the earth is chilled to the dew point , and this results in fog . But the big problems remained the water and fire situations . Throughout the state efforts were being made to xeep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burning outdoor fires . There were nearly 100 brush and woodland fires burning in the state yesterday . The most troublesome one , in the Ramapo Mduntains , was reported under control yesterday . It has been blazing for 12 days , expanding finally into a four-mile-front fire that extended from Suffern to Ladentown , Rockland County Fire CoorCity Intensifies Effort to Save Water as Drought Continues dinator George Conklin said yesterday afternoon that it would continue to burn in the ground for several weeks but that it was under control , that no homes would be threatened and that he was withdrawing all but a small fire watch from the scene . The fire was brought under control by State Conservation Department water planes . The planes carry 150 gallons of water each . The water is shot from the planes through high pressure nozzles , proaucing a heavy mist at the fire edge . The mist produces a border around the fire that the flames can not , in theory , jump . Forty new brush and woodland fires broke out in Suffolk County , bringing the total to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire month of October , only 211 similar fires were reported in the county . Another large area of Maine woodlands was closed yesterday , leaving only the far northern areas open to hunters and campers . Fires were reported in Illinois , Kentucky , Pennsylvania and Maryland . Dwindling drinking water supplies were reported in scattered areas on the East Coast , No water shortage emergency has developed in Philadelphia yet , but the Delaware River , from which the city gets 60 per cent of its water , is at its lowest point since 1932 . Newark reported that its Pequannock watershed , which supplies more than half the city 's drinking water , was at only 25 per cent of capicity . Baudouin to Visit Japan TOKYO , Oct. 26 ( AP ) ? King Baudouin of the Belgians and Queen Fabiola will pay an official visit to Japan in January , the Foreign Ministry announced today .                     