@@722123

txt The Autocrat of The Art the Breakfast Table of Educating is quoted less freAdults quently in this day and age , but he it was who suggested that " a child 's education should begin at least one hundred years before he was born . " This was in 1858 ; one wonders if Dr. Holmes might not want to extend the preparatory period even further were he with us today . The elaborate complications of methodology and theory that surround and engulf everything touching the training of the young make casual commentary superfluous . Unless , we should add , it be couched in explosive phrases or words so sulphurous as to burn away all the dross and doubletalk in a flash  --  brilliant sometimes , more often merely blinding . However this may be , it is certainly no secret that more than a century has been devoted by able and thoughtful people to educating those who are no longer children and adolescents ; part of this effort has sought to expand the benefits of childhood instruction , part also has been directed toward those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This week in Washington educators and social scientists are gathered to attend the Tenth Anniversary Conference of the Adult Education Association of the United States . Ten years seems The British far too short a time Gave It for all the varied aca push complishments that have already been made in developing resources for the broadening and enrichment of adult years . The fact is that the anniversary celebrated is merely the end of a decade of this particular organization 's work under its present program . When it was organized at Columbus , Ohio , in May , 1951 , it drew together various older streams of activity . There was an Immigrant Education program initiated by the National Education Association in 1921 ; the American Association for . Adult Education was formed in 1926 . The latter grew out of a study by Frederick H. Keppel of the Carnegie Corporation which was in turn motivated by the report issued by the British Ministry of Recovery in 1919 . Apart from dedicated Some programs of the sort Previous mentioned , the notion Efforts of helping mature men and women to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they already know goes back much earlier . Benjamin Franklin 's " Juno " in Philadelphia in 1727 is but one glittering example of this kind of activity for the general improvement of mankind . The pamphlets , papers , speeches and writings of the American Revolutionary period were a concentrated effort at adult education which went considerably beyond the urgent political issues of the moment . Early in the nineteenth century when the intellectual curiosity of all sorts of men was stirred by mechanical and industrial advances , lyceums , institutes , lecture courses sprang up to satisfy it . These later grew into public libraries , land grant colleges , extension courses , chautauquas , night schools and correspondence courses ; today we have countless opportunities for extracurricular classes , for reading " Great Books " in discussion groups , studying at home by recordings , for collecting most , if not all , of man 's knowledge and inspiration in low-cost paperbacks . Once identified Past , largely with AmeriPresent and canization classes for the Obvious the foreign-born , or with such projects as Dr. Eliot 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Reading With a Purpose " series , adult education today embraces the ancient past , outer space and how to survive a nuclear holocaust . The famous son of the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table , the late Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. , said in a speech in New York City in 1913 something that educators may well make a note of once more : " We need education in the obvious more than investigation of the obscure . " Montaigne thought The Spirit that the human soul of was not likely to Learning achieve much in the way of moral advancement after the age of 20 , but he himself kept on reading and ruminating about a refreshing multiplicity of things until he was close to 60 . The real task of adult education is not so much what to teach or to whom ; it is to create first the spirit of learning in the mind that thinks it is sufficiently furnished , and then to produce the teacher who can nourish that spirit with proper Intellectual food , obvious or obscure .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       