@@722735

txt Andrei A. Gromyko met with President Kennedy yesterday in a continuation of the exchange of views between the United States and the Soviet Union on Berlin and other disputes . The Soviet Foreign Minister went to the White House at his own request , apparently to pave the way for yet another round of talks . His visit strengthened the impression that the Berlin dispute would enter its fifth year next month with the two sides still talking and still deadlocked . The visit yesterday was the third long conversation in 12 days between leading Soviet and American officials . It probably is the prelude to a direct meeting between Premier Khrushchev and President Kennedy . Talks apparently will continue despite the lack of progress and despite a Soviet assertion a month ago that discussions should be deferred until the completion of the United States Congressional elections Nov. 6 . Exchange Is Lengthy The dinner conference lasted until shoftly after midnight . The two sides had , therefore , more than six hours of nearly continuous discussions . But a United States spokesman said this morning there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Gromyko left the State Department at 12:30 A.M. , saying only that both sides had to work to improve their relations . Last evening , he had described the White House portion of the talks as " useful . " The conferees at dinner , picking up where the White House meeting left off , were said to have covered familiar ground in familiar ways , with no new proposals or suggestions by either side and no exchange of notes or working papers . The general understanding was that the discussions would continue , though not immediately with Mr. Gromyko . The Soviet Foreign Minister will return to New York today and fly to Moscow Sunday after one month in the United States . Mr. Gromyko 's presentation will be carefully studied here to see whether there exists at least a basis for the formal negotiations that Moscow now seems to want . The Soviet position has not changed since the President told Mr. Gromyko a year ago that Moscow 's position was unacceptable . At that meeting , on Oct. 6 , 1961 , United States officials gained the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forestall a showdown on Berlin . Soviet intentions at this stage are the subject of continuing speculation , but the White House door will remain open for Mr. Gromyko and for Mr. Khrushchev himself if that is the Russians ' wish . The Premier 's indicated desire to meet with the President and to visit the United Nations soon was discussed at the White House meeting . But Mr. Gromyko did not commit Mr. Khrushchev to the journey or disclose anything more definite about his plans . How Mr. Kennedy dealt with this subject could not be learned at once , but there were signs that . the Administration hoped to dissuade Mr. Krushchev from coming . President Kennedy is said to he unenthusiastic about a summit meeting at a time when no agreement seems possible on either Berlin or a nuclear testban treaty . Associates say he does not wish to arouse false hopes ' around the world or to exhaust a channel of contact that should be reserved for major accommodations or grave crises . But Mr. Khrushchev is free to come to the General Assemblyin New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet with him if he comes . On leaving the White House last night after a talk of two and a quarter hours with the President , Mr. Gromyko declined to comment on the chances of a Khrushchev visit . " I have nothing to say on this at this moment , " he said . " The President and I discussed several important matters , " Mr. Gromyko added , " among them the question of the German peace settlement . I think that the exchange of views on such matters was useful . " After prolonged Rusk-Gromyko meetings on Berlin in Geneva last March , talks between officials of the two governments shifted to Washington , then back again to Geneva in July . A lull this summer was followed by ' further talks between Mr. Rusk and Mr. Gromyko in New York . Throughout this period , Moscow moved more and more toward insistence that Western troops leave Berlin as part of any settlement . The Allies rejected this as tantamount to surrender . The West also insisted that unhampered access to West Berlin and the viability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend . Officials here who looked over reports of a speech in East Berlin Thursday by Wladyslaw Gomulka , the Polish Communist leader , found nothing in it to suggest any move away from Moscow 's view that the Western powers should be allowed access only to a demilitarized Berlin . This is the Soviet phrase for the withdrawal of Western troops . They noted the repetition of the offer to have the major . powers " guarantee " such access despite any " sovereignty " conferred on the East German Communist regime . But as long as even guaranteed access remains linked to a withdrawal from Berlin , officials said , there is no basis for negotiation . Izvestia Calls Treaty Near MOSCOW , Oct. 18 ( AP ) ? The Government newspaper Izvestia said tonight that the " moment is drawing near " for the signing of a separate East German peace treaty by the Soviet bloc . The statement appeared in a dispatch from the United Nations on the activities of the Soviet delegation . It was printed a few hours before a scheduled conference between Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                