@@724921

txt President Johnson is nearing ! the point of decision in his review of United States policy in Vietnam , a White House source said today . The President intends to meet tomorrow or Wednesday with a bipartisan group of Congressional leaders to discuss the situation in advance of final decisions on the direction and scope of United States involvement in Vietnam . A white House source said , however , that within 24 hours nr . Johnson could be expected to have fixed in his own mind the topics he will discuss . There has been speculation that if Mr. Johnson decides that it is necessary to call reservists to active duty , he will ask Congress to approve the I step in a joint resolution . The President could also clear the way for calling up ready reservists by declariijg a state of emergency . However , it is widely presumed that he would prefer a Congressional mandate . Downing of Jet Discussed The President resumed his intensive consultations on Vietnam , conferring for three hours with his top military and foreign policy advisers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weekend . Mr. Johnson and his advisers discussed the destruction of a United States jet fighter plane near Hanoi on Saturday . A United States spokesman in Saigon said yesterday that " initial indications " suggested that the plane , with two men aboard , might have been hit by a ground-to-air missile from a launching site near Hanoi . There was no word today from the White House , the State Department or the Defense Department that the United States had concluded that the plane was the victim of such a missile , Bill D. Moyers , the President 's press secretary , said the incident was still under " intense scrutiny and investigation , " He said the President had requested that all information about the matter be brought to his attention as soon as it was received . If the fighter was struck by , a missile from one of the five sites built by the Soviet Union around Hanoi in recent weeks , a new and grave element has been introduced in the review of the Administration 's Vietnam . policy . The Administration has avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strike at major civilian : centers and because of the risk that troops from Communist , China or larger number of North Vietnamese troops might enter ; the war . There had been no public re- ' port that the sites were opera --  ; tional , but military sources have assumed that they could be put ! into action in a few hours . If the fighter was downed by a missile , one possibility , according to Defense Department , sources , is that there are more sites than the five reported . Those who conferred with the ' President today included Vice ' President Hubert H. Humphrey , Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Secretary of Defense Robert S. ' and Under Secretary of State George W. Ball . The others wera Gen. Earle G. Wheeler , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ; Henry Cabot Lodge , Ambassadordesignate to South Vietnam ; Arthur J. Goldberg , the new United States representativeln the United Nations ; Adm . William F. Raborn Jr. , head of the Central Intelligence Agency ; Richard Helm , deputy director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close friend and adviser of the President ; Bundy , Special Assistant to the President for National Security , and other members of the White House staff . The President requested that he he supplied tomorrow with additional information from the State and Defense Departments I relating in part to manpower requirements in Vietnam and the question of increasing draft calls , according to Mr. Moyers . The President and his advisars analyzed the diplomatic initiatives taken by the United States in the last few months in an effort to bring about negotiations to end the Vietnam conflict . Mr. Moyers said they had examined in detail Mr. Johnson 's proposal , at the recent United Nations anniversary ceremonies in San Francisco , for the assembled nations to use all their influence individually and collectively to bring about negotiatiuns.                     