@@726104

txt Mayor Daley and Democratic leaders in the state legislature met yesterday with Senate Majority Leader W. Russell Arrington R. , Evanston and his staff in an attempt to get the Republican controled legislature to approve doubling of the city 's half-cent sales tax . After a one-hour breakfast in tLe Union League club , both sides reported no real progress and aired their views in a news conference . Daley said there was " no agreement " and Arrington broke in to say there was " no disagreement , either . " Arrington made it clear nothing could be accomplished until Gov . Kerner indicates in his budget message whether the state will seek an increase in the state sales tax , now pegged at 3 1/2 per cent . Daley Team Attends Daley was accompanied by Corporation Counsel Raymond P. Simon , House Minority Leader John P. Touhy , Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. , and Rep. Paul Edward , former House majority whip . Arrington was flanked by three administrative assistants including bis son , Michael . " It was a friendly talk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the fine breakfast we had with his staff . It 's always nice to meet and to talk and exchange ideas . There has been no headway and no agreements as far as our city program is concerned . " We came here in the spirit of cooperation to plead for the plight of the cities and for the people in the cities for some kind of agreement for better police , more police , and for health and safety . I 'd like to make it perfectly clear we feel we have a right to be given consideration to the immediate needs of the cities because 80 per cent of the people of Illinois live there . " Indicates Sympathy Arrington said the legislature " is sympathetic to the desperate needs of millions in the cities in the state . We 're going to give it our study and attention . There is going to be no blockade . " He said a Senate committee would hear from opponents and proponents of the Daley tax bill within the next month . " There will be early consideration of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said " the whole problem " in his opinion is the question , " What portion is the state going to need of sales tax revenue for state operations ? " Arrington said he has had no word from Gov . Kerner on this . " It 's been rumored the governor may propose as a solution the broadening of the present sales tax structure to include a multitude of services , " he said . Sees More City Income " Now , if that 's the case , that necessarily will have an effect on elevating the total amount of money the cities will collect by virtue of the broadening of that base . " If the governor would suggest that he would n't need for the state an increase in the sales tax and could fulfill his needs by broadening the sales tax base , it could be determined whether this additional revenue could meet the needs of the cities . " We must know the state 's plans for financing . . . so long as the city and the state are sharing the same tax penny or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on County Arrington said there was talk but " no important conversation " during the breakfast session about the additional 16-million-dollars County Board President Richard B. Ogilvie , a Republican , says he needs for his budget . Democrats blocked passage of a bill which would have given Ogilvie the money immediately . Senate Republicans won approval of a bill which would give Cook county the money by July 1 . The bill needs House passage and the governor 's signature . Of the Ogilvie bill , Arrington said , " It was not an important element of our conversation ; it was not part of a legislative deal . " Daley interrupted to say , " There was no deal but we said , and legislative leaders speak for themselves , they are very sympathetic to the plight of the counties as well as the cities . " Touhy Adds Opinion House Minority Leader Touhy spoke for himself and said he too was sympathetic to this issue . He then said Gov . Kerner has said nothing to him about broadening the sales tax base . " The only ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said , " are Sen. Arrington , Rep. Pollack , and Speaker Smith . " Rep. William E. Pollack R. , Chicago is House majority leader . Rep. Ralph T. Smith R. , Alton is speaker . Arrington reiterated his stand that " any understanding " reached on the Daley tax bill must include a property tax ceiling in Chicago and use of city portions of increased sales taxes to abate real estate taxes . Rep. Elward said he would agree to use of 50 per cent of increased sales tax revenue to abate real estate taxes .                     