@@722603

txt Boston , Aug. 14 ( R )  - -  Four robbers , two carrying submachine guns , tonight robbed a United States mail truck , and a state police officer said they escaped with cash which coule total as much as 2 million dollars . Officials were unable to pin down the loss figure exactly because the loot was in sealed pounches . At least 16 bags of registered mail were taken from the truck . The money represented bank deposits from Cape Cod being taken to the Federal Reserve bank in Boston . Four Autos Are Used The truck was stopped near Plymouth by one of the men wearing a policeman 's uniform . Before the two-man truck crew could use their guns , two men stuck submachine guns into the truck cab , leaped into the truck , trussed the guards , and tossed them into the rear of the vehicle . Four autos were used by the thieves , and two of them later were found abandoned in Plymouth county near the Plymouth county house of correction . Two robber cars trailed the truck as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Plymouth , where they looted it , abandoned the truck with its trussed victims , and fled in the two cars . Postal officials would make no estimate of the loss . Postmaster G. Frank Sweeney of Hyannis , where the shipment originated , was asked if t h e loot exceeded $5,000 . He replied : " Oh , gracious , yes ! " Driver . Guard Quizzed The driver , Philip Schena , and the guard , Patrick Barrett , freed themselves after the robbers fled and flagged down a passing car to give the alarm . Schena and Barrett were taken to Randolph police headquarters and questioned by FBI agents and postal inspectors . The robbery took place shortly after 8 p. m. 7 p. m . Chicago time and the first alarm was received by state police about 10 p. m . Officials said the last major mail truck robbery in Massachusetts occurred Jan. 23 , 1935 , in Fall River when a gang overpowered a truck crew and escaped with $129,000 . Police were checking the possibility that two notorious bank robbers were involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New England police were alerted by New York authorities that Albert F. Nussbaum , 27 , and Bobby R. Wilcoxon , 32 , formerly of Duke , Okla. , were believed headed for New England . On May 26 , a policeman in Abington , almost midway between Plymouth and Randolph , reported he was shot at by a motorist he said resembled Nussbaum . An extensive search of woodlands near the shooting failed to uncover any trace of the man . The original police alarm from New York warned that Nussbaum and Wilcoxon , both wanted for slaying a bank guard in Brooklyn , N. Y. , were heavily armed . They were reported to be carrying submachine guns and hand grenades .                     