@@722782

txt Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru told Parliament today that the " good wishes " of the Soviet Union " are a great consolation to us and we hope we will have them in the future . " His speech to the lower house this afternoon followed a onehour private interview with the Soviet Ambassador , Ivan A. Benediktov , who is expected to leave tomorrow for a meeting of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party in Moscow . The Prime Minister reiterated the view that the Soviet Union was in a difficult position because of its alliance with Communist China and its friendship for India . " We must realize we can not suggest they go against allies , " he declared . New Ministers Named The Government announced formally tonight the expected appointment of Y. B. Chavan , the chief minister of the state government of Maharashtra and a Congress party leader in Bombay , as Defense Minister . Mr. Nehru had held the portfolio himself since V. K. Krishna Menon 's resignation . T. T. Krishnamachari , Minister Without Portfolio , will become Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ K. R. Ramaiah will become Minister of Defense Production : Mr. Menon held the production post briefly after he resigned as Defense Minister and before he was forced to leave the Cabinet . While Mr. Nehru was speaking in Parliament , a defense ministry spokesman announced that the only action at the front was an exchange of fire in the Lohit sector in the northeast frontier region between an Indian patrol and a Chinese post a few miles northwest of the village of Walong . The spokesman said there were no casualties on the Indian side . Reports from Calcutta and here in the capital indicated that Chinese Embassy and consular officials were burning files and documents . However , diplomatic observers said that the reported action might be a normal precaution rather than a prelude to a breach of relations with India by the Chinese Government . India has thus far failed to break off relations with Chine because of reported anxiety that a breach might lead to . an aerial bombardment of Indian positions and even Indian cities . Thus far there has been no participation in combat by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which marked his 73rd birthday , seemed aimed at calming some aspects of a growing Indian war liver . He described as fantastic suggestions made in Parliament that India should undertake the " liberation " of Tibet from Chinese domination . " In this war it is impossible for either country to bring the other to its knees , " he said . " Are you thinking of marching to Peking ? " A. back bench member cried out : " Are they thinking of marching to New Delhi ? " " Even if we had the atom bomb we could not conquer them , " the Prime Minister continUed , ignoring the heckler . ' Be realistic . Such talk would justify their argument that we have been fomenting rebellion in Tibet , which is untrue . It would give them a diplomatic talking point . " Pushing them back from our own territory will be difficult enough . Why talk manifest nonsense in an effort to seem braver than others ? " The Prime Minister 's 90-minute speech followed a four-day debate in the Lower House of Parliament in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " resolve of the Indian people to " impossible in time of peace . " drive out the aggressor from the sacred soil of India , however lo4ig and hard the struggle may be . " The resolution , which was adopted without opposition , " gratefully " acknowledged the " sympathy and moral and material support received from a large number of friendly countries in this grim hour of our struggle against aggression and invasion . " Reference to West Barred However , the Government forces , which have a large majority in Parliament , voted down an amendment specifying that material support had come from the United States , Britain and Canada . Thus , despite frequent comments from the floor during the debate expressing strong sympathy with the West , the resolution held to the principle of nonalignment espoused by the Nehru Government . The House applauded vigorously when Mr. Nehru said India was " very grateful " to the United States and Britain for arms . He said the aid came not merely because India was being invaded by Communist China , but also because . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States and Britain " themselves are interested . "                     