@@724019

txt SAN FRANCISCO , June 6 ? ' In the mass of analytical data yielded by Senator Barry Gold'water 's narrow victory in Calilornia 's Republican Presidential preference primary Tuesday , one simple fact stands out like a mountain peak : The Arizonan 's great strength lay in Southern California , ? articularly in Los Angeles and its neighbor , Orange County . This is not sensational , unexpected news . The campaign organization of Governor Rockefeller of New York had known it all the time . So had the Goldwater managers . It led both candidates to spend more time in that area than elsewhere in the Golden , , State in the stretch run . The eight counties south of the Tehachapi Range , roughly the dividing line between Baja and Alta California , had a Republican registration for the primary of 1,737,534 . This meant that on Tuesday , out of a total Republican enrollment of 2,895 , - 448 for all of California , those eight counties boasted a half million more potential Republi-1 can voters than all of the 50 counties north of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic of the south than the north , more of Los Angeles than of San Francisco . 1 Senator Goldwater won all except one of the counties below the Tehachapi , Santa Barbara was the exception . But he took a total of only 14 of the state 's ' 58 counties , including Kern , at the southern end of the San Joaquin Valley , and several smaller ones . ; Ample Siargin His 207,000-vote margin in 1Los Angeles and Orange counties was far more than enough to account for his 60,000 ! vote victory , while Governor Rockefeller was collecting a 105-1 ' 000-vote majority in San Emicisco and five neighboring cowl. ties in the Bay area . I So marked is the geographical split of the two Californias , northern and southern , that Bay area quipsters were saying : " Goldwater did n't carry Cali- : fornia. ; he carried only Southern : California . " Geography , however , is not the whole story . It does not account for the fact that John Birch Society members won contests north of the Tehachapi as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator , in , capturing California 's 86 Re-. publican National Convention ' votes , showed expected strength in the towns and rural areas and , to a greater extent than had been expected , in parts of suburbia . Just how strong is the rightist movement in California ? A generally accepted yardstick had been the vote given Joseph C. Shell , a Southern California oil man and former minority leader , of the Assembly , in his 1962 primary race for the gubernatorial nomination against Rich- , ard M. Nixon . Mr. Shell , a con-1 servative , received a third of the ' Republican votes cast . Thus Mr. ! Nixon defeated him , 2 to 1 . The conservatives , accordingl to some yardsticks , have been ) gaining strength in the last biennium . They have taken control of volunteer party organizations such as the California ' Republican Assembly and the California Young Republicans , and they have set up their own . volunteer group , The United ; Republicans of California . And ' Senator Goldwater was hacked ' by slightly more than one-halfl of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that six of nine Birchers or former Birchers , along with a larger list of rightwingers who asscrtedly do not wear the Birch label , won nominations for Congress and the Legislature is not , however , an accurate , index to rightist strength . In a number of these instances . especially where acknowledged Birch Society members were victorious , they deliberately ran in " hopeless " districts . That is , no Republican victor in the primary could hope to beat the Democratic nominee in November . Generally well financed , according to moderate Republican sources , these candidates did not run with the expectation of winning at the general election but with a view to helping the right take over the party 's state and county central committees . Why Is there so much rightist sentiment in California ? There is no simple answer . Sociologists and political scientists have been giving the question increasingly great attention without conclusive results . Part of the answer , some students believe ' , inky come from a two-generation-old migration of the retired Iowa farmer . He responded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now have given way in wide measure to Southern Califoimia smog and industry . This line of reasoning goes on as follows : 1 These migrants , living on capital received from sales of their Midwest properties , and extending their life span expectancy in a salubrious climate , became terrified of any ideas that threatened their economy and became genuine conservatives . Reaction to Cranks Subscribers to this point of view assert that Southern California has long been known for cultists , cranks and crackpots , but that this group constitutes only a small part of the population . The rest of the people , including the great body of conservatives . become frightened and say , " Let 's not encourage these crackpots . " In so doing they get more conservative themselves and often bite on the extremist image . This same argument goes on , to point to a great need for ; capital from the East for business and industry . Coupled with , this need is a corollary need , " We have to show the East we 're conservatives . " A sociologist who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with middle sized businesses ? persons who had made their money independently and did not want to lose it . He cited San Francisco as a place with a leadership structure and with old , established families that frowned upon extremism as " not the thing to follow . " Los Angeles and kindred Southern California communities , he contended , " lacked this established social structure . " This assertedly led to " fewer social inhibitions in rapidly growing areas " and , in terms of mobility , " people who have come to California recently are more likely to support the Birch Society and extremism than the older ones . "                     