@@723030

txt London The most intriguing event in power politics over the past week has been the arrival in Britain of the first formal ministerial-level goodwill mission from Communist China to any Western government . Both Chinese and British were careful to label the affair as being only a " goodwill " visit , and officials at the Board of Trade earnestly repudiated any suggestion that they expected to sign the Chinese up on a delivery list of goods before the five from Peking finish their British sojourn . Other Missions However , the head of the Peking delegation is Lu Hsuchang , Vice-Minister of Trade , and he arrived with a statement in his hand exuding goodwill and thanks for being invited to Britain and hopes for Trade Strands " expanding Sino-British trade " and " extending our greetings to the people of Britain . " Chinese Communist-regime officials often have been in Geneva and even at the United Nations in New York , but those were not goodwill missions . There have been earlier trade missions to Western governments but not before at such a high hierarchical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the visit help in identfying its present and possibly future meaning . Since 1959 , trade between Communist China and other Communist countries has dwindled steadily . Communist China has even refused delivery of machinery ordered from European Communist countries before the cutoff year of 1959 . This is the first year since 1959 in which the Chinese har vest has been anything like normal . Last year the Chinese Communists sold about $60 million worth of goods to the British but spent two-thirds of their earnings on Canadian and Australian wheat . In the years ahead they expect to be able to spend more of their overseas earnings on durable goods , which are precisely what the British wish to sell to them . Several deals already have been sketched out and might be concluded during the visit . One is for Viscount medium-range passenger aircraft . This deal has been cleared with India . Trade Pointer Eyed Another is for several mothballed Britannia long-range transports . The Indians are less happy about this , since Britannias , with their long range and large size could be used to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyone is watching for , of course , is an indication whether Communist China actually is turning its overseas trade away from Communist countries toward capitalist countries . It has until now largely been with Communist countries . The terms of such trade have been imposed by Moscow on less than " fraternal " lines . It is merely a fact that Peking could get more The World This Week credit on more generous terms in London today than in Mos-cow , Britain has consistently maintained a diplomatic mission in Peking since the Communist Revolution and consistently has hoped that someday the recognition policy would pay off in Chinese Communist markets . On the March The Chinese visit in London was a Board of Trade matter , rather than one of high foreign policy . The Foreign Office and 10 Downing Street were keep-ring scrupulously out of it all . But this was an additional ! manifestation of another in ! teresting symptom of the times , which is the revival of positive diplomacy in Britain . Since the collapse of " summitry , " dear to Prime Minister Harold Macmillan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wrecked over the U-2 episode , Britain 's diplomacy has been passive and negative . It is on several marches today . One is toward trade with Communist China and another is a many-faceted drive to build relations with continental European countries as an antidote to the French domination of the Common Market . This past week did not make history but it registered the fact that a new strand is being fed into the loom of historical weaving .                     