@@723512

txt Hurricane Flora , which could hardly be termed the work of the " imperialists , " nevertheless has posed one of the most ponderous economic and moral problems Premier Fidel Castro has had to face in many a month . The Cuban leader faced the decision , in the wake of the economic and human havoc wreaked by the hurricane , of whether to accept hurricane aid from the United States . The American Red Cross re-.ported Wednesday morning that the Cuban Red Cross has rejected its offer to furnish workers and supplies to assist Cuban hurricane victims . ' Hypocrisy Charged According to an Associated Press dispatch from Miami , Havana Radio quoted the Cuban Red Cross as saying that " we reject the hypocritical offer of aid in these moments of disaster caused by nature . " All along , any such United States aid , which would be restricted to food , clothing , and medicines , and not spare parts for sugar grinding mills , some of which are reported severely damaged , has been grittily refused by Cuba 's Ambassador to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morse ( D ) of Oregon ' had said in Congress that " humanitarian aid ought to go at once to victims of these terrible storms . " He added he saw " no moral justification " for a religious nation to do otherwise , and that he did not share the view that the United States should wait to be asked . There is no exact information on the extent of damage in Cuba , but , coming on the heels of economic and sugar-crop failures already admitted by Cuba 's leaders , it can only make Cuba 's condition worse and increase the Soviet burden of aid . Despite the rejoicing in some Cuban exile circles , many anti= Castro leaders called for humanitarian offers of food to the beleaguered island over which Hurricane Flora hovered and swooped for live days . The Castro government already has announced cuts in food supplies , including a 50 percent slash in beef rations and vegetableS and a cutoff of coffee . Carlos Rafael Rodriguez , chief of the Agrarian Reform Institute , said that some 5,000 tons of coffee which Brazil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Cuba . This announcement came at a time when Cuba has refused , formally , before the United Nations this week , to sign the nuclear-test-ban treaty , has indicated a certain hostility to Brazil 's proposal for a denuclearization policy for all of Latin America . and when Cuban Government officials have been celebrating the 14th anniversary of the Chinese Communist revolution , and thus not pursuing the current anti-Chinese line of the Soviet Union . In Havana on Oct. 1 , Chinese Communist Ambassador Shen Chien appeared on Havana 's domestic television service and gave alive speech on the 14th anniversary . Reception Attended On the same day , more than 1,000 people attended a Havana reception given by Ambassador Shen marking the anniversary . Among those present were President Dorticos , and members , of the national directorate of the United Party of the Socialist Revolution of Cuba : Ernesto ( Cite ) Guevara , Bias Roca , Emilio Aragones , Carlos Rafael Rodriguez , Augusto Marinez , Ramon Calcines , Manuel Luzardo , Lazaro Pena , Armando Hart , Joaquin Ordoqui , Raul Curbelo , Faure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aguirre , and Santamaria . Others present were Cuban Foreign Minister Raul Roa , the Mayor of Havana , Jose Llanuza. and Antonio Nunez Jimenez . president of the Academy of Science . As Hurricane Flora moved out over the Atlantic Ocean from the thinly populated Bahamas , Weather Bureau forecaster Robert McCaslin said , " Flora , as a hurricane , is no longer a threat to any laifd areas . " However , Bermuda was alerted lo the possibility of gale-force winds Thursday .                     