@@723173

txt Jakarta , Indonesia The still-widening ideological rift between the Soviet Union and Communist China is miniatured in the Indonesian Communist Party ( PKI ) . Its leaders ' purpose is to pursue a middle course that will be specifically Indonesian . But this is by no means easy . And the increasingly predominant influence of PKI members favoring the Chinese attitude is manifested by increased and sustained vituperation against the United States . This was so bitter in the resolutions at the close of the recent Asian-African journalists ' conference here that the United States Embassy was moved to protest . Tones Contrasted The gathering of writers from some 40 countries had the Indonesian Government 's blessing , and President Sukarno made the keynote speech at the opening ceremony . The note he struck at the start was restrained , but the one the delegates struck at the finish was not . Discussing the resolutions with government officials since , this correspondent obtained the impression that the outburst was deplored at high levels as well as lower down , for it showed communism in the guise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidencq of the impact of Chinese assertiveness on the PKI is the party 's rediscovered readiness to express itself publicly . It never criticizes the President and repeatedly protests its loyalty to him . Cabinet Lambasted But it has taken to lambasting his Cabinet and pressing for representation in the future administration after the present government changes . The main basis of the PKI 's criticism of the Cabinet is what is seen as the government 's failure to deal effectively with the continuing national economic crisis . Soviet Embassy people used to add their encouragement to this attempt to bring about " nasakom , " a term connoting a ruling regime representing religion , nationalism , and communism in coalition and defined by the President as one national goal . But close observers say the Soviets are not so solicitous nowadays since the Communist members of the Cabinet might be pulling for China not the Soviet Union , and this would not serve Soviet interests in Indonesia and Southeast Asia . Red Regret Hinted The Chinese Communists are believed to regret that the PKI is not more thoroughly an opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In both camps , one understands , the Indonesian Communists are coming to be treated as a " special case " ? Titoists of Southeast Asia , so to say , whose concept of communism for their country makes them nationalists first , party men second , and respecters of the Moslem religion at the same time . An example of increased open assertiveness of the PKI is shown in the controlling influence it displayed at the journalists ' conference referred to earlier . A month or so before the conference took place this correspondent asked its organizers whether it was going to be concerned with professional or political matters . The answer was " entirely professional . " In actuality , however , it was almost entirely political . Japanese Irked The presidium included kalimantan Utara ? the new state proclaimed ( but not on location yet ) by . rebels in northern Borneo ? and South Vietnam , the latter 's " representation " being by delegates from the so-called Liberation Front . They were flying the flag of the pro-Communist Viet Cong , which is trying to overthrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some invitations caused great dissatisfaction in the countries to which they were sent . Indeed the National Press Club of Tokyo sent a telegram to President Sukarno denouncing the delegation from the Japanese congress of journalists as representing an institution " thoroughly dominated by people committed to the support of the Communists . " The delegation of Communist China took a prominent part but the Soviets were only " observers . " Eight delegations supported a Mongolian proposal to make the Soviet participants delegates , but the-PKI did not want this and the subject was dismissed with a minimum of discussion .                     