@@726767

txt Francis Cardinal Spellman spiritual leader of two million Roman Catholics in the New York Archdiocese and a churchman known throughout the world , died here yesterday at the age of 78 . The cause of his death was described as a " massive cerebral accident , " which doctors referred to as a stroke . The Cardinal , who had felt well enough the night before to talk of visiting American troops overseas , awoke feeling ill yesterday at 7:30 A.M. , according to his aides . A doctor who was summoned to the Cardinal 's third-floor suite at 452 Madison Avenue ordered him moved to St. Vincent 's Hospital . Dies at St. Vincent 's Before leaving his residence , just behind St. Patrick 's Cathedral , Cardinal Spellman was given the last rites of the Cath- , olio Church by the Most Rev. Terence J. Cooke , auxiliary , bishop of New York . The Cardinal entered St. Vincent 's Hospital , which is at Seventh Avenue between 11th and 12th Streets , at 10 A.M. He was pronounced dead an hour and 45 minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul VI , the affairs of the New York Archdiocese will be administered by the Most Rev. John J. Maguire , the 62-year-old coadjutor archbishop of New York . The Cardinal made his last fiesta is held annually to raise money for two community centers serving the city 's Puerto Rican population . " He was fine last nIght , " Msgr . Thomas of the Chancery office said yesterday . " He attended a banquet and even discussed the possibility of going off to Vietnam for Christmas . " The passing of the Cardinal brought expressions of grief contributions to the religious and secular life of New York and the nation . Upon learning of Cardinal Speliman 's death , Pope Paul V prayed in his private chapel . The Pontiff was scheduled to celebrate a private mass for Cardinal Spellman today in hi : Vatican chapel . Others from President John . son to cab drivers on the streets of New York joined in expressing their sadness at the loss of the senior prince of the Catholic Church in the United States . President Johnson called Cardinal Spellman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose work " remains to enrich and enlighten us all . " " For all the extraordinary diversity and fullness of his life , " Mr. Johnson said , " this prince of the church lived and died a humble priest . " Secretary General Thant of the United Nations sent messages of condolence both to the Archdiocese of New York and to Pope Paul . Governor Rockefeller ordered , all flags on public buildings in the state flown at half staff until the Cardinal 's funeral Thursday , and Mayor Lindsay issued a similar order for all flags on city buildings . Cardinal Spellman 's death , the Governor said , " comes as a loss to all New Yorkers . " " Along with all New Yorkers , regardless of creed , " said Mayor Lindsay , " I am saddened by the death of Cardinal Spellman , who was a towering symbol of spiritual strength in our society . " Within an hour after the Cardinal 's death was announced , mourners began streaming into St. Patrick 's Cathedral to pray for him . James Coleman . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watching the Army-Navy game on television when he heard the news . Cushing Cancels Trip " I left immediately and came over to St. Patrick 's to say a prayer for him , " Mr. Coleman said . In Boston , Richard Cardinal Cushing , who served with Cardinal Spellman in the Boston archdiocese when both prelates were young priests , said in a statement tha the was " sorrowful beyond words . " Cardinal Cushing , the archbishop of Boston , described Cardinal Spellman as " my lifelong friend and confidante . " ; His passing creates a void which will not be filled in our lifetime , " Cardinal Cushing said . He , added that Cardinal Spellman " remains a symbol of fidelity and stability in a troubled and agitated world . " Cardinal Cushing said he had cancelled a trip to Jamaica to install the first bishop of Montego Bay because " my first obligation is to my closest friend in the priesthood and the hierarchy . " Cardinal Spellman 's death left the United States with seven Cardinals . Although friends said Cardinal Spellman had appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his energies waning . At a party two days before his " 78th birthday on May 4 , the Cardinal was asked whether he " planned to spend Christmas with members of the Armed Services overseas , as he had in the- 16 previous years . " The next trip I make , I think , will be up in Heaven , " he replied , " I hope I make it . " Talked About Vietnam For the last two years , . Cardinal Spellman , who was Vicar General for Roman Catholics in the United States Armed Forces eis-avell as Archbishop of New York , had spent the Christmas holidays in Vietnam . At the Casita Maria Fiesta at the Waldorf-Astoria on Friday night , Cardinal Spellman talked with friends about the possibility of making another trip to Vietnam later this month . The Cardinal 's appearance at ' the fiesta had come as a sur- , prise to the 600 peope attend- ' ing the charity dinner.l Although Cardinal Spellman had been a benefactor . of Casita Maria ? which supports the Casita Maria center at 928 Simpson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Center at 102d Street and Madison Avenue ? he had not been able to attend its annual fiesta in recent years . But at about 8:30 P.M. , the Cardinal , a small man with a cherubic face , walked into the grand ballroom of the Waldorf . He wore a simple black robe and those present said he appeared extremely feeble and hardly able to walk . In his brief greeting , the prelate said that although his doctors had urged him to remain at ' his apartment , he had decided to violate their orders because Casita Maria was so important a charity to him . Casita Maria , which is headed by Mrs. John T. Collins , its president , and by Mrs. Charles H. Ridder , its , board chairman , was founded in 1934 . Yesterday morning , when the Cardinal entered St. Vincent 's Hospital , an institution he had helped to bring to the first rank among American hospitals , his secretary Msgr . James F. Rigney , said he would undergo " several days of diagaostic testing . " Thep was immediate speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's health was up to another Vietnam trip . On Nov. 14 , Cardinal Spellman had entered the Cleveland Clinic for eight days of diagnostic study . When he was - I'scharged on Nov. 22 , Dr. Ralph A. Straffon , a urologist and allergist , said the prelate was " fine and in good health . " The Cardinal entered the Cleveland Clinic , under an assumed name . " He pulled a surprise on us , " Monsignor Rigney said , adding that the Cardinal 's associates and friends had been urging him for some time to undergo a checkup . On Friday , Monsignor , who is director of Information for the Archdiocese , was asked how the Cardinal felt and looked after returning from his Cleveland examination . " His Eminence has seldom looked better , " Monsignor replied . Several years ago , Cardinal Spellman underwent surgery for a prostate ailment and he had displayed some evidence of difficulty in walking . The Cardinal 's death raised immediate questions as to his successor and the future of the Archdiocese of New York , second in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of Catholics it embraces . Bishop Fulton J. peen of Rochester , the 72-year-old former auxiliary bishop of New York under Cardinal Spellman , and Archbishop John F. Dearden of Detroit were mentioned as candidates to succeed the Cardinal as Archbishop of New York . The appointment almost certainly will bring with it elevation to Cardinal at the first consistory by the Pope .                     