@@727188

txt The following are excerpts from art article by Viktor Mayevsky in Pravda last week . President Johnson declared that " certain successes " had been scored last year in relations between the U.S.S.R. and the United States . He referred to the treaty on the principles underlying the activity of states in exploring and using outer space , including the moon and other celestial bodies , the agreement on assistance to cosmonauts , the consular . convention , the agreement on air links , and the drafting of a nonproliferation treaty . Johnson says that both countries can ? at least partly  --  come to agreement in some cases and on some issues . Strengthening peace is a long and intricate process . Yet to begin with , it should not be violated . And it is common knowl edge that this is a rule which is being systematically disregarded by those who shape America 's policies . The United States aggression in Vietnam represents the most important obstacle , not only on the road of Soviet American relations but also on the road of peace in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole . Even though , following the initiative of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam , there appeared nn ? Pi portunity of official talks between the D.R.V. and United States representatives in Paris , the escalation- of American aggression in ' Vietnam continues . United States press reports indicate that there is a steady growth of the bombing raids on North Vietnamese territory , and this in spite of American statements about " restricted bomb-. ing . " There is also a further buildup of United States forces in South Vietnam . There is every indication that the Pentagon is still nurturing the fruitless dream of " military victory " in the land of Vietnam , and this absolutely regardless of losses and expenditures . Meanwhile , United States rep= resentatives in Paris are evading a solution of the crucial issue  --  the termination of bombing and other acts of aggression against the D.R.V. The United States representatives in Paris insist on the discussion of other questions . No words can conceal from the American people the fact that the continuation of the aggressive war by the United Statcs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations , and poisons the entire international atmosphere . Another problem that seriously complicates the international situation and interferes with an improvement of Soviet-American relations Is the support given the . United . States to . the extremists of Israel , which is pursuing a policy of seizure in the Middle ' East . t Moreover ; United - States - imperialist Circles have not . dropped the idea of making short shrift of the progressive regimes in the Middle East . The ending of the arms drives is " a third problem . Unless major steps are taken to solve this problem , it is difficult to expect a relaxation of international tensions and an improvement of Soviet-American relations . The Soviet Union invariably adheres to the Leninist principle . of development of normal relations with all countries regardless of their socio-political systems provided they are ready to build their relations on the basis of equality , respect for sovereignty and noninterference . This is the principle of peaceful coexistence , which ' opens possibilities for the strengthening of international cooperation . However , the Soviet Union has not built and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the detriment of the interests of socialism , the national-liberation movement , pgt , ace and the security of the world 's peoples . It adheres to this principle in its relations with the United States too . If the United States is really interested in the promotion of its relations with the Soviet Union it will meet with a response on the part of the Soviet Union . But , we repeat , there are substantial obstacles on this road . Iiirst of all , the American war in Vietnam . Another Opinion Soviet-American Sore Points                     