@@723648

txt Boston The sudden boost in me stock of Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge as a prospective candidate for the Republican presidential nomination drastically alters the New England political picture for 1964 . If Ambassador Lodge becomes a candidate , or allows his friends to conduct an all-out campaign for his nomination while he remains in Saigon , he could wind up with a big majority of the New England delegates at the 1964 Republican national convention . As the GOP presidential nominee he would stand an excellent chance of capturing the electoral votes of the entire New England area , despite the Democratic color of his native Massachusetts and Democratic strength in Connecticut and Rhode Island . A serious Lodge candidacy undoubtedly would force Sen. Barry Goldwater ( R ) of Arizona and Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller to back away from a Massachusetts delegate bid because of Mr. Lodge 's obvious home-state strength . However , there is some anti-Lodge sentiment in Massachusetts . It is an aftermath of the successful Lodge-led drive to gain the 1952 presidential nomination for Gen. Dwight.D . Eisenhower . Some backers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ohio have never forgiven Mr. Lodge for his part in the Taft defeat at that time . Some of those anti-Lodge figures are in the camp of Senator Goldwater for 1964 . Ambassador Lodge , aristocratic in bearing and political family background , is a Republican liberal , particularly in the international field . Furthermore , his political liberalism on the domestic side dates back to his four years as state representative from 1933 through 1936 , when he served as House chairman of the Legislative Committee on Labor and Industries . Defeat Recalled His big United States senatorial victories in Massachusetts , oddly enough , were scored in 1936 and 1942 when the Democrats were carrying the state in other big statewide contests . His one senatorial defeat came in 1952 , when General Eisenhower carried Massachusetts by 208.800 votes and the then Rep. Christian A. Herter toppled Democratic Gov . Paul A. Dever by 14,456 votes . But the 1952 Lodge defeat at the hands of the late President Kennedy , who won his Senate scat by 70,737 votes , was partly due to Mr. Lodge 's complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign year . Mr. Lodge has a reputation for winning the tough battles . For instance , he defeated Gov . James Michael Curley in the 1936 senatorial contest , when he was only 34 years old , and with only four years as state representative under his political belt . He beat off a sharp challenge by the then United States Rep. Joseph D. Casey ( D ) in 1942 , when Democrats were winning other key contests in the state . And in 1946 , when he returned from Army service for which he resigned his Senate scat in 1944 , he tipped over the veteran Sen. David I. Walsh ( D ) , who had been long noted for his ability to garner Republican as well as Democratic votes . Prowess Shown Mr. Lodge himself showed a prowess for winning in areas considered hostile territory . For instance in 1936 , while President Roosevelt was carrying Boston by 113,724 votes , Mr. Lodge was holding former Boston Mayor Curley to a Boston margin of only 65,983 votes . Even Mr. Lodge 's 1946 victory over Senator Walsh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a complete sweep of all seven statewide offices . was a notable achievement , He topped Senator Walsh by a 329,536-vote margin . In that triumph he even carried Democratic Boston by 17,714 votes .                     