@@722037

txt President Kennedy has set up a Cabinet-level group to draft a program for waging psythOlogical and political warfare . The group consists of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , the President 's brother ; Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg , Gen. Maxwell D. Taitlor , military representative of the President , and U. Alexis Johnson , Deputy Under Secretary of State for Political AG fairs . The Communists ' apparent ability to repress world reaction Unfavorable to them , and to dominate the news as they choose with demonstrations that seem spontaneous , led to tile creation of the new study group , . When the Russians resumed nuclear testing and many na4 Lions accepted the news apathetically , Administration offiz dais were appalled . They , speculated on what would hays happened throughout the world if the United States had uni=-laterally broken the moratorium on nuclear testing . United States embassies , they estimated , would have bees ' picketed , perhaps stoned , and the demonstrations would have appeared to be spontaneous . The sealing of East Berlin at its western boundary aroused no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a United States Ambassador visits a foreign nation and is jeered or threatened by a mob , the mob action , in the opinion of President Kennedy , dominates the news of the day , and the purpose and accomplishments of the Ambassador 's trip become submerged . Government officials are aware ' that the Communist apparatus in most cases sparks these demonstrations in foreign lands . Why neutrals and nonaligned nations remain silent in the face of Soviet nuclear explosions , they believe , derives from more subtle causes . No one has suggested that the answer is to organize groups to stone Russian embas sies , but the President believes that something must be found to combat Communist techniques in " cold war " psychological tactics . The informal group ? the President prefers not to call it a committee  --  was set up to find the answers . No Government agency now has the responsibility to conduct psychological warfare or to make broad policy and plans in that area . Cuts Across Agencies Such operations cut across several departments and agencies . They involve intelligence , propaganda , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advice of the Budget Bureau and others , set up the Psychological Strategy Board under Gordon Gray . Represented on it were the State and Defense Departments and the Central Intelligence Agency . It lacked the power to compel action . President Dwight D. Eisenhower set up a group under William Jackson to advise him in this field . The recommendations led to making the United States Information Agency Independent of the State Department . Later , the Operations Coordinating Board was established to follow through on " cold war " decisions of the President and the National Security Council . President Eisenhower also appointed C. D. Jackson . who was succeeded eventually by Nelson A. Rockefeller , as special assistant for " cold war " planning . In , all cases , these individuals reportedly were frustrated by the statutory agencies . Soon after taking office , President Kennedy abolished the operations ' . Coordinating Board , which had set up numerous subcommittees and was considered to be making doubtful headway . Mr. Kennedy 's four-man group is not an operations unit . It is understood to have held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff . Its assignment is to ad-Ise the Preident on what needs to be done , feasible ways of getting it done , and who should bear the responsibility .                     