@@721079

txt Secretary of State Christian A. Herter called on the Soviet Union today to help safeguard the world against " war by miscalculation . " He linked " spiraling competition in strategic delivery systems " with " the proliferating production of nuclear weapons " as " the new dangers which we confront as the arms race con , tinues . " In his first address before the National Press Club , Mr. Herter expressed the hope that Soviet leaders might be coming to realize the " unacceptable risks " of this kind of arms race . If the Soviet leaders would ! abandon " hollow slogans " at the ; ten-nation disarmament talks ( that open in Geneva March 15 , they would find the West ready ( for serious negotiation , he said . The United States , Britain , France , Italy and Canada are conferring here in preparation for the Geneva meeting with j the Soviet Union , Poland , ! Czechoslovakia , Bulgaria and ; Rumania . Irresponsibility Feared The strategic delivery systems of which Mr. Herter spoke are the various forms of rockets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs on the great I powers . The Secretary noted that lie I was worried not so much about 1 " the free nations which may he ! the next to produce nuclear weapons " as about more irresponsible countries . " The more nations that have the power to trigger off a nuclear war . the greater the chance that some nation might use this power in haste or blind folly , " he added . He made no direct mention of France , which recently set off her first atomic explosion . Mr. Herter offered a twostage approach to what he called " national security with arms limitation . " The first.need , before general disarmament gets under way , he said , is to reduce the risk of war . This he proposed to do by guarding against surprise attack , whether intentional or as a result of one of those miscalculations that result in war HERTER PROPOSES SOVIET PEACE AID // " without either side really intending that this should happen . " Safeguards against surprise attack , ' Mr. Herter explained , could include " zones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the past the United States had suggested such inspection in Europe , the Arctic area and equivalent areas in North America and the Soviet Union . He made no specific proposal . Exchanges of information might at the same time offer safeguards against dangerous misunderstandings about events in outer space , he added . The second need , Mr. Herter said , is an inspected ban on nuclear tests and , eventually , on the production of fissionable material for military purposes . In this connection he mentioned that the Soviet counter-proposal in Geneva for suspending nuclear tests might reflect changing Soviet views of inspection procedures . " We will give this proposal very careful consideration , " he said . The hopeful aspect of the Soviet counter to the United States proposal for a ban limited to tests American scientists consider detectable was that Moscow was now apparently willing to permit international inspection of earth disturbances , which might be test explosions including those inside the Soviet Union . In the second stage of general disarmament Mr. Herter would begin by establishing " universally accepted rules of law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only then would he reduce national armed forces by means of manpower ceilings and the transfer of weapons to international custody . His objective would be reductions to a point where no nation or group of nations could " effectively oppose this enforcement of international law by international machinery . " Mr. Herter suggested immediate limited steps such as " enhancing the usefulness of the United Nations International Law Commission , supporting Secretary General Hammarskjold 's efforts to develop standby arrangements for a United Nations force and other forms of United Nations presence in places where there is danger of a resort to force . " In reply to questions Mr. Herter said that the fact that France had set off an atomic explosion did not necessarily qualify her under the Atomic Energy Act to share in United States atomic information . Nor has France asked to participate in negotiations on a test ban , he said .                     