@@721417

txt The annual flight from the city for the Labor Day weekend took place without significant trouble yesterday , despite the Pennsylvania Railroad strike . Beginning in mid-afternoon , thousands of cars assaulted bridges , tunnels and highways leading out of New York . Traffic mounted in volume into the early evening , but there were no reports of major delays , breakdowns or tie-ups . Other thousands of commuters and end-of-summer vacationers used buses , available railroads and airlines to get where they wanted to go . By noon Grand Central Terminal was alive with patrons , and long lines stretched from ticket windows , Foreign and domestic plane flights were jammed . Safety Council Gloomy The Automobile Club of New York estimated that more than 5,000,000 persons in 1,750,000 cars would be on the move in the metropolitan area over the week-end . A gloomier prediction came from the National Safety Council . The council said heavy highway traffic could result in about 460 road deaths in the seventy-eight-hour period from 6 o'clock last night to midnight . Monday . Last year 's Labor Day week-end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is 461 , set in 1951 . At 2 A. M. today the highway toll across the country was put at ten deaths in an Associated Press tabulation . Bronx Youth Killed The first victim was Peter J. Cardarelli Jr. , 18 years old , of ? 1259 White Plains Road , the Bronx . He died of a fractured skull in Allentown , Pa. , after a , car in which he was riding veered out of control on Route 22 near Smithville , rolled . over and hit an embankment . The Lincoln , Holland and Queens-Midtown Tunnels were heavily traveled from mid-afternoon on . By early evening vehicles were creeping through the arteries  --  but still moving . Cars were backed up at the approaches to the George Washington and Triborough Bridges , but there were no complete stoppages . One reason for the freer movement of vehicles than on Thursday , when the under-river arteries became clogged , was the day 's lower temperature . Few cars broke down in the tunnels yesterday because of overheating . Commuters again demonstrated their flexibility and adaptability . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Road cut off from Pennsylvania Station here , they found other ways to get to and from the city . The combination of extra commuters and numerous longtrip passengers leaving on vacations crowded the Port Authority Bus Terminal at Eighth Avenue and Forty-first Street . At 3 P. M. the depot was as crowded as it normally would be at 5:30 , P , M. at the beginning of a holiday week-end . . And at 5:30 Lee Webb , manager of the terminal , said : " Beyond question , more people are using the bus terminal in the period of a few hours this afternoon than ever did in a similar period since the opening of the terminal in 1950 . " Schedules Ignored The bus station was so crowded at that hour that passengers had to wait as long as fortyfive minutes for both long-haul and commuter buses .. Schedules were ignored . Buses arrived faster than they could be unloaded and reloaded , causing Mr. Webb to complain : " I just ca n't find room to handle the volume of traffic . " Pennsylvania Railroad tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section : were added to Central long-haul train bound for Cleveland , Cincinnati and St. Louis . In some cases train departures were moved ahead ten to fifteen min. utes . Airlines put on extra sections American Airlines said th ( Pennsylvania strike had sharply increased traffic on its New York-Washington route Thurs. day and yesterday . Normally the line carries 1,000 daily pas . sengers between the two cities On Thursday the total wa : 1,400 . Yesterday it was aboui 1,700 . Transit Fares Grow The Transit Authority re . ported that it picked up 40,00 ( additional fares at stations it Queens yesterday because of the strike . But the agency sair it had lost 8,300 passengers will normally boarded subways a Pennsylvania . Station , makini a net gain of about 32,000 . The Long Island Rail Road which normally brings abou 50,000 commuters into the sta tion a day , was ending its run : at Woodside and Elmhurst ii Queens . From those two tem porary terminals passenger : made their way to near-by sub way stations without trouble 0 , incident . The Transit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of freight the metropolitan area posed r , problem . One manufacturer c dolls reported that he had bee unable to find freight space o the New York Central or o over-the-road truck lines . Unless he could by next weel he declared , he would have t begin laying off help . He Eai other manufacturers , shippin less than carload lots , had th same problem . Freight Being Handled But the railroad said it freight yards were handlin , everything sent to them . In formal statement , the compan , said it had not been required operate any additional freigh service . " However , " the statemen continued , " it is too early ti determine the full impact o the strike since freight train volume is down because of till long Labor Day week-end . " For the convenience of it , patrons , the Edison Hotel here chartered buses to run between Washington and New York The first . bus left Union Sta tion in the capital at 10:3 ( A. M. and a return trip wa : made from New . York at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Irwin H. Kramer , executive vice president of the hotel , salt there would be no bus service today , tomorrow or Monday , but it would be resumed Tuesday at the same times .                     