@@725834

txt The move of Nicholas deB . Katzenbach this week from his Attorney General 's spot to Undersecretary of State leaves him with a major piece of unfinished business . And he has a presidential mandate to finish it . As instigator and chairman of the National Crime Commission , Mr. Katzenbach is guiding the 19-man blue-ribbon commission through the final months before its long-awaited report goes to the President next January . His activities in the civil-rights field have produced the most attention during Mr. Katzenbach 's two years at the head of the Department of Justice and in his earlier work with the department . And he considers his part in passage of the 1964 and 1965 Civil Rights Acts as possibly his major accomplishments . But he has characterized the chairmanship of the Crime Commission as " my most important responsibility as Attorney General . " Time allotted The commission has directed the most complete study ever . undertaken of the causes of crime and the adequacy of the existing system of law enforcement , criminal justice , and corrections . Mr. Katzenbach believes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an archaic and highly inadequate system . President Johnson has ordered that Mr. Katzenbach take whatever time is necessary in the next three or four months to chair // By Norman Motheny , staff photographer Upstairs stare Officials of the Cleveland Museum of Art keep an unblinking eye on gallerygoers with closed-circuit television cameras like the one above doorway . But let a turn-about photographer point his camera at it and it shyly turns its lens away  --  evidently reluctant to take the same kind of stare it dishes out . From its balcony perch . the camera swivels back and forth , keeping watch on goings-on in two rooms . At a central point within the museum , officials monitor several TV screens  --  seeing simultaneously what each of the museum 's cameras records . *Katzenbach still has unfinished business // commission meetings , give policy guidance to the commission executive staff , and work on preparation of legislation that may be tied in with the report . Mr. Katzenbach is also expected to have some role , at least as an adviser , in implementation of commission recommendations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and if the recommendations can be carried out , the work of the " Katzenbach commission " may become the landmark of his attorney generalship . Among other things , commission-instigated studies are expected to show extensive unreported crimes ( especially in ghetto areas ) , breakdowns in police-community relations , and a severe lack of knowledge about which detention and correction practices are the most effective . The idea for the commission was suggested to the President by Mr. Katzenbach late in 1964 , after the issue of crime in the streets had been raised during the presidential campaign . Governors invited Previous heads of the Justice Department had avoided the over-all national crime problem ( aside from organized crime and other specifics such as narcotics or juvenile delinquency ) , because no clear federal role appeared possible without invading local prerogatives . Mr. Katzenbach took the position that the federal government could provide leadership to states and communities in obtaining basic knowledge on which to base reforms and in coordinating activities among city and state agencies . The federal government , as it had done in the fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could finance research and demonstration programs . In July , 1965 , President Johnson formally established the Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice  --  the Crime Commission . Last March , Mr. Katzenbach invited governors of all the states to form planning committees to work with and advise the Crime Commission . A Law Enforcement Assistance Act was passed by Congress in 1965 , and 113 grants already have been made for demonstration programs , many of them to city police de-pa rtments . Mr. Katzenbach has been active in the fields of criminal justice and reform since joining the department as an assistant attorney general early in 1961 . He has been instrumental in getting passage of the 1964 Criminal Justice Act ( providing for federal compensation for attorneys appointed to represent the indigent in federal courts ) , for the Bail Reform Act of 1966 ( minimizing the hardships of the bail system on the poor ) , and for the establishment of an office of criminal justice in the department . Unsuccessful effort Mr. Katzenbach is not scheduled to continue his major role in the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff photographer Nicholas deB . Katzenbach Man with a mandate one would be surprised if President Johnson borrowed him from the State Department next year to try to get Republican Sen. Everett McKinley Dirksen 's support for an open-housing provision in a new civil-rights bill . One of Mr. Katzenbach 's greatest assets at the Justice Department has been his behind-the-scenes work as conciliator and innovator . During consideration of the 1964 Civil Rights Act by Congress , he was at the Capitol almost every day , and succeeded in saving the public-accommodations section . He also personally directed the administration 's lobbying for the 1965 Voting Rights Act . Later he successfully defended the act 's constitutionality before the Supreme Court . Mr. Katzenbach 's efforts this year for another civil-rights bill were not successful . At a final meeting with reporters who regularly cover the Justice Department , Mr. Katzenbach was hopeful about prospects for passage of a civil-rights bill with an open-housing section . " We will get it in another year , " he said . But he would not predict that it would go through in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Dirksen a fair man , " he said . " I just was unable to convince him to vote for the bill at this time . " Mr. Katzenbach said that the coalition of church and labor groups , which was influential in passage of the 1964 bill , was not as effective for this year 's bill . He took some of the blame for not getting grass-roots support , and said that " a tremendous educational job is needed . " The reaction throughout the country to the violent acts and statements of some Negroes is a temporary thing , although it has done immediate damage , he said . " There is no excuse for violence and Molotov cocktails , " he said . But he added that moderation " is the view of 99 percent of all the Negroes in this country . " Some people , however , confuse a riot with a peaceful demonstration . " The purpose of demonstrations is to bring to focus things that would not otherwise be seen . " Most people are aware of the general things that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strides toward equality of the Negro in the past very few years . The country is embarked on a course that is clearly right , clearly necessary , and overwhelmingly supported . There is no turning back from that . And there wo n't be any turning back . We do n't abandon our goal or our objectives just because people throw a few Molotov cocktails . " Legislation drafted Mr. Katzenbach came to the Department of Justice in February , 1961 , as Assistant Attorney General in charge of the office of legal counsel . He became Deputy Attorney General , May 3 , 1962 , when Byron R. White was appointed an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court . Mr. Katzenbach was principal drafter of legislation establishing the Cornmuncations Satellite Corporation and drew up a lengthy brief in support of the decision to blockade Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis . He was also in charge of the Cuban prisoner exchange in December , 1963 . He was the department official in command on the scene during the desegregation incidents at both the University of Mississippi and the University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 , 1964 , when Robert F. Kennedy resigned to run for the Senate , and was nominated by the President as Attorney General Jan. 28 , 1965 . Inasmuch as President Johnson has not yet named a successor to Mr. Katzenbach , Deputy Attorney General Ramsey Clark has automatically assumed the position of Acting Attorney General .                     