@@723088

txt Singapore What does it portend ? That was the question asked by all countries in Southeast Asia when Liu Shao-chi , head of state of Communist China , Marshal Chen Yi , Peking 's Foreign Minister , their wives and retinue of 50 or so arrived in Indonesia for an eight-day ceremonial visit . Never before during the 14 years of Communist control of the world 's most populous country has the head of state gone abroad . He is doing so now at a time when the Moscow-Peking axis is bent by the strain of ideological variances . His act of emergence is construed in this part of the world as the first sign of a new intention to expand China 's diplomatic horizon and take the lead in applying communism 's international policies according to Chinese preferences . President Sukarno set the keynote when he welcomed the distinguished state guests Friday as victorious fellow- strugglers against colonialism . Resistance Continues While China 's head of state was being greeted in Jakarta , the Indonesian capital , the government of neighboring Sarawak ? was announcing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles of the Indonesian border . This was the raid by some 60 uniformed men on a police post , killing one corporal , wounding two others , and cap- turing some arms and ammunition . ? This is the sort of thing that brought about " the emergency " in nearby Malaya  --  a euphemism for 12 years of jungle fighting before Communist terrorists ( 9 out of 10 Chinese ) were driven out of the country . Gunmen in Sarawak and , Brunei , which is a tiny enclave therein , are seeking to prevent the inclusion of their countries ? along with British , North Borneo ? in a new Communistresistant Southeast Asian state to be named the Federation of Malaysia . Indonesia . opposes formation of this state , due to be inaugurated Aug. 31 . So do all the Communist powers . Other components are to be Malaya , which has pioneered the project with British approval , and the island of Singapore . The creation of " Greater Malaysia " is happening at the same time as Communist-aided fighting raises a fresh crisis in Laos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American-assisted government forces in neighboring South Vietnam . The Communist Party is barred in all live countries that will comprise Greater Malaysia . But in Indonesia it is legal and is far larger than any such organization outside the Soviet Union and Commute nist China . Relations Improved Banners and posters displayed in the colorful reception for Chinese dignitaries in Jakarta emphasized that China and Indonesia are united in their struggle against colonialism . Others exhorted : " Long live Indonesian-Chinese friendship " and " Taiwan is China 's legal territory just as Iran Barat ( formerly Dutch-held West New Guinea ) is the legal , territory of Indonesia . " Relations between Indonesia and Peking have improved considerably since 1960 , when legislation was implemented in Indonesia to remove the strong Chinese Communist hold on the nation 's business and commerce . Chinese living in Indonesia were forbidden to indulge in retail trade in rural areas and ordered to reside in cities and big towns . This led to disturbances , demonstrations , and the exodus of thousands of Indonesian Chinese to the mainland of China .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        