@@727884

txt As the Democratic and Republican mayoral primaries move through their final days and the June 17 balloting approaches , one issue has too largely dominated the campaigns . It involves the darkened doorway , the empty elevator , the soft footstep on the stair and it seeks to arouse the little center of fear that may lurk within urban dwellers almost everywhere . The overriding and all-consuming issue has been crime . It is the one issue discussed by all seven of the mayoral candidates of both parties and it is virtually the only issue discussed by some of them . This newspaper has endorsed Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo for the Democratic mayoral nomination and Mayor John Lindsay for the Republican nomination . Mr. Badillo is a reformer whose extensive governmental service has been marked by administrative skill and originality . In the Republican primary , Mayor Lindsay is far preferable to his opponent , State Senator John J. Marchi , a conservative without the credentials for the post he seeks . Both Mr. ? Badillo , through speeches and extensive campaign papers , and Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this city 's urban crisis . Among the Democrats , Representative James H. Scheuer and Norman Mailer have also attempted to tackle various issues . This can not be said of all the others . Controller Mario Procaccino 's mayoral campaign theme has been " safety in the streets , security in the home " and he has spoken of little else . Former Mayor Robert Wagner has preferred to concentrate his fire on Mayor Lindsay , rather than his Democratic primary opponents , but the parting message in his campaign advertising has echoed the Controller 's crime-and-fear theme . " If you vote late , " warns Mr. Wagner , " do n't go alone . " State Senator Marchi describes himself as " very , very hawkish " on the crime issue and on civil disorders as well . " I would give the Police Commissioner full authority to . . . send in the police with clubs swinging , " he says . The safety of citizens and the protection of property are certainly vital issues . Crime continues to climb in New York City , although less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past . The proper maintenance of order is essential  --  and neither Mr. Badillo nor Mayor Lindsay has ignored the issue . The Borough President believes the stationing of police on subways brought a decline in crime there and he suggests the need for more policemen elsewhere . Mayor Lindsay now regards crime as " the single most important problem of concern to New Yorkers , and the first priority of this administration . " But crime must not be considered the only issue . Crime can not be separated from educational standards , housing conditions , job opportunities and other factors . With voting less than two weeks away , there is need for all candidates to eschew demagoguery and appeals to fear and to see crime in its broader context . How can educational standards be raised , housing construction speeded , job opportunities increased ? How can transportation be improved , health services expanded , environmental pollution ended , racial tensions eased ? What about welfare and family planning , home rule , tax resources and the housekeeping functions of the city ? These are some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign .                     