@@725116

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 ? One of the more daring policy adventures now under discussion among Washington 's think men is a scheme for restoring a limited form of diplomatic relations with Cuba . At this stage , it should be emphasized , these discussions are highly tentative ; according to the usual treacherous sources , no formal proposal for limited recognition has yet been placed before President Johnson . " Of course , we 're perfectly free to sit around and talk about changes in foreign policy , " explained a Treasury man who has been active in the discussion , " but it 's not every year you can find a man with the courage to walk into the White House and say , ' let 's do something a little different . ' " A Deal With Fidel The proposal , nevertheless , has substantial backing in the State Department , the Pentagon and the Treasury , as well as at Republican national headquarters . What each of these agencies would like to see is an arrangement with the Castro regime under which Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be allowed free access to Cuba . The argument in favor goes something as follows : The present policy of total nonrecognition contributes insensibly to the dollar drain . With Cuba off limits , the nearest Communist country with which the Congressman can satisfy his need to be photographed fearlessly confronting the red menace is East Germany . Thus , he must travel all the way to Europe and mount the viewing platform on the Berlin Wall . Being human , of course , the Congressman naturally pauses en route at places like London , Paris and Capri and widens the dollar gap by strewing precious dollars behind him . Moreover , the brisk demand for confrontations on the Wall puts heavy strains on the State Department 's resources . A vital personage like a Congressman can not simply walk onto the viewing platform and clench his jaw at Communistic East Germany . He must be fitted in among royal touring parties , European politicians up for election , visiting African chiefs of state and sundry deposed dictators from Asia and South America . Booking time at the Wall is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on top of that , the protocol problem is enormous . Why , the Treasury asks , should the Congressman have to go all the way to Berlin when we have a perfectly good Communist menace only ninety miles off shore ? Most of the dollars now spent en route to the Berlin Wall could be spent instead in Miami , and the State Department would be freed to do more important business in Berlin . The Pentagon is also enthusiastic , but for different reasons . The military has recently been afflicted by a mass influx of touring Senators into Vietnam . Visiting Vietnam has become such an intensive political pastime that last week , when a visiting Senator asked a young official what his worst problem was , the young man replied : " Taking care of visiting Senators , " or words to that effect . Now , all that these Senators need is to be photographed skulking fearlessly about combat zones . The Pentagon believes they could be accommodated by visits to Cuba . For a Senator who wanted to be shot at , arrangements could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their heads as they emerged from Havana bistros . Payments Unbalance Naturally , the Treasury is also anxious to reduce the Senatorial flow toward Asia , since the touring Cicero usually decides to relieve his combat fatigue by blowing good dollars on silks in Hong Kong and tea in Tokyo . In addition , the Pentagon believes that a comfortable percentage of the reporters now making it so difficult to tell the war the Government 's way could be sidetracked into Cuba with the lure of all-night interviews with Fidel . " Cuba can be a blessing to the free world if we only start using it properly , " one young military thinker comments . Republican politicians tend to agree with him . " Look at it this way , " explained one highly placed Republican . " Before long now , I 'm going to be running for President . This means I 've got to go all the way to Moscow , try to get an appointment with Brezhnev and Kosygin and get myself photographed poking them both in the ribs to show I do n't choke up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold , timeconsuming and hard to set up . What 's more , most people in this country do n't even know who Brezhnev and Kosygin are . Now , if I could run down to Havana overnight , get an allnight interview with Fidel and be photographed twisting his beard , I 'd be a national hero , and for only a peanut investment in time and money . " What concessions would Castro be given in return for allowing free access ? " That 's the beauty part , " said a wise old State Department man . " We agree to take all .. he Havana cigars he can sztso. "                     