@@727980

txt The 1970 congressional elections are more than a year away . But already there is talk of a possibly bitter battle for Georgia 's Fifth District seat in the House . Likely candidates are incumbent Rep. Fletcher Thompson ( R ) of Eastpoint , and State Rep. Julian Bond of Atlanta , a young ; black Democrat . The Fifth District embraces the predominantly black areas of Atlanta as well as suburban sections with strong segregationist sentiment . Mr. Thompson 's bombastic reaction to attempts to desegregate schools in his district has drawn the ire of Mr. Bond and other blacks . The nationally known black legislator has said he feels a member of his race should challenge Mr. Thompson in 1970 . And he does n't deny giving thought to making the race himself . Some observers see only one possible event in the way of a Bond-Thompson confrontation : With the growth of metropolitan Atlanta 's population , a congressional redistricting ? might be necessary  --  which would place the two men in different districts . But whatever district he is in , a congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1970 . Virginia 's old " Byrd machine " took a beating last week in a three-way Democratic gubernatorial primary . Now , with the state 's first runoff primary coming Aug. 19 , the outcome looks even more unpredictable than the first round . Middle-roader William C. Battle and liberal state Sen. Henry E. Howell Jr. , who finished one-two with a difference of just 1 percent of the vote between them , will make the runoff . Lt. Gov . Fred G. Pollard , the man closest to the old organization though himself a moderate , finished a poor third July 15 . Gov . Mills E. Godwin Jr. , an organization xnan , has thrown his weight to Mr. Battle for the runoff . But many think Republicans and conservatives will enter the Democratic runoff and vote for Mr. Howell , hoping to set him up to knock off in November . Trends ? ? ? Many Negro teachers in the South see their worst fears being confirmed as faculties are integrated under federal pressure . As teaching staffs are combined , black teachers are being let go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions in most Southern states is a factor . Suits are cropping up in most states as Negro teachers , backed by their state associations and the National Education Association , seek redress in federal courts . The . Georgia Teachers and Education Association ( black ) , surveyed 35 school systems in the state where significant integration has taken place . It found that the number of Negro teachers had decreased by 27 percent and the number of Negro principals by 56 percent , while white teachers and principals increased in number and the proportion of black pupils rose . Miami prides itself as a " gateway to the Americas . " But it would like to slam that gate on at least a couple of commodities . Cocaine , a major source of which is Latin America , is the biggest narcotics problem to customs agents in Florida . How much gets through is unknown . But seizures last year included 69 pounds of cocaine and 189 pounds of marijuana . South Carolina has just cleaned up a little old business left over from 1919 . It has ratified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to vote . The gentler sex in South Carolina has been voting ever since 1920 when three-quarters of the states ratified the amendment adopted by Congress . But from now on they may do it with more flair . How and why ... The government of Virginia and five college graduates recently concluded the state 's first-year experiment with an intern program . The mood was one of mutual admiration . Aim of the program is to interest bright young people in government service . When the year began there were no commitments on either side . But all five starters are staying on in the permanent employ of the state . . Five more young people have . now begun the second year ' of the intern program .                     