@@726314

txt The North Vietnamese Army has assumed direct command of local Viet Cong units in the upper two-thirds of South Vietnam , intelligence sources report . This significant move  --  which means the North Vietnam Army is running the Communist side of the war there as well as fighting it  --  was the subject of a detailed briefing to the highest-ranking members of the American-backed Vietnamese Government and armed forces , reliable sources report . Within the southern one-third of the country , the Viet Cong high command , believed to be headquartered in the jungle stronghold of War Zone C near Cambodia , retains control of its own troops , according to these sources . Wide-ranging command The North Vietnamese Army command stretches from roughly one-hundred miles north-northeast of Saigon upward to the 17th parallel , where the bloodied six-mile-wide demilitarized zone only theoretically separates Communist North Vietnam and the Southern , American-supported republic . Horizontally , the command reaches from the South China Sea on the east to the Laotian-Cambodian land borders on the west . Arching north-northeast of Saigon are the three provinces of Phuoc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are geographically important for containing the foothills to the mountainous northern region along the land borders . They are also historically important for forming the old French-imposed political di // *Hanoi grips Viet Cong tighter // vision between the Mekong Delta area once called Cochin China , and central Vietnam ( Annam ) which ranged northward to slightly above the 17th parallel . These regional distinctions are still important , and on some issues are more important than Vietnamese nationalism . North of these three provinces the North Vietnam Army is in command of the Communist side of the war . Intelligence sources say this confirmed information  --  based on the interrogation of several high-ranking North Vietnamese officers  --  indicated the southern-born Viet Cong guerrillas , political cadre , and organized units were quickly shifting into the heavily populated areas along the South China Sea . Here , they are expected to concentrate their fighting against the South Vietnamese Government armed forces and the crucial pacification ( revolutionary development ) program . Officer interrogated " This significant command change means there are now two separate , hot wars in South Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is between North Vietnamese and American units . " The second is the Viet Cong against the Vietnamese Government soldiers and political organizations . It will mean more bloodshed in a spiraling war . " One of the North Vietnamese officers whose interrogation led to the confirmation of this major development was named Lt. Col. Huynh Cu , former head of instruction for the Viet Cong Interzone V , encompassing the five northernmost provinces of the southern republic . He defected to the government side in the spring of this year . Another North Vietnamese officer working in intelligence for the Communists , was recently captured in Da Nang . His interrogation also added to the governments knowledge of the Cominunist change of command . The intelligence sources also reported the By a staff cartographer Northerners take over Shaded area shows the part of South Vietnam now falling under the military command of North Vietnamese . new North Vietnamese command responsibility of fulfilled by two separate structures . The one command structure controls the war in the five northernmost provinces of the South  --  Quang Tri along the 17th parallel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quang Ngai . The headquarters of this command is in the environs of the frequently bombed city of Thanh Hoa , 200 miles north of the 17th parallel in North Vietnam . The sources said one mission of the elements of four North Vietnamese divisions in this area was to learn how to counter effectively American units ? especially the American marines ? as future training and strategic planning against any possible ground invasion into North Vietnam by allied troops . The second command structure covers roughly half of South Vietnam from the perimeter north of Saigon to the southern limits of the Thanh Hoa command . The headquarters of this second command has not been located yet ; sources said . Generals still unknown The North Vietnamese generals commanding these two headquarters  --  or the over-all campaign  --  are still unknown , sources said . However , the intelligence officers said that two North Vietnamese are confirmed as present in the South . One of these is Lt. Gen. Nguyen Chi Thanh , once confirmed to be in command of all North Vietnamese units operating in the South .. It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the generals also commanding the Viet Cong military machine . General Thanh , considered strongly pro-Peking , is one of only two four-star generals in the North Vietnamese Army . The other is commander in chief Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap , who is considered Moscow trained and Moscow oriented . General Thanh was former commander of the northern provinces of South Vietnam during the French Indochina war ending in 1954 . He is a member of the National Defense Council and a member of the Lao Dong Communist Party politburo and secretariat in North Vietnam .                     