@@723422

txt It ' was a good day for just . about anything yesterday in Washington Square Park ? . a hootenanny , a victory celebration or a good old-fashioned political shouting match . It was such a good day , in fact , that Greenwich Village residents decided to have all three at the same time . The multiple festivities sprang from a victory rally to celebrate the expulsion of city buses from the Not . " Opening the park for people , " residents called it . The rally began under a bright sun near the Washington Arch on the north side of the park , the same place where the buses used to turn around at the end of their runs . About 250 men , women , children and dogs showed up to join the celebration . Ribbon Across Entrance Since this was the first time in 77 years that the buses had : no right-of-way in the park , it seemed the perfect time for Villagers to celebrate . I Raymond S. Rubinow , the ! president of the Joint Emergency Committee to Close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform set up and a bright red , ribbon stretched across the park entrance , to be cut at the proper ! moment to the happy clamor of I cheers and applause . I The rally got off to a fine ! start , as public officials extolled the merits of the park and the success of the residents . But soon the rally got off the track and into politics . The struggle between Carmine G. De Sapio and Edward I. Koch for the Democratic leadership of the First Assembly District South is a widespread topic of conversation in the Village these days , and some of the audience apparently began talking about that when they should have been listening to the speakers . Attention picked up , however , when someone on the platform began reading a telegram from Mayor Wagner in which he praised the Villagers for their succesful fight . The telegram also named Mr. Koch as a leader in the struggle . The question of which political leader led the fight against the buses is a matter of heated dispute in the Village , and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this outburst , State Senator Jerome L. Wilson , the chairman of the nonpartisan Council for Parks and Playgrounds and a Democrat-Liberal who lives on the Upper East Side , climbed onto the speakers ' stand and began to talk . He was hooted down with shouts of " We do n't want any outsiders here ! " De Sapio Greets Friends During all this , Mr. De Sapio was wandering through the crowd , greeting old friends , and Mr. Koch was on the platform , waiting to speak and cut the ribbon . Two persons in the crowd got a little too overheated , but policemen broke into the crowd and separated the disputants , and the rally resumed . Mr. Koch then rose to speak and the hooting got so loud he could not be heard . After a few moments of futile speaking , he climbed down and cut the red ribbon to the hoots and cheers of the crowd . But when he started to get back up , he noticed that there were now two crowds , of about 50 persons each , separated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of De Sapio supporters , and the other contained those of Mr. Koch . Mr. Koch walked to his own crowd , and began talking . Mr. De Sapio was holding his own seminar in politics , quietly , with his group . Dogs barked . Folk-singers who frequent the park and who had quieted down for the rally , went back to vocalizing . By 5:30 P.M. , the rally seemed to be over , and the candidates and their crowds went their own ways and calmness and political peace returned to the park .                     