@@726482

txt The Senate Judiciary Committee assumed jurisdiction today of the House-passed antiriot bill , bypassing a subcommittee that could have bottled it up . The committee , headed by James 0 . Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , will conduct hearings next week on the controversial bill , which would make it a Federal crime to cross state lines to incite a riot . Attorney General Ramsey Clark will be asked to testify . Mr. Eastland announced that law enforcement officials from Detroit , Newark and 18 other cities that have experienced riots also would be asked to testify in the three days of hearings , beginning next Wednesday . It was believed that the // committee 's action increased the chances of the bill 's passing at an early date , although the measure is still subject to drastic amendment by its opponents . Congress , angry and frustrated over the breakdown of law and order in Detroit and other cities , but divided as to its causes and cure , moved ponderously on other proposals to restore peace . Congressional leaders awaited word from the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study the riots and recommend solutions . Republicans have proposed a Congressional joint committee , while a number of Democrats have called for a blue-ribbon Presidential panel along the lines of the Warren Commission , which investigated the assassination of President Kennedy . Subversive Action Seen Edwin E. Willis , Democrat of Louisiana , chairman of the House Committee on Un-Amer. ican Activities , said committee investigators had found " sub versive influences " in some riots and would disclose its evi dence in public hearings . " While I do not now say that subversive elements have in stigated all or most of these riots or that they are primaril3 or solely responsible for them , ' Mr. Willis said in a writter statement , " I do believe tha the information developed to date will justify public hear ings . " There was no indication however , of when these hear ings would begin . At the urg Reproduced with ing of Representative William M. Tuck , Democrat of Virginia , the committee has been looking for possible subversive influences behind racial disorders since last October . Because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a number of House members have been opposed to the idea of its holding open hearings on such a delicate subject . With the spread of rioting , the committee apparently has decided to go ahead . The belief that there is a national conspiracy behind the riots  --  which Republican leaders in Congress have been voicing  --  was given support today by former President Dwight D. Eisenhower . In a news conference at his office in Gettysburg , Pa. , General Eisenhower said : " A lot of people think there is definitely a national planning system because they seem to follow such a definite pattern . " It does look that there must be some kind of pattern because they kind of break out here and the next place and so on and now simultaneously . I saw a map in one of my papers this morning  --  shows all the cities where riots are breaking out and it 's really terrifying . " Backs Troop Use General Eisenhower backed President Johnson 's use of troops in Detroit , asserting : " We ca n't stand rebellion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the lot of the downtrodden . The belief that there is a national pattern or timetable is behind the antiriot bill . It is intended to give the Federal Bureau of Investigation direct authority to move against persons suspected of stirring up riots in more than one state . But the Johnson Administration has expressed doubt about the measure 's effectiveness as an antiriot weapon and about the wisdom of increasing the Federal police power in this area . Senator Sam Ervin Jr. , Democrat of North Carolina , chairman of a constitutional rights subcommittee that usually has jurisdiction over legislation dealing with race relations , said last week that the measure might infringe on states ' rights . Mr. Ervin was absent from the meeting of the full committee today  --  he was in North Carolina  --  and the antiriot bill was left with the committee . Thus the possibility of drawnout hearings , which Mr. Ervin customarily conducts on civil rights legislation , was forestalled . General Eisenhower said that Everett Dirksen , the Senate Republican leader , had told him the Federal Bureau of Investigation did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern to the rioting . General Eisenhower suggested that Congress enact a law giving the F.B.I . the authority to investigate . The F. B. I. has been employed rather extensively in an investigative role in the racial riots . The Justice Department has maintained that it has found no evidence of any conspiracy or national planning behind the riots . Mr. Dirksen confirmed that he had talked with the former President about the matter in " casual conversations " but said that he thought the F.B.I . had ample authority to investigate if there was even " a hint " of interstate commerce involved . He said that if the F.B.I . needed additional authority it ought to come to Congress and ask for it . A spokesman for the F.B.I . would not say whether the agency felt it had enough authority and referred the quesLion to the Justice Department . A department spokesman said : " There is no Federal . law specifying riots that would authorize the F.B.I . to investigate such . However there are ample laws to ' give power to investigate such as interstate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Dr. King Blames Congress CHICAGO , July 26 ( AP ) ? The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . today placed part of the blame for Negro rioting on " a very insensitive , irresponsible Congress . " Dr. King , head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , made the charge at a news conference called to announce an adult education project in Chicago , financed by the United States Office of rducation . It seeks to find jobs for ' the unemployed . " Congress ought to-be , asked ) 3T the President immediately : o face up , to this emergency ; : 0 create a new government tgency , similar to the W.P.A. Works . Progress Administration ) f the 1930 's to end the mas ; ive unemployment in the Nero community , " Dr. King said . " Congress has created the atmosphere for these riots , " Dr. King asserted . " It has shown it Is not concerned with rats , it is not concerned with the deaths of children in rat-in Tested slums . " " We do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has sailed through the House of Representatives ; we need legislation like the ' anti-rat ' bill and the rent-supplement proposal which were hooted down in that same chamber , or the model cities program that suffered large economic . : utbacks. " 40 Here Picket a Meeting Of Greek-American Group A meeting of the GreekAmerican Progressive Association , which is sending a representative to Athens to gather information on the military junta there , was picketed last night by the American Committee for Freedom and Democracy in Greece . About 55 people attended the closed meeting in George 's Employment Agency , Inc. , on the third floor of 266 West 41st Street . They were picketed by about 40 people , who marched on the sidewalk and carried signs . Some signs said " Greek Americans Want to See Greece Free Again , " " Democracy for Greeks Now " and " The Greek Americans Say : ' Melina Si ! Dictators No ! ' " The latter sign was a reference to Melina Mercouri , the actress , whose Greek citizenship was recently revoked after she expressed opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the association , said his group had " taken no stand , about the junta . " Pickets of the American Committee for Freedom and Democracy in Greece accused the association of favoring the military junta . Detonate 125 Tons of Bombs HILL AIR FORCE BASE , Utah July 26 ( AP ) ? The Air Force detonated 125 tons of conventional bombs today to see if a new earth barricade would protect 500 tons of bombs near the blast . Those bombs did not go off , and the Air Force called the test successful . A spokesman said the Air Force hoped to employ the new barricade so that munitions storage areas could be spaced closer together .                     