@@723779

txt Maine , traditionally Republican , has the feature United States Senate contest of 1964 in the New England area . Republicans could gain a Senate seat there . Four other Senate scats are at stake in the six-state area in the November election . The inmmbents now seem reasonably safe . In Maine Sen. Edmund S. Muskie , the state 's first Democratic United States Senator since 1911 , is seeking a second term . His November opponent will be Rep. Clifford G. McIntire ( R ) of Maine . now serving his 14th year in the national House . Until President Kennedy was assassinated Mr. McIntire had been given more than an even chance of tipping over Senator Muskie . Now the contest is considered about 50-50 although much could change in the interim . Senator Muskie is a liberal Democrat who followed two terms as Governor with election to the Senate in 1958 , when he tipped over veteran Sen. Frederick G. Payne ( R ) of Maine . Mr. McIntire is a conservative Republican . GO1 ' Turns Out Factors favoring a win by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Maine in a presidential year and usually give Republicans sizable winning margins . However , Senator Muskie has been a popular Democrat in the Pine Tree State . He was close to President Kennedy . Democrats are hopeful of picking up a Senate scat in Vermont . where Sen. Winston L. Prouty ( 11 ) of Vermont is seeking a second term . Senator Prouty , a former Representative in Congress , is favored for reelection if , as expected , he seeks another term . He is likely to be faced by State Senator Frederick J. Fayette ( D ) of South Burlington . In 1958 Mr. Fayette came within 5.000 votes of upsetting Senator Prouty . However , Republicans generally give Republican candidates big margins in presidential years . Two years ago the Democrats made a gubernatorial breakthrough to elect Philip H. Hoff as the first Democrat to be elected Governor in 109 years in Vermont . Dodd Favored Governor Hoff has been seeking to persuade Bernard J. Leddy , Burlington attorney , to run for the Senate but without avail thus far . In Connecticut Sen. Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second term . But there are factors which could tighten the situation . Senator Dodd will have no trouble winning renomination . His only announced opponent in the Democratic nominating convention is a political unknown , Frank Russo of Hartford , a former federal employee . Being mentioned as prospective Senate candidates on the Republican ticket arc former Representative in Congress Horace Seely-Brown Jr . ( 11 ) , who was defeated for a Senate seat in 1962 by the present Sen. Abraham I. Ribicoff ( D ) ; former Gov . John D. Lodge . and Mayor Richard Sheehan of West Hartford , campaign manager for John Alsop , the GOP gubernatorial nominee in 1962 . The assassination of President Kennedy made Connecti- ; cut less sure as regards Sena- for Dodd 's reelection . President Johnson is expected to carry Connecticut but not by the 150,000 to 200,000 margin political observers had estimated the Kennedy 1964 margin would have been . Victory Conceded ? In Massachusetts and Rhode Island even Republicans generally are conceding reelection victories to the incumbent Democratic Senators . Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ( D @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full Senate term . Youngest brother of the late President , Senator Kennedy was elected by a 295,000-vote plurality in 1962 to fill out the two-year unexpired term in the Senate seat his brother resigned to become President . Republican leaders are finding it difficult to round up a GOP opponent to run against Senator Kennedy . His prowess on the campaign trail is already well known . It is understood that Laurence Curtis of Boston , a former five-term Representative in Congress , is considering a run against Mr. Kennedy . Two years ago he unsuccessfully sought the Republican Senate nomination . In Rhode Island veteran Senator John O. Pastore ( D ) , now serving his 14th year in the United States Senate , is considered a reelection certainty . To date there has been no discussion of a possible Republican opponent .                     