@@727847

txt Fifty-four Democratic members of the House of Representatives proposed today that Congress pass tax reform legislation ' Before . agreeing to continue the income tax surcharge'on a longtermbasis . If the difficult technical task cOoo0g. - :ofit completed -. when the- Surtax elipirek , then the surtax can be continued temporarily , on a week-to-week or month-to-month basis , while the reforms are being studied , the Democrats said . The Congressmen , who are members of a liberal organization known as the Democratic Study ' Group , made their request is a letter to Wilbur D. Mills td Arkansas , the chairman of the House ' Ways and ? Means Committee . Mr. Mills said he Would haVe to sturdy the letter before commenting . Since strong public sentiment for tax reform was being evidenced in letters received by members of Congress , it appeared at least possible that the course proposed by the study group- might be followed  --  although probably not because the study group was advocating it . The study group members have rarely been able to prevail in the House on major issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee should vote a major reform package this year and that this ought to be done more or less simultaneously with action on the surcharge . He has also indicated that he does not feel that the longterm extension of the surtax necessarily has to be voted by June 30 . President Nixon has asked that the surtax be extended at its present 10 per cent rate through Dec. 31 and then dropped to 5 per cent through June 30 , 1970 . Congress has sometimes kept taxes on the books by simply passing resolutions to extend them temporarily . It did so last year with the excise taxes on automobiles and telephone service . The members of the Democratic Study Group who signed the letter to Mr. Mills said they wished to " applaud your publicly expressed determination to bring to the floor at the earliest possible time comprehensive tax reform legislation . " But the group said that reform should come ahead of the surcharge so that Congress could examine " the amount of revenues that will be raised by plugging tax loopholes . " Although the letter did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by this that the surcharge could be reduced more than President Nixon asked  --  or sooner ? if the reforms produced enough in additional tax collections . The signers also said that they would like to look at Congressional actions on appropriations bills before taking " action which would lock the surtax in for another year . " The Democrats proposed that the reform bill include changes " in such loopholes as oil depletion , capital gains untaxed at death , the unlimited charitable deduction , special treatment for stock options , the multiple corporation loophole , the provision permitting payment of estate taxes by the redemption of government bonds at par , hobby farms , accelerated depreciation on speculative real estate , foundations and corporate mergers . " Among the signers of the letter were : Jonathan B. Bingham of the Bronx . Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn . Thaddeus J. Dulski , of upstate New York . Leonard Farbstein of Manhattan . James J. Howard of New Jerse . Edward I. Koch of Manhattan . Richard D. McCarthy of upstate New York . Richard L. Ottinger of Westchester . Bertram @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . William F. Ryan of Manhattan . Frank Thompson Jr . of New Jersey . James H. Scheuer of the Bronx .                     