@@722898

txt Letters CLARE BOOTHE LUCE.PETER SOBOL. pg . 8 Letters Nuclear Arms for Europe Unified Defense System Urged to Contain Russia The writer of the following letter is a former member of Congress and former Ambassador to Italy . To the Editor of The New York Times : Why does the United States seem determined to deny Great Britain , France and Germany the right to defend themselves with their own nuclear shield ? Why does the U.S.A. insist that every nation in Europe must be indefinitely run from the Pentagon ? If France , Germany and England had the nuclear capacity to destroy each other 's principal cities none could have the slightest reason to fear attack from the other . And certainly , then , the least likely thing to happen would be that these three nations would attack the United States of America or Soviet Russia . If the pooled nuclear strength of England , France and Germany were great enough to deliver a punishing blow to Russia , Moscow would not attack any of them either . The paradox of nuclear power in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best guarantee that exists that it will be neither a nuclear war aggressor or a nuclear victim . To Stop Soviets Unless we have the intention to occupy Germany forever ? or make it the 51st state of the union , U.S. troops must some day leave German soil . And when they do , if the U.S.S.R. then proceeded to make a " limited war move " on Germany , in order to stop that move , we would have to press the buttons of the " multinational nuclear defense system " ? all of which are today located in Washington . This would mean we should have to launch a nuclear holocaust in which 40 or 50 million Americans would get killed . Would Washington press these ' buttons ? Or would we seek to ' end the limited conflict , and negotiate Germany , as we did leave Germany will evaporate the day Moscow is faced with . a unified Germany and France , who are able to destroy Moscow instantly if Russian troops ever cross their borders . Piecemeal War Today Soviet Russia has only one hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really united in its own defense by the very necessity of pooling its nuclear strength against Soviet aggression . That hope lies in the White House . If Russia can induce the United States to fight beside Moscow on an anti-de Gaulle , anti-Adenauer popular front , the day of the Russian piecemeal limited war attack on Europe will still remain a reasonable prospect for My . Khrushchev . If Europe requires United urges , " and folic de grandeur , States military aid to help Euwhen examined without preju- rope defend themselves with dice are no more than a desire their own nuclear weapons , to have Europe acquire its own surely the U.S.A. can find the modern defense system , and to . means to do so . The U.S.A. 's $40 billion rendezvous with the Man in the Moon , for example , can wait . He has been waiting patiently for billions of years for his first visitor . What ca n't wait is for the Administration to meet half-way the Man in Paris , who understandably enough thinks it is more important to the freedom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bonn first in this next decade , than to beat Mr. Khrushchev to the moon . Mr. Khrushchev will gladly give Mr. Kennedy the courtesy of the first moon trip if Mr. Kennedy will only continue to leave Europe without its own nuclear defenses . Once Europe goes behind the Iron Curtain , any Americans who thereafter desired to visit the moon would have to pass through the Russian custom officials , anyway . CLARE BOOTITE LUCE . Phoenix , Ariz. , Feb. 11 , 1963 But if France , Germany and England today possessed their own nuclear shield , the United States of America could at last withdraw its troops , reasonably certain there would be no attack on Europe , and no attack on America . Washington officials have put it about that General de Gaulle has a " 19th century mind . " General de Gaulle has a very 20th century mind indeed : He knows that his country , and every nation in Europe without nuclear strength of its own today , lives  --  or dies  --  entirely at the will of the nuclear buttonpushers in Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much ridiculed " grand design , " " Napoleonic pursue for Europe what has , 1 after all , been a United States foreign policy goal for 17 years ? to contain Russia , while trying at the same time to bring down the Iron Curtain peacefully . Why should this longavowed U.S. aim be so bitterly attacked , when de Gaulle also makes it his aim ? He can be accused of plagiarism from the State Department , but hardly of mysticism  --  unless , of course , it is " mystic " for a European to hope that Europe may someday again hope to run Europe , instead of Washington . De Gaulle has repeatedly stated that France believes in the uses of NATO , and that he is profoundly grateful for our massive nuclear support . But he has also made it clear , as the leader of a proud and sovereign nation , that he wishes to be America 's small , but faithful nuclear ally , and not its infantry satellite . knows when she is in trouble . Her hopes of taking Europe piecemeal when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , measured stands to come from America concerning the current pose de Gaulle has taken on Britain 's entry to the Common Market and on the American proposal of a joint NATO nuclear defense system . The superficial , simple view taken by many Americans toward the Gaullist phenomenon in contemporary France is as little comprehensive of the situation as the same kind of thinking of many Frenchmen toward their consistently misrepresented English neighbors . Moreover , the popular American attitude gives rise to an equally silly exaggeration of our national thinking in the ever-interested French newspaper public such as that fed them by the Washington correspondent of the representative middle-class daily , Le Figaro , on Jan. 21 . " Our friends the Americana , " he writes characteristically , " feel wounded in their desire to do good ... great melancholy , wounded friendship , puzzlement for the future . . . . All the old ironical or perjorative cliches have been hauled out : ' This old arrogant , vain Frenchman , this vandal of Europe , the man who , with Stalin , has done Europe the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he concludes justly . And indeed , this popularization of a popularization is painful ? especially for an American who recognizes in it both the ( unfortunate ) germ of true representation of his compatriot 's feeling and the distortion by French stereotyped conditioned-reflexes . Especially in view of the paucity of American opinion to reach France this last week ? either as silence or as general platitudes ? Mr. Reston 's article is a welcome ' nitwit-point , At a time when Congress Is stupidly withdrawing more and more means of letting our Western European allies become acquainted on , a cultural and practical level with the most important in American thought , let us have more forthright , rigorous , and accurate opinion in the public , multi-continental PEER SOBOL. press . Paris , Jan. 21 , 1883.                     