@@726801

txt The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , Wilbur D. Mills , has taken a new tack in his drive for economy in Government . His action appears to doom , foi ' the near future , any prospect for the enactment of tax credits against college tuition payments , private industry job training programs for the poor and a host of other tax credit proposals . Mr. Mills , in a speech late yesterday on the House floor , denounced the whole idea of tax credits as a " hidden " form of Government spending that can often be costlier than a direct expenditure program aimed at the same objectives . Those who advocate tax credits , the Arkansas Democrat said , " should well note the fact that a tax credit which reduces budget receipts is just as likely to force a general tax increase as appropriations for direct expenditures . " Credits Called Wasteful Tax credits are also wasteful , Mr. Mills said . That is because " most of the benefit of these credits goes to business firms or individuals who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were available . " " For these taxpayers , the credit provides a windfall , " he added . Mr. Mills cited as a specific example of such a windfall a proposal , which has widespread support in Congress , to permit parents a credit against their taxes of part of the college tuitions they pay . In only a " relatively few cases , " he said , would such a credit make the difference between a parent 's being able to finance his child 's education and his not being able to do SO . This " waste " factor is what makes tax credits ' ' in every case " more costly in lost tax receipts to the Government than direct expenditure programs would be , he said . Mr. Mills complained , in addition , that the amount of money the Government loses through tax credits is rarely known with any precision and that tax credits are not subject to annual review by Congress , as spending programs are . Mr. Mills 's views are closely similar to those that have been expressed with increasing frequency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax credits for private expenditures have been introduced in the present Congress . Among these is the slum housing program sponsored by Senator Robert . F. Kennedy , Democrat of New York , which relies heavily on credits and other tax incentives to induce private blinders to move into slum areas . . There is also considerable support ih Congress for bills that would provide tax credits against business expenditures for equipment to reduce air and water'pollution , for burial of unsightly electric power lines and for establishment of plants in areas of rural poverty and of job training programs for the poor . There has also been Congressional support for proposals to give individuals tax credits against the contributions they make to political , campaigns ? a plan that ' was'endorsed by President Johnson over the private objections of the Treasury Department . Proposals Barred Mr. Mills 's denunciation of the tax , credit concept appeared certain to mean that it would be extremely difficult ? perhaps impossible ? to get such proposals through his committee , at least as long as the present fight over Government spending and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ways and Means Committee , he is in a strong , though not absolute , position to block any legislation he disapproves of . Mr. Mills did not appear to be attacking the major tax credit provisipns that , are al : ready part of the tax laws . He said that two of these . the retirement income credit and the credit businesses get for taxes paid to foreign countries , were needed for reasons of equity . He said the credit for business investment in equipment had the merit of applying equally to all businesses .                     