@@723228

txt CAMBRIDGE , Md. , June 14 ? The Maryland National Guard , imposed a modified form of martial law here tonight to curb further racial demonstrations , Just before 10 P.M. , Lieut . Gen. Milton A. Reckord , the state Adjutant General and guard commander , broadcast over the local radio station a directive ending with the words " by authority of civil and military government . " The general 's sweeping order came as a surprise . Both the Mayor and Council of Cambridge and a delegation of Negro leaders were in Annapolis with Gov . J. Millard Tawes in an attempt to resolve the long impasse between the city government and militant Negro groups . The Negroes are seeking desegregation of schools and public facilities . Governor Tawes earlier ordered 100 National Guardsmen into Cambridge tonight , and 400 more guardsmen were to report tomorrow . But the city has been relatively quiet , with only a handful of whites gathered before the County Court House and jail , The 100 guardsmen of Company C of the 115th Infantry , the Cambridge guard unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were not on patrol . More than 150 state police // men and the 16-man city police force seemed to have the streets under tight control . Faced by the bayonet-wielding guardsmen , a crowd of Negroes dispersed slowly and went home at the urging of a local representative of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , who shouted , " Go home ! Go home ! We 'll never win a battle in the streets . " General Reckord 's directive Ordered " all the people , civilian and military " to comply with the following procedures : " All stores of all types will close not later than 9 P.M. each night until further notice . All civilians must clear the streets not later than 10 P.M. There will be no demonstrations or marches of any type allowed ip the city of Cambridge until further notice . " We make these directives with the urgent necessity for the safety of all the people of this community . These directives will be strictly enforced and violations will be dealt with as required . " It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Maryland Governor since 1930 after a lynching in Princess Anne , south of here . ? General Reckord acted under sweeping power vested in him in a proclamation signed by Governor Tawes at 5 P.M. The proclamation gave the National Guard commander , " as his judgment shall require " the equivalent " authority of sheriffs , police officers , and other civil authorities and if necessary , he.may take entire charge of the situation . " ' me proclamation extended this authority to Cambridge , all of Dorchester County and other nearby areas of Eastern Shore Maryland . However , the general 's directive tonight applied only to the city of Cambridge . Mr. Tawes , in telegrams earlier today , appealed to white and Negro leaders to cancel further demonstrations . In a brief statement to newsmen after the two-hour meeting in Annapolis , Governor Tawes said there had been " a very full ' and frank discussion of the issues . " " A real foundation has been laid for a permanent and peaceful solution in Cambridge , " he said . " In the meantime , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued negotiations of these groups . " He said he expected biracial talks to resume in Cambridge tomorrow . Attorney General Thomas B. Finan interjected that " although we do not have a court order , the Governor has , in effect , issued a mandate to these people to continue negotiating . " The Governor said he had not expected any final agreement tonight . He said his concern at tonight 's meeting had been to " impress upon both sides the severity of the situation . " In response to questions , the Governor said the Negro leaders had received word of the imposition of the curfew and the ban on demonstrations " without comment . " The Negro spokesmen themselves declined any comment as they left the State House . State officials explained that , under Maryland 's Declaration of Rights , full military control of civilian governments under marital law was prohibited . A spokesman said that the " military and civilian government " in Cambridge would not , for example , extend military control over the courts . The Governor invited the entire leadership of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State House . Those summoned included Mrs. Gloria Richardson , chairman of the Cambridge Non-Violent Action Committee , Reginald Robinson , the resident field representative of the Students Non-Violent CAordinating Committee of Atlanta ; Philip Savage , area secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , and the Rev. Charles Bourne , a Cambridge clergyman . Last night , about 500 white persons joined in a freedom march of their own and obtained the release of a white man arrested for cursing a Negro demonstrator . Authorities released the arrested man after the mob refused to leave the county courthouse and jail . Earlier , 11 Negroes had been released from jail on bond .                     