@@725686

txt Purse watchers in the United States are pushing hard for the 11-month school year . They are urging it on school boards across the nation . And the size and momentum of their push makes the prospect ever more likely . Economists would divide the 11 months into four equal quarters and demand that pupils attend three of them . They reckon it would shave present teaching stalls by 25 percent and raise salaries by only 20 percent . They say it would save building space , since only three out of four children would be in school at once . Besides , they think it would augur for better quality . A few school systems hew to an 11-month year . But none have embraced a plan to stagger the student body . Teachers traditionally object to the 11-month year . They have n't wanted to lose their three months of summer vacation . But more and more economy-leaning school committees prodded by vexed taxpayers may soon start overriding such objections . Public schools in the United States are beginning to adopt private schools abroad . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to provide education along United States lines for Americans overseas . But they have been hard put to keep up with fast-paced education changes at home . The State Department is worried about them and is calling on domestic American school systems to help . A school-to-school program is already under way . The St. Louis public school system has just adopted a school in the Philippines and is sending teachers , books . and equipment . Personal exchanges between children in the St. Louis schools and in the Philippine school have started . So far only 20 schools have " foster parents . " But the State Department expects all 200 foundlings will be adopted as more systems learn about the program . Fiji may be about to don a cap and gown . Britain 's higher education mission to the island dependencies says the region needs a university and Fiji is the place for it . Some educational facilities already exist in the islands . And they could be upgraded with an injection of new arts and sciences faculties . But the mission has recommended instead a fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most of them islanders either from Fiji or its neighbors . Trends ... Flier education is taking off in American high schools . Schools in 17 states now list flight training in their curriculums . Texas this fall will offer accredited courses in seven high schools in Austin , High schools in Gillette and Sheridan , Wyo. , also start flier education courses this fall . And other schools in the state are looking hard at the idea . Schools in several states in the Midwest  --  Michigan , Wisconsin , Illinois , Indiana , Nebraska , and Ohio  --  now teach flying . Some educators insist flier education will be as big in 20 years as driver education is now . High school aviation courses generally embrace practical mathematics , geography , theory of flight , history of aviation , meteorology , communications , navigation , flight regulations , preflight planning , and actual flight experience . The courses are open , with credit , to 11th and 12th graders . All are taught by experienced aviators and end with students actually flying under supervision . It 's a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : How to drive an ion rocket for credit , perhaps , or a course on how to soft-land on Mars . How and why ... An **31;27;TOOLONG system is coming to the rescue of the American English teacher . Reading and correcting themes their students write has burdened English teachers since long before Grandpa 's day . But now an army of lay readers is forming to do the job . These volunteers , usually paid by the theme , read between 50 and 100 themes a week , correcting and grading them for the . eacher . Some also conduct tutoring sessions students whose papers they grade . Nearly every United States community as a pool of college-trained English majors or minors well qualified to grade papers . Tome public school systems are even adver.ising in local papers and on radio stations or such help . The response from retired professors , iousewives , and on-leave schoolteachers has been brisk .                     