@@723418

txt Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Representative John V. Lindsay has just stated that " the direct election of district leaders is the most important and necessary reform that now faces the Republican party in New York City . " Accordingly , the Ninth Assembly District Republican Club has again unanimously called on the New York Republican County Committee to bring the issue to the floor for a vote at their meeting on Sept. 16 . It is important to understand the meaning of " direct election of district leaders , " since to many people the term is confusing . The fact is that this issue is far more than a political technicality : At present , Republican voters in party primaries do not select their district leaders . Instead , they elect county committeemen from each election district who then meet and choose a leader . Since county committeemen are often hand picked by the leader , the system virtually assures his self-perpetuation and can cause stagnation ill the party leadership . While good district leaders may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present indirect method interposes an unnecessary barrier between the voters and their leaders . Selection by Voters American Indians Have Vote To THE EDITOR of THE NEw YORK TIMES : Ezra L , Austin of Danville , Va. , whose letter on the American Indian was published Aug. 31 will find that the Indian can vote in every state in the United States . MADELEINE N. BRADBURY . East Orange , N. J. , Aug. 31 , 1963 . Alcoholism No Illness Director of Center Says Concept Is Part of Therapeutic Approach To THE Ewes or THE NEW YoRK TIMES : In your Aug. 27 issue you published a letter from Dr. Marvin A. Block entitled " Treating City 's Alcoholics . " I write not only because of the importance of the subject and how it vitally affects New York City , but because of the unfair implication and nonfactual statement of Dr. Block in his letter , first paragraph , wherein he says , " It has always astounded me that New York City should lag so far behind the rest of the state and the country . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not lagging but has led in its efforts with the alcoholic since 1943 . It was one of the first cities in the United States to do something about this tremendous problem by establishing Bridge House in 1944 , the first municipal agency of its kind in the country . Much of the current activity concerning the alcoholic in various cities throughout the country received direct impetus from the work of Bridge House because of its national and international publicity in newspapers , magazines , radio and television . The New York Times was one of the first papers to feature the work of Bridge House as early as 1944 . That work has continued during the past 20 years , operating within the New York City Department of Welfare . Doctors Share Opinion It is a respectable , scientific concept that the alcoholic is not sick or suffering from a disease ? we at Bridge House have been teaching this as part of our therapeutic approach to the alcoholic for over 20 years . This opinion is shared by many hundreds of doctors throughout this country and the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or time-consuming differences with the collective releases of medical societies , groups or organizations . This dogma of sickness and disease is held by many , myself included , to be spiritual and psychological sabotage , defeating the ultimate cure and recovery of the alcoholic . It removes self-accountability and self-responsibility for conduct . Without this you do not have people but animals ; not government but anarchy ; not therapy but clich ? . The rehabilitation of the alcoholic is not primarily a medical responsibility but secondarily so . To publish articles only bearing on the disease concept is partial information which is , in the end , no information . EDWARD J. Jr. , Director , Bridge House . New York , Sept. 10 , 1963 . Goldwater Defended on Pact To THE EDITOR or THE NEw YORK Tlau : In The New York Times of Sept. 11 I read a letter by one of your readers describing Senator Barry Goldwater as having displayed an " absence of cogency " in his proposed amendment to the test-ban treaty . This amendment is not , in my opinion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing to have our atmosphere contaminated . However , he is showing an initiative rare in today 's America : the policy of looking out for our own national interests in conjunction with those of our allies and our friends throughout the world . It is time that the people of this country remembered who we are and that our national identity is an important gift that was given to us by our forefathers . Senator Goldwater is battling to mend our old frontiers rather than to destroy this great nation through the New Frontier . It is time that a great leader such as Senator Goldwater was President of the United States . R. H. ROGGEVEEN . Little Silver , N. J. , Sept. 11 , 1963 . Taxing Seagram 's Open Space To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIMES : As a visitor from San Francisco I was struck with the significance of the letter published Sept. 6 from Giorgio Cavaglieri , dealing with the tendency to undervalue open space in urban areas . The use of space which is most economical for the private investor may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important being the esthetic cost of filling every inch of space with glass and steel . In instances where private corporations do consider the public interest and sacrifice the use of some space in order to build a structure that graces the entire community , these corporations deserve public congratulations . It is therefore appalling that the Emergence From Isolation Sooner or later a dynamic China will break out of her isolation . The manner in which she does so will affect not only the course of events in the Far East and the future of America 's relations with that vast potential market but also ( as do Gaulle has shown ) America 's relations with her allies . In this context , where does America 's true interest lie ? The Times in its editorials has repeatedly cautioned against our involvement in the Sino-Soviet quarrel and urged that improved Soviet relations , though welcome and necessary in the interests of world peace , must . not be sought at the expense of worsening Chinese relations . We must find a way in win Red China back into the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are not wearing blinders , our interlinked Far Eastern and Chinese policies are approaching ignominious collapse , However , the moment of greatest danger is also the moment of greatest opportunity . This is the time for the President to take over and quickly introduce some realism into the Far Eastern picture , bearing in mind that the pace is as important as the direction if we are not to be outdistanced by events . There is reason to believe that American public opinion will now support his initiative . ELIAS M. SCH WARZBART . New York , Sept. 9 , 1963 , Parks No Place for Cafes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINiEs : David Sher 's stirringly egalitarian letter of Sept. 7 shows that at the trial over the Hartford pavilion in Central Park , the arguments presented by both sides were irrelevant . They argued about the commercial area around the Plaza , not about Central Park . As their concern was with real estate , they can not be expected to know what everyone else knows : that the place to sell coffee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Square Park ) is in buildings , whereas a park is a place for trees and grass . It follows from Mr. Sher 's letter that only the rich enjoy Central Park 's trees and grass . Yet many people strolling in the park have approached me there to ask for a dime . Apparently one can enjoy the park without owning enough money for a cup of coffee . In Manhattan one tree is worth five pavilions and ten garages . Perhaps Mr. Hartford would donate money to tear up the asphalt around Sherman 's statue and plant trees there . If he were to realize that this area should be closed to buses and all other traffic , as is Washington Square Park , he really would be doing a service to all the people . JAMES MARTIN . New York , Sept. 7 , 1963. city government of New York should condemn the Seagram Building as an inefficient use of space , and in addition tax the building at a rate based on the value ' of the building had space been used more intensively . Not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue from space unused , but he must pay even more in the form of higher taxes . This is certainly double jeopardy . While it is understandable that the city officials are concerned about tax revenues , it would be shortsighted to obtain a few additional dollars of revenue at the expense of substantially reducing the esthetic appeal of the community . The action of the city in the case of the Seagram Building is particularly significant because it sets a precedent that will discourage builders and architects from building structures that use some space for strictly artistic rather than commercial purposes . This is bound to have serious consequences for the entire New York community . ROBERT C. LIND Palo Alto , Calif. , Sept. 9 , 1963 . G.O.P. District Leaders Their Direct Election Urged in Fight Against Bossism A far more democratic procedure is to put the selection of leaders directly in the hands of the registered party members when they vote at primary election time . This can only result in making all district leaders more responsive to the needs and wishes of the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against bossism . As president of the city 's most important Republican club I shall join with Representative Lindsay and the county chairman to press hard for the direct election of district leaders at the Sept. 16 meeting , along with other modernizations such as a change in the unit rule system of voting at county committee meetings and an annual report by the treasurer to all county committeemen . The likelihood is that the opponents of this streamlining of party machinery will not openly speak against it but will seek to pigeonhole the reforms by proposing " further study , " using the technique of burying changes in " committees " made famous by Mayor Wagner , who now labels them " task forces " or " action panels . " These matters have been studied and discussed for years . The time for action  --  or outspoken opposition ? is now . The lines are clearly drawn for decision on Sept. 16 , and every observer will note that a vote for postponement or referral to another committee is a vote against the reforms needed to revitalize our party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be upon us . We in the Ninth are confident that the reforms will be brought to the floor , voted on in the open  --  and approved by a vast majority of Republicans . ROY M. GOODMAN , President , Republican Club of the 9th Assembly District . New York , Sept. 13 , 1963 . Pro-China Policy Urged Our Interest Believed to Lie in Renewed Ties With Mainland To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK Than The New York Times of Sept. 7 carried a report of Washington " experts " headlined , " U.S. Doubts Soviet Backed Migration From China Area , " which endorses the Soviet version of the disturbed situation in the remote border province of Sinkiang . This story is an open intervention by the State Department in the worsening Sine-Soviet quarrel on the side of Russia and another example of our fantastically inept Far Eastern policy . Soviet Russia 's foreign policy is a continuation of Czarist foreign policy by other ( revolutionary ) means , Red China 's foreign policy is a continuation ( after the lapse of over a century ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their rival ambitions collide over a vast arc of non-Russian and nonChinese peoples reaching from Afghanistan to Siberia . Despite a brief and uneasy post-revolutionary collaboration , it was inevitable that their historic antagonisms should break out again in exacerbated form , tearing away the mask of a common ideology and revealing the naked reality of rival territorial claims and mutual recriminations of broken treaties , treacheries and betrayals . Indeed , already the possibility of border clashes is openly spoken of . In sharp contrast , until recently , America and China have always been friends . It is ideology , not national interest , which divides us . The present almost total isolation of mainland China represents a brilliant victory for Khrushchev 's subtle policy  --  not for American policy . It greatly increases Russia 's freedom of maneuver on the eve of decisive negotiations while decreasing America 's as we sink deeper into the Far Eastern morass.                     