@@725715

txt Washington , Aug. 9 - Is Senate Minority Leader Everett Dirksen a possible candidate for President or Vice Presi-dent ? In an interview today , the Illinois Republican left the impression that he would be available for the No. 2 spot in 1968 . Increasingly the No. 1 spokesman for the Republican party in the mass communications media , Sen. Dirksen at the age of 70 appears to many to represent the most vigorous sort of G. 0 . P. views . Second Spot Another Matter He has been receiving let ' ters from Michigan . Kansas , and some other states about the organization of " Dirksen for President clubs . " Dirksen said he has respond ed to these with brief notes of thanks asserting he has " passed by " the stage at which one ought to seek the Presidency . But he agreed that the Vice Presidency is another matter . The late Sen. Alben W. Barkley completed four years as Vice President after being elected in 1948 at the age of 71 , and sought the Presidential nomination at the 1952 Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Adlai E. Stevenson H , however , and that Illinois candidate went on to lose the election . Truman was from Missouri and Barkley from Kentucky in the same region . Could Run With Nixon Dirksen said today , however , that the Democratic party was remarkably short of material for Vice President in 1948 and thus skipped - over what would normally be an objection based nn Vpnoraphy . Dirkson believes it would " not be illogical " for him to be on a 1968 ticket with Richard M. Nixon for President . Nixon , who missed winning the 1960 Presidential election by an eye-lash , is a Californian transplanted to New York . It would be " illogical " to imagine Dirksen on a 1968 ticket with Gov . George Romney of Michigan . There should not be two midwesterners on the ticket , Dirksen said . He said nothing about Romney failing to support the 1964 Republican ticket of Barry Goldwater and William E .. Miller , which Dirksen helped mightily to put in the field . Nor did he mention that his statements and deeds are often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " You do n't run ' for the Vice Presidential ' nomination , " Dirksen said . " You run for the Presidential nomination . My situation now is all very fluid . " Thus it was that he was an avowed candidate for , President in 1944 , but actually in quest of the Vice Presidential nomination . He was " not a selfstarter " that time , he recalled , but acting in line with a petition signed by 41 other Repub. lican congressmen . Thomas E. Dewey , going toward the first of his two deIfeats at the polls for President , I declined Dirkse.n. as a running mate in 1944 and did n't even . consider him for the honor in 1948 . In 1952 Dirksen created a great stir at the G. 0 . P. convention in Chicago by leveling his finger at Dewey and accusing him of being a ? false guide in the search for victory . Claims Prayer Support Dirksen is convinced that the great majority of the American people are with him in his demand for a constitutional amendment to permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by testimony against his proposal by some clergymen . " They do n't speak . for the people , " he said . " We speak for the people . The American Legion Is for the amendment , and I expect the Veterans of Foreign Wars will- be . " ' Most'observers figure ' his proposal has no chance , but Dirksen wo n't surrender . He wants testimony from Billy Graham , the evangelist , and from Cardinal Spellman of New York . " What I 'm sure of is that there will be a roll call vote , " Dirksen said . " They 're going to vote on it before they adjourn . They ca n't duck it . I I wo n't let them . " Told He Ca n't Travel Earlier today , Dirksen had bad news ' for Republic-an candidates looking forward to his campaigning for them this year . The doctors wo n't let him travel . Dirksen broke his hip May 10 in a fall in his hospital room at Walter Reed army hospital where he was undergoing a physical checkup . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crutches in the S en a te chamber and in a wheel chair for extended movement , but has been returning to the hospital for frequent examinations . Dirksen told reporters today he still has " 11 pieces of metal , some six inches long " in his hip . His doctors told him today that he must go back to the hospital no later than Oct. 15 for surgery to remove the hardware , followed by two weeks in bed and six weeks of convalescence . In the ? meantime , they ordered no extensive travel , by plane , train , or automobile .                     