@@723505

txt United Nations Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor United Nations , N.Y . After managing only two major treaty agreements in 18 years , the United States and the Soviet Union now are about to add a bonus to the most recent treaty within the short span of just over two months . It is now virtually certain that the only two nations capable of orbiting nuclear bombs shortly will sign some form of joint agreement not to do so . Their declaration on this subject may possibly be issued as a climax to Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A , Gromyko 's visit to President Kennedy Oct. 10 . As the fruits of negotiation go , this latest product to ripen in the sunny glow of the " spirit of Moscow " compares with last summer 's test-ban treaty as a grape does to a plum . Neither of them is in and of itself a major fruit . The orbit ban is decidedly less important at present than the test ban . NIontentum Grows But in the context of diplomacy , this second agreement in less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and momentum that previous illusory d  --  tentes have lacked . In essence it is a kind of symbol , ripened and plucked by the Foreign Ministers of the United States , the Soviet Union , and Britain , to show that their search for larger fruit is going well but is still only in its earliest stages . Before issuing a joint statement Thursday night ' from the British UN mission in New York , the three Foreign Ministers took a final inventory of the subjects they had discussed for the past week and assigned each item to negotiation at a lower technical level . These items included a nonaggression pact between the NATO and Warsaw Pact nations , reduction of military budgets , East-West observation posts to guard against surprise attack , nuclear-free zones in various parts of the world , moves to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to other states , and the German question ( to which most of the other items are related ) . Most of these items will be referred to the 18-nation UN disarmament talks when they reconvene in Geneva in November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pact councils . Agreement Easy Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Mr. Gromyko , and British Foreign Secretary Lord Home explored each other 's views on these matters in a series of meetings starting Sept. 28 . It is clear from the pattern and pace of their talks that none of the three felt under pressure to produce results in a hurry . Even Mr. Gromyko , whom some observers had expected to wish a trophy to carry home , is understood not to have pressed hard on any of the issues . The bombs-in-orbit ban has come to the fore first because it has been the easiest to reach agreement on . In ? their UN speeches on Sept. 19 and 20 , Mr. Gromyko and President Kennedy both issued declara tions pledging not to orbit nuclear weapons . The prospective joint declaration is seen as a means of bringing the two statements together , " ordaining " them formally , and making it possible for other nations to adhere when they are able to orbit rockets and have nuclear weapons . American Senate ratification is not expected to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's strategists apparently feel a warhead dropped from orbit is presently a practical weapon . The value of such a weapon is , in fact , felt to be purely psychological . Orbiting would give the H-bomb a kind of Damocles 's sword effect . But this particular sword of Damodes is less accurate and less dependable than an intercontinental or intermediate missile . Cheating Doubted . Furthermore , the danger that a joint agreement would be secretly broken is believed to be small , since either side so cheating would lose the very desired effect of his strategy  --  the psychological effect of the Damocles 's sword-rattling ? due to the secrecy . It is possible that some future advance in orbital technology might change this position . But the specialists of both sides seem content to go ahead without worrying about such unhatched problems . Meanwhile , Mr. Rusk and Mr. Gromyko now are expected to go about doing for an array of Soviet-American problems what they have just done for the steps toward disarmament and Central European solutions . They will probably reexamine , inventory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consulates , Moscow-New York air service , Soviet acceptance of patent and copyright laws , and expansion of travel and cultural exchanges . They set about this task with their original cordiality enhanced by a second minor breakthrough ? but still untested by any major issue .                     