@@726405

txt Washington , June 19-President Johnson proposed a five-point peace plan for the middle east today . He rejected a return to the pre-war status quo as a solution to Israeli-Arab problems , cautioning soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin that an immediate withdrawal by Israeli occupation forces would signal new hostilities . Johnson said the United Nations should call upon its members to report all shipments of military arms to the mid-east and urged that a public record of such shipments be kept by the U. N. Unfolds Mid-East Policy The President expressed his views in a major policy speech before a national conference of educators sponsored by the state department . The speech was carried nation-wide by television and radio shortly before Kosygin went before the U. N. to outline the Russian position . Administration sources said that with the speech the President began to unfold a post-war mid-east American policy . Johnson acknowledged that Israeli troops must withdraw from Arab territories , but not necessarily on the basis of truce lines of the last 20 years . He admonished Israel not to let its lightning military success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights and interests of their own . He asked the Arabs to recognize that Israe. has a right to exist . " Need Recognized Boundaries " " The nations of the region have had only fragile and violated truce lines for 20 years , " Johnson said . " What they now need are recognized boundaries and other arrangements that will give security against terror , destruction , and war . Further , there must be adequate recognition of the special interest of three great religions in the holy places of Jerusalem . " Administration sources said the latter was not a call for in ternationalization of the ' city . In his speech , Johnson stressed five points , which he said could lead the way to a durable peace . They were : 1 . the right of every nation to survive ; 2. solution of the Arab refugee problem ; 3. freedom of innocent maritime passage in the Suez canal and the Strait of Tiran ; 4. limitation of the arms race , and 5. respect for political independence and territorial integrity . " Prescription for War " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single , simple solution , an immediate return to the situation as it was on June 4 , " the President said . " . . . This is not a prescription for peace , but for renewed hostilities . Certainly troops must be withdrawn , but there must also be recognized rights of national life . " He then enumerated his five points and said that if there was a single act of folly more responsible for the war than any other , it was the arbitrary Egyptian blockade of the Strait of Tiran . Johnson said the five principles are not new , but he asserted they are fundamental . Administration officials said that . with the five points , the United States is trying to advance a position that will hold up for years . They said the five points are deeply embedded in past American policy for the area . Burden on Contestants The President described the respect for territorial integrity and political independence as of critical importance . Administration officials , in expanding on the speech , said that the integrity of territories in the mid-east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stance is not a backing for Israeli territorial claims , however . In his speech , the President emphasized a stand that the burden of finding a peaceful solution rests with the Arabs and Jews themselves . " Clearly the parties to the conflict must be the parties to the peace , " said the President . " Sooner or later it is they who must make a settlement in the area . " Meanwhile , he said , other parties can help . Johnson said that the United States supports an effective U. N. peace-keeping operation . He said the United States also recognizes the value of mediation .                     