@@728278

txt A House subcommittee will present a choice for Americans this week between clean water and clean laundry . The question will be raised by Representative Henry S. Reuss , Democrat of Wisconsin , who will charge that phosphate in detergents is a prime cause of eutrophication , or the aging process in lakes . Mr. Reuss is the chairman of the Conservation and Natural Resources Subcommittee of the Government Operations Committee , which will hold hearings tomorrow and Tuesday . Spokesmen for the $4.5-billion detergent industry will appear to answer the charges . Knowledgeable conservation sources said that Mr. Reuss 's attack was only the beginning of a broader drive by antipollution forces to compel the industry to make a major shift away from phosphates . Such a drive would also have implications for the chemical and petroleum industries . This is not the first time the detergent makers have come under attack . Similar efforts in the early nineteen-fifties even- , tually led the industry to come up with foam control powders that cut down on the foaming problems created by earlier products . " Detergents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Reuss told a re- , porter last week . " Almost 5 billion pounds were sold in the United States last year . Most of these , except some light-duty products , contain substantial quantities of phosphate . " He said that phosphate fertilized vegetation in water , leading to increased eutrophication . This is reflected in a deficiency of oxygen in the water and eventually to the end of animal and , in turn , plant life . He cited Lakes Erie and Ontario as examples . Makers Deny Proof However , spokesmen for the detergent industry strongly disagreed , in talking to a reporter , that their products were the major factor . They said there was no conclusive proof that phosphate was the sole polluter or that the phosphate from detergents was any more to blame than phosphate from other sources . Witnesses scheduled to appear at the hearing include Dr. Charles Bueltman , vice president-technical director of the Soap and Detergent Association ; Dr. John J. Singer Jr . of the Hampshire Chemical Company , Nashua , N. H. ; Dr. I. A. Eldib of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacob I. Bregman , president , Water Pollution and Applications , Inc. ; Dr. Hans 0 . Bouveng , Institute for Water and Air Pollution , Stockholm ; Dr. Darnell M. Whitt , vice chairman , Joint Government-Industry Task Force on Eutrophication , and Dr. Gerald A. Rohlich of the University of Wisconsin Walter Resources Center . **27;2102;TOOLONG has introduced a bill to ban phosphate from detergents within two years , the hearings are not on the proposed legislation , but on the problem in general . Mr. Reuss said considerable concern had been expressed about algae proliferation and its threat to fresh water . However , an industry spokesman said there does not appear to be that much concern . A staff member said action was expected to be taken by the committee during the next session of Congress , either on Representative Reuss 's proposal United Press International Henry S. Reuss , Wisconsin Democrat , will hold hearings on detergents ' effects . or on any new measures that come out of the hearings . Mr. Reuss said he also favored removing phosphate through treatment at sewage treatment plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would aid small communities that could not afford sewage treatment . " The requirement of phosphorus removal in many cases would impose undue financial burdens on small minicipalities , individual homes using septic tanks and small industries , " Mr. Reuss said , adding that removing phosphate from detergents would reduce costs for removal and treatment plants . To Focus on Reduction " Without in any way minimizing the amount of phosphate contributed from other sources , " he said , " our hearings will focus on how the detergent industry can help reduce the phosphate pollutions . " The Nixon Administration 's position has been stated in a letter to Mr. Reuss from Carl L. Klein , Assistant Secretary of the Interior . Mr. Klein said reduction or elimination of phosphates " is desirable in concept , but not feasible tor Implementation at this time . " He said an adequate phosphate substitute had to be found first . Mr. Reuss took issue , noting that the ban-the-phosphate argument got a nudge in a recent report by the United StatesCanadian International Joint Commission on the pollution of Lakes Erie and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial elimination of phosphate from detergents now and complete removal in two years . The group plans to hold hearings on the matter early next year . Representative Reuss said the case against phosphate was that it enhanced the growth of algae and weeds in still and slow-running water . The growth is so fast that it stifles life and produces slime , mud and bacterial sludge . Centuries-Old Process - " This really is a natural process and is the way land is formed as the hardening of sludge and mud turns into swamp and then into land , " the Congressman explained . " How- , ever , the process normally takes centuries , but over the past 25 years it has been happening at a much faster pace , enhanced by phosphate . " He cited his own state of Wisconsin as an example . He said most of the lakes and streams of Wisconsin and Minnesota were badly polluted . " And you 've only to fly over Lakes Ontario and Erie to see what has happened to them , " he added . He rejected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute could be found . He said removal of phosphate was possible now , and without reducing the cleaning power of detergents . He said the cost of removal of phosphate should be borne by the- industry rather than the taxpayer through its removal by sewage treatment . The soap industry officials said they were searching for a phosphate substitute and thus did not yet want a reduction or an elimination of phosphates from detergents . " While efficient processes are known for removing phosphorus from municipal and industrial wastes , a growing body of scientific information leads to the conclusion that the elimination of these phosphorus sources would not be sufficient to reduce the rate of cultural euthrophication , " a spokesman said . " Furthermore , it clearly follows that the elimination of detergent phosphate alone could not possibly mitigate or diminish algae growth . The opinion , therefore , that removal of phosphates solely from detergents would help alleviate the algae problem is not supportable from a technical point of view . " The spokesman predicted a negative effect on housewives , industry and institutions if phosphates were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housewives would no longer have available even one of the many heavyduty detergent products which they have been accustomed to using , " he commented . " This step would be equivalent to setting back health , cleanliness and sanitation standards many years . They would find it virtually impossible to continue to enjoy the cleaning benefits of the modern automatic clothes washing machines they now own . " In addition , the automatic dishwasher would become useless , since highly specialized phosphate - containing detergents are essential in this application . All of the washing appliances used in the home and restaurants are programed for these products . " Detergents were first marketed for household use in 1933 , but limited to areas with hard-water problems . By 1953 , they had replaced soap in sales . Today , three companies , Procter &; Gamble , Lever Brothers and Colgate-Palmolive , produce 79 per cent of the detergents used in this country . Procter &; Gamble marketed the ' first detergent , Dreft , and Colgate followed in the late nineteen-thirties with Vel . Both were light-duty products . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy-duty trade with Tide , which is still the biggest seller among detergents . Colgate brought out Fab and Lever introduced Surf , and the move to stronger and stronger detergents was on . The companies later produced special cleaning products with little or no phosphate for delicate fabrics , woolens and dishwashing . These were light-duty liquids . Also the continued production of products with no phosphate , such as Lever 's Lux and Lux Flakes , Colgate 's Vet and Procter 's Ivory Snow . A committee staff member explained that , unlike soap , detergents contained an assortment of chemicals with specific functions . The phosphate that is blamed for the problem with pollution is sodium tripolyphosphate , used to soften water . Other ingredients include carboxymethylcellulose , to keep dirt from redepositing - in clothes ; sodium silicate , to prevent corroding of metal in washing machines , ? and sodium perborate , a bleach .                     