@@725880

txt Vinton W. Bacon , vieral superintendent of the sar itar district , ordered the person ! ' ' 1 office yesterday to throw ow 12 posted civil service examinations and hold new examinations as quickly as possible for vacant jobs . Bacon acted after receiving information that a number of the tests had been rigged . The lists , some with a ' many as 130 candidates who had received passing grades . we r e taken down after a conference bet ween Bacon and Allen Lavin , acting personnel director . Hunts Missing Records Bacon said he would not fire or suspend any district workers who were appointed and certified from the suspect lists . However , he said , he will use temporary employes to fill vacancies which occur . The examinations were given in 19b.t , 1964 , and this year . At the same time it was learned that Forbes McCann , Philadelphia management consultant who found evidence of fraud in the examinations . plans to return here this week to question personnel workers . McCann , who has been sharply critical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has handled the fraud investigation , wants to question the personnel employes about missing records without the presence of observers from the state 's attorney 's office . Security on Tests Tightened Last Friday , when McCann began questioning district workers , he became irritated when the state 's attorney 's office took over . McCann wanted to do the questioning because he said he is better acquainted with the civil service examination procedures and the personnel office . On Thursday , McCann plans to give to Bacon and the state 's attorney 's office the results of his study of the hoisting engineers examination . Altho there has been pressure on McCann and Bacon to give the results of the investigation to the county grand jury , where it will be kept secret , it was learned that Bacon plans to release the results of the latest inquiry as soon as he receives them . Bacon said that the new examinations will be supervised by Lavin and McCann and that he will not allow Chester Kopec , the suspended personnel director , to have anything to do with the tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinstate Kopec so that he can take over the new examinations he will immediately suspend Kopec again .                     