@@722032

txt Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko will meet in New York with Secretary of State Dean Rusk for an exchange of views on Berlin and Germany , the Foreign Ministry announced tonight . Mr. Rusk and Mr. Gromyko will seek to establish a basis , date and forum for the opening of East-West negotiations on a German settlement . They will confer during the United Nations General Assembly session ; which opens Tuesday . Mr. Gromyko is to leave here by air Saturday for New York . Citing the suggestion made yesterday by President Kennedy for such bilateral talks , the Soviet Foreign ministry statement said Mr. Gromyko was " ready to enter into a relevant exchange of opinicns . " , Assumes Joint Effort " The Soviet Government pro- , ceeds from the assumption , as its head Nikita Khrushchev emphasized more than once , that the sides will display a serious attitude to the talks and will jointly search for a solution of the problem of the conclusion of a German peace treaty and a settlement on its basis of the situation in West Berlin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet statement pk.ced the New York discussions within the framework of a joint exploration of the possibility of concluding a German peace treaty and settling the Berlin dispute on the basis of it . The statement apparently did not allow for an interim Berlin solution that would serve as a compromise between the opposing views on the nature of a peace treaty . The Soviet Union is insisting on a treaty that would recognize the division of Germany and terminate the Allied occupation of West Berlin . The Western powers have rejected this demand and called for an accord that would reunify Germany through free elections . - The initial contacts between Mr. Gromyko and Mr. Rusk are expected to demonstrate whether there will be sufficient common ground to justify the opening of formal negotiations in which Britain and France would take part . A failure of the New York talks might result in an EastWest military confrontation on Berlin before the end of the year . Premier Khrushchev has declared that he will sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany if the Western powers decline to join in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the East Germans Soviet controls over the Western access routes to West Berlin . Mr. Khrushchev has asserted that the Soviet Army would resist any Western effort to override East German control and force open the communication lines to West Berlin . . Moscow Radio Warns West The Moscow radio warned tonight against any Western attempt " to delay conclusion of a peace treaty under the cover of negotiations . " Me broadcast said that such tactics could not succeed . " The Soviet Union has not and will not spare any efforts to reach a peaceful settlement On an agreed basis , " the broadcast added . Mr. Khrushchev said M a message today to the Inter-Parliamentary Union , meeting in Brussels , that he would agree to any talks as long as they did not delay a German peace treaty . It was understood that Llewellyn E. Thompson Jr. , the United States Ambassador here , invited Mr. Gromyko last week to meet with Secretary Rusk in New York . Premier Khrushchev then approved the proposal . President Kennedy made public his suggestion yesterday in connection with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indonesia and President Modibo Keita of Mali . The two Presidents delivered to Mr. Kennedy a message from the leaders of the nonaligned nations who met recently in Belgrade urging United StatesSoviet negotiations to relieve international tension . Mr. Khrushchev received a similar message Sept. 6 from Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India and President Kwame Nkrumab. of Ghana . The Soviet Premier conferred today with the Mali 's . Ambassador here , Mamadou Fadial Keita , and was handed a pef. - sonal message from President Keita . It was understood that Ambassador Thompson made his approach to Mr. Gromyko with the approval of the British Government . This was reflected in a British Foreign Office statement yesterday welcoming Mr. Kennedy 's suggestion for . a Rusk-Gromyko meeting in New York . While France raised no objections to the contact , she withheld her full endorsement . The French Government has stood by its position that the West should not open negotiations with the Soviet Union while under Communist duress . Secretary Rusk will meet the Soviet Foreign Minister following a three-day conference he began yesterday in Washington with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the French Foreign Minister , Maurice Couve de Murville . Premier Khrushchev is to confer here Tuesday with PaulHenri Spaak , Vice Premier and Foreign Minister of Belgium . M. Spaak , former Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , is coming here at Mr. Khrushchev 's invitation . Over the last weeks the Soviet Premier has warned statesmen from the smaller NATO countries against becoming involved in any military showdown over . Berlin .                     