@@726905

txt Some people look upon it as " Big Brother Inc . " Others defend it as an essential tool for the conduct of business . The organization at issue is Retail Credit Co. , an Atlanta-based company with 1,800 of ' fices across North America . You may not have heard of Retail Credit , but there is a good chance that it has heard of you : each year it investigates millions of Americans who apply for insurance or employment . It has records on more than 45 million individuals , with information ranging from the size ' of their families to the amount of liquor they consume . A file might touch on any number of allegations , including reports of extramarital affairs and homosexuality . A total of 40,000 customers get 35 million reports from the firm each year . The business of credit , insurance and personnel investigations is burgeoning , and Retail Credit Co. , though by far the largest individual firm in the field , is only part of the industry . There is also , for example , Associated Credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit bureaus by which each bureau has access to files on 110 million persons . Assault on Privacy ? Organizations such as Retail Credit and Associated Credit Bureaus tACB ) are pursuing their business relatively unhampered by state or Federal regulations at the same time a debate rages in Washington about a proposed National Data Bank . It would use a centralized computer system to collect information on individuals scattered through many Government files . Congressional investigators wonder if private industry is n't quietly accomplishing much the same thing  --  a centralization of personal and potentially harmful information . The staffs of the House Committee on Government Operations and the Senate antitrust and monopoly subcommittee are taking a searching look at the operations of credit bureaus and insurance investigators , and many industry executives seem resigned to the prospect of eventual hearings . " I expect we 'll have our day in court like everyone else , " says Frederick E. King . president of Hooper-Holmes Bureau Inc. , a Morristown , N.J. credit firm . The many critics of credit investigators acknowledge the need for such organizations in today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of credit-checking more essential than ever . The critics ' complaints center on the way information -- or , occasionally , misinformation --  is used . Consider Credit Bureau of Greater New York Inc .. the largest local bureau in the nation . This cooperatively owned organization , which does credit checks for department stores , auto-rental firms , oil companies and other large credit grantors , has records on 8.5 million persons . Its filing cabinets occupy an entire floor of in office building . In the Files A typical file contains a person 's address , family status , place of employment , approximate salary and credit history  --  where the per , son has charge accounts and what his payment ! record has been . Often there is a more controversial item : Most banks will divulge to credit ! bureaus the approximate size of a customer 's checking account and , in rare instances , the size of his savings account . Each year about 700,000 so-called " derogatory items " go into this vast compendium of information on New Yorkers . Some items involve nonpayment of hills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them . about 550.000 , are information on lawsuits gleaned from court records . One important fact  - -  how the suits were decided  --  never gets recorded . This practice can produce inequities . A woman in one Eastern city tells this tale : She ordered a rug . A carpet of the wrong color was delivered . The merchant refused to take it hack and sued for payment . The suit was thrown out of court , but the woman 's credit record showed only that she had been sued for nonpayment . As a result , her credit was cut off elsewhere . " It 's impossible to get the disposition of a suit , " says Rudolph M. Severs , executive manager of the New York credit bureau . " It would be extremely expensive . " Mr. Severa explains that each case would have to be looked up by researchers , and he says , " Our members know they should draw no conclusion from the fact that a suit has been filed . It 's up to them to check into it further . " Looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corrected ? " We 'll sit down with a person and talk over his file in general terms , " Mr. Severa says , " but we wo n't tell him who said what . " Whether the credit organizations do recheck disputed entries is a matter of considerable debate . Chester J. Straub , a Manhattan lawyer and New York State assemblyman , says he was turned down by a major credit card company because of an erroneous report from a credit bureau . " The entry indicated that a judgment was outstanding against me which in fact was n't mine , " he says . " It belonged to someone with a similar name . " But at the outset , all Mr. Straub knew was that he had been turned down . He went to the credit bureau . " All they would tell me was that ray credit report was unfavorable , " he recalls . Only after repeated telephone calls ? emphasizing that he was an assemblyman did he find out about the error . " I 'm an assemblyman . " Mr. Straub notes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the street with no leverage of any kind ? " The incident has led him to introduce a bill that would require credit bureaus in New York to provide a person with a copy of his record . At the Credit Bureau of Greater New York , any of the 500 employes have easy access to the 8.5 million files ; so do any of the 14,000 em- ployes of ACE affiliates across the nation . Last year ACE members exchanged more than seven million reports , largely those of persons who changed their residences . Eventually any of ACB 's 110 million files will be available to local bureaus at the touch of a button , ACE , working with International Business Machines Corp . and the Dallas and Houston credit bureaus , is designing a computerized system that it expects to become nationwide in time . A central switching system will connect computers at all ideal bureaus . Credit bureau workers are n't the only ones who can look into the files . Investigators from such Federal agencies as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York bureau each year , Mr. Severa says . What are they used far ? " Frankly , we do n't ask the Government what they 're doing , " Mr. Seven . says . " We do n't feel that 's our prerogative . " With equal ease , Government agencies can get copies of insurance investigation reports by visiting Retail Credit or Hooper-Holmes , whose combined files contain information on 54 million persons who at some time have applied for insurance . " The FBI can do just about anything they want to do , " says Mr. King of Hooper-Holmes . " They 're constantly in our files . " The Sensitive Files If the information in credit records is potentially troublesome , the allegations in insurance inspection files can be devastating . Credit bureaus concentrate on financial and legal information , but the insurance companies are interested in what they can " moral hazards " ? extramarital affairs , homosexuality , heavy drinking or other aberrations that could lead to violence , blackmail , accidents or death . Some insurance companies wo n't write policies for persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you of violating their privacy when you investigate them  --  yes , you are invading their privacy , there 's no question about it , " Mr. King acknowledges . But , he adds , " That person has initiated a request to the insurance company to gamble thousands of dollars on him . " And how does an inspector go about obtaining this delicate information ? Mr. King candidly describes the procedure with a married man suspected of an extramarital affair . " You go to a neighbor and establish rapport , " he says . " Then you ask , ' What 's your opinion of X 's home life ; how do you think of him as . a family man ? ' This will usually elicit some hint ? through the expression on their faces or the way they answer . Then you start digging . You press them as far as they go , and if they become recalcitrant , you go somewhere else . If you go to enough people , you get it . " Homosexuality , Mr. King concedes , " is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he points out , " If you have that sixth sense that something is wrong , you dig . The tipoff is their mode of living , their circle of friends and the organizations they belong to . " Is it fair to simply report the suspicions of neighbors ? " We wo n't say he 's a homosexual , " Mr. King replies . " We 'll report , for example , that certain people feel he has homosexual tendencies . " Just Collecting Information In defense of the system , Mr. King says information wo n't be recorded unless it is reported by more than one source . Even when it is recorded , Hooper-Holmes does n't " make judgments , " he says . " We 're just reporting what we have in our files . " Almost any plausible customer can get access to the files of Retail Credit or Hooper-Holmes . Charles M. Watt , vice president and secretary of Retail Credit , says material ' from the insurance files may be used when a prospective employer calls about a job applicant . And another Retail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as 10 investigations for a customer a year ; thus small customers as well as large can delve into the files . There is one notable exception to the generally easy access  --  the person who wants to see his own record . Retail Credit wo n't even confirm that it has done a report on a person . This , Mr. Watt says , is to avoid lawsuits . If a person raises a question about his record , he is invited to write a statement about whatever may be bothering him , and , says Mr. Watt , " we tell him if we did a report , we 'll send the statement to anyone who asked about him . " In some quarters of the industry , there is concern about inaccurate and freely disclosed information . Credit Data Corp .. a rapidly growing , computerized company whose biggest customers are New York and California banks , wo n't let Government agencies look at its files without a subpoena . " We 're very sympathetic to the people who are concerned with the invasion of privacy , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is convinced , occurs " not because of a computer but because of unauthorized access to the data . " Dale L. Reistad , an official of the American Bankers Association , said recently that bankers should demonstrate concern over " some obvious intrusions into individual privacy today . " He proposes a " consumer-oriented " credit bureau whose files would be organized by identification number rather than name . A person would carry an ID card , for presentation to a merchant seeking a credit report . The report would be a " mathematical credit score " that would add up all relevant factors on a standardized basis . The merchant would n't find out the person 's salary , bank balance or other personal data . And finally , the person would be guaranteed the right to review his own credit listing .                     