@@726429

txt Abolition of stage censorship in Britain , as proposed , is expected to have two opposite results : It will make the daring more daring and the timid more timid still . There will be a great feeling of liberation in subsidized and left-wing theaters , countered by a sense of uncertainty and danger among commercial managements . The Royal Shakespeare Company long has held that government censorship of the stage limits freedom , not so much of speech , as of dialogue . Certain words and idioms are banned . This banning will cease if abolition of censorship , proposed by the joint parliamentary committee set up by the government , goes into effect . So , in some quarters , speech is expected to become more violent , more offensive . Organizations like the English State Company and the Theater Workshop have resented that royalty and living public figures have been protected from comment on the stage . The first group already is preparing a play about the royal ' family . The Theater Workshop is putting together a satire on the Prime Minister , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of excitement in such theaters is not shared by commercial managements . To them , possession of the Lord Chamberlain 's certificate has been a guarantee against prosecution . This guarantee will no longer exist . Scotland is going to have a National Children 's Theater . It will serve as . a permanent memorial to the late Duncan Macrae , well-known character actor of stage and films , to whom such a theater was a lifelong ambition . The group will be a fully professional com- , pany of adult actors . They will play mainly to children in schools , and during vacation periods , in theaters throughout Scotland . Trends . ? Tuesday evening is getting to be museum night in New York  --  as it has been in Boston since 1955 . The Metropolitan Museum- of Art has just tried out New Yorkers ' after-dark interest in great works and found it wide awake . Memorial Day marked the first evening open-house happening . It drew 1,301 visitors . They bought 900 dinners at the museum 's poolside cafeteria . It looked like an immediate welcome for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test over the top-5,786 , then 4,275 , and finally 6,226 . The executive committee of the museum 's board of trustees promptly voted funds to continue the weekly open evening throughout the summer . Between 1955 and 1967 , Tuesday evening attendance at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston , rose well over 300 percent . Now the museum is considering adding a second open evening to its weekly schedule . It now is possible to hear the entire Bible on LP records . Bible Voice Corporation , in North Hollywood , California , announces release of the Scriptures , unabridged , on 51 extra-longplaying , 12-inch records . It comes to 81 hours of listening time . The phonograph , the radio , the depression , and finally TV ? they all put piano sales on the skids . From an all-time popularity peak in 1923 ( 347,589 shipments ) piano sales plummeted to a mere 51,370 in 1931 . But despite the growing blast from the electric guitar , the sudden popularity of the organ , and the increasing saturation of color TV ( one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales are reaching steadily upward . In 1966 shipments totaled 208,930 ? the best sales year since the roaring twenties . Switzerland  --  a long , long way from New Orleans  --  has bowed to jazz as an imported art form . The first music conservatory devoted exclusively to the study of jazz is opening in Bern . As in any school , students will have to take an entrance examination to qualify . Those who pass must register for a full curriculum . This includes , in addition to instrumental instruction , weekly practice with a large band or small combo . The question is , can the alpenhorn keep up with the tenor sax ?                     