@@726974

txt SAIGON . Viet Nam , March 9 The United States mission said today it has substantiating evidence that North Vietnamese troops who invaded Hue last month executed 485 South Vietnamese civilians and that hands on some of the bodies exhumed from common graves were tied behind their backs . Mission spokesmen said 139 Vietnamese civilians were killed last week alone in Viet Cong terror incidents . This brought the total deaths in such atrocities since the first of the year to 5,831 , the mission said . A spokesman also said 2,783 civilians have been kidnaped and that another 3,332 are listed as missing . Priests Are Killed Two French Roman Catholic priests were among the victims in the atrocities at Hue . The official American report was based on information obtained from communist troops captured in the fierce monthlong street battle for South Viet Nam 's old imperial capital . The report said more than 100 bodies were found in two common graves in the northern part of Hue . Ten more were exhumed from a third grav ? near the wall of the Citadel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those victims had been bound before being shot . " At least 300 persons lost their lives to communist execution squads in the heavily Cat ? olic neighborhood of . Phu Can on the south side of the city , " the report said . " Two French priests who had gone into the area to retrieve a sacred tabernacle on Feb. 25 were reported shot to death . " Execute Administrators The report said a Viet Cong unit five miles east of Hue at Tong Gi assembled more thin 200 civilians , marched them to the nearby town of Ton Nam Duong and killed 75 of them in a rice field . Many were identified as local administrators . " The North Vietnamese army and the Viet Cong had the names and addresses of the people they wanted to get , and they had their own order of priorities for the ones they wanted to kill , " the mission said . " Their victims were inanity police , political leaders , government and local civil servants-anyone who worked for the Americans and anybody who was known for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported 395 civilians were wounded and 401 kidnaped by the Viet Cong thruout Viet Nam in the week ending last Saturday . Among those killed , wounded , or abducted were 9 village officials , 6 hamlet chiefs , 11 pacification workers , and 72 national policemen . The mission said there were 214 terrorist incidents last week . It said communist prisoners and civilian eyewitnesses have provided additional reports of communist executions of men , women , and children in the Hue area . At the same time , American officials reported that 113 Viet Cong , North Vietnamese , and dissident members of the Hoa Hao sect defected to the Saigon government 's side last week . This brought to 2,055 the number of such defectors since the first of the year , the mission reported .                     