@@725831

txt Plans are in the wind for Australia and Britain to synchronize the independence of their South Pacific territories . Australia 's ministers of territories and external affairs both approve the British proposal . Under it , Australian New Guinea , lying northeast of the subcontinent , and Britain 's Pacific territories scattered eastward , would move together toward constitutional administrative , and economic independence . No timetables have been set . But both governments have the information to pull the program together . Their particular target is economic independence for the islands . This , admittedly , will be the hardest to come by . Top Australian officials , however , are already thinking in terms of " two or three " successful mineral projects as giant steppingstones to the new economic independence . As they see it , these could revolutionize New Guinea 's whole economy , now heavily subsidized by Australia . An economic feasibility survey of large copper-ore deposits on Bougainville ( largest of the Solomons ) is currently under way . Saigon is experiencing the familiar pattern of flight to the suburbs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were 35,000 United States and Allied military personnel in Saigon . By next July only some 5,000 United States military personnel will still remain . In a phased withdrawal , personnel and installations are moving to the suburbs and nearby provinces . Since June , 9,260 personnel and 37 installations have moved out . By next April 21,030 personnel and 79 installations will have vacated the city . Removal plans were prepared a year ago following a spate of Viet Cong terrorist bombings . Now in progress , the move is aimed at providing better security for United States military personnel , reducing social frictions between Vietnamese civilians and GIs and  --  a worthy objective anywhere  --  easing city traffic jams . Trends ... Deserters and draft-dodgers alike are being dealt with drastically in South Vietnam . Desertions have left such a hole in the ranks of the South Vietnamese Army that a new government decree sentences all deserters to the maximum capital penalty . And every day draft dodgers find it harder to dodge . The government is waging an all-out campaign to catch them . Last week 3,000 young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian and military-police agents . After the end of this month , according to a government edict , all draft dodgers seized will be sent to labor battalions instead of into regular military service . The " Grand Sino-Japanese Youth Friendship Exchange " which whisked 447 Japanese youths to Communist China in 1965 wo n't be repeated this year . Tokyo is putting its foot down . Last year Japan tried to cut down the exodus by arbitrarily decreeing that only half those applying for passports could go . Eventually , under pressure from leftist demonstrators , all who applied got to peek at Peking . This year the Sato government is standing pat because : ? Communist China is picking up the entire tab . As host it would select the Japanese young people who would go . ? Peking openly promises its youthful visitors will get a " revolutionary education . " ? Some of the youths who returned from last year 's junket have been conspicuous in antigovernment activities . Although still strife-torn within its own house , Nigeria reports progress in its economic relations with Japan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan 's favor . Nigeria . as well as other African nations , has been buying abundantly of Japan 's finished goods . But Japan has not been returning the favor with purchases of African raw materials . It already has established raw-material sources in tropical Asian lands much nearer home , Last year Nigeria rebelled . It set up curbs on the import of Japanese goods . Last weekend it announced it has accepted from Japan a credit worth ? 10 million in Japanese yen . Similar credits have been extended by Japan to Uganda , Tanzania , and Kenya . But the Nigerian credit is by far the biggest Japan has offered to any African nation . It seems to be one way Japan can satisfy its customers abroad and its raw-material sources in its own hemisphere .                     