@@721564

txt Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson and Under Secretary of State Douglas Dillon came home from London today and defended their unsuccessful week-long bid to get Allied help in slowing thsli flow of dollars abroad . They said in a joint statement that they had found a " growing understanding " of the necessity of reducing the United States deficit in its international balance of payments . Mr , Anderson and Mr. Dillon said their negotiations with West Germany , generally viewed ' as fruitless , were conducted " in a most friendly atmosphere . " Cutback Called Vital A cutback in the flow of dollars abroad is " essential , " the Istatement said , " to maintain the ' free world 's financial system in , a sound condition . " They said both sides in the German negotiations had agreed on the need to " maintain a sound international financial system , not only for the economic well-being , of the countries involved but in order that they may continue to provide resources necessary to the security of the people of the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important differences between him and Mr. Dillon , as some reports from Europe had suggested . " We have had perfect cooperation and the only thing we have heard of disagreement is what we have read , " Mr. Anderson said . It is known , - however , that before President Eisenhower accepted the Treasury Secretary 's position as the one to be followed , there was a. sharp difference of opinion between the Treasury and State Departments on the most promising line to follow in dealing with the European allies on the dollar problem . Once the President 's decision was made , of course , it became official Government policy . The-joint statement was general in nature . It did not mention details of the mission 's dealing with the Germans , French and British . The two officials are expected to report to the President early I , next week . Failure Is Analyzed Officials here attributed the failure of the mission to several factors . First , they said , there had been no serious effort to work out in detail a carefully constructed position among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Second , they said , the mission ? possibly the final major diplomatic move by the Eisenhower Administration  --  failed to ' make the usual preliminary soundings of opinion among ' the foreign governments concerned . On this point German diplomats , said that Mr. Anderson 's demand for a large and immediate payment of about $600,000,000 for support of United States forces in West Germany was a complete surprise to the Bonn Government . Finally , officials said , there was no effort to bring President-elect John F. Kennedy into the picture and the European Allies , were able to get no assurance that Mr. Anderson 's demands represented the views that would prevail here in the coming four years . There was some feeling here that one desirable , if unintended , result of the Anderson mission was that the Allied governments in , Europe are now more impressed with the seriousness of the United States ' foreign payments imbalance than ever before . Every indication from Bonn , Paris and London suggests that they all- are more than , ready to discuss this problem and to make concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Diplomatic sources here said there would undoubtedly be an early effort under the new administration to study the whole range of foreign exchange problems . These sources also said that there would not likely be the repetition of the mistakes of the Anderson mission in failing to inform or consult foreign governments in advance . - It was widely believed that the Anderson mission could have scored ' a modest success if it had been willing to accept something less than its maximum demands . Reports front Germany suggested that the Treasury Secretary was unwilling to talk seriously about any efforts other than direct payments for troop support . The West Germans shave indicated , for example , a willingness to increase the amount they pay for joint costs in the North Atlantic alliance . The Germans were also said to be ready to make prepayments on their post-war debt to the United States . British officials were understood to have stated their readiness to consider a similar move on a loan made by this country in 1948 . But the Treasury Secretary apparently felt that only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide emergency relief . Warnings by the State Department that the Germans could be expected to reject demands for ' unilateral payments for troop support were ignored or at least over-ridden in the final decision . The approach Mr. Anderson took was quite different from the published forecast of the Department of State .                     