@@723329

txt The United States justice department has begun an investigation of the office of Joseph N. Tierney , United States marshal for the northern district of Illinois , THE TRIBuNE learned last night . The investigation reportedly concerns charges by female prisoners that they were forced to submit to sexual acts while in the custody of the marshal 's office in Chicago . Tierney told THE TRIBUNE last night that " there is absolutely no truth " to the charges , which he called " fantastic , horrible , and a pretty vicious thing - to be saying . " Not Aware of It " If something like that is I going on , I 'm unaware of it , " Tierney said . " Any comment will have to come from Washington . " Marlin W. Johnson , agent in charge of the Chicago office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , refused to confirm ' or deny the report . However , THE TRIBUNE was informed by witnesses who have been questioned by FBI agents that women prisoners said they were forced to submit under promises of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Could Win Probation The women reportedly were told that intercession by a marshal could win them probation or short sentences . The investigation was begun early this week after several deputy marshals reported to James P. e , chief United States marshal , conversations that they had with women prisoners . was told the women asserted that they had been compelled to submit to sexual acts and indignities while in custody in Chicago . Some of them charged that after release on bail , they met in hotels , by pre-arrangement , with persons from the federal courthouse . Still Are Investigating One government source said the investigation still is in progress . Last year , the justice department ordered Tierney to improve the administration of his office . The instructions to Tierney ended a 10-week investigation by FBI agents and justice department personnel into charges of bail bond kickbacks , expense account padding , and other irregularities in the marshal 's office . The justice department said that the FBI investigation had failed to develop " any evidence of irregularities or collusion on bail bonds . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States marshal in April . 1961 . He was nominated for the post one month earlier by President Kennedy on the recommendation of Sen. Douglas D. , a close friend of Tierney . Tierney was a chauffeur for Douglas during Douglas ' campaigns for the Senate . Before Tierney became United States marshal , he was a Chicago policeman for 20 years . He was assigned to the state 's attorney 's police force during the term of former State 's Atty . John Gutknecht.                     