@@727872

txt The Supreme Court acted with nearunanimity today in issuing three decisions upholding Negroes ' rights to equality in education , recreatiotial opportunity and voting . Although the Court is deeply split over some issues as Chief Justice Earl Warren 's final term nears an end , it was demonstrated today that civil rights ? one of the areas of the " Warren Court 's " most notable activity ? was not pile of them . Disposing of all of the year 's civil rights cases in one sitting , the Court did the following : CRuled unanimously that a recalcitrant Southern school board could be required to move toward the elimination of recognizable " Negro " ? schools , by assigning its teachers according to racial ratios set by the Federal judiciary . eiHeld , 7 to 1 , that even a lake recreation area in an outof-the-way Arkansas location was covered by the public accommodations provision of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and must admit Negroes. fi ! Upheld a lower court decision , by a 7-to-1 margin , that a North Carolina county had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus could not be excused from coverage under the Voting Rights Act of 1965 ? because it had once segregated them in inferior schools that left many illiterate . First Approval of Ratios The school decision , written by Justice Hugo L. Black of Alabama , marked the first time that the Supreme Court had given its approval to the use of racial ratios in achieving school desegregation . Justice Black stressed that the racial ratio approved today was not a universal constitutional requirement . Rather , he said , it is an expedient that was found to be necessary to break up the pattern of segregation in the Montgomery , Ala. , schools that existed before the Supreme Court declared school segregation unconstitutional in 1954 . Federal District Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr . had tried to make up for years of foot-dragging by Montgomery school officials by ordering them to begin immediately to move toward a goal of a ratio of three white to two Negro teachers in each school . This is the ratio of white to Negro teachers in the school district as a whole . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would subdrdinate education to integration and might lower standards . The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit agreed and eliminated the ratio requirement . Today , the Supreme Court reinstated it . Jack Greenberg , director of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc. which sponsored the case , declared in a statement issued in New York that the Department of Health , Education and Welfare would now " have to incorporate something similar to the plan in this case in its desegregation plans . " A Blow to Sham Clubs The Arkansas decision was a blow to privately owned recreation businesses that seek to masquerade as " clubs " to avoid racial integration . It involved a boating and swimming area called Lake Nixon , located in a rural area - - ? about 12 miles west of Little Rock . Justice William J. Brennan Jr . pointed out in the Court 's opinion that the establishment advertised widely , charged ' only 25 cents for " membership , " and had 100,000 " members " in a single year . But when two Little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join they were rebuffed . The owner , Euell Paul Jr. , later admitted that he did not admit Negroes because it would drive away his white clientele . The lower Federal courts found that the " club " arrangement was a sham . But they said Negroes could still be excluded because Lake Nixon was a local activity that was not covered by the public accommodations law . May Force Clubs ' Sale Justice Brennan 's ' opinion reversed those rulings in such resounding terms that many modest recreational areas that had been considered untouched by the public accommodations law might now be forced to integrate . Some may prefer to close . Mr. Paul has contracted to sell Lake Nixon in anticipation of today 's decision . Under the Brennan opinion , the establishment was found to affect commerce and therefore to be subject to the public accommodations law because it solicited business where interstate travelers might respond , leased canoes from an Oklahoma company and used a juke box and records manufactured outside of Arkansas . He also found that the lake was a place of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This generous interpretation of the public accommodations law is likely to require the desegregation of establishments that have previously been regarded too local in character to be converted  --  a point that was criticized in the dissent by Justice Black : He argued that because Congress chose to base the law on its power to regulate interstate commerce , the Supreme Court should not stretch its meaning to include " every little country place of recreation in every nook and cranny " in the country . Justice Black was also the lone dissenter in the Court 's ruling today on the Voting Rights Act of 1965 , a law that Justice Black considers unconstitutional in several respects . Today 's decision by Justice John M. Harlan will make it all but impossible for a Southern jurisdiction to be excused from coverage under the law , although the law states that the courts must excuse any jurisdiction that manages to prove in court that for the previous five years it has not discriminated against Negroes by menas of a literacy test . The basis of Justice Harlan 's decision was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests as a subterfuge to bar Negroes from the polls , many Negroes had nevertheless failed to . pass the test because they had been poorly educated . This was attributable to the segregated school system that existed in the county until the Supreme Court declared school segregation unconstitutional , he said . Justice Harlan added that today 's ruling would not apply to any district that could prove that its former all-Negro educational system was in fact equal in quality to the white schools . The ruling will have limited effect unless Congress extends the key provisions of the Voting Rights Act , which otherwise will lapse in the autumn of 1970.                     