@@721298

txt Senator John F. Kennedy I suggested today that the next Administration should try to bring ' Communist China into the Geneva negotiations seeking a ban on nuclear tests . The Massachusetts Democrat emphasized that he would not favor recognition of Red China without a genuine change in her belligerent attitude . But he told the Senate that a reassessment of the nation 's policy on China should nevertheless be ' undertaken by the next President . The present policy , he said .. has " failed dismally " to weaken Communist rule on the mainland , to prevent steady growth , of Communist strength there and to provide " real solutions to the problems of a militant China . " As a first step toward improving " communications with mainland China , " he said , " perhaps a way could be found to bring the Chinese into the nuclear test ban talks at Geneva ? so that the Soviets could not continue their atomic tests on the mainland of China without inspection  --  and because Chinese possession of atomic weapons could drastically alter the balance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further cultural and economic contact should be tried , " he went on . Mr. Kennedy 's discussion of China policy was part of a long foreign policy address . ' It was delivered before packed galleries after the Senator 's office had circulated an announcement that he would give " a major foreign policy speech . " The speech is being generally interpreted here as an attempt to assert Senator Kennedy 's qualification for leadership in international affairs at a time when this is becoming a heavier factor in the judging of Presidential candidates . It also offered several hints of what Mr. Kennedy 's approach to foreign policy might be should he become President . In the next Administration , he said , the foreign-aid program will have to be " entirely revamped " to place more emphasis on world economic development and less on military assistance . He urged United States participation in three regional development associations to deal with the under-developed nations of Africa , non-Communist Asia and the Middle East . He advocated an increase in the capability of national forces required for limited warfare , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made relatively invulnerable to attack and an increase in production of the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile . He said there was " no point in returning to the summit " until the strength of the nonCommunist world had been built to a level that would convince the Soviet Union " that time and the course of history are not on their side , that the balance of world power is not shifting their way . " Stresses Rebuilding Strength Thus , Mr. Kennedy assigned first priority to what he called the rebuilding of strength and purpose within this country and throughout the non-Communist World . Although accepting the Administration 's argument that the collapse of the Paris summit conference on May 17 resulted from Soviet " determination to destroy the talks , " Mr. Kennedy sharply criticized the Administration 's summit diplomacy . The Administration , he suggested , is bankrupt of " fresh ideas " and permitted the nonCommunist world 's strength to deteriorate until its bargaining position at a summit conference evaporated . , In fact , he asserted , the attempt to ease tensions at a summit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was brought down on an . espionage mission over Russian territory on May 1 . ' ? It was " doomed , " he said , " because we have failed for the past eight years to build the positions of long-term strength essential to successful negotiation . " It was doomed because we were unprepared with new policies or new programs for the settlement of outstanding substantive issues . " It was doomed because the Soviet Union knew it had more to gain from the increasing deterioration of America 's world position than from any concessions that might be made in Paris . " Later tonight Senator Thruston R. Morton of Kentucky , chairman of the Republican National Committee , said Senator Kennedy was taking " us around the world in eighty minutes . " " In one breath condemning ? or ignoring  --  all of the Administration 's programs , in the next breath he endorsed the Administration 's policies but said that they should be carried out with bright , nicer people , " Mr. Morton declared . Most Republicans ignored the speech , but Everett Dirksen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy had shown " bad timing and poor judgment in his attack on President Eisenhower " while the President was abroad " in potentially explosive areas . " In his speech , Senator Kennedy objected to those who , he said , wanted to stifle debate by " empty appeals to national unity , false cries of appeasement or deceptive slogans about : standing up to Khrushchev . ' " . The great issue for debate , he said , is not who was " tough , " or who is " soft , " or who could " stand up to Khrushchev , " but " who can stand up and summon America 's vast resources to the defense of freedom against the most dangerous threat it has ever faced . "                     