@@725275

txt Washington . Jan. 19 - Lt. Geri . Louis B. Hershey. director of the selective service system , said today that it will be necessary to draft some college students now enjoying deferments if draft calls continue at their present high levels , after meeting with draft officials from 20 midwestern and eastern states and the District of Columbia , said that Pentagon manpower demands call for more stringent regulations for granting student deferments 2-S . Hershey will decide within the next 10 days what the regulations will be . As of last Dec. 31 , the.pool of draft eligible college students numbered 1.834.240 . Offered a Choice Hershey indicated that the new regulations would be similar to those in use during the Korean war , when students had a choice of basing their request for deferment on either their scores on intelligence , tests 01 ' on their class stand- ; ings . At present . any full-time student at an accredited school who is doing satisfactory work according to the standards of the institution can qualify for the 2-S deferment . Under the Korean war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class standings for a deferment had to be in the upper half of his class at the end of his ' freshman . year , in the upper two-thirds of his class at the end of his sophomore year , and in the upper three-quarters at the end of his junior year . Prefers Korean System Hershey indicated that he prefers going back to the Korean war system rather than basing deferments solely on test scores or class standings . I He said that he is awaiting reactions from educators , some of whom , he said , have indi- ! cated a similar preference . I Hershey said that a decision is needed soon to permit drafting of students before the start of the 1967 academic year . He said he hopes to give " at least one , and maybe two " tests before the end of the current school year . Inductions of some students who fail to qualify for continued deferments could come as early as summer , he said . Hershey said that draft calls have been about 30,000 a month since the start of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 19 year olds and childless fathers , which make up the bulk of those drafted in the last few month s , has dwindled greatly . Many 19 year olds have gone to college and qualified for 2-S deferments.                     