@@727433

txt The Johnson Administration , cautious and uncertain , is nevertheless 4opeful that its latest proposal ' to Hanoi may lead to a breakthrough in the Vietnam negotiations . The American proposal is understood to be a new formulation of President Johnson 's demand for assurances from Hanoi that a complete cessation in the bombing of North Vietnam would constitute a movement toward peace . Apparently the situation remained unchanged through the night in spite of a press agency report from Saigon quoting President Nguyen Van Thieu as saying that the North Vietnamese had accepted the American proposal . United States officials promptly said they bad no information to support the report . No Change , U.S. Aides Say According to the report , distributed this morning by Reuters , Mr. Then told reporters in the seaside resort of Vungtau that there would be a halt in the bombing of North Vietnam , and full peace talks with representatives of the Saigon regime and the National Liberation Front , political arm of the Viet : . cong . Officials in Washington and in Paris said that so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reply from Hanoi . The State Department referred to its statement of yesterday afternoon denying earlier pressagency reports from Paris that a reply had been received from Hanoi . Erroneous Paris Reports According to late reports from Saigon this morning , it was apparently those erroneous Paris press reports that led Mr. Thieu ' to make his remarks , Afterward , in a report distributed by The Associated Press at 2:02 A.M. , Eastern daylight time , Mr. Thieu was quoted as having said there had been no breakthrough in negotiations . Yesterday 's State Department comment came from Carl Bartch , a press officer , when he was asked about reports from Paris and Hanoi that the North Vietnamese had given an answer . " With reference to these reports , " he said , " I have seen them and I know of no facts to substantiate them . " At the White House , Tom Johnson , the assistant press secretary , quoted Mr. Bartch 's words and said : " We stand be hind that statement . " Later yesterday , North Vietnamese sources in Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These sources , however , took a negative attitude toward the possibility of Hanoi 's accepting the offer . The Administration 's cautious hope is based on a feeling that the North Vietnamese may have reached a point where they must make a major decision they have been able to avoid in the past and upon a conviction that the war is going badly for the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong guerrillas in South Vietnam . The Administration thinks the North Vietnamese leaders realize that they must negotiate with Mr. Johnson on his terms or wait until the next President takes office in January and run the risk of seeing their bargaining power in Paris eroded by a deterioration in their military and political position in South Vietnam . The possibility that Hanoi may decide to wait until the election and then attempt to negotiate with a lame-duck President is doubted . The feeling here that the North Vietnamese are actively deliberating the choice has raised the hope that Hanoi may accept Mr. Johnson 's demand for concessions in exchange for a halt of the bombing . It is believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance he asked in a speech in Detroit on Aug. 19 , that " the other side intends seriously to join us in de-escalating the war and moving seriously toward peace . " The return to Hanoi from Paris of Le Duc Tho , senior adviser to the North Vietnamese and a member of the Hanoi politburo , had been interpreted as an indication that a decision is being weighed in the North Vietnamese capital . Many within the Administration feel that the North Vietnamese had hoped Mr. Johnson might ease his terms under domestic political pressure or that a Democratic Presidential candidate might be nominated who would make major concessions . There was little chance that Hanoi would negotiate seriously , the Administration felt , until after the Democratic convention in b Chicaoo had nominated Vice President Humphrey and adopted a platform plank supporting the Johnson policy . It is only in recent weeks , the Administration feels , that Hanoi may have finally perceived that Mr. Johnson will not yield and that he prefers to bequeath the task of negotiating a peace settlement to his successor if he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some diplomats here thought it unlikely that Hanoi 's leadership would give any formal response to the proposal until conferring with Mr. Tho , one of North Vietnam 's ruling circle and perhaps Hanoi 's top specialist on South Vietnamese affairs . Nonetheless , it was considered significant that the North Vietnamese sources close to the negotiating delegation , who rarely comment without instructions , were taking a negative line toward the American offer . Mr. Tho left Paris Monday , stopping in Moscow briefly . to confer with Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin and then pausing somewhat longer in Peking . The American proposals are understood to include a freeze of the current lull in activity around the demilitarized zone at the border between North Vietnam and South Vietnam and immunity of South Vietnam 's cities from major attacks . According to allied diplomats , the offer does not make clear whether Washington requires only restraint from Hanoi or secret word that it will exercise restraint . North Vietnam has always refused to give such assurances . Some diplomats here suggest that if Hanoi will agree to accept the Saigon regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States might accept the current battlefield as adequate restraint . American negotiators have never acknowledged there was a new American proposal , although other diplomats have confirmed its , existence . The proposal apparently was passed to the North Vietnamese at a private portion of the negotiating session on Oct. 9 or in the next few days at a secret contact . Neither side has confirmed such private contacts , but they have apparently taken place for weeks .                     