@@721962

txt The , Administration is completing plans toi remove from the Cen- ! tral Intelligence Agency its function of over-all intelligence evaluation . This function would be given to a new official free of ties to any operational agency , including the C. I. A. The official would also assume the responsi- , bility now held by Allen W. Dulles , C. I. A. director , as chief , intelligence adviser to the Presi-1 dent and the National Security : Council . The Administration 's decision for such a major overhauling ofl its foreign intelligence operation ' was reported by authoritative sources . While it would mean a reduction in status for the C. I. A. , that agency would continue most of its collecting and analytical functions . However , its estimates would cease to have primacy in the top , policy councils and would be considered on a par with those of others in the so-called intelligence community . The new post of chief intelligence officer has been offered to Fowler Hamilton ; New York lawyer , It is not certain , however , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studying the matter , particularly details of the reorganization , before making up his mind . He was reported to be in Washington today , but could not be reached for comment . Meanwhile , the Defense Department announced that its intelligence operations were also being reorganized . This move has been in process several months , and the net result isii largely to duplicate for the armed services the plan of organization being proposed for the civilian intelligence agencies . Under the plan announced today by Deputy Secretary Roswell L. Gilpatric , a new unit to be known as the Defense Intelligence Agency will largely supersede the intelligence arms of the Army , Navy and Air Force . It will be immediately under the Secretary and will presumably prepare for him intelligence estimates free of the " parochialism " of the separate services . Behind both reorganization plans is an identical purpose . It is to achieve estimates of an enemy 's strength and intentions free from the prejudices and partiality that arises from the vested interest of any organization in its own goals or policies . In the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy over the " missile gap " two years ago . The Army , Navy and Air Force , relying on their intelligence services , arrived at different conclusions about the lag between United States and Russian missile strength and what should be done about it . System is Blamed Regarding the C. I. A. , it long has been argued in Washington that Mr. Dulles , its director since 1953 , was wedded to the intelligence concepts and estimates of his agency to the virtual exclusion of others that differed with it . Mr. Dulles is also chairman of the Intelligence Board , a committee of the heads of all Government agencies engaged in intelligence , which prepares national estimates . Since , at the same time , he is the responsible spokesman to , the President and to the National Security Council on intelligence matters , many have expressed fear that his reports lacked the objectivity on which national policy decisions have to be based . No responsible critic has attributed this to intentional bias by Mr. Dulles , but rather to a system requiring him to wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , telligence structure is that covert operations , such as this country 's intervention in Guatemala and Cuba , should be divorced from the task of collecting and evaluating intelligence information . Many contend that the Cuban invasion wound up in disaster because the C.I.A . was oversold on its estimates of conditions on the island . The C. I. A. was created under the National Security Act of 1947 . Its original function was primarily to coordinate and evaluate intelligence relating to the national security produced by such agencies as the military services , State Department , Atomic Energy Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation  --  that is , the intelligence community . It also had authority to collect foreign intelligence . The act was flexible , however . It contained a clause further empowering the agency to " perform such additional services of common concern " as might be directed by the National Security Council . This was an acknowledgment that " a department of dirty tricks " ? an agency to operate with the tools of propaganda and subversion , such as the war time Office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official familiar with the intelligence picture said that despite the reorganization , the C. I. A. would continue to be the major source of foreign intelligence , particularly that collected by covert means . No information was available on who would head the C. I. A. under the new dispensation . The reorganization is expected to be completed , according to one source , before the end of the year . The White House has announced that Mr. Dulles will retire by then .                     