@@726292

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . Effect of Bombings on Warsaw Talks ' To the Editor : The Washington , news dispatch of John M. Hightower of the Associated Press published May 9 throws new light on the events of last November and December , when the United States and North Vietnam seemed the closest yet to direct , secret negotiations . I have also written about ? these events , on the basis of very well-informed sources in and around the United Nations . However , in some important respects the story I got is different from Mr. Hightower 's . There is agreement that on ' or about Dec. 1 Polish Ambassador Janusz Lewandowski informed U.S. Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge in Saigon that Hanoi was ready to hold secret talks with the United States in Warsaw without demanding prior cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam . But Hightower does not mention the bombings in the Hanoi area of Dec. 2 and 4 , and leaves the impression that only the bombings of Hanoi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the talks . Major Attacks As I got the story , on Dec. 3 Lewandowski complained strongly to Lodge about the bombing of Dec. 2 , stating that although Hanoi would talk while the bombing was going on , it would not accept escalation at the same time . ( The Times reported on Dec. 3 : " Waves of United States fighter-bombers made their second closest strike to Hanoi . . . . " ) Lodge replied that such attacks were planned long in advance . On Dec. 4 another major attack was made on the Hanoi area . During this period the first talk between United States and North Vietnamese representatives , which had been set for about Dec. 6 , was postponed . In Warsaw , in a series of talks between Polish Foreign Minister Adam Rapacki and U.S. Ambassador John Gronouski , two main problems were discussed : Hanoi 's protests over the Dec. 2 and 4 bombings and Washington 's request for clarification of the ten-point statement which the Poles said Hanoi would accept as a basis for the U.S.-North Vietnamese meeting . Rightower 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he reported , " Officials commented that diplomats were always involved in pursuing one peace hope or another and said that lack of a firm commitment for talks also was influential in the decision to go ahead with the bombing . " But since , according to my information , Hanoi had agreed to talk but was protesting against escalation , it is hard to believe the Dec , 13-14 bombing of Hanoi was not closely connected with the negotiations . One can speculate that the bombing ' was carried out ' either deliberately to disrupt . the talks or to bring pressure on North Vietnam to accept some pre-condition to the talks . Troops in South The most important new element in Hightower 's account wa 's , on the nature of the dui-. fication sought by  --  the United States . He reported : " One of the ten points provided that the United States would ' ? not insist that North Vietnam acknowledge publicly the presence of its forces in South Vietnam The Johnson Administration decided this should be clarified to require that if the troop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then the North Vietnamese forces would be withdrawn from the South . " Such a " clarification " was in reality a demand that the North Vietnamese cease aid to the Vietcong , without in any way limiting United States action in the South . Thus it may well be that the Dec. 13.14 bombing of Hanoi was an effort to force North Vietnam to ' accept this " clarification . " As of now , this seems the most logical explanation of this strange episode . RICHARD HUDSON Editor , War/Peace Report New York , May 10 , 1967 ? News Labor 's Demands To the Editor : The statement by Matt Meyer on the closing of The World Journal Tribune , epitomizes the uneven struggle of worthy enterprises for survival ' against the onslaughts . of arbitrary union leadership . His calm , dispassionate recital of the insuperable difficulties under which - the neWly , established ' newspaper was compelled to operate in its short life after the oppressive 140-day strike at its very birth , is climaxed by a quotation of Bertram Powers 's latest pronouncement from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carries the seeds for the regeneration of labor-industry relationship on a scale more compatible with the demands of xeasow , and justice . In the declaration by the head of Typographical Union No. 6 predicting the fate of the . newspaper if it should lad to meet the projected demand for payroll increases ? " All they can do is pay or shut down " ? we have an anticipatory coercive threat that displays a contemptuous rejection of the . collective bargaining system and its replacement with enforced obedience to his dictates about to be imposed . Such union leadership bodes ill for our vaunted free enterprise system ; for the public welfare and for the best interests of the union membership whom it purports to represent . SELIG EDELMAN New York , May 9 , 1967 ? To Investigate ? NASA To the Editor : - All those who believe that the American people through their representatives have the right to know how their ' money is being spent owe a debt of gratitude to you for your editorial position May 4 ' on the release of the report by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the hearings on the Apollo disaster by the House Committee on Science and Astronautics , of which I am a member , it became apparent that this report was of vital importance . The suppression of the report by NASA , even to the extent of refusing to make it available to committee mem. - Pen , was inexcusable ' . " ' In fact , the reluctance of NASA : in gen. eral to discuss frankly their operations , is inimical to the democratic process . Freedom of information is crucial in a democratic society . When one reads the Phillips report , it is clear that , thirteen months before the Apollo fire , NASA was on notice that its contractor , North American Aviation , was grossly deficient in its performance . Although the Apollo Review Board re= stricted its inquiry primarily to - the technical cause of the fire , its conclusions , matched with the findings of General Phillips , raised serious questions about NASA 's administration ' of the space program . Safe Administration All the evidence points to the need for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competence ? to carry out the space program and to recommend changes in the agency to insure that dur space program is efficiently and safely administered . ' One can not expect NASA ' to review itself . I have recommended , to the President that ' . a high level Presidential commis ; , sion be ? established to investigate NASA . The commission should consist ' of eminent Americans , including leading scientists and engineers . I have also suggested that Dr. Jerome Wiesner , former chairman of President Kennedy 's , Science Advisory Committee and past director of the Office of Science and Technology , head up the commission . A comprehensive and objective investigation is required ; to assure the American people that their space program is ' in good hands . WILLIAM P. RYON Member of Congress Twentieth District , New York Washington , May 5 , 4967                     