@@728114

txt Two defense attorneys were held under arrest in court on contempt charges today as the trial of , the " Chicago eight " continued to be marked by sharp clashes between the defense and Judge Julius J. Hoffman . The dispute over which lawyers should represent the eight leaders of demonstrations at last year 's Democratic National Convention reached an emotional peak when Bobby Seale , a defendant who is national chairman of the Black Panthers , told the judge : " If my constitutional rights are denied , I can only say that the judge is a blatant racist . " Seale 's outburst followed his insistence that only Charles R. Garry , a West Coast lawyer who has often represented Panthers , can represent him here . Mr. Garry is about to undergo an operation on his gall bladder . The defense has asked for delay of the trial until Mr. Garry has recovered , but Judge Hoffman has refused . The defense 's continued protest that it is being unfairly hampered by Mr. Garry 's absence remained the chief issue in the dispute over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Lefcourt , a New York lawyer who had been granted a temporary stay of arrest by a Federal judge in New York yesterday , was arrested in Judge Hoffman 's court this morning . Mr. Tigar told newsmen he was arrested in Los Angeles yesterday , brought to Chicago by Federal marshals overnight and kept in a lock-up until the trial resumed at 10 A.M. Judge Hoffman had held the two lawyers  --  and two other defense attorneys ? in contempt of court for their failure to show up in court when the trial began Wednesday . They had notified the court by tele-1 gram of their withdrawal from the case , but the judge said nobody could withdraw from his court , by telegram . The defense charged yesterday that Judge Hoffman was trying to " intimidate " and " harass " lawyers who take up unpopular cases . This morning , however , they felt they had detected another motive when the judge offered to release the attorneys if the defendants would agree that they were being adequately defended . The defense refused , insisting that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal District judge then ordered Mr. Lefcourt and Mr. Rigar to return to their seats under the custody of Federal marshals and called for the trial to continue . William M. Kunstler , a defense attorney , protested vehemently . " I 've never heard of trying a case with two counsel in custody , " he said . " Bring in the jury , " the judge said . " Sit down , Mr. Kunstler . " During the noon break , David Dellinger , a defendant who is national chairman of the Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam , told newsmen that the judge 's position was " totally unethical . " " He is attempting to black-. mail us by holding our attorneys unless we agree to waive our Sixth Amendment rights by agreeing to the absence of Charles Garry , " Mr. Dellinger said . Jay Miller , executive director of the Illinois division of the American Civil Liberties Union , said the A.0 L.U. was " deeply concerned over the judge 's treatment of these attorneys , which casts another pall over the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renewed his offer , and the defense again refused . The judge then ordered Mr. Lefcourt and Mr. Tigar jailed without bond over the weekend . Later , an appeals court released the men on bail . The defense contends that Mr. Tigar , Mr. Roberts and Mr. Kenney were retained only to file pretrial motions and never intended to appear in court . They said Mr. Lefcourt had originally been part of a fourman " trial team " along with Mr. Garry , Mr. Kunstler and Leonard I. Weinglass , but the defendants had released him to work on the trial of 21 Black Panthers in New York . Through the first two days of the trial , Seale had sat somewhat apart from the other defendants at the defense table . He did not take part in the consultations between attorneys and the seven others , appearing at times almost disdainful of the proceedings . In his handwritten statement today , he said that any other lawyers of record to represent him " do not speak for me or represent me as of this date . " I fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available ' as chief counsel , " he added . In addition to Seale and Mr. Dellinger , the Federal District Court defendants , all charged with conspiracy to incite a riot here , are Rennard C. ( Rennie ) . Davis , Abott ( Abbie ) Hoffman , , John Froines , Tom Hayden , Lee Weiner and Jerry Rubin.                     