@@727675

txt President Nixon came home to- , night , saying that in his tour of Western Europe he had ' found a new sense of trust by the Europeans in themselves , in the United States and in the future . Waving cheerfully after his eight-day sweep through five countries , Mr. Nixon stepped Nixon text , Page 15 ; exchange with the Pope , Page 14. off the shiny Presidential jet , kissed his wife and two daugh- , ters and accepted a full honor ceremony from a military band and an honor guard . Then he faced the television cameras and said : " If you could have been with me as I rode through the streets , and have seen  --  the thousands of happy and hopeful faces , you would have been proud to be an American at this time in our history . " More than 200 people , besides the welcoming party of Cabinet members , Congressmen and Senators and diplomats , braved the cold wind at Andrews Air Force Base to greet the President and his party with banners of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Snow flurries had stopped by the 10 P.M. arrival , but the tarmac was icy ? so much so that Vice President Agnew slipped and fell as he turned to review the honor guard with the President . Blood dripped from a cut near the bridge of his nose as he spoke the formal words of welcome , and a White House doctor supplied a small bandage as soon as the party was out of range of television cameras . " I slipped at one point and you must have fallen right behind me on the same place , " Mr. Nixon told the Vice President as the two men moved toward helicopters waiting to take them to the White House . For Mr. Nixon it was the end of a 20-hour day that began in Paris this morning with a conference on Vietnam negotiating strategy with the chief United States negotiator , Henry Cabot Lodge . Then he spent 40 minutes with South Vietnam 's Vice President , Nguyen Cao Ky . He held a farewell talk with President de Gaulle , personally confirming the United States acceptance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And he received General de Gaulle 's promise to pay a return visit to the United States next January or February . Then he flew to Rome for a visit with Pope Paul VI before flying home . In the eight days , the President assured the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that the alliance still means something after 20 years  --  and not only as a onilitary deterrent but also as a , positive forum and an Atlantic  --  community . To the British he said there is-fstill the old special relationship , hut not so special that it need inhibit either country in seeking new relationships with o tbb rs . Then he told the edgy WestGermans that he aspired to consult " in substance , not only in foiln " ? In Foreign Minister Willy Brandt 's words  --  and that Bonn need not fear any SovietAtnCrican deal over the heads oALthe Germans . : With the Italians it was a hi ' itnther from burning issues , be. ; Cuse between Rome and Washington there are none . The President needed a breather at this point. ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de " Gaulle . ? In speeches and toasts and 10 hours of face-to-face conversations , the 56-year-old President qT the United States and the 78-Mr-old President of France put their two Governments on speaking terms again . Past years of mutual resentment had produced stalemate . Neither ditihtry 's world-view could change that - of the other , but the ? , two leaders made a public show of burying the hatchet. ' - lints at Talks with Soviet None in the Presidential party believed that any of the basic and long-standing differences of policy between France and the United States had been resolved in the one visit , but they were convinced that regular consultation between the two Governments had been resumed after years of coolness. coolness . Barely a quarter of an hour hack on American soil , Mr. Nixon hinted at his next diplonratic moves , the opening of talks on broad political issues with the Soviet Union . 4He said that the Europeans with whom he had talked felt a sense of confidence " based on the fact that together we are going to be able to develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oplxised us on the other side of the world . " Mr. Nixon plans to report on his trip to the National Security Council tomorrow . On Wednesday he will brief the Congressional leadership of both parties , and on Thursday he has scheduled an hour-long news conference  --  double the usual length for Presidential news conferences ? to give a public report of his first venture into international diplomacy . The business of the tour ended at the Vatican this afternoon with an audience with Pope Paul VI . The President took off from Rome for the eight-hour flight back to Washington . Just 42 days in office , President Nixon had behind him one thing that his predecessor always said he wanted to do , but never managed to fit in ? a formal tour of Western Europe . One official European reaction came promptly today from Mr. Brandt in a television interview on the Columbia Broadcasting System 's Face the Nation program from Bonn . President Nixon convinced his partners that he believes in a very high degree of consultation , Mr. Brandt said . " Entering into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds something to the burdens of the leading powers , " the Foreign Minister said . " But But experience may have shown that if one does not accept that burden , then one gets difficulties of another kind . " President Nixon seems , therefore , to have given . substance to the notion of consultation , even though there was little actual consultation on the substance of complex issues in the course of his quick tour . As he put it in his arrival statement : " I sensed a new trust in the United States growing out of the fact that they feel that there are open channels of communication with the United States and anew sense of consultation with the United States . " I can only respond at this time by giving you one overall impression of this trip . That one impression is , I think , summed up by the word ' trust . ' " I sensed as I traveled to the capitals of Europe that there is a new trust on the part of the Europeans in themselves , growing out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economically and politically , as well as in their military strength  --  since the devastation of World War H. " " Finally I think that there is developing a new trust in the future  --  not only on the part of the people of Europe and their leaders but on the part of the people of the United States , " Mr. Nixon said . It was reported to have . been Mr. Nixon 's own decision that the full honor ceremony be held on his return . He had asked that there be no ceremony on his departure Feb. 28.                     