@@727782

txt Public and private programs for boosting minority enterprise are hobbled by a lack of coordination , inadequate resources , and the wrong emphasis . So charges a confidential study prepared for a Wall Street brokerage house . Most financial aid to minority business is Misdirected , the report alleges . The money is multiplying the number of small " mom and pop " stores , few of which have any real economic impact . As a result , black businesses generate less than 1 percent of total black national income . What is needed to provide wider economic opportunity for Negroes , the report says , are efforts to develop sizable manufacturing or service businesses requiring large numbers of workers . Among specific groups whose public-relations rhetoric in support of minority enterprise has far exceeded their concrete action , the report cites banks , the Urban Coalition , and the Small Business Administration . The report makes several recommenda-tions : ? Put federal deposits with banks involved in inner-city financing . ? Define a Small Business Administration strategy that will place priority on developing medium-size black business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various agencies aware of progress as well as pitfalls in aiding black businesses . The life-insurance industry is renewing its $1 billion pledge to aid in slum rehabilitation . Its program will provide long-term mortgage money for low-income housing , business properties , and community-service facilities in inner cities . All will be located in blighted areas where private capital for rebuilding is difficult to obtain at reasonable rates . In the past 18 months , over 160 insurers already have invested almost $900 million in more than 230 cities . Projects range from shopping centers to nursing homes . But over two-thirds of the funds are committed to federally insured single and multifamily housing . From now on the industry 's new thrust will place greater emphasis on financing job-expanding industrial and retail properties . And in investing their capital , insurers plan to work more closely with black mortgage bankers . es How much Canadian oil should be permitted to flow into the United States market ? The question puts Washington right in the middle between Canada ( whose prices are cheaper because oil can travel overland into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher ) . At present imports of Canadian oil are controlled by a three-year agreement . But it expires at the end of this year . So in another few months a decision will have to be made . Canada wants import barriers lowered . Venezuela protests that to do so would be to discriminate against her even further . Meanwhile customers along the northern border of the United States are clamoring for increased imports of the cheaper Canadian crude . Simultaneously , the rise in the cost of oil in Louisiana and Mississippi is making Canadian oil competitive farther and farther south into the United States . Another complicating factor : The eventual size of the new Alaskan oil discoveries and what it will cost to ship this oil to Canadian and United States markets . One thing seems certain : It all puts pressure on United States oil producers to keep their prices down while they search for new deposits . How and why . . . How quickly business is moving to hire minority workers depends on the point of view . Some companies say they are breaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before government agencies , such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ( EEOC ) , start " harassing " them . But Clifford L. Alexander 's resignation as EEOC chairman spotlighted strong feelings that businessmen are not doing enough to help blacks and others get good jobs . The Nixon administration may have a tough time satisfying these opposing viewpoints . As a sign of good faith with minorities , Labor Secretary George P. Shultz is upgrading the Office cf Contract Compliance to assure adherence to civil-rights laws . But some local unions have been outspoken against " harassment " when their leaders pushed antidiscrimination within the union 's own ranks .                     