@@724066

txt More than a dozen civil rights demonstrators , both white and Negro , were forcibly ejected by deputy United States marshals last night from the office of Edward V. Hanrahan , United States attorney . One of them , Marion Barry Jr. , 28 , of Knoxville , Tenn. , field secretary of the Students Nonviolent Coordinating committee , who came here Tuesday from Atlanta , was arrested and taken to the Central police station . The others were dragged into a freight elevator , taken to the basement of the federal building , then placed on mail carts and wheeled to the sidewalk on the Jackson boulevard side . There they lay on the sidewalk for several minutes . 20 Enter Office Those ejected were part of a group of 20 who entered the office late in the afternoon demanding the dispatch of troops and federal marshals to Mississippi to protect civil rights demonstrators there . At the same time , 40 other demonstrators , later swelled to 120 , walked up and down in front of the Clark street entrance to the federal building . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi and Alabama now " ; " Troops protect Viet Nam , why not Mississippi ? " and " Chicagoans in Mississippi ? will they be missing tomorrow ? " Among the marchers in the street was the Rev. Douglas Still , 2634 N. Lakeview ay. , executive director of the department of social welfare of the Church Federation of dreater Chicago , who passed out civil rights pamphlets . Landry Leads Pickets Barry led the demonstrators in Hanrahan 's office , while Lawrence Landry , Chicago chairman of the Students Nonviolent Coordinating committee , appeared to be in charge of the street demonstration . Ald. Charles Chew 17th joined the demonstrators in Hanrahan 's outer office , and at his request , Hanrahan admitted 10 of them into his private office . Chew said he was there merely to see that the demonstration was orderly , and assured Hanrahan that the demonstrators would leave if Hanrahan consented to see them . However , when Hanrahan ordered the demonstrators to leave , they refused . Some carried bags containing soap and tooth brushes . Hanrahan Gets Angry Hanrahan angrily confronted reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn this office into a circus ; I am not going to run my office like a zoo . " He told a reporter , " If you quote me , 1 ' 11 never let you into my office again . " The doors of the office then were locked , and a force of deputy marshals , led iv Joseph Tierney , United States marshal , was summoned . Electricity was shut off in the area in which Hanrahan 's office is located . A tarpaulin was tacked over the glass in the door . All the furniture was removed from the outer office , leaving the demonstrators to stand , or to sit on the floor . Hustled into Elevator Then Barry was hustled into an adjoining freight elevator , taken to the basetnent and placed in a patrol wagon . Ejection of the other demonstrators followed . Earlier in the day , nine Negro members of a property owners organization staged a sit-in in the office of John G. Duba , Chicago urban renewal commissioner , protesting an urban renewal project at 63d and Halsted streets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , two policemen were stationed at the door . One major feature of the urban renewal plan to which they object calls for the razing of 300 buildings and the relocation of 525 families to clear 45 acres , most of which would be used for new parking lots for a shopping district . Secretaries in Duba 's office suggested that the objectors take chairs reserved for visitors in the outer office . But the delegation , led by the Rev. John Porter , pastor of Christ Methodist church , 6401 Sangamon st. , brushed on by to enter Duba 's private office . Meanwhile , Duba , unaware that the sit-in was taking place , had left for the City hall to attend a . city council meeting and to have a proposed ordinance on the shopping center plan introduced for council consideration . Meets With Protestors Late in the day , Duba returned to his office and met briefly with the group of protestors . Duba explained that he could not reconvene the board this week because of the necessity of giving official notice and that , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of the redevelopment plan . The Rev. Mr. Porter , leader of the group , then said the objectors would continue to sit in Duba 's office all night and until given a reconsideration of the board 's action . Duba responded by saying " Fine ! " Referred to Committee The incident represented the first time in Chicago that a private office of a governmental official was taken civet by demonstrators . Mayor Daley has restricted similar sit-ins in the City hall to his outer office or the corridor . Recently Seymour kjmon , county board president ; permitted several Negro objectors to occupy his conference room for almost 24 hours . In the city council , the 63dHalsted plan was referred to the housing and planning committee . The committee chairs man , Ald. Arthur V. Zelezinski 12th , scheduled a public hearing for 10:30 a. tn . Tuesday . A special meeting of the plan commission also was called on the plan for Monday afternoon .                     