@@727461

txt Richard M. Nixon . bringing to a climax an amazing personal comeback , has been elected President of the United States eight years after he first sought the office . A Republican , he joins Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson , those patristic heroes of the Democratic party . as one of only three men in the nation 's history to be elected to the White House after having been defeated in a previous try for the Presidency . Mr. Nixon 's victory was in many respects an exciting re-run of the 1960 election with a different ending . It was particularly remarkable that despite the distorting effects of a third candidate in the race , the popular vote of the two major party nominees divided almost evenly across the country . In the end , Mr. Nixon did achieve a plurality in the popular vote and a clear majority in the Electoral College which place his victory beyond cavil or dispute . The nation can be profoundly grateful that the voters have reached an indisputable decision . There is to be no further delay before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any occasion for what could have been ignominious dickering with the third-party candidate , George C. Wallace . Many difficulties confront the President-elect as he approaches his new responsibilities . Since the Democrats have retained control of House and Senate , Mr. Nixon will have to make special efforts to enlist bipartisan cooperation if he is to make any headway with his domestic program . Even more serious and fundamental , however , is the fact that Mr. Nixon appears to have won office with only negligible support from Negro voters . He will have to move promptly and persuasively to win their confidence , for without it he can not achieve that national reconciliation which is his avowed purpose . In his news conference yesterday , Mr. Nixon wisely stressed that " the great objective of this administration . is to bring the American people together . . . . We want to bridge the gap between the races . " In foreign affairs , the first priority is to establish a secure relationship between the incoming and outgoing Administrations in the management of the Paris peace negotiations . Next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty . Now that the campaign has ended , we hope that Mr. Nixon will encourage speedy Senate action . ? This newspaper did not support Mr. Nixon , but we have always recognized that he is an.ntelligent , able man who is essentially a moderate , responsible conservative on most issues . His long years in national politics have given him the political skills which are a necessary part of a successful President 's equipment . His wide lead in the public opinion polls until very recently enabled him to wage a campaign which has left few personal wounds or partisan animosities . His service as Vice President ha ! acquainted him - *lilt the routines of the Presidential office and with the scope of its authority , experience which should stand him in good stead as he begins to shoulder the burdens which will pass to him in full measure on January 20.                     