@@721324

txt Installation of Atlas intercontinental missiles in key combat sites is months behind schedule . Pentagon officials say the delay means the U.S. ? already lagging behind the Soviet in this sector of armament -- must wait before it eon have more than a handful of the giant missiles with nuclear warheads ready to fire at an enemy . If the setbacks continue . ope high defense official warns , the nation 's general defense posture could be seriously damaged . Problems with sites for Atlas  --  the only American long-range ballistic missile that 's war-ready even In limited numbers  - -  stem from a variety of sources , according to Air Force officials . Among the asserted causes : Jurisdictional disputes between construction craft unions and industrial unions . gaps in management by contractors , and some loafing on the job . But those accused turn right around and blame the Pentagon for at least some of the delay . Whoever 's to blame , there have been some monumental snafus at important weapon sites , officials report . For instance , at one missile pad a crew of plumbers installed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cable . This work had to be torn out , contributing to the delay . Pentagon Crackdown ? Troubled Air Force officials make it clear they plan to take steps to get the program moving faster  --  even if it means cracking down on contractors and unions . Convair division of General Dynamics Corp . is prime contractor for manufacturing the Atlas and , according to the Pentagon , oversees installation of the weapon at combat sites . But a host of other contractors and subcontractors are engaged in creating these sites . Defense officials say they face these problems , among others : Missiles at Francis E. Warren Air Force Base , near Cheyenne . Wyo .. orginally were scheduled to become operational or combat ready by this past spring . Then the target date was set back to June 30 . Now , officials report , it will require perhaps another three months or so to have the missiles ready . By this summer 's close , Air Force planners had hoped to have battle ready some missiles at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha , Neb . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than the target date to get the site into operation . And officials say they face similar delays in Atlas training sites at Vandenberg Air Force Base , Calif . They decline , however , to cite precise dates when these installations were due to be ready . Three Months Behind Schedule Normally , the so-called " operational date " ? the time when a missile could be used in war ? is kept secret . But defense sources say there can no longer be anything secret about the fact that the Atlas program is falling behind schedule . Some contend delays are running as much as six months , but the general view of knowledgeable officials is that sites at Warren . Offutt and Vandenberg are three months or so behind schedule . Other Atlas bases , which are due to be ready later in the program , apparently are not yet lagging so clearly , but Penta. gon concern extends to them . Both management and unions involved rise to their own defense against Government efforts to lay the blame at their door . A spokesman for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile sites have been so brief that they could n't be held responsible for delay . " This sounds to me like a big fat Pentagon alibi , " he declares . To C. J. Haggerty , president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s building trades department , the Air Force is " Just grabbing at straws " to blame somebody else " for their handling of this prob . lem . " Any jurisdictional shutdowns , he contends , have been " short and scattered . " Concludes Mr. Haggerty : " We recognize the importance of the missile program and we want to keep it rolling ; if there Is any dispute , we get right on it . " " Tremendous Complexity " On Convair 's behalf , a spokesman emphasizes the " tremendous difficulty and complexity " of a huge new job such as the Atlas program . He says the problem of work stoppages is being ironed out . And in a plain hint that the Government bears final responsibility , he declares : " Convair is not in charge of the total effort ; " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division oversees the contractor 's work on the Atlas program . Both parent General Dynamics and its Contrair division , of course , have well established pedigrees in the defense business , dating from long before the Atlas program . In the Government 's 1959 fiscal year . General Dynamics received the largest dollar volume of defense contracts of any company ? $t.6 billion , or nearly 7.2 , / , - of all major military procurement dollars . Besides its work on the Atlas , Convair is prime contractor on the Navy 's Tartar and Terrier anti-aircraft missiles and is turning out the nation 's first supersonic bomber , the B.53 , ns well as the F-105 supersonic fighter plane . General Dynasties ' Electric Britt division is a major developer and producer of nuclear submarines and has built the Navy 's Nautilus , Seawolf , Skate , Triton and Skipjack , among others . Air Force officials do not criticize the Atlas as a weapon : they say it has demonstrated remarkable accuracy and reliability in repeated test shots . " But the birds ( missiles ) are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sites , " comments one high defense source . Altogether , the Pentagon aims to gel 129 Atlas missiles deployed and ready for corn . bat by the end of calendar 1962 . The Atlas ' arrival on active duty is crucial to plugging the " missile gap " by which Administration critics charge the U.S. trails Russia . The liquid-fueled Atlas is the first , and so far the only , U.S. missile of intercontinental range that 's ready for battle . The next model , the Titan , also Ilquid  --  fueled , is about a year behind it in development . And the nation 's first solid-fueled , long-range missile , the Minuteman , will come along only after the Titan is ready . Atlases In Service So far only a handful of Atlases  --  Pentagon officials wo n't say just how many  --  are actually in service , all of them stationed at a single base , Vandenberg in California . The Peptagon is not only eager to get more ready soon , but it wants plenty for the critical few years just ahead . With that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total number of Atlases it plans to deploy by the end of 1962 . Despite official dissatisfaction with the de . lays . Pentagon press agents are hardly trying to peddle stories about them . A defense labor relations official , asked for a rundown on union disputes delaying the program . cautiously re . plies : " We 're assembling a report on that . It will show how many workdays have been lost and what Unions were involved in the jurisdic ? tional disputes . " But , he quickly adds , " the re : port wo n't be ready until August . and I 'm , not certain whether we 'll make it public . " But no less a figure than Gen. Curtis LeMay. the No. 2 man in the Air Force , has publicly hinted at an Atlas delay at one site ; an off-the. cuff reniark on th subject came out a few weeks ago when he was touring bases under construction . Another ranking Pentagon leader , who declines to be quoted by name , sharply criticizes contractors and unions work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when asked about the charges , fill in further details of the missile misfortunes . For one thing , Pentagon officials say they 're caught between rival industrial allti building trades unions . The jurisdictional strife be . tween these labor groups has caused work delays during the last year . Clashes sit Launch Pads The clashes come when industrial unions which assemble the missile at contractor plants are sent to install its gear at launch pads . according to Defense Department sources . The building trades unions contend they should do such work at the launch sites , and settlement of these disputes takes time . Not long ago , Mr. Haggerty of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s Building Trades Department re ? ports , there was a few days ' work stoppage at Vandenberg base , though it had no direct connection with the Atlas program . Build . ing tradesmen employed by contractors had erected eight or nine radar screens there with . out trouble , he says , until the Air Force brought in another compnny ( not Convairt to build another screen. - As Mr. Haggerty tells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own skilled factory employes , instead of hiring construction workers on the scene . And that . he concludes . led to a building trades picket line around the radar project , though not around the whole base . " With missiles , these labor arguments are tougher than ever to settle , " asserts an Air Force industrial relations expert . " The concrete and the site itself easily fall into the category of construction work . But into the con . ( Tete goes tubing and electrical wiring , and then comes the contest between unions . " Generally . missile gear has to be dismantled at the plant , shipped to the launch site and then put hack together . The missile contractor usu. all prefers to have its own workers put to . gether a launching assembly , for instance . Some of these men , according to Pentagon officials , belong to Machinists locals . But organized construction workers- who draw generally higher wages -- often demand to do these tasks . Air Form . Weal Interfere The Air Force formally rules out any move on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's working with the Labor Department to set up some " guide lines " for settling these arginn ents . What 's more , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has taken on a peacemaker 's role in the whole industrial vs. craft union struggle . The federation has established a committee of union presidents to try to find an acceptable solution to the basic jurisdictional problem . So far none has been found . The labor combine has , however , created some machinery for settling many routine jut , isdirtional disputes . At first , the Industrial and Building Trades departments of the federation urge local union officials to reach an agreement on the site . If this falls , a two-man team  --  one member from each department ? goes to the scene . If the team fails , the dispute is forwarded to the two departments in Washington and they , with the federation president , George Meany , attempt to reach a decision ? although the ruling is not binding . Mr. Haggerty says , as far as he knows , no jurisdictional dispute involving a missile installation has reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been settled at the local level , he says . Qn management 's side , a top service official charges , some contractors have often allowed sloppy work and shown poor judgment in overseeing the work . Some construction concerns have had contracts for the missile site at Mutt ? cancelled , due to what was considered poor performance , according to this official . The Pentagon will not name these concerns . " Convair has too often failed to coordinate the work of firms over which it is riding herd , " this official charges . As a result , one part of a site often has not been ready in time to link with another related part . " We 're going to crack down on Convair from now on , " he adds firmly . Finally , other officials charge , some workers at missile sites have been pulling some intentional slowdowns . Such slowdowns are difficult to prove , but defense officials say they 've actually seen risen loafing for long periods on a job . Contract officers thus are taking a closer look at claims for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government in major missile contracts . Besides this step , the Pentagon expects its officers in the field to scrutinize work on missile sites much more close than they have in the past . Contractors doubtless will have to make detailed progress reports to the Pentagon . Moreover , military officials say they will have less hesitation about canceling contracts if concerns do not turn in a good performance . And to prevent delays in readying future missile sites , Pentagon officials expect to make contract awards earlier , giving concerns more time to plan their work .                     