@@726299

txt The British Government made its decision today to apply for membership in the European Common Market . It will seek a prompt decision . Prime Minister Wilson gave the news to the House of Commons . It had been expected for so long that there was relatively little excitement in the atmosphere . There was , rather , a solemnity reflected in Mr. Wilson 's peroration : " This is a historic decision which could well determine the future of . Britain , of Europe and indeed of the world for decades to come . " From the world viewpoint the Prime Minister's. , rmay seem exaggerated . But for Britain under Labor party rule , a decision to seek entry into the Common Market , or European Economic Community , marks a fundamental change of national course . Role Initially Rejected A decade ago , when her Continental neighbors were forming the market , Britain declined to take part . Both Labor and Conservative parties then thought she should continue to rely mainly on her Atlantic and world connections . In 1961 , a Conservative Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained opposed . France vetoed that attempt in 1963 . President de Gaulle remains the great obstacle to British membership . It is assumed that he would like to block the applications without an open veto , but British officials are not certain how far he will carry his opposition . There was no official comment in Paris today . French authorities indicated that President de Gaulle remained opposed to Britain 's entry , at least on the terms she was likely to seek.1 The Wilson announcement was greeted favorably in the capitals of the five other market at the same time . Even Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . Denmark , a partner of Britain in the European Free Trade Association , or Outer Seven , said she would try to join the market at the same tinune . Even Sweden , formerly reluctant about a market connection , said she would seek associate membership . Thus the British move could pave the way for a reallgrunent of Western Europe . It would eliminate the Free Trade Associa tion , a loose association without a central executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more closely knit Common Market . Summarizing arguments for entry , Mr. Wilson first mentioned economics ? " the creation of a single market of approach ing 300 million people , with all the scope and incentive which this will provide for British industry , and the enormous possibilities which an integrated strategy for teepology on a continental scale ' can create : " " But whatever the economic arguments , " he continued , " the Government 's purpose derives above all from our recognition that Europe is now faced with the opportunity of a great move forward in political units and that we can  --  and indeed must ? play our full part in ib . " Answering a question from a left-wing Member of Parliament , the Priele Minister added : " We believe our foreign policy could become more effective and our influence much greater if we I were within a Europe which was growing stronger and more united . " The Free Trade Association 's main feature is tariff-free movement of industrial goods among its members . The Common Market aims at tariff-free ' movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single set of tariffs . to the rest of the world . It Is movie g toward a uniform farmprice system and has a central executive body , the commission . Mr. Wilson was intentionally obscure about a central question  --  what special terms he will seek to cushion the short-run impact of membership on Britain 's economy . But he clearly implied that he did not expect significant exceptions to be carved out for Britain in the rules . Among his major points were these : eBritain will not ask for any amendment to the Common Market 's charter , the Treaty of Rome , except the mechanical ones needed to refer to an enlarged membership . eBritain recognizes that she " must come to terms with " the community 's agricultural policy , Mr. Wilson said . This was a guarded concession but a significant one , since the market 's , high food prices have been Seen as a critical problem . eBritaln ' hopes that nekotiadons km. entry will deal-with only largt.lts , Mr. Wilson said " many lesser-issues can be best dealt with after entry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions by Britain . Quick Outcome Sought . The schedule planned by Mr. Wilson and his colleagues reflects urgency . Informed sources emphasized that the Government wanted short negotiations ? " some months , " one source said . The Common Market 's Council of Ministers was officially notified of Britain 's intentions in the afternoon , shortly before Mr. Wilson started speaking in the House . The Governments of all Common Market , Outer Seven and Commonwealth countries were also notified . Next week Parliament is to debate the issue for three days and then vote on whether to approve the Government 's decision . The vote is expected to be overwhelmingly favorable . Then the Foreign Office here The New York Times Prime Minister Wilson will send a formal letter of application to the present chairman of the Common Market 's council , Renaat Van Elslande of Belgium . It will be brief and unconditional . saying in effect : We apply and hope for early negotiations . Cabinet Brought in Line Then it will be up to the Common Market to set the timetable . There is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have exploratory talks by June or July . Before making the move toward Europe , the Prime Minister , skillfully smothered opposition within his Cabinet . Perhaps a half-dozen of the 21 Cabinet members have been rated strong opponents . Some , like Douglas Jay , President of the Board of Trade , have advertised their views . But not one now intends to resign . What remains in the way of notable opposition is a bloc of Labor party back benchers , most though not all in the left wing of the party . Their position was dramatized today by Emanuel Shinwell , a doughty 83-year-old former minister , who told Mr. Wilson : " May I assure the Prime Minister that I will give him the most relentless and ruthless opposition . We 'd better be frank about that . He will need all the support he can get from the Opposition . " Tory Backing Likely Some Labor members may 11 therefore abstain or even vote against the Government . But most Conservatives will be on Mr. Wilson 's side . Their leader , Edward Heath , hailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thorpe , who could not resist speaking of Mr. WiLson 's " conversion . " The issue of food prices demonstrates how sharply Mr. ! Wilson has changed his posi- ' Uon on British membership . A little over a year ago , dur-I ing the general election cam-1 paign , he excoriated the Conservatives for wanting to switch to the community 's system of farm-price supports . In Britain , food prices are low , imports are usually free of tariffs , and domestic farmers are paid subsidies . In the Common Market food prices are kept high to protect farmers . High tariffs , or levies , are applied to food imports .                     