@@725481

txt The city council will be presented with Mayor Daley 's proposals today for bond issues to be submitted to voters in the primary election June 14 , the mayor said yesterday . The proposed issues , expected to total nearly 200 million dollars , will be detailed at today 's council meeting , then referred to the council 's finance committee and the Chicago Plan commission for public hearings . Council to Defer Action - The council , Daley said , will defer action on the proposals for at least two meetings . An ordinance placing the bond issue on the ballot must be enacted and signed by the mayor by May 10 . The law provides that this must be done 35 days before the voting . Daley said he thought the climate " is more favorable for a bond issue than in 1962 , when 66 million dollars of proposed bond issues were voted down . Expects Public Approval Asked if his political future is " tied up " with the bond vote , Daley said : " This is not a political issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the need for bonds is apparent if Chicago is to move ahead . " I 'm sure the people , realize that if we intend to maintain good neighborhoods we need capital improvements , such as new . sewers and new transportation facilities . And if slum and blight are to ' be removed we need resources to obtain federal grants . " I wish to emphasize that there will be no increase in taxes . We are retiring 19 to 21 million dollars a year in bonds now . These new bonds will be issued only as needed . As the older bonds are retired , the costs of retiring the new bonds will replace the costs of retiring the old ones . " As to possible objections from property tax payers and others . Daley observed : " There are bound to be some objections . There always are in any public program : " Backed by Civic Group Daley. had announced plans to submit new bond issue proposals after his third meeting with a group of civic , business , and labor leaders who called on him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The group pledged to help campaign for voter approval . Bonds for sewers , street and . alley lighting , rapid transit facilities in Kennedy and Dan Ryan expressways , municipal buildings , neighborhood redevelopment , port improvements , refuse incinerators , and neighborhood health centers are expected to be included .                     