@@724057

txt A boy was killed , apparently by electrocution , and another injured yesterday in the swimming pool of New Trier Township High school , Winnetka . Hours of investigation failed to reveal any defect in wiring for the pool 's underwater lights or any other possible source of electric current , school officials said . Victim Doctor 's Son ' be death was the first in the pool since it was opened in 1935 . The school is at 385 Winnetka ay . The dead boy was Frank Kelly III , 11 , of 147 Chestnut st. , Winnetka , one of five children of Dr. Frank B. Kelly Jr . and Mrs. Ona Kelly . Dr. Kelly , a ' physician with offices at In ' S. Michigan ay. , is on the staff of Presbyterian-St . Luke 's hospital . The injured boy ' is Roddy , 9 , of 1036 Arbor lane , Glenview . He is one of three sons of Kenzie A. , a salesman for Weyerhaufer Lithographing company , 5800 51st st. , and Mrs. Mary . Roddy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Evanston hospital . Two Tell of Shock David H. Robertson , director of swimming for the high school , and an assistant , William Wolfe , reported they felt severe electrical shock as they pulled the two unconscious boys from the pool . Others in the pool were not affected . The boys were among 75 swimmers from Winnetka and other areas in the school district who were attending a summer advanced ' swimming class from 8 to 9:30 a. m . The class was under supervision of Robertson and about 15 instructors . Wesley L. Brown , assistant superintendent of the high school , said the Kelly and boys were among the first to enter the pool at about 8 a. m . They swam across the shallow end of the pool , which is 60 by 75 feet . Instructors noted the boys " froze " as they grabbed the side of the pool . Order Pool Closed They were pulled out immediately , and resuscitator equipment at the pool was used . Winnetka firemen arrived and also tried to revive them . Mrs. said her son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pool , he could not pull it loose and that the next thing he knew he was on a stretcher near the pool . Brown said the pool was closed and will remain so until the cause can be learned . Tests thru the day failed to show any fault in the electrical system . The underwater flood lights are used commonly in pools , partly as an aid to lifeguards in keeping track of swimmers . Those making the investigation included representatives of the consulting engineering firm of Neiler , Rich , and Bladen , 431 S. Dearborn st. , employed by the high school board in planning the pool and other school facilities . Plan to Widen Probe School and village officials and Deputy Coroner Sydney Berman also investigated . Brown said other outside consultants would help search for the cause . He complimented Robertson and his aids for prompt action , saying they did all possible to aid the boys .                     