@@726214

txt A clear , strong , new Republican voice has come to the aid of President Johnson 's policy in Vietnam . Sen. Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts went to Vietnam believing the United States should " take the first step " toward peace negotiations . But " everything I learned , " he told the Senate with extraordinary candor , " has now convinced me that the enemy is not disposed to participate in meaningful negotiations at this time .. . " and is making " unreasonable conditions . " Therefore , said the new Senator from Massachusetts , " it does not appear that suspension of the bombing in the north would , by itself , produce fruitful negotiations .. . I reluctantly conclude that the general direction of our present military efforts is necessary . " In an Associated Press interview in Atlanta , Thursday , the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . charged that the Vietnam war had become the major obstacle in the civil-rights movement . " I am personally planning to take a much stronger stand against the war in Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ playing such havoc with our domestic program that I 'm forced into ( opposing the war ) . " He said the nation and President Johnson have become obsessed with the war The first speech of Mr. Brooke in the United States Senate would have made his- By a staff photographer Sen. Edward TV . Brooke Containment ... and patience ' tory in any event , for a reason that everyone knows and that he himself considers irrelevant to his election as a public servant . But this is a fluid moment when leading Republicans are groping for a party policy on Vietnam . There is mounting pressure on the front-running candidate , Gov . George Romney of Michigan , to make his position clear on this issue when he speaks shortly . And President Johnson is repeatedly explaining why he continues to bomb North Vietnam , in the face of a low rating in the public-opinion polls for his policies in Vietna in . It was regarded as high drama , therefore , both in the Senate and in national politics , when Senator Brooke told of his change of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for me to take , " he said in his speech . " I know war . I am familiar with its conse consequences . I like to think of myself as a man who loves and desires peace for all men . " But all too frequently what we desire and what reality thrusts upon us are very different . " The Brooke speech could start a new trend toward bipartisanship in Vietnam policy , and could serve as a counterweight to the recent Senate speech of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy ( D ) of New York , calling for a tentative suspension of the bombing . Mr. Brooke 's information and reasoning broadly paralleled those of President John- ? son in explaining his recent decisions . When in Cambodia , the Senator said , he tried to see the representative of Hanoi who replied that " any discussions between us would serve no useful purpose at this time . " Mr. Brooke said he conferred with many South Vietnamese citizens , representing all viewpoints . " I concentrated especially upon the intellectual community , since that segment of society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also the most likely to be critical of government policy . " From such sources , he came up with a conclusion that directly contradicted the impression of most Americans . While keenly recalling anti-American feeling in Europe when he was an infantryman in World War II , " I found that anti-American feeling is conspicuously absent in South Vietnam , " the Senator said . " I am convinced that the people of that country are well aware of what the American presence there has meant . ... It is welcomed and appreciated by the people of South Vietnam . " Further details : Page 5                     