@@722867

txt The space agency dropped plans today for a Venus spacecraft in 1964 and will concentrate instead on sending an instrumented payload to explore the planet Mars . The National Space and Aero- ' nautics Administration said the , somewhat abrupt change in plans was made possible by the " complete success " of Mariner 2 in obtaining information about Venus during its flight past the planet in mid-December . In view of the data obtained from Mariner 2 , the space agency said it was dropping plans to repeat the interplanetary experiment in 1964 to concentrate on a Mars mission , already planned for 1964 , as well as on later Venus flights with more advanced spacecraft . Centaur Project Delayed Not mentioned in the official announcement was what space agency officials acknowledged was probably a more important factor in the decision than the success of Mariner 2 . This was the severe crimp placed on interplanetary space plans by the continuing slippage in development of the Centaur rocket , which with its high-energy upper stage would be capable of hurling half-ton payloads to the planets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ready for a launching when Venus and Mars swing into favorable position again in 1964 . As a result , the space agency was forced to rely on the less powerful Atlas Agena rocket , which is capable of launching 500-pound interplanetary payloads . Within the severe limitations of the Atlas Agena payload , the space agency discovered that it was not possible to include any significant new experiments not already performed by Mariner 2 , launched by the same rocket . The problem was complicated also by the fact that the Venus mission would be more difficult in 1964 , thus further reducing the available payload for instruments . Budget Was a Factor io a certain extent , nuagetary restrictions entered into today 's decision . The space agency decided that the limited funds available for space research could be more profitably spent on a Mars mission and in developing a heavier Venus pay- ' load to be launched by the Centaur late in 1965 . In effect , today 's decision is the reverse of one made in 1960 when the space agency , for technical and budgetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 . Instead , it decided to concentrate on Venus in 1962 and put off the first Mars launching until 1964 . As a result of that decision , combined with some Soviet launching failures last summer , the United States won the honor of sending the first payload to Venus while the Soviet Union gained the distinction of making the first instrumented exploration of Mars . A 1,970-pound payload , launched by the Soviet Union early iri November , is now en route to a rendezvous with Mars in May . The slippage in the Centaur project also ? has forced ? the space agency to scale down drastically its plans for the Mars mission in 1964 . Recently , the Atlas Agena rocket was substituted for the launching , with the result that the Mars payload will be able to carry only about 60 pounds of instruments instead of the planned 200 pounds . TV Test Is Possible While the  --  instruments for the Mars payload have not yet been finally selected , they are expected to be generally of the same type used in Mariner 2 . Consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visual experiment , such as a television camera , but it is far from certain that such en experiment , with its heavy demands for electrical and rano power , can fit within the payload limitations . The National Bureau of Standards reported , meanwhile , that radar observations of Venus indicate that the cloud-shrouded planet has an extremely smooth ' surface- smoother than earth I or even the moon . The observations were made by a novel radar station recently completed by the bureau outside Lima , Peru . With its network of dipole antennas spread out , over 20 acres , the installation has one of the largest radar antennas in the world . The Jicamarca Observatory was originally built to study the earth 's ionosphere . But for seven days at the start of December , when Venus swung close to earth and was over the observatory , radar signals were bounced off the planet , some 30,000,000 miles from earth . In all , some 24 minutes of radar contact was made with the planet . Dr. Kenneth L. Bowles , director of the observatory , reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate that the planet has large flat areas hundreds of thousands of acres in size .                     