@@723717

txt Washington The report of the Surgeon General 's committee on tobacco and health has found , as predicted , that you can not keep pouring smoke into the human system and not expect that the system wo n't be damaged . But this report on the asserted link between disease and cigarettes is not , according to newspaper comment , expected to lead to much of a reduction in smoking . A similar report , issued last year in Britain by the Royal College of Physicians . depressed cigarette sales for a short period , but now they 've zoomed to new highs . Why this callous disregard , by the individual , of his own well-being ? One can blame in part the siren songs of the advertisements , which equate cigarette smoking with everything from athletic virility to social acceptability . One notes that the National Association of Broadcasters has moved to examine radio-TV tobacco advertising , and particularly its impact on young people . A A One can blame also the example set by patents who do n't want their children to start smoking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by " kicking the habit " themselves . The chairman of the California Inter-Agency Council on Cigarette Smoking finds that 10 percent of even sixth-grade students in that exuberant state have begun smoking , and places most of the responsibility on parents who allow it . Probing deeper , one finds a readiness among a segment of people today to look to material remedies for their stamina , their tranquillity , their extra energy , even their peace of mind and their courage . The Surgeon General 's report calls smoking a " psychological crutch " for the 70 million Americans who indulge . To those without other recourse , smoking becomes a means of coping with the irritations and fears of this decade 's congested and tension-ridden society . Smoking is n't the only recourse . Medical men are appalled at the large number of people who resort to other drugs than nicotine  --  to barbiturates , tranquilizers , energizers , and amohetamines ? to calm , stimulate , or otherwise govern their mentalities . The Ladies Home Journal recently quoted Dr. Robert Felix , director of the National Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " It 's tragic but true that more and more people are walking through life with a chemically produced filmy veil . " Some people take pills for sleeping , some for keeping awake , others to compose themselves . A man lights a cigarette before asking the boss for a raise . Drug use blurs one 's personality , can damage the system . The smoker 's hazard is recorded in the Surgeon General 's report . A A A What are the solutions to this general abuse ? Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut would have the Food and Drug Administration control much more strictly the availability of some drugs . The Federal Trade Commission is expected to rule that warnings must be printed on cigarette packages and in advertising . But what of the underlying anxieties and pressures of this nuclear age ? Where is the surcease from the fears and complexities which drive people to material remedies ? Is the remedy , perhaps , something as old as the everlasting hills ? May not humanity find assurance in discovering 0 the ever-available spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sparrow , in safety and in harmony ? Is there not need for a more intimate acquaintance with the Biblical promises , still valid in the 1960 's , which declare : " tinder his wings shalt thou trust , " and " they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength . . . they shall run , and not be weary , and they shall walk , and not faint " ?                     