@@725322

txt ? The following is an exclusive dispatch written by the White House correspondent of the New York Times . He was among the reporters who accompanied President Johnson to the conference in Honolulu on Viet Nam strategy . BY JOHN D. POMFRET Washington , Feb. 9 ? President Johnson returned here early today with the conviction that the conference in Honolulu represented a major step toward peace and social justice in South Viet Nam . His Meeting with South Vietnamese leaders , Johnson believes , was as helpful as any three days he has spent since he became President . Doubts Chinese Entry The President 's feelings on his return from the three-day conference were said V ) be : Confidence that there were no damaging differences with South Vietnamese leaders over peace negotiations . A conviction that Hanoi and Haiphong should not be bombed and he will not be pressed into such action . A belief that Communist China will not enter the war if he continues to pursue his present policies . Persuasion that his policies are correct and that his critics offer no real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and South Vietnamese positions that emerged yesterday at Honolulu in a press conference with Saigon leaders were not evident in the private discussions , according to administration officials . The principal differences were two The Vietnamese leaders said that they would not negot tiate with or recognize the Viet Cong and showed that they had little enthusiasm for peace negotiations with North Viet Nam . The United States wants negotiations that would include Ilanoi land repeatedly has said that I there would be no difficulty in making sure that any point of view was represented in such talks . Did n't Ask Hanoi Bombing In the private discussions , the South Vietnamese leaders did not ask for American air strikes at Ilanoi or Haiphong , the capital and principal North Vietnamese port . Nor was the question of Viet Cong participation in negotiations discussed except inferentially in a subsession that did not involve the President . The President is said to understand the necessity for the South Vietnamese leaders to reply to the public press conference questions as they did . He is said to feel that it would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have taken any other stand . In the view of informed sources , to do so might have courted ouster . The President 's basic feeling is that Hanoi does not want to negotiate . If the United States were to agree to recognize the Viet Cong , as Hanoi has insisted , Hanoi , in the President 's view , would find another excuse to thwart a peace conference . The President feels , according to informed sources , that the major accomplishments of the Honolulu conference were these : 1 . It put the spotlight on economic , social , and political concerns instead of on the strictly military aspects of the struggle . The major emphasis on social justice for the people of South Viet Nam showed clear agreement between the Vietnamese leaders and the Johnson administration that military victory was not enough . Victories in the battle against hunger , poverty , and disease may eventually persuade Hanoi that if the United States did not have to spend money fighting , It could use It to help improve conditions in the north . Open Talks Helpful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic , social , and political reforms in a goldfish bowl atmosphere , with world press coverage , emphasized the importance of these factors . The South Vietnamese leaders know beyond doubt where Johnson stands on the essential issue of social justice and it would be difficult for them to renege on pledges to push forward with reforms even if they I wanted to . 3 . Johnson was vastly encouraged because the South Vietnamese leaders seemed to I recognize the Importance of social justice before they , arrived at the conference . He is eager for the present government to survive because of the instability that results from frequent shifts of regimes . IEmphasis on Rice , Hogs 4 . The involvement of top United States officials in the conference was as important as the participation of the Vietnamese because it served to get the minds of the United States officials off military strategy and onto the importance of rice and hogs . 5 . Detailed discussions of ways to move toward political democracy , including the formillion and role of political parties , were the first to be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Vietnamese leaders to go on record as being prepared to cooperate in future efforts to achieve a peaceful settlement was encouraging . The President.made it clear that he was not a warmonger and did not expect the South Vietnamese ceders to take that part either . 7 . A still undisclosed memorandum of agreement on economic stabilization was signed . This is designed to fight Mlleton . The President was able , with respect to inflation , the care of refugees , and other problems , to follow up on earlier measures and to Inquire why some of them had not been carried out . Thinks Public Agrees The President is persuaded that the vast majority of the American people think that he Is following a proper course in Viet Nam . He thinks that public support is essential to win the struggle there and he wishes his critics would put pressure on to get Hanoi to the negotiating table .                     