@@727784

txt Democratic leaders in the City Council yesterday stiffened the rent guidelines proposed by Mayor Lindsay . Their plan would limit increases to 10 per cent on two-year leases for apartments not under rent " control and 15 per cent on leases of three years . This was a reduction from Mr. Lindsay 's formula of 15 and 20 per cent , which the real-estate industry accepted last month . Since the Democrats control the Council by an overwhelming margin , the new guidelines appear almost certain to be the final ones . The Council leaders made no other changes in the Mayor 's plan for the voluntary regulation of rents in about 425,000 of the city 's uncontrolled apartments , except to postpone by six months the date at which the guidelines would be revised on the basis of an operating cost index . Flexibility in 1970 On the new date ? July 1 , 1970  --  the figures of 10 and 15 per cent could be raised or lowered , depending on the index of operating cost increases , still to be formulated by the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate industry had met for three hours with the Council 's Special Committee on Rents to discuss the plan , Rexford E. Tompkins , the industry 's spokesman , said he was " stunned . " " I just do n't know where we 'll go with it , " he said of the new guidelines . " I think there 's going to be general outrage . " Mr. Tompkins predicted that owners would not be able to give wage increases when union contracts for elevator operators , doormen and maintenance men came up for renewal . " Every building is going to be struck , " he said . The new plan was contained in a bill sponsored by the Council leadership , including // Francis X. Smith , Council President ; Thomas J. Cuite , majority leader ; Mario Merola and Donald R. Manes , chairman of the Council 's rent committee . Councilman Manes said he thought the measure would pass when it reached the Council floor a week from tomorrow . " I am very hopeful that the Mayor will sign it , " he added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the percentage of increase allowed and the effective date of the operating cost index . It retains Mr. Lindsay 's method of enforcing the voluntary plan . The measure provides that the owners of apartments that are not under rent control must form an association and pledge to abide by a written code , which would include rules on lease renewals and rent increases . The property of any landlord who failed to join the association or who violated the guidelines would be placed under strict , standard rent control . This judgment would be made by a conciliation panel , yet to be appointed . The measure is expected by its supporters to deter noncompliance , since the voluntary guidelines are much more relaxed than the standard rent control law , which now applies to 1.3-million apartments here . Under rent control , an owner can get an increase only when a tenant moves Out , when major improvements are made to a building or an apartment , or when the property is not yielding a fair return . Under the Democratic leadership plan , rents that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 31 , 1968,1 must be reduced to those levels , and any excess paid after last Jan. 1 must be credited toward future rent . The guidelines cover all buildings with four or more apartments , except for residential hotels and units that were decontrolled because they were occupied by their owners . The new voluntary plan is the third to be offered in the last two months . Real-estate leaders , in response to an ultimatum from Mayor Lindsay to regulate rents or face regulation by law , proposed at the end of February to limit themselves to 17 per cent increases on two-year leases . On March 10 this was reduced to 15 per cent by a panel of housing experts and business and labor leaders appointed by the Mayor . The panel , headed by Thomas Thacher , also urged that the 15 per cent be reduced after Jan. 1 , 1970 , to reflect increases in operating costs . Leaders of the real-estate industry accepted the plan on March 12 , and some landlords have begun putting it into effect , although the major owners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. However , the Democraticcontrolled City Council , anxious to get credit in an election year for protecting the ' city 's middle-class tenants , searched for ways of strengthening the guidelines . It had been the Council 's threat to pass some form of rent-control legislation - that had induced landlords to accept voluntary regulation in the first place . Real-estate and other business leaders had argued at length that controls on the income-producing power ofihousing would divert investments into other fields , such as ' office building , or to construction outside New York City .                     