@@724724

txt ? Swinging a machete in a field of sugar cane , Premier Fidel Castro denounced today what he termed " new signs " of United States aggressiveness against his regime . The Premier said Washington had never given any proof that it wanted better relations with his Government . He as ; serted that the United States " has not ceased its cold war policy toward Cuba . " Mr. Castro did not elaborate on his charge beyond declaring . that " the pirate bases are still functioning . " This was thought to refer to the camps of anti- ' Communist Cubans in Central America . The Premier declared that flights over Cuba by United States U-2 reconnaissance planes were " a potential problem . " The implication was that he might one day order his armed forces to down such planes by surface-to-air missiles . Mr. Castro spoke for more than an hour about CubanAmerican relations , Vietnam , Latin America and many other topics with four reporters representing news media in the ! United States , Britain and the /Soviet Union . While fielding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Cuban drive to harvest the crop quickly . He wore blue jeans and a blue shirt stained with perspiration . He appeared in excellent health and at one point went into a kind of dance , hacking with gusto at sugar cane in swift strokes to demon ! strate what he calls his " samurai style " with the harvesting knife . Discussing Vietnam , Mr. Castro said : " The United States would without any doubt be defeated if it faced a united Socialist camp . Vietnam would become a cemetery of American airplanes . If the United States wanted ground warfare , it would be confronted with masses of soldiers . I do n't think anybody wants nuclear war . " The Premier contended that in Vietnam the United States was more isolated from the international community than it had been in any other recent crisis . He said Britain 's situation was " tragic " because the Labor Government had to en // dorse United States policy in Southeast Asia and lacked any moral credit for promoting peace talks . Mr. Castro repeated offers to send military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to " fight in North and South Vietnam " but that no one had left so far and no request for assistance had been received . The Premier denied that Latin-American volunteers for Vietnam were being trained in Cuba . Referring to Moscow-Peking quarrels , Mr. Castro said hopefully that that " controversy has eased lately and common sense prevails . " Commenting on charges that his regime is fomenting subversion in the Western Hemisphere , Mr. Castro said , " Our greatest wish is not only revolutions in Latin-American countries but in other areas as well . " He asserted that the United States rather than his regime was subversive , because of exasperating social contrasts in Latin America , Asked about the Christian Democratic program of President Eduardo Frei Montalva of Chile , the Cuban leader asserted that President Frei had not " achieved anything yet " because of the recent disastrous earthquake . Mr. Castro noted that Chile had ignored an aid , offer by his government . Recalling Chile 's agreement with United States copper companies aimed at increasing output and promoting ore explora- , tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a revolu- , tion without affecting the inter- ' ests of the exploiters ? If we had . left United States stockholders ' in Cuban sugar , I would now find myself cutting cane for American capitalists . " The Premier stressed that his regime 's relations with the Soviet Union were very good and that there was " no coolness " between Cuba and Communist China or any other Communist country . He ' conceded that feelings between Communist states were " not always idyllic . " Replying to questions on domestic matters , Mr. ? Castro emphasized his continuing friendship with his Minister of Industry , Ernesto Che Guevara . He " will always serve where he is most useful , " he said . The Premier did not deny that Major Guevara might soon assume a new role in the regime . Commenting on the recent arrest of two American Baptist preachers and more than 50 : other persons , Mr. Castro said : " We are able to prove that ; they were plotting . " The Premier said he did not think the Baptists had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Havana physician noted for his con , nections with foreign diplomats had been arrested on espionage charges . The physician is Dr. Jesus Iglesias de la Torre . Mr. Castro ended today a ' week in the sugar fields during which he worked at least eight hours cutting an average of 5.5 ' tons daily . He slept in a field tent shared with President Osvaldo Dorticos Torrado and the Soviet Ambassador , Aleksandr Alekseyev . Mr. Castro 's camp and the nearby canefields where he worked were secured by anti- , aircraft guns and camouflagued machine gun emplacements . An armed forces helicopter was on the ground nearby .                     