@@725944

txt Washington , Nov. 19 ? Roman Catholic bishops of the United States today called for an end to racial discrimination and civil strife . In a unanimous declaration of position on civil rights , the prelates urged " a true sense of neighborliness , based upon a religiously inspired conviction that all men are equal before God and that all should be welcomed in our midst . " The 1,750 word statement was adopted at the closing session of the bishops ' national Catholic welfare conference here and I released today . Repeat Racial Conviction They reiterated their conviction that racial discrimination in housing , employment , education , or any other area of life " is contrary to right reason and Christian teaching . " Noting that " these statements of principles are so clear and so widely accepted , " the bishops said their present concern is to reduce the " principles to action , ideals to programs . " Adoption of the statement was moved by J. Francis Cardinal of Los Angeles . Cardinal long has been under fire by Catholic liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in civil rights . General in Nature Altha the bishops ' recommendations were for the most part general in nature , they expressed particular concern about the overt and subtle barriers that keep Negroes out of all-white residential suburbs and confine them to high rent areas of the inner city . " As our nation becomes increasingly suburban , industry and services are expanding far more rapidly in the suburbs than in our inner cities , " the prelates said . " We can not hope to solve the problem of joblessness in our cities if men and women are denied the opportunity of living near possible places where work is available . " The Catholic bishops noted that while the issue of fair housing has been a source of grave tensions , conditions have improved noticeably in certain areas . See Unique Chance Urging support for sound programs to " assure equal housing opportunities for all , " the conference said in this area there " is a unique chance for responsible dialog , for learning from successes and from failures , and thus constructing harmonious communities in every part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " racial tension slogan s " which they said have at times taken the place of reasonable dialog . " We ask that dialog replace slogans , " they said . " It would be tragic were our nation to suffer a deepening of cleavages along racial and economic lines , with shouted epithets of hate replacing reasoned discourse . "                     