@@726490

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 30 Letters to the Editor of The Times Wage Factor in Social Security To the Editor : Social Security is far too important an American institution to be treated as The Times seems to advocate in its Aug. 7 editorial , " Slow Down on Social Security . " In this editorial the House Ways and Means Committee , of which I am a member , is described as coming down " on the side of middle-and upper-income taxpayers and against those who are most impoverished . There is no excuse for this ' soak the poor ' bias , " you wrote . Social . Security has had wide acceptance and strong support because through it a man can invest in his , retirement , rather than simply suffer another form of taxation . As long as the benefits are wage related , the working man can see the relation between the substantial deductions from his pay check and the benefits he can expect to receive . Of course , the system has never been completely wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a larger relative return from the system than those who pay the maximum . Nevertheless , the system is essentially wage related rather than welfare related . The Times desires to provide higher benefits for the lowincome worker and to require higher taxes for the middle and upper income taxpayer . What you propose would remake our Social Security System into an extension of our welfare programs . We would then be in the position of requiring greater contributions for welfare from the wage earner than from the general taxpayer . Other Coverage Welfare is a general obligation in which all taxpayers should share , whether or not their incomes are subject to the Social Security tax . We have numerous welfare programs funded from general revenue , as they should be . The Times assumes that those who make very small contributions to Social Security are necessarily the poor . Many are moonlighters from jobs covered under some other system . Such people , again , should be compensated in proportion to their contributions , rather than being heavily subsidized by those whose main employment is covered by Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum benefit as " a token increase . " What it represents is slightly more than the 121/2 per cent across-the-board increase in benefits approved by the Corn mittee , again in keeping with the basic principle of the program . Social Security must remain a substantially wage-related retirement supplement if it is to continue as the valuable and widely supported aid to the workingman which it has become since its modest beginnings in 1935 . BARBER B. CONABLE Jr . Washington , Aug. 9 , 1967 The writer , a member of the House Ways and Means Cornmittee , represents the 37th District , New York . ? Pay Minimum Linked to Unemployment To the Editor : One of the elements which contribute to the plight of those unable to find employment today , described so graphically in your Aug. 7 editorial " The Two Nations , " which was not mentioned by you , is the national minimum wage . People are employed , in our private economy at least , because they can make a contribution to the productive process which has a greater value than the wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed who have little education , few skills and low.aptitude for work can make is less , as measured in money , than the amount required by the Federal Government that these people be paid . If a man can not produce enough to be worth $1.40 an hour to an employer , he might produce enough to be worth $1 an hour . Is it not better that a man be employed at $1 an hour than to be idle and receive welfare payments ? That an increase in the minimum wage would militate against the employment of the unskilled , the untrained , the marginal workers was predicted by a number of economists not affiliated with labor unions or with the political ambitions of the present Administration . If the Federal Government wants to make a positive contribution to the employment of the " millions of Negroes now jammed in the Northern ghettos , " a contribution could be made by the repeal of the minimum-wage laws . W. J. HOLMAN Jr . Plainfield , N. J. , Aug. 7 , 1967 ? Religious Protection in Adoption To the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the over-all well-being of a child should be the determining factor in child placement , may we point out that the religious identification of a child is a major factor in considering his total well-being . In child-welfare practice in New York State the protection of a child 's religious heritage does not conflict with the consideration of his total welfare . If the religious factor should be inhibitive in obtaining a suitable placement for the child , the best interests of the child are legally protected by the " when-practicable " clause . To advocate the elimination of the Religious Protection Clause will not " greatly facilitate " the placement of the large number of minority and handicapped children who need adoptive and foster boarding homes . Parent 's Right In view of the numerous bills introduced annually in the State Legislature which attempt to erode the constitutional guarantee of religious protection for thousands of needy children , we firmly support the maintenance of a religious-protection clause in our State Constitution . While individual cases may be cited to prove rigid judicial interpretation , the clause has guaranteed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his child and has worked in the best interest of children in need of placement . Unfortunately , the Religious Protection Clause will be misrepresented as a major obstacle to finding suitable adoptive homes and placements for children in New York State . This is not factual . The available statistical data clearly indicate that handicapped and minority children are often deprived of suitable placement , not because of their religious identification , but because of their particular problem or minority status . In the interest of needy children , we support the constitutional guarantee of their religious heritage and call on the State Legislature to appropriate , adequate funds for subsidizing adoptions and for improving foster-care payments . ( Rev. ) JOSEPH M. SULLIVAN Director Division of Child Care Catholic Charities Diocese of Brooklyn Brooklyn , Aug. 4 , 1967 ? To Explore Sea 's Riches To the Editor : May I extend congratulations on your fine Aug. 7 editorial " Riches of the Sea Bed " and on the increase in news of the undersea world of oceanography . For many hundreds of years man has turned to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , food supplies , recreation , etc ? , but it has been only recently that man has " returned " to the sea in search of the wealth which the seas are known to contain . It is rather tragic to look back at the sinking of the submarine Thresher and the " lost " H-bomb off Palomares , yet in all probability had it not been for these two events man would probably still be " thinking " about the seas ' wealth and still be doing nothing about it . Food Resources In the United States alone , through continuing research and development by both the Federal Government and private industry , from small electronics firms and geophysical companies to the industrial giants of our nation , in addition to the independent organizations with limited funds , we are producing " finds " such as were outlined in your editorial . Today , more than ever , man is realizing that he can no longer ignore the oceans . Beneath the seas of the world , which cover more than 70 per cent of our planet , lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can supply the entire world with sufficient protein to last us for centuries , and untold scores of other " treasures . " But it is discouraging to think that while we appropriate more than $5 billion annually for space programs we allot a mere $462 million for oceanography . Is it possible that we are missing the boat in our quest for new sources of minerals and foods ? Surely an advanced program to explore and exploit the Continental Shelf alone would enhance our financial position and improve our sup . ply of mineral resources . Private industry is spending millions to participate in the race for the harvesting of the seas . Increased aid from the Federal Government for research and development of the oceans ' resources would be far more beneficial than our prolonged and costly endeavors to reach the moon . JOSEPH A. TALAMINI New York , Aug. 7 , 1967 ? Israeli Exile Order To the Editor : According to a news report in the Aug. 1 issue of The New York Times , four Jordanian officials have been arrested in Jerusalem and " banished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because they , were among " twenty-five Moslem religious leaders , notables and former political leaders who signed a statement a week ago challenging the authority , of the Israeli Ministry of Religious Affairs to deal with Moslem religious affairs . " To those of us who have heard  --  and heeded  --  the Israeli plea for religious tolerance over the years , this news strikes a rather discordant note . If the situation were reversed , would Jewish religious leaders cooperate and allow- Moslem officials to administer Jewish religious affairs ? Great injustices and terrible wrongs have been wreaked upon the Jewish people , yet these wrongs and injustices can not be righted by perpetrate ing them upon others . If Israel wants real peace in the Middle East , as she has declared , let her practice what she preaches . Let her begin by respecting the religious beliefs of others and their authority to manage their own religious affairs . Only then will she have a moral right to speak as a free nation . ELIZABETH W. FERNEA Cambridge , Mass. , Aug. 3 , 1967 ? Pro-Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his Aug. 7 letter made incidental mention of his belief that in 1861 " there was no guerrilla support for Lincoln in the Southern states . " In no way to differ with Dr. Dock 's dim view of our present Vietnam policy , but in fairness to those long-gone Unionists , let me balance the record a little . There was almost no state within the Confederacy that did n't have armed  --  and I 'd say heroic  --  supporters of the Union  --  blacks and whites both ? at some point during the Civil War . For most or all of the war , sizable sections of Virginia , Tennessee , Louisiana and Texas refused allegiance to the Confederacy , and there were a number of counties in North Carolina , Alabama and elsewhere where secession had about the popularity of General Ky today in most villages of the country he presumes to speak for . CHARLES O'NEILL Greens Farms , Conn . Aug. 9 , 1967                     