@@725158

txt The board of education voted 9 to 1 yesterday to turn control of Chicago City Junior college over to a separate board to be appointed by Mayor Daley . The action ended fears that legal tangles would block operation of the college after Jan. 1 , and it will make the eightbranch college , which has 36 , - 000 students , eligible for substantial increases in state aid . Required by Master Plan Separate control was a key point of the state master plan for higher education , approved in the last session of the legislature , which envisions widespread expansion of junior colleges to serve high school graduates who want an intermediate college education . There was no discussion on Mrs. Lydon Wild 's motion that the board divest itself of the college . Mrs. Wendell Green cast the only dissenting vote . James Coffey , board attorney , said the , board will apply for the , transfer Hum the county ' superintendent of schools . The arrangements , including appointment of the new board , will be completed some time next year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On another matter , the board voted 8 to 2 for appointment of a board committee to get a run-down on comparative costs of two proposals for high school expansion in the Hyde ParkKenwood-Wocdlawn area . A Heated Issue Mrs. Wild , who made the motion , noted that community disagreement has been intense . " I do n't think that ever in my years on this board have I tried to be as fair as I have in this matter , " she said . " I want to be sure in my heart what is best to do ; and I 'm far from knowing now . " Supt. Benjamin C. Willis has proposed building a new high school adjacent to Kenwood Elementary school , 4959 Blackstone ay . A private group has proposed expanding Hyde Park High school , 6220 Stony Island ay. , into a " schoolpark " complex . The committee will confer with Dr. Morris Haimowitz , director of school human relations ; Dr. Virginia Lewis , assistant superintendent for integration ; John G. Duba , commissioner of urban renewal ; and leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for speeding a final decision . Frank Whiston , board president , said he would appoint the committee immediately . Integration an Issue The group seeking expansion cf the existing school contends that a new school would leave Hyde Park High all Negro . It is 6.9 per cent white now . Proponents of Willis ' plan say the new school would be up to 30 per cent white . They contend it is necessary to relieve Hyde Park High , which was built for 2,600 students , but now enrolls 4,200 . On another matter , Willis reported that enrollment has increased from 56,000 to 62,000 in federally financed after-school reading classes , which began Nov. 15 . The number includes 8,000 nonpublic school children . dren.                     