@@725891

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times To Reduce City 's Borrowing Costs To the Editor : I have read with professional interest The Times 's recent news articles and editorials dealing with New York City 's embarrassment by the credit-rating agencies and its costly experiences in the bond market . Not once , however , have I seen in your pages any discussion of the factor which is most basic to borrowing problems of the city  --  the demand for New York City bonds as it relates to the supply thereof . Simply stated , New . York City bonds sell at a cheap price because there are so many of them . Numerous institutional investors already own as many as they are permitted to hold . During the first ten months of 1966 , $731 million worth of bonds were dumped on the market . Underwriters must offer them at very attractive rates to find buyers , especially at a time when banks  --  the usual purchasers have been net sellers of municipal bonds . If the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it , let it operate pay-as-you-go -- -that is , abstain from borrowing  --  for one year , and the supply-demand equation will very quickly reduce New York City 's borrowing costs . NORMAN E. WRIGHT Summit , N. J. , Nov. 4 , 1966 G.O.P. Anti-City Ads To the Editor : This year , as before , Westchester Republicans have made New York City the whipping boy in their attack on local Democrats . Last year Republican fullpage ads in the WestchesterRockland dailies showed Westchester being drawn into a cesspool labeled " New York City debt , crime , fear , filth . " This year 's full-page ad shows a New York City octopus devouring Westchester and Rockland Counties . Further upstate Republican ads show a hairy hand from the city ' grasping upstate areas . I believe such prejudice against New York City deserves a rebuke . Most Westchester Republican legislators have comfortable majorities . They could afford to be constructive on the city 's problems  --  and sympathetic to their fellow Republican , Mayor . Lindsay . They might also recognize the facts : The state 's greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the state 's revenues and gets back only 39 per cent . ? Westchester 's greatest asset is its proximity to the city , where nearly one-third of Westchester 's employed persons work ? including 67 per cent of all Westchester residents earning over $10,000 a year . Indeed , for every two commuters holding a " national market " job in New York City , three jobs are created in Westchester 's supportive local service industries . To put it bluntly , Westchester would not be worth much if it were set down in the wilds ' of Montana . Neither would Nassau . I suggest that those fortunate enough to have homes amid - the green grass and sunshine of the suburbs show a little more compassion for those who live in misery in our big city slums . MAX BERKING Rye , N. Y. , Nov. 8 , 1966 ? Training of Idle , . Job Creation Urged To the Editor : May I comment on your recent news article Oct. 27 and editorial Oct. 29 " Mr. Ackley 's Conversion " on Gardner Ackley 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggregate demand in reducing unemployment . The quotation marks are occasioned by my conviction that he did not really commit an error -- some remedies work under certain conditions and when conditions change as they now have and as he expected they would , another remedy be- , conies appropriate . But I 'll let Mr. Ackley defend himself . My concern is to emphasize a collateral point : under present circumstances , with inflationary forces apparently intensifying , we ought to be thinking more seriously than we are of both training and job creation aimed directly at the poor . Training fits the unemployed and unemployables for jobs , and thus relieves inflationary pressures . We gain twice , since it also puts the needy to work . And there will still remain a need for job creation , particularly in ghettos and other pockets where unemployment rates are still 10 per cent or higher and will remain so at an over-all unemployment rate of around 4 per cent . The pity is that the appropri ation bills that recently went through Congress in its last frantic day or two before adjournment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the money to be spent on job training and creation in fiscal 1967 is essentially unchanged ' from 1966 . This , coupled with the unwillingness to push unemployment down because of the fear of inflation , can only wean that joblessness in the ghetto will be no better a year hence than it is now . The need for these jobs is acute . If aggregate demand wo n't generate them without inflation , we ought to do so directly . And we ought to be training- on a scale vastly larger than we are . Lacking these measures , which are n't cheap but which are well within our means even while Vietnam goes on , the unsatisfactory unemployment situation will persist . JOSEPH A. KERSuAW Provost and Professor of Economics Williams College Recently Assistant Director Office Economic Opportunity Williamstown , Mass . Nov. 1 , 1966 ? No Church-School Aid To the Editor : The New York Times is .. to be commended for its support of separation of church and state , in the face of attack by advocates of aid to parochial schools . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary for Education , Archdiocese of Nevi York , speaks of opposition to financial aid for six million children ' attending . . . parochial schools as discriminating " against children attending parochial schools . " His argument about upgrading the education of disadvantaged-children hardly ' applies to those ? and upper-class families who are able to pay tuition for parochial schools . This is the dominant group in parochial schools . Nor should it apply to the relatively few poor children in ' parochial schools whose religious education should be paid by the community of faith . In this ecumenical age it Is important to note that if parochial schools , are entitled to aid- " , because they offer religious education on weekdays , there is discrimination against those churches whose religious education is conducted on weekends and during the summer . Insistence on aid to parochial schools is a demand for the establishment of religion and of one method of religious education . It is also poor ecumenism to ask preferential treatment for one or two religious groups . JOHN M. SWOMLEY Jr . Professor of Christian Ethics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 3 , 1966 ? Tourists in Athens To the Editor : I have just finished reading Russell Baker 's " What to - Say at the Parthenon " Oct. 27 . It reminded me of my own visit to the Acropolis about a month ago . During my last stroll around the site I noticed two young sailors from a visiting United States aircraft carrier madly taking photographs of the various temples and ruins . They were behind me as I climbed down the hill , and I overheard one ask his buddy : " Say , whet was that place , anyway ? " MARY L. ALLISON Croton-on-Hudson , N. Y. Oct. 27 , 1966                     