@@725501

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 44 Letters to the Editor of The Times Group Defends Stand on ' City Budget To the Editor : . In a letter printed May 3 from Earl B. Schwulst ' and Joseph D. of the Temporary Commission on City Finances , and in an editorial the following day , the Citizens Budget Commission is castigated for having a go-slow attitude toward certain fiscal reforms proposed for the city budget . The Citizens Budget Commission has strongly endorsed those reforms which are concerned with financing recurrent operating costs out of taxes instead of borrowing . They amount to $266,700,000 . The commission has urged postponement of three other proposals of a nonrecurrent nature that would establish or replenish reserves . No Benefit From Proposals It seems anomalous to us that almost one-fifth Of the $520-million fiscal " gap " this city is said to be facing should consist of payments into reserves , the most important function of which are to ease , not add to , fiscal crisis . Neither city services nor the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the price of carrying reform to this extreme will be $101,200,000 in new taxes . Theoretically , it is easy to say that the way for the city to " put its fiscal house in order " is to impose now all the new taxes necessary for new programs , old programs and fiscal " reforms , " and that all that is needed is the political courage to do so . However , this thesis ignores the fact that while the government can mandate an increase in its income , those who must pay the increased taxes can not do the same . Limits to Taxation Even without inclusion of the disputed items , New York City will increase its local tax take by over 20 per cent this year . The limits of what can safely be imposed would be stretched about as far as possible . Replenishing depleted reserves is only one aspect of the city 's problem , and not , in our opinion , the most urgent or basic one . The ' Times editorial by implication conceded that an added purpose in levying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for.1967-68 budget increases . We suggest that this is unduly hard on the city 's economy and that we have enough to do now in honestly meeting current expenses for 1966-67 . The really basic way for New York City to put its fiscal affairs in order is to curb its runaway expenditures . We have supported to the utmost the effort 's of those within the city government who are attempting to do this now . As to the specific reforms in question , we have reservations about each of them . Repayment to the Stabilization Fund in the midst of crisis is neither necessary nor desirable . The proposed " Budget Note Fund " could , as already noted in the civil service press , merely provide more money for wage increases . The continued borrowing in anticipation of general fund receipts can be eliminated in the future from general fund carryovers . Perhaps our difference of opinion with Messrs . Schwulst and stems from a different conception of values and priorities . When we look at the whole picture , we conclude that it would do more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its fiscal position to heap $101,200,000 of new taxes on top of the city 's needs for current purposes . ROBERT W. DOWLING President HAROLD RIEGELMAN Counsel Citizens Budget Commission New York , May 4 , 1966 ? Freedom of Encounter Magazine To the Editor : In the long third article April 27 in The New York Times series on the C.I.A. , which begins with " the James Bonds and Mata Haris " and goes on to " Frankenstein 's monster , " there is somewhere in between a mention of Encounter , and we ? former and present editors  --  are both puzzled and dismayed by it . Encounter depends primarily on circulation and advertising income , and its small annual publishing deficit was , until two years ago , met by the Congress for Cultural Freedom in Paris . The Congress 's funds , in turn , were derived from various recognized foundations  --  all of them ( from such institutions as the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations to the smaller ones ) publicly listed in the official directories , with their officers duly named , their activities described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter to you published May 9 from George Kennan , Robert Oppenheimer , J. K. Galbraith and Arthur Schlesinger Jr . testifies ? by the independent record of the Congress for Cultural Freedom in defending writers and artists in both East and West against misdemeanors of all governments , including that of the United States . We ' know of no " indirect " benefactions . Does The Times want the reader to infer that the editorial content or that the past or present editors of Encounter were in any way influenced by the C.I.A. ? We can not believe that this was The Times 's intention . Integrity of Contributors Our political articles ( a small fraction of the total contents ) have been written by prominent journalists and scholars whose integrity and whose reputations are beyond question ( many , in fact , are contributors to the Sunday Times Magazine and Book Review sections ) . They write as they please , and in Encounter they have been critical of the British adventure in Suez , the Soviet intervention in Hungary , the American role in the Bay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the editors , we are our own masters and are part of nobody 's propaganda . May we also point out that in The Times 's single sentence on Encounter there is one obvious factual error ( and in the International edition one serious typographical error ) ? It is not the case , as The Times stated , that Encounter had or has any German- or Spanishc language editions . Moreover , the version of the article published in The Times 's International edition ( April 28 ) contained a garbling of two separate , sentences covering two different matters that makes your report sound even 4more suggestive than it was . Two years ago Encounter , became associated with Cecil Harmsworth King 's Mirror . group of newspapers in Britain which has assumed financial re- ' , sponsibility for the magazine. , Now , as then , Encounter 's edi- ; tors , beholden to no one , are publishing what and whom they please . STEPHEN SPENDER MELVIN J. LASKY IRVING KRISTOL New York , May 9 , 1966 The New York Times , in mentioning Encounter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the magazine knew of any " indirect " benefactions or that its contributors had ever been propagandists for the C.I.A . On the contrary , Encounter is known as a distinguished international journal of independent opinion. ? Editor , The Times ? West Side Traffic To the Editor : To expedite the flow of rush hour traffic on the West Side , consideration should be given to having uniform traffic regulations along Riverside Drive . At present parking is restricted to three days ' a week with various three-hour regulations , creating congestion daily . The flow of northbound and southibound cars would be accelerated by this change . WM . J. McCoamiCK New York , May 4 , 1966 ..                     