@@723491

txt A three-man civilian junta was sworn in today to govern the Dominican Republic while riot squads battled students demanding the return of ' the deposed President , Dr. Juan D. Bosch . In a hurriedly improvised ( ceremony at the Presidential Palace , the junta ostensibly received executive powers from the military leaders who seized control of the country . before dawn yesterday . Dr. Bosch and members of his Cabinet were arrested . In Washington , United States officials viewed the naming of the junta as a temporary expedient in the face of a power struggle . The swearing-in ceremony touched off sporadic rioting and arrests of scores of teen-aged students who are known to sympathize with the left-wing 14th of June Movement . Many moderates here feared that the coup d'etat would attract a new following to the movement , which is now becoming the standard-bearer for ' restoration of the constitutional regime it frequently attacked while Dr. Bosch was in power . Communism Charged The military described the Bosch regime yesterday as " corrupt and pro-Communist " and said that it had acted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Dr. I Emilio , de Los Santos , the forImer president of the Electoral College . Seven months ago the college pronounced Dr. Bosch the first constitutionally elected President in 38 years . The other junta members are Manuel Enrique Tavares Espaillat , a wealthy , 40-year-old industrialist and a graduate of Yale University , and Ramon Tapia Espinal , 37 , a lawyer and a former member of the ruling Council of State that preceded the Bosch regime . Shortly after the junta took its oath of office , hundreds of students assembled at the university to protest the coup . Mounted policemen broke up the meeting . At the same time , groups of students began to barricade the streets of Ciudad Nueva , a section of workers ' homes in the center of the city . , Squads of policemen wearing gas masks arrived in riot trucks and occupied much of the district . There were several clashes . One woman was hurt by a bul- , let . Crowds gathered at the scene of the clashes . They booed the policemen and when trucks from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers to strike . Smite of the tear gas from the Ciudad Nueva encounters was carried into the heart of Santo Domingo by strong winds that battered the oceanfront in advance of Hurricane Edith . There were no disturbances evident around the palace where the inaugural ceremony took place at 1 P.M. ( 2 P.M. Eastern daylight time ) . The ceremony lasted five minutes . A television commentator in an open-collared sports shirt acted as master of ceremonies . No diplomatic representatives Were present . Representatives of the three major opposition parties that supported the coup , military leaders and newsmen , a total of about 60 persons , witnessed the ceremony in the diplomatic reception room of the Presidential Palace . Bosch Detained Upstairs It was the same room , where , on Feb. 27 , President Ruch received thousands of well-wishers , including Vice President Johnson . It was hoped then that the Bosch regime - would mark the beginning of a long period of democracy after the assassination in 1962 of Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo . Molina . His death ended a - 30- year dictatorship . Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ousted President was a political prisoner . He was reported to be stubbornly resisting efforts to persuade him to sign a resignation statement that would make the junta legal . The President 's wife flew here from San Juan this morning to see her husband and to demand guarantees that he would suffer no harm . She was promised that he would be safe , but there was no information on what the junta planned to do with Dr. Bosch and the members of his ousted Cabinet . The men are being held in separate rooms on the third floor of the palace under heavy guard . General Makes Speech The only speaker at the swearing-in ceremony , other than the television announcer , was Maj Gen. Victor Elby . Vifias Roman , the Armed Forces Minister in the Bosch government . He and the chiefs of staff of the army air force and navy led the coup yesterday . General Vifias Roman spoke briefly of the " sacred commitment " the armed forces had undertaken to save the Dominican Republic from what he charged was administrative disorganization and a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the ouster of Dr. Bosch will strengthen , not weaken , Communist activities in the Dominican Republic . General Vifias Roman said it was up to the three civilian leaders to assume the responsibility of " defining our true democratic ideals and returning the country on the road toward its high destiny . " As he spoke , the military leaders stood in uniform in a solid line behind the three civilians , who were seated at a table covered with a green felt cloth . The radio announcer , Tomas Reyes Cerda , read a detailed , account of yesterday 's coup and the biographies , of the members ' of the junta . Mr. Reyes Cerda is a well-known anti-Communist . The junta program calls for it to govern for two years , after which it would hold elections . After the swearing-in ceremony , Col. Elia Wessing y Wessing was promoted to brigadier general . A die-hard opponent of left-wing elements who took issue with the political orientation , of the Bosch government , General Wessing y Wessing is regarded as one of the most powerful men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are Gen. Antonio Imbert Barrera and Gen. Luis Amiama Tio , survivors of the plot against General Trujillo.                     