@@727179

txt Twenty-two Mayors , including Mayor Lindsay of New York and all three of the nation 's Negro Mayors of large cities , endorsed today the " Solidarity Day " march of the Poor People 's Campaign . Leaders of the march said the demonstration tomorrow might bring 60,000 persons to the capital . Several hundred arrived tonight . A brief statement by the Mayors was released this afternoon by Sterling Tucker , the Solidarity Day coordinator for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference . It said , in part : " Nowhere is the violence , poverty and division against which they tomorrow 's marchers fight more deeply felt than in our great cities . " In this sense , their cause is ours and we must support them . " Copies of the statement , handed to newsmen by Mr. Tucker during a news conference on the grounds of the , Washington Monument , bore the names of Mr. Lindsay and Carl B. Stokes , the Negro mayor of Cleveland . Mr. Tucker said the two men were the co-chairmen of a Mayors ' committee on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ list of other signers that included Walter E. Washington and Richard G. Hatcher , the Negro Mayors of ' the District of Columbia and of Gary , Incl . Officials of the march said , they did not know whether any of the Mayors would come here to participate in the six and a half hours of planned events . The Mayors ' endorsement of the demonstration came as the capital braced for the arrival of at least 600 chartered buses bearing unionists , churchmen , students and other sympathizers . The Weather Bureau said that tomorrow would be a pleasant day , with the temperature in the 80 's . ' At the Capitol , Speaker John W. McCormack said that the House leadership would " try to cooperate , in every way possible " tomorrow by scheduling no votes until after the 4:30 P.M. conclusion of the Solidarity Day program at the Lincoln Memorial . , The , Senate leadership is expeCted to do likewise . All Sena. tors and Representatives have been invited to attend . The Rev. Ralph David Abernathy , president of the leadership conference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been urging his followers for weeks to avoid arrests or confrontations . with the pouch until after the march . To Prevent Reaction Officials of the leadership conference said they thus hoped ? to prevent a " counterproductive " reaction in Congress and avoid discouraging supporters who might come here for the big march . ' But today , leaders of the campaign had to dispatch a special ? representative , Leroy Clark , a lawyer for the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc. , to prevent the arrest of militant demonstrators at the Agriculture Department : Mr. Clark finally persuaded the demonstrators to stop beating on an oil drum on the sidewalk outside the Agriculture , Building . It was a form of harassment that the police had warned was about to bring arrests . Scuffle With Police Later another group of demonstrators , a handful of members of the National Welfare Rights Organization , engaged in a brief scuffle with the police and nine of them were arrested . They had attempted to cross Pennsylvania Avenue from Lafayette Park to the sidewalk in front of the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for demonstrating there . The official program for tomorrow is as follows : - .5 to 10 A.M. ? Marchers assemble at Washington Monument grounds . 10 A.M. to noon  --  Entertainmeat at the Washington Monument grounds . Noon to 2 P.M. ? The ' march ? slightly less than one mile ? from the Washington Monument to the steps of the Lincoln Memorial . 2 to 4:30 P.M. ? A formal program of speeches , prayers , testimonial statements by residents of " Resurrection City , " the Poor People 's campsite here ; a tribute to the late Rev. Dr. Martin Luther Kin &; Jr. , a song recital , remarks by Mrs. King and an address ? by Mr. Abernathy , followed by the singing of " We Shall Overcome . " ? MAYORS ' STATEMENT . Tomorrow , June 19th , thousands of people from across this country will gather in Washington , D. C. ; to participate in the Poor People 's Solidarity Day march . ? They will march , in peace , for the right of each citizen to be decently fed , clothed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right of every ? citizen to work a full week and enjoy the fruits of their labor . They will march , in peace , for the right of every citizen to live without tear and to be judged without prejudice . They will march , in peace , for the hopes of us all  --  for that day when we.will again be one nation : We , the undersigned . Mayors , feel it only fitting and proper that we publicly proclaim our commitment to the goal of those who march tomorrow . Nowhere ? is the violence , poverty and division against which they fight more deeply felt than in our great cities . In this sense , their cause is ours and we must support them . Other signers were listed as Ivan Allen , Atlanta ; Joseph Barr , . Pittsburgh ; Kevin White , Boston ; Joseph Allot ? , San Francisco ; ' Milton Graham , Phoenix ; Thomas D ' Alessandro , Baltimore ; Samuel Yorty , Los Angeles ; Arthur Naftalin , 1VIinneapolic A. J. Cervantes , St. Louis ; Hugh Addonlzio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , St. Paul ; Henry Meier , Milwaukee ; Miss Ant  --  nina Uccello , Hartford ; Thomas Currigan , Denver ; Frank Sedita , Buffalo ; James Corbett , Tucson ; and Bruno Giordano , Stamford , Conn . Television Coverage Television coverage of the demonstration will be presented today by the three . major networks , The American Broadcasting Company said it would televise programs from 11:55 to noon and from 4 to 4:30 P.M. The Columbia Broadcasting System and the National Broadcasting Company announced they would televise live and taped highlights from 4:30 to 5 P.M.                     