@@722472

txt John B. Connally Jr. , a conservative Democrat who was formerly Secretary of the Navy , won his party 's nomination for Governor of Texas in a close run-off primary yesterday . On the basis of unofficial returns from all 254 of the state 's counties Mr. Connally polled 564,276 votes to 538,223 for his liberal Democratic rival , Don Yarborough of Houston . Returns were complete from 227 of the counties , including the biggest urban centers in Texas . Robert Johnson , manager of the authoritative Texas Elections Bureau , said that about 2,000 votes remained to be counted . These will be tallied today . Connally Strong in Cities Mr. Yarborough , a 36-year-old lawyer who ran as a supporter of President Kennedy and the New Frontier , made it close all the way . Mr. Connally , who is 44 , led from the start , Mr. Connally piled up big leads in Dallas , Fort Worth and San Antonio . He ran well in most sections of the state . Mr. Yarborough was strong in rural East Texas , in his home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gulf Coast . He was not able , however , to win impressive support among Negroes and voters of LatinAmerican ancestry in Fort Worth , San Antonio and the Rio Grande Valley . There were two mild upsets in other state wide races . Preston Smith , a conservative , defeated James Turman for the Lieutenant Governor . Had Labor 's Backing Mr. Turman , like Mr. Yarborough , had been endorsed by labor . In a five-man race in the first Democratic primary on May 5 , he had led Mr. Smith by about 40,000 votes . In another upset , Joe Pool of Dallas , another conservative , defeated Woodrow Wilson Bean of El Paso for the Democratic nomination for Representative at Large . Mr. Bean had also led thft ticket in the first primary . During the campaign , Mr. Bean conceded that he had filed no Federal income tax- return . for several years . All in all , it was a bad day for the Texas liberal faction . Their candidate for Attorney General , Tom Reavley of Austin , was soundly defeated by Waggoner Carr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led all candidates with 610,431 votes , based on the unofficial returns . There were no Republican runoff primaries . . Mr. Connally and Mr. Yarborough were the survivors of a six-man first primary , and both had waged vigorous campaigns , marked by frequent name-calling and widespread use of television . Neither man has held state office . Victory for the former Secretary of the Navy was something of a vindication for Vice President Johnson . The two men are close political associates , and opponents of Mr. Connally had sought to picture him as Mr. Johnson 's hand-picked candidate for Governor . This led to a strange effort in the runn off campaign by Democratic conservatives who disliked Mr. Johnson 's acceptance of the Vice Presidential nomination on a liberal Democratic platform in 1960 . They urged support for Mr. , Yarborough on the ground that , he would have less chance than ' Mr. Connally to defeat the Re- ' publican nominee , Jack Cox , in ' the general election . Their presumable intention was to back Mr. Yarborough now and Mr. Cox in the fall . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared yesterday in The Houston Chronicle , paid for by " Conservatives for a Two-Party Texas . " Headed " Attention , conservatives ! " it read in part : " If you cast your vote for Yarborough now , it will cost them two votes : Lyndon 's man Mr. Connally will lose one vote and his opponent will gain one . . . . This time we can give Mr. Johnson a taste of his own medicine  --  and set the stage for a true conservative victory . " Both Republicans and the Yarborough camp have denied responsibility for this campaign , but Connally supporters have charged that a " Republicanliberal " coalition is opposing them . Mr. Connally has also waged a somewhat unusual campaign , playing up his former position in the Kennedy Administration when appealing to Negro and Latin-American groups , but otherwiie adopting a generally con- , servative position .                     