@@725763

txt COURT OF APPEALS BACKS NOV. 8 VOTE ON POLICE BOARD P.B.A. and the Conservative Party Upheld in Effort to Abolish Review Agency A SETBACK FOR LINDSAY 5-2 Decision Holds Charter Is Involved in Reducing Commissioner 's Power By RICHARD L. MADDEN Special to The New York Times ALBANY , Sept. ** Court of Appeals ruled tonight in favor of a referendum to determine whether New York City 's civilian-controlled police review board should be abolished . The 5-to-2 decision by the state 's highest court , sitting in an unusual late-summer session , was a setback for the administration of Mayor Lindsay , which had sought to keep the highly emotional issue off the Nov. 8 ballot . The decision was another legal victory for the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association and the Conservative party , which had won two lower court rulings upholding their petitions to obtain a referendum . The Court of Appeals majority affirmed a lower court ruling that the review board constituted a change in the City Charter and that the voters had the right to accept or reject it . The city had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not belong on the ballot . Commissioner 's Powers In a brief memorandum with its decision , the court majority said that the proposals to be submitted for a referendum " would limit the broad powers of processing disciplinary matters conferred upon the Police Commissioner by the charter and implemented by the Administrative Code . " It added : " This would therefore affect the plenary power of discipline granted by Section 434 of the New York City Charter . We need decide no other question . " Joining in the majority decision were Chief Judge Charles S. Desmond , Associate Judges John Van Voorhis , John F. Scileppi and Kenneth B. Keating and Supreme Court Justice Charles M. Hughes of Schenectady , who was sitting ' on the high court in the absence of one of its members . 2 Temporary Judges Dissent The two dissenters were also temporary judges sitting in on the Court of Appeals . They were Supreme Court Justices L. Barron Hill of Southold , and Donald P. Gorman of Syracuse . Mayor Lindsay , who made the Formation of the civilian-dominated police review board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has said that if the question got on the ballot his would actively campaign for continuation of the board . Senators Robert F. Kennedy , Dem ) crat , and Jacob K. Javits , Republican , have said they too . vill campaign to keep the , oard . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent association and the Conservative party had filed separate ) etitions to put the issue en the ) allot for a referendum , but ! arly last month City Clerk // Herman Katz ruled the petitions invalid . The 20,000-member P.B.A. contends that the review board , which was set up to investigate charges against policemen of brutality or discourtesy , would undermine department morale and efficiency and hamper policemen in their duty . Many civil rights groups have joined the city in urging continuation of the board , which was established by a general order of Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary last May . The seven-member board includes two Negroes and a Puerto Rican . Charter The Issue The argument today in the Court of Appeals centered on the question whether the referendum would constitute a change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Counsel , argued that the proposal was not a valid charter amendment to be submitted to the voters . " It is our opinion that restrictions on the Police Commissioner 's powers always have been a matter for the Administrative Code , " Mr. Redlich said . Changes in the city 's Administrative Code do not require approval by the voters . Charles Bailon , the lawyer representing John J. Cassese , president of the patrolmen 's organization , told the court that the proposal to curb the review board was " a perfectly sound and valid amendment " to the City Charter . Mr. Katz 's ruling that the petitions were invalid was overturned Aug. 12 by State Supreme Court Justice Irving H. Saypol , who contended that " it is completely within the prerogative of the electorate of the City of New York to initiate legislation in this area . " Justice Saypol 's ruling was upheld 3 to 2 last Friday by the Appellate Division . City Clerk Katz had ruled that the P.B.A. offered sufficient valid signatures ? 30,000 ? in its petition to put the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Conservative party petition did not contain enough valid signatures . Justice Saypol , in overturning the legal grounds on which Mr. Katz ruled the petitions invalid , ordered him to recheck the number of signatures on the Conservative petitions . In the city , a spokesman for the Mayor said Mr. Lindsay " would examine " the high court 's decision and " discuss it with Corporation Counsel J. Lee Rankin to see what legal steps , if any , can be taken " in a further appeal . The spokesman said the Mayor remained convinced that the review board was " fair , necessau and proper " and that " as Mie goes by people will have more and more confidence in it . "                     