@@723716

txt Philadelphia Harold E. St assen , a veteran of many political campaigns , said here Jan. 14 that he will enter the New Hampshire presidential primary . Stating an objective of " achieving a minimum of 10 percent of the New Hampshire vote , " Mr. Stassen said , he would begin his campaigning in New Hampshire in about 10 days . Other Primaries ? Mr. Stassen also said he will be entering the California primary , " aiming at California as a final test of the Republican program I am advocating . " Just back from a two-week trip to the Soviet Union , Mr. Stassen , in an interview with The Christian Science Monitor , said he was studying papers and reports from which he will make further assessments about other primary bids . Included among those state primaries he is looking at , he said , are Oregon , Wisconsin , Nebraska , the District of Columbia and West Virginia . " I will be looking at these and all other primary Opportunities , too . " he said . Mr. Stassen hopes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program of the Republican Party . He feels that the GOP must conic up with a dynamic and constructive program ? one that addresses itself to the great challenges of the day  --  if it is to win next November . Among Stassen goals is a step by step disarmament program and modernization of the United Nations . Stronger UN Favored Mr. Stassen has said he would like to be able to persuade the Republican Party to adopt a program for global initiative in the area of disarmament . His first step would be the establishment of a nuclear- free zone in Siberia and Alaska ? as a move in limiting the arms race . Mr. Stassen would then like to try similar arrangements in other zones  --  one in the center of Europe . This should be followed , he says , by other armament control zones at danger points such as the Near East-Israeli-Arab area , and the Far East - Formosa - Korea - China area . " With these steps , " he says , " should come the creation of further methods and institutions for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision by force : the gradual growth of sound international law ; and the steady strengthening and improving of the United Nations organization . " Another " initiative " he hopes to further is in the area of divided Germany . He feels that if both parts of Germany are brought into the United Nations organization there will be " a much better prospect of ultimately uniting Germany and of finally tearing down the Berlin wall without war . " Mr. Stassen was in the Soviet Union as a member of a four-man Baptist delegation . He visited in Moscow , Leningrad , Baku , Tbilisi , among other cities . He said he was quite impressed with the " vigor and vitality " of the Baptist Church in the Soviet Union . He said there arc one-half million Baptists in the Soviet Union . Of ctluteivi:ressures on that church there he said : " they arc easing slightly " although " still dn .                     