@@722749

txt Letters to The Times pg . 28 Letters to The Times Quarantine Held Legal Arthur Larson Says Use of Force Involved Is in Self-Defense The writer of the following letter , former head of the United States Information Agency , is director of the World Ruts of Law Center at Duke University . To THE EIWrOROF THE Nay YORK TIMES : The purpose of this letter is to present in brief outline a case for the validity of the Cuban quarantine under the United Nations Charter and international law . This is important for two reasons . First , it may reassure some people who are troubled by the feeling that ? whatever the realistic necessity for the American action ? we may have paid a high ' price in the sacrifice of our traditional respect for international law . Second , it may help dispel any impression that the Cuba episode signals a turning away from the struggle for rule of law between nations and toward the rule of raw power politics and force . The validity of the quarantine rests upon one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The inherent right of self-defense is not limited to situations in which an armed attack has actually occurred , according to D. W. Bowett , author of " Self-Defense in International Law " ( 1958 ) . Conditiono Satisfied It may , as Secretary of State Daniel Webster wrote in connection with the Caroline case , arise in cases in which the " necessity of that selfdefense is instant , overwhelming , and leaving no choice of means , and no moment for deliberation . " It can well be argued these conditions were satisfied in the Cuban quarantine . Is there anything in the U. N. Charter which changes this right of self-defense as it applies to the Cuba quarantine ? Article 51 of the U. N. Charter says that " Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defense if an armed attack occurs against a member . " From this it is sometimes argued that self-defense is permitted only after an actual attack . This implication is negatived by the commonsense necessities of national security , by the legislative history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The language of Article 51 specifically removes all doubt about a special case . But a right as ancient and fundamental to national survival as that of self-defense is ? not to be deemed abolished by a backhanded inference from such a phrase . The real question is whether there is anything in international law or the Charter which places a clear and positive limitation on the right of self-defense here . The answer is believed to be negative . The principal Charter provision relevant to this matter is Article 2 , paragraph 4 , which provides : " All members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state , or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations . " Since the quarantine was not aimed at the " territorial integrity " or " political independence " of Cuba , the question is whether it was in any way " inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations . " First Purpose The very first purpose of the U. N. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international peace and security , and to that end : to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace . . . . " The use of force involved in the Cuba quarantine is in self-defense under circumstances in which collective measures taken by the U. N. could not have been effective . In the absence of United States action , the swift and secret emplacement of Soviet long-range missiles in Cuba would have been completed before the United Nations could take collective measures to prevent and remove the consequent threat to the peace . For this reason , then , the United States use of force is not inconsistent with the purpose of the U. N. to deal with threats to the peace by collective measures . Strong evidence of the existence of a threat to the . peace , and the need for self-defense is found in the inter-American actions supporting the quarantine . Before the quarantine order was actually issued , the Organ of Consultation of the Organization of American States , acting in strict accordance with the Rio Treaty of 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had " secretly endangered the peace of the continent . . . . " According to the Rio Treaty . when such a finding has been made , the Organ of Consultation shall decide on the measures to be taken , which may include " partial or complete interruption of economic relations . , and use of armed force . " The Organ of Consultation passed without dissent a resolution recommending that member states " take all measures , individually and collectively , including the use of armed force , " to deal with the threat . When for 15 years all the republics of this hemisphere have repeatedly agreed in their treaties upon this interpretation of their inherent right of self-defense under the U. N. Charter , and upon the mechanisms for determining when a threat to the peace.requires measures of selfdefense , and when pursuant to this interpretation and through these mechanisms a threat to peace and a need for self-defense have been found in the present instance , there should be a strong presumption of the validity of the action based on these findings , ARTHUR LARSON . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Marking City 's Routes Authority 's Efforts to Provide Better Maps and Markers Cited To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your Oct. 19 editorial " Finding It Is Half the Fun , " relying in part on the colloquy between two Brooklyn subway riders taken from Thomas Wolfe 's short story , " Only the Dead Know Brooklyn , " you suggest that maps or other clear signs of routes and transfers be provided for the city 's subway and bus lines . The story , as I recall it , was hardly " lighthanded , " but rather poignant , and the subway riders were derisive of Wolfe 's effort to settle their dispute by producing a map . If that attitude reflected the average subway rider 's opinion of maps  --  any map ? of the subway system in 1935 , then it probably still holds true today . However moot the point , we completely agree with you that signs and maps should be bigger and easier to read and we are making them so as rapidly as we can . While we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fronts to hold new signs , we have required that the manufacturers of our new buses provide considerably larger signs , legibly lettered in a sign box with high intensity fluorescent lighting for clear night visibility . Shifting buses around to make up deficiencies in the recently acquired Fifth Avenue Coach Lines fleet left some without proper signs for a while . We 're remedying this as well . Maps on buses ? There is simply no space in a bus in which to mount a map large enough to be legible . A map of our bus lines in any one borough is such a labyrinth it is almost impossible to have it printed economically and meaningfully . The job is to work up a map that can be read without a magnifying glass and a large table on which to spread it . We 're trying . Moreover , route information markers are being installed on the " Bus Stop " signs , and we could use the help of the information media in reducing the wanton destruction of these signs by vandals . On the subway over 600 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These 3 ' 4 " x2 ' 8 " maps are printed in six colors , are easy to read and tell you where you are . The small maps in some of the old cars were a mistake . The few remaining are in cars scheduled for early scrapping . The new ones are 28 " x23 " and easily read . JOHN J. GILHOOLEY , Member , New York City Transit Authority . Brooklyn , Nov. 7 , 1962 . Pauling Denies ' Wrangling ' To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ' A news article in The Times of Nov. 2 misrepresents my actions at the meeting on Nov. 1 in the Community Church of New York at which both James P. Warburg and I received the Gandhi Peace Award for Promoting Enduring Peace . The heading of your news report is " Warburg and Pauling Wrangle Before Nonviolence Advocates . " The body of the article contains several statements suggesting that I wrangled with Mr. Warburg . I did not wrangle with Mr. Warburg . There was some wrangling between Mr. Warburg and people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admired Mr. Warburg , and I was pleased when I learned that I was to receive a Gandhi Peace Award at the same meeting at which he was to receive one . I regret that the occasion was made an unhappy one by an action by Mr. Warburg based upon misinformation . LINUS PAULING . New York , Nov. 2 , 1962.                     