@@723007

txt The Administration 's chief farm ally called yesterday for a massive public works program to combat ' unemployment , idle industrial capacity and Federal deficits . This remedy for domestic problems was coupled with a proposal for a " world food policy " to promote international trade agreements and circumvent restrictions that the European Common Market would place on the importation of agricultural products . These proposals were laid out , by James G. Patton of Denver , president of the National Farmers Union , in the farm organization 's first excursion to the East . The group is holding its 63d annual convention in the Henry Hudson Hotel and Carnegie Hall . The Farmers Union held its annual convention in Washington three years ago but previously the Western statesoriented group had never met further East than Springfield , Ill . The Farmers Union , with a membership of about 300,000 farm families , is strongest in the Great Plains and Mountain states . It is seeking to broaden its base and gain adherence in the northeastern states in order to bolster its strength in Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Farm Bureau Federation . The fight centers on the Administration 's new wheat control plan , on which wheat producers will vote late this spring . The Farm Bureau believes that it can reverse the Administration 's drive for controls by defeat of the wheat program , which the farmers Union supports . One of the reasons Farmers Union leaders brought the convention to New York was to whip up support among city dwellers for the organization 's position and to promote a better understanding of farm-city economic interdependence . The extension of the newspaper strike , however , 1 e f t them gloomy yesterday . The organization 's general sessions are in Carnegie Hall , New York 's historic musical and cultural institution . This may be the first time Carnegie Hall has heard farmers and their wives belting out " Home on the Range " and " Farmers Union Friends . " Problems Increase In his annual address , Mr. Patton told some 1,200 farm men and women : " It is ironical that the more efficient we become the more our problems increase and multiply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer must pay for his efficiency by decreased income , by problems of oversupply and adjustments which never seem to catch up with the increasing capability of our agricultural plant , " he went on . " Those who work in our ' factories are now being punished because of the increasing efficiency of industry . " To meet the challenge that has resulted from efficiency , population explosion and automation , he said , a " vast public works program " Would put men to work building hydroelectric dams , steam ( electric ) plants , pollution abatement of water supplies , desalination to increase water supplies , and atomic energy plants . These projects , he said , were " not merely to redistribute national income but to create additional income which would go to those millions now unable to buy even the necessities of life . " Backs Tax Reduction He also called for the Administration and Congress to use their " tremendous powers " to turn the " economic tides around , " including a tax cut to stimulate purchasing power . Mr. Patton said that development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is an " absolute necessity , " he said , to gain international commodity agreements to iron out fluctuation in farm prices , to promote maximum trade consistent with maintaining a " fair standard of , living for farmers , " and to use surplus farm output for the benefit of underdeveloped countries . The next step toward such a policy , he said , would be taken in May at a meeting of the International Federation of Agricultural Producers in Dublin , Ireland . The I.F.A.P. is a world body of various farm groups . The American Farm Bureau withdrew from the world group several years ago in protest against its " liberal " policies . The National Farmers Union and North American member organizations of the I.F.A.P. agreed on a broad plan for an international commodities agreement last month after President de Gaulle 's rejection of Britain 's entry into the Common Market .                     