@@727525

txt Hundreds of doses of the Hong Kong flu vaccine were rushed to Chicago yesterday by drug companies working around the dock to meet orders . Thousand s of more doses are expected by next week , it was renorted . A spokesman for Merck Sharp &; Dohme Drug company in West Point , Pa. , the largest manufacturer of the vaccine , said that all the orders it has received for the vaccine in the Chicago area as of yesterday are expected to be filled by late tomorrow . Distribute 250,000 Doses The board of health , which placed an order for 2,000 doses yesterday morning , will receive its supply by Saturday , the spokesman said . The board had earlier reauested 1,000 doses from Eli Lilly &; company of Indianapolis . A Lilly spokesman said that the company will distribute 250,000 doses around the country on Monday and that Chicago will be getting part of the supply . The board of health , hospitals , and doctors have been seeking . the scarce vaccine to reduce the effects of a widespread flu outbreak in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vaccine , the United States surgeon general recommended that the vaccine be given to persons over 50 , those who are ill or in high-risk groups , or persons suffering from chronic ailments such as emphysema , heart disease , and bronchitis . Deaths Run Higher These are- the persons who run the highest risk from the flu since their weakened condition makes them more susceptible to pneumonia or other complications . Dr. David J. Sencer , director of the National Communicable Disease center in Atlanta said there have been higher than normal pneumonia-influenza deaths in the midwest and other parts of the country during the nation-wide outbreak . " We know that there is only one thing that will push the pneumonia deaths above the expected level and that is an influenza outbreak , " Dr. Sencer said . The center monitors pneumonia-influenza deaths in 122 cities , including Chicago , Peoria , and Rock Island . The Chicago board of health reported that from Dec. 13 thru Dec. 15 there were 20 pneumonia deaths in the city as compared to 15 last year for the same period . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is effective in about 70 per cent of the cases . In about three days to a week after an injection , a person may have 25 to 50 per cent immunity . Dr. Sencer said that the flu outbreak has now been reported in 40 states and that it , has probably not reached its peak . He said public health officials may not be able to estimate when the outbreak will begin to subside until next week . Work Without Rest The Merck spokesman in Chicago said that the vaccine was being shipped to hospitals and nursing homes . He said that the north central states , which include Illinois , Wisconsin , Up per Michigan , Minnesota , and Indiana , probably will receive more than 400,000 doses by Jan. 20 . The drug companies , which began making the vaccine in September when the Hong Kong virus became available , have been working seven days a week , 24 hours a day to produce the vaccine . It takes about three months to produce a batch of the vaccine . Lilly said it expects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation . Six drug companies are making the vaccine and a total of about 100,000 doses have been distributed in Chicago . While many medical authori-1 ties described the influenza here as an epidemic , Dr. Morgan J. O'Connell , acting health commissioner , continued to play it down . Slight Flu Increase " I would say that we have had a slight increase in influenza activity In the city , " he said . " I want the people to be informed but I do n't want to I scare them to death . " Meanwhile the number of hospitals restricting visitors to avoid spreading the flu to patients contined to grow . Dr. Robert J. Freeark , medical superintendent of County hospital , canceled all visiting privileges except in cases of extreme emergency . High absentee rates among school children , policemen , hospital employes , firemen , and office workers were reported again yesterday .                     