@@724214

txt London The Anglo-French missile project has exploded with a bang that could reverberate throughout the election . Julian Amery , Ministry of Aviation , has firmly denied that the missile is going to carry a nuclear warhead . " The intention is not to use it for- nuclear purposes . The intention is to use it as a precise tactical strike weapon , " he declares . To this Labor 's " shadow defense minister " Denis Healey replies : " I do not believe France would spend money at this rate to provide a purely conventional weapon for an aircraft which is primarily part of her force de frappe . Policy Change ? " Mr. Amery has admitted that it could carry a nuclear warhead. and this seems to go completely against government policy of stopping the spread of atomic weapons . " France , Mr. Healey adds . is not cooperating fully with the alliance on which British security depends , How much help should Britain give in strengthening French nuclear capability ? " Labor 's position is unequivocal " he says . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even if Britain 's missile is conventional there can be no guarantee that the French version will be , Labor spokesmen arc likely to claim . U.S. Link Involved So even if Britain does not share nuclear know-how with France , contrary to its agreements with the United States , it may be thought to be but one step from being able to do so , Thus not only could nuclear policy be involved in the dispute but also possibly Britain 's partnership with the United StaieS and the present government 's intentions toward first France and then the European Economic Community ( the Common Market ) . The last in particular remains an extremely controversial subject . For the government Mr. Amery insists , however , that the missile is a simple but sophisticated tactical conventional weapon . Simple to Use It is , he says , so simple that he himself has scored hits with it . It has a range of tens rather than hundreds of miles and is guided onto its target with pinpoint accuracy by television , while the plane that releases it is safely far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only on the new TSR-2 strike aircraft but also the Royal Navy 's Buccaneer and the vertical take-off P-1154 . The missile will add to Britain 's strength , Mr. Amery in. sists , and thus that of the alliance . If it has any effect on France that may be to bring France back closer into the alliance .                     