@@721253

txt Spectacles are no Birthday longer among the exfor elusive insignia of age Bifocals and infirmity . They have become fashionable accessories to mark the intellectual , the man of affairs ; the business woman and , with certain decorative styles , they challenge exotic hats and hair-dos in sophistication . The contact lens has come to the aid of those who still fear the implications of a conspicuous pair of glasses , but the familiar bifocal continues to be a badge worn honorably in the dimming years that follow after 40 . As we know it today , the bifocal lens has been developed within the present century ; the word " bifocal " did not appear in the language until 1894 , but the idea was first described and put to use more than a century earlier by a man who had very nearly reached 40 for the second time and whose initials , oddly enough , were B. F. A letter containing the first diagram of a pair of bifocal glasses was dated from Passy , near Paris , one hundred and seventy-five years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin . Although addressed to Expert a banker rather than to vs. an optician , the letter reveals that one of the Amateur leading optical experts of the time in London was not greatly impressed by this notion of an elderly amateur . Peter Dollond made telescopes and instruments for the Royal Observatory and discussed highly scientific matters with members of the Royal Society , but when he was told about the " Double Spectacles " Franklin had devised he expressed doubt as to whether they could be useful to any but " particular eyes , " and apparently let the subject drop right there . The old diplomat took this philosophically when he heard about it , remarking that Dollond must not have been rightly informed as to their construction and went right on using his pair with great satisfaction . How many people " To See took advantage of the What I idea during the next Eat " century no one can say . The term " Franklin spectacles " is recorded here and there , but it is not even clear whether George Whatley , to whom they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made or not . He was treasurer of the Foundling Hospital and a long-time friend to whom Franklin first mentioned his ingenious idea ; it was he who told Peter Dollond about it after having had a letter from Passy during the summer of 1784 . The second letter , May 23 , 1785 , brought a fuller explanation and an illustration to reassure Whatley that the new device was far better than fussing around with two pairs of spectacles , especially when traveling or at table . The point was made that the glasses best suited " to see what I eat " were not the best for seeing the faces of those across the table , an important factor when conversation was in a less familiar language and facial expressions helped to explain meanings . More than a hunAnother dred years passed bePhiladelphia fore another versatile Philadelphian found Doctor an efficient way to cement the two segments of glass together in the frames . George Milbry Gould was a native of Maine who grew up in Ohio and studied divinity at Harvard and in Germany . After a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book and art dealer he took up medicine and graduated from Jefferson Medical College in 1888 . He became a leader in ophthalmology and stirred violent controversies with his advanced idea that many bodily ills were based on eyestrain . Later he turned his attention to literature and championed the writings of Lafcadio Hearn , but his chief gift to posterity was in making the bifocal lens a practical and effective aid to eyesight in Franklin 's own city of Philadelphia . Facing 80 at the time Death he first thought of comand bining his two pairs of Bifocals glasses into one , Benjamin Franklin was in a philosophical mood about death and dissolution : " I look upon Death to be as necessary to our Constitution as Sleep . We shall rise refreshed in the morning . " But the relief he found in his " Double Spectacles " was so great that he told his friend , " If all the other Defects and Infirmities were as easily and cheaply remedied , it would be worth while for Friends to live a good deal longer . " Whether you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lenses or with the pristine strength of the unaided eye itself , this may be an appropriate moment to pay the wise old man your personal tribute of a silent word of gratitude.                     