@@724257

txt Wrairn lot ' flit Chnittan Satnee Montirm Not for years has Moscow heard so much revolutionary thunder as at the meeting of the World Youth Forum . Soviet and pro-Soviet delegations have clashed daily with Chinese Communist delegates and their supporters . The Soviet leaders , who had sponsored the meeting of some 1,000 representatives of 400 youth and student organizations of 121 countries , must have had reasons for evolving a new revolutionary sounding policy at this particular moment . Speeches Analyzed Analysis of the speeches and of recent articles in the Soviet press suggests : ? The need to stem the erosion of Soviet ideology by giving it an idealistic purpose and a sense of mission . ? The desire to offset Communist China 's growing influence in South - Asia and Africa . ? The building of a second line of defense in a Moscow-oriented " national liberation movement . " ? The existence of domestic criticism , especially among the military high command , which has openly challenged Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's theory that a third world war would necessarily be short and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  would not require large conventional forces . The youth forum which convened in the Kremlin 's new great Congress Hall for 6,000 on Sept. 17 to 24 , was keyed to the national independence struggle against " imperialist and colonial oppression . " Its other topic was peace , as the Soviets understand it , on the basis of coexistence of states with different social systems , but denying the possibility of common tables of values or ideologies , and the banning of nuclear war . A somber delegation of 30 young Chinese Communists , lodged in the secluded compounds of Peking 's Embassy , attended the meeting . As usual , the Chinese refused to applaud the arrival of the Soviet leaders and interrupted speakers on points of order , but they announced that they would take a ( presumably critical ) position only in connection with the voting of the resolutions . Representatives of the United States Youth Council , who planned to attend , were denied Soviet visas , although the council had been invited to send observers . Others Present The youth conference coincided with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ali Sabry of the United Arab Republic , and of Cypriote Archbishop Makarios 's delegation . The setting placed the Kremlin in the role of a protector of the world 's underdeveloped nations . Seen in this context , the speeches made on Sept. 18 by Soviet President Mikoyan at a Kremlin reception for Dr. Radhakrishnan , by Premier Khrushchev at the youth forum on Sept. 17 , and by Soviet youth leader Sergei P. Pavlov on Sept. 17 , form a whole . The subtle , usually business-minded Mr. Mikoyan headed the attack . His speech had the earmarks of a programatic declaration designed as a pattern for Soviet policies in corning months . Point of Departure Mr. Mikoyan 's point of departure was " the activization of imperialist forces in recent months leading to dangerous signs of tension in intergovernmental relations . " He defined the two Vietnams , Laos , the Congo , Cyprus , Aden , and Malaysia , as scenes of conflict and the United States and its NATO allies as culprits . The Kremlin set itself the objective to " end colonialism and racism by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations . " " Capitalism and neocolonialisr are indivisible , " according to Mr. Mikoyan . " The struggle against colonialism and neocolonialism is most successful where it takes the road of non-capitalist development . " " Modern science and technology make it possible to get rid of the heritage of colonialism in a relatively short time . " Asians Addressed His own country , said Mr. Mikoyan , had " in 21/2 decades , if war and immediate postwar years of reconstruction are not counted , transformed backward Russia into an advanced great socialist economic power . " The progress of the U.S.S.R. 's Asian republics was especially mentioned . An Asian himself , Armenian-born Mr. Mikoyan addressed himself to Asians and Africans . Distinctive features of Mr. Khrushchev 's speech were his insistence on the absence of dictatorship in the Soviet Union , his barbs in the direction of the Chinese leaders , and his repeated reference to Moscow 's invincible military power . Mr. Pavlov was the most anti-American of the three . He also outlined practical measures , such as the setting up of new African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking ) and the establishment of a Soviet-sponsored solidarity fund for struggling nations .                     