@@723722

txt Washington The disagreement between the United States and Great Britain over the sale of 450 British buses to Cuban Premier Fidel Castro reflects a basic difference in national objectives . British policy is directed to holding down Premier Castro 's military potential by refusing to sell strategic materials to Communist Cuba . Buses are not strategic materials . United States policy is directed to bringing down the Castro government itself by an economic embargo which would force the regime to stew in its own economic stagnation . The purpose is to give every possible encour agement to anti-Castro Cubans both inside and outside Cuba in the hope they can , with their own hands  --  plus the economic deterioration  --  gain political freedom for all Cubans . A A A While the sale of the British buses to Cuba does not violate the strategic black list governing most allied trade with Communist countries , it does undercut the economic embargo which United States officials believe can contribute to Premier Castro 's downfall . Though there are holes in the embargo , it has done a good deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole Cuban economy , agricultural and industrial , is in a sterile state today compared with what it was under former President Batista . But , with Moscow helping whenever the Cuban economy gets near the breaking point , no Western economic embargo is going to bring down Premier Castro unless another weapon is simultaneously at work . That weapon is sustained internal sabotage carried out by Cubans who are prepared to make the supreme sacrifice , if necessary , to gain the right to have a government by the consent of the governed . A A A Therefore , the two key questions to which we must have answers if a tough embargo policy is to have validity are these : Is there an active anti-Castro underground working to sabotage the regime in Cuba today ? Is it having any significant effect ? Only facts  --  not arguments ? can answer these questions . Here is some of the evidence , and it comes from admissions and warnings published in the govern- ment - controlled Havana newspapers : Before Premier Castro seized power , there were 303 urban , interurban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buses . Cuba had a bus service unequaled for excellence anywhere in Latin America . Last year the new regime , after nationalizing all transportation , had fewer than 800 passenger buses in operation . Cuba had the worst transportation service in the entirety of Latin America . One of the most active and dauntless groups within the anti-Castro underground is drawn from . bus operators and taxi drivers who have had their private jobs and livelihood taken from them . Of some 3,000 anti-Castroites rounded up and jailed in a tunnel in Principe prison on April 17 , 1961 , 258 were bus drivers , another 183 were conductors . In a two-month period last year the underground produced three major railroad wrecks . Locomotives pulling cars to service Cuban sugar refineries have been derailed ; a government official had to admit that there " is not an extra locomotive in all Cuba . "                     