@@725902

txt Everett M. Dirksen of Illinois . the Senate minority leader , entered the controversy about a state income tax yesterday with the statement that Adlai Stevenson III would " leave nothing undone " to get such a tax if he is elected state treasurer Tuesday . Sen. Dirksen wrote that there is an " unfortunate trend in the tax and spending field , " leading many states constantly to seek new ways of raising revenue . A number of state legislators are considering joining those which impose income taxes , the Republican leader said . Helped Sponsor Bill " It is rather interesting to note that Adlai Stevenson III , a Democratic candidate for state treasurer , was the one who helped to sponsor and introduce House bill 1133 in the Illinois legislature , which by its very title is referred to as the Illinois income tax act , " Sen. Dirksen wrote . " People today are already burdened with heavy taxes of all kinds and it would be the better part of valor and discretion on the part of state admmistrators to restrain and reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for new tax sources . " It is , of course , a very frank and open indication of how Mr Stevenson feels about an adder tax upon the people of Illinois " Would Try Hard " " It is fair to assume that if he were elected state treasurer , he would leave nothing undone to bring about the enactment of a law to tax all earnings . " Harris Rowe , the Republican candidate for state treasurer , has not only made no such proposal , but has remonstrated and severely criticized his opponent for this action . " While State Rep. Stevenson was voting " aye " on House bill 1133 on June 23 , 1965 , State Rep. Rowe voted " no " on that measure . Recently , Stevenson has been saying he favors a state income tax only if the sales tax were to be abolished , but no such abolition was under consideraion when he voted for House bill 1133 . Amends His Position Mrs. Dirksen is a co-chairman of the Citizens for Harris Rowe committee , with Charles E. Becker , head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1960 G. 0 . P. nominee for the Senate . Stevenson 's headquarters announced that 50 students will participate in a 200-mile marathon run from Springfield to Chicago to aid his campaign . From the last runner , he is to receive a symbolic key to the state treasurer 's office tomorrow at 10:30 a. m. at the Art Institute .                     