@@725166

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 2 ? 1 The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Indus-1 trial Organizations is planning to mark its 10th anniversary ! next week with a major transfusion of new blood . George Meany , the 71-year- , old former Bronx plumber who is president of the labor feder-1 ation , has been laying the : ' groundwork groundwork for months to re- ' ! place about one-third of the 2i ! jvice presidents who sit on the 1 Executive Council . Unless Mr. Meany changes Ihis mind , the move will be made at the sixth A.F.L.-C.I.O. conI/vention , which begins next Thursday in San Francisco . An Answer for Critic An Executive Council shakeup would be intended to impart a more vigorous tone to the leadership by supplanting most of the 10 men who no longer head affiliated unions with men who do . It would be an effort . ! to disarm critics who contend , the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is headed by ' a clutch of superannuated men . ' But such a change would not : weaken Mr. Meany 's command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power balances . It : would not be expected to result in any basic change in the fed- , : oration 's direction to rebut those ' ' who contend organized labor hasp ! drifted into a moribund , middle-. class mentality . 1 That assessment was expressed in succinct terms re ! cently by a steel company ex- ' ecutive . " They 've got the gout , " ! he said . ' Defender of Status Quo ' An auto executive made the . same point . " The labor movement has become established and is more a defender of the status quo than in earlier : years , " he said . To this general view an offi- : cial of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. re ; sponded : " The critics of the labor move ! ment who say we are n't mili- , tent enough are mourning their , ! own lost youth . A whole lot of ! things have changed since the old days . Sitdown strikes today , ! would he ridiculous . Because we use different tactics today , ' does n't mean we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would : come at the end of the federa lion 's first decade , which has been marked by feuding among ! the 130 affiliated unions . De- ! spite repeated predictions that ! these squabbles would rend the ' federation , there is evidence : that it is far more viable as heads into the convention than at any time in the past . The emergence of some sem // blance of lasting unity is coming none too soon . Predictions that the merger in 1955 would lead to a substantial rise in union membership have not come true , and organized labor is currently facing one of the toughest periods in its history . The basic problem is that union membership has been stagnating at a time when the nation 's total labor force has been soaring . Organized labor peaked at 17,490,000 in 1956 , and by the end of last year had slipped to 16,841,000 . The labor force grew by 6 ; 581,000 during that time , however , so the union share of the whole has slipped from 24.8 per cent to 21.9 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 538,000 since 1961 , but most of that gain is attributed to strong economic growth in such industries as steel and automobiles rather than to'any revived enthusiasm for unions . A.F.L.-C.I.O. affiliates had 16,904,000 members shortly after the merger , but that figure had dwindled to 15,150,000 by 1964 . The decline reflected the ouster of the 1.5 million-member International Brotherhood of Teamsters , a bakery workers union , and a laundry workers union on corruption charges in 1957 . Although James R. Hoffa , teamsters president , is appealing two recent court convictions , two union officials are already jockeying for his job , and if Hoffa goes to jail the federation is likely to welcome back the nation 's largest union . The stagnation in membership reflects slack organizing efforts by many unions , but is chiefly the result of significant changes in the work force that labor so far has not been able to cope with . Mechanization is chewing up employment in the mines , factories and transportation lines . where unions are strong . At ( the same time they have been unable to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where jobs are soaring . The blue collar work force grew by 763,000 to 25,534,000 from 1955 through 1964 , while white collar employment rose by 6,540 , 000 to 31,125,000 . But ' union white collar membership ' has remained virtually stable during that period , standing at only 2,575,000 in 1964 . . " The new jobs automation is ? creatina are largely beyond the present reach of organized labor , " says Theodore W. Kheel , a New York lawyer and labor mediator . " New jobs in white ' collar occupations , and many in. service industries , are being , filled by employes indifferent or hostile to membership in blue collar unions . " Many of labor 's critics contend that collective bargaining is proving less and less capable of resolving the basic problems being created by automation . They point out that the Federal Government has intervened in recent steel , maritime and railroad disputes . s William E. Simkin , director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , does not share this concern . In the four years through 1964 , he says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the amount for any consecutive four years since World War II . ' The average worker lost one strike day in a 2.5-year period , " he says , which " is probably less than time losses that could be attributed to ' hangover ' . " The Government has invoked the Taft-Hartley injunction seven times in the last five years , and has gone beyond its normal mediation efforts in 20 cases , according to the Labor Department . Fourteen of these cases have involved the transportation industry , the department says. , Most labor experts agree that ! the multitude of craft unions inl that industry , heightened by ; swift technological change , ' poses a severe test for free col-1 lective bargaining . They foresee continued Government intervention in the field . One reason the labor movement has not come to grips , with these problems , some lead-1 ers say , is that it has been preoccupied with its own in- ; ternal troubles . When the 10 ; million-member American Fed- ' eration of Labor merged with1 the 5 million-member Congress of Industrial Organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increase ; labors political influence . But they knew their challenge would be to create unity in a merger born more of necessity than harmony . The two groups had joined because they were wasting millions of dollars raiding each other for ' members , and believed that getting together was the only way to grow . There were predictions from the day the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was formed that it would collapse because of basic differences between the conservative A.F.L. craft unions and the liberal C.I.O. industrial unions . Mr. Meany and Walter P. Reuther , C.I.O. president , were conflicting personalities . Disputes between the craft unions and the industrial unions over jurisdiction in organizing certain workers , or in performing certain work , have been breaking out since the beginning . The federation faced its sternest test three years ago when Mr. Meany and Mr. Reuther got into a bitter personal dispute . For a time there were fears that Mr. Reuther would withdraw with his million-member United Automobile Workers . Relations Improving During the last two years , however , relations between the craft and industrial unions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of a plan , adopted in 1961 and revised in 1963 , for resolving jurisdictional disputes through a mediation and appeal system . Mr. Reuther has been taking a more conciliatory tone lately toward Mr. Meany and the craft unions . A significant step was made last February when he reached an accord with the building trades that resolved a festering dispute over picketing on construction and industrial sites . Some craft unionists suspect , Mr. Reuther is trying to court their favor in hopes of succeed- , ing Mr. Meany in the presiden cy . Mr. Reuther clearly has more national stature than any other potential successor . But most sources seriously doubt that he would ever be able to heal the old wounds with the : craft unions and be elected ' president . Most labor experts caution that the old animosities stiff exist between individual unions ' and could be ignited at any time . Some believe the recently improved atmosphere stems mainly from economic prosper ity , which has reduced union competition for jobs , and they warn the fights could renew if business slacked off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many labor experts consider it a tribute to Mr. Meany 's single-minded devotion to achieving lasting unity . " Meany 's great triumph is that he 's nursed these disputes along successfully , " one labor source said . " He 's been too forward for the backward tugs , and too backward for the forward guys . He 's a great wad of chewing gum that keeps the ' whole thing stuck together . " While the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has been painstakingly building unity in its first decade , it has also been achieving its goal of increasing its political influence . Lobbying and political education , in fact , have perhaps become the principal single task of the federation under Mr. Meany . The A.F.L.-C.I.O. focuses on political activity as a means of advancing in , the legislative halls the aims labor can not achieve through collective bargaining . The bargaining process , which lies at the heart of the . movement , remains the responsibility of the autonomous affiliated unions . Most individual unions have adopted a bargaining policy of accepting automation provided employers do not lay off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignations . But this does nothing to create new jobs , and unemployment undercuts labor 's gains . So the A.F.L.-C.I.O. pursues a legislative effort to promote such things as easy money , big public works projects and lower taxes in an effort to keep the economy expanding . Civil Rights Coalition The federations Committee on Political Education conducts campaigns on political issues , promotes voter registration . and parcels out money to candidates . Nobody really knows how much organized labor spends for political activity , but C.O.P.E . headquarters spent $250,000 on voter registration and $1 million to support specific candidates last year . Labor played a major role in the last two years in the passage of much liberal legislation , from Medicare and Federal education aid to civil rights . At the same time it failed to get any labor bills in the last session of Congress , which indicates it still needs allies when it comes up with a special-interest proposal . The Supreme Court decision requiring that both houses of state legislatures be apportioned according to population is expected to produce a political boost for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We 're really on the verge of tremendous ' political developments " because of this , says Alexander E. Barkan , C.O.P.E . director , " and the labor movement is in a particularly advantageous position to benefit . " The labor movement has been seeking to capitalize on the current civil rights revolution by forming a coalition with civil rights leaders to win liberal legislation that would benefit both groups . This strategy seems to have worked rather well at the federation level , but civil rights forces are restive over what they believe is a slowness within the labor movement about erasing discrimination among craft unions . Many critics believe the A.F.L.-C.I.O. made a major error when its Executive Council failed , at Mr. Meany 's request , to support the civil rights march on Washington in August , 1963 . The council issued a statement then saying it shared the purposes of the march , but withholding formal endorsement . Mr. Reuther , who later took part in the march , called the statement " anemic . " The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has yet to achieve its goal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critics contend that this is because the federation is headed by tired old men who have retreated to the comfort of their thickly carpeted offices , deserting millions of low-paid workers who would benefit from unionism . These critics , many disenchanted liberal intellectuals , say labor leaders have lost the idealism that marked the movement 20 or 30 years ago . " The kind of commitment that drew people to the labor movement in the thirties draws them to the war on poverty and the Vietnam issue now , " one Government official said . " If you want to walk a picket line , it 's not a labor picket line . " Labor leaders agree the movement has grown more institutionalized . But they believe this shows a desirable maturity and - point out that despite it the unions this year are winning their largest wage gains since 1957 . Meany Not Concerned Most union leaders concede that they have not done enough to organize workers , but some maintain they have been too busy lately protecting present members from automation . The A.F.L.-C.I.O. figures that its unions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but that changing technology has prevented total membership from rising . Mr. Meany believes that organizing is primarily the job of individual unions , and does not seem too upset by the membership stagnation . " We 're concerned if there are substantial areas that need organization and are suffering from lack of it , " says one associate . " But as long as we maintain a presence , the labor movement 's working . " This attitude is not shared by most labor critics , who believe the movement is destined to atrophy unless it can crack the white collar ranks . Nor is it shared by Mr. Reuther , who believes the future of the movement is tied to increasing membership . Mr. Reuther , apparently frustrated by the federation 's inaction , plans to open a $6 million organizing drive to enlist millions of white collar Southern textile and service industry employes . The campaign will be run by the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Industrial Union Department , which he heads . Some craft unions are rejoining the department to participate in the drive . Most labor experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential lies in the South . A.F.L.-C.I.O. union membership was held at about 1,250,000 in 11 Southern sates for several years , and sporadic efforts to organize textile workers have met employer hostility . Many experts doubt that trade unions will ever have much success in organizing white collar workers , many of whom shun unions as below their status . Labor leaders have lately been encouraged , however , by they rapid rise of the American Federation of Teachers , which has grown from 75,000 members to 115,000 since 1962 . They believe that success in organizing teachers could go a long way toward erasing antiunion attitudes among whitecollar workers . The results of Mr. Reuther 's ambitious organizing program may offer significant clues to whether organized labor will ever be able to resume the growth it enjoyed prior to 1956 . But even if it succeeds , most experts believe trade unions are destined to play a less significant role in American society than in the past .                     