@@725333

txt ( Chicago Tribune Press Service ! Atlantic City , Feb. 14-School superintendents from Connecticut , New York , Pennsylvania , Illinois , Missouri , and California are the six prospects for Chicago 's next school superintendent , THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE has learned . The " select six " are : Gregory C. Coffin , 40 , of Darien , Conn . James F. Redmond , 50 , of Syosset , N. Y. Sidney P. Marland , 51 , of Pittsburgh . Thomas A. Shaheen , 47 , of Rockford , Ill . James A. Ha z l e tt , 48 , of Kansas City , Mo . Robert E. Jenkins , 54 , of Pasadena , Cal . Coffin has created a furor in Darien , one of the most exclusive communities in the nation , with a program of civil rights education . This has included an exchange of white Darien teachers and pupils with Negro teachers and pupils from New York City . Early Exposure Theory Coffin 's reasoning : People from Darien are leaders in controling the country 's power structure . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are young , the next generation controling the power structure may take a different view toward Negroes . Redmond is the only candidate who served in the Chicago school system . From 1949 to 1953 , he was the administrative assistant to Herold C. Hunt , then superintendent , and later was purchasing director . He left to become school superintendent in New Orleans , where he met bitter opposition after trying to enforce the 1954 Supreme court school desegregation decision . He left New Orleans in 1961 for a school management job , then took the Syosset post . Marland was superintendent in Winnetka , Ill. , for seven years until he moved to Pittsburgh in 1964 . At the American Association of School Administrators convention here , reporters have asked school superintendents and other educators who they think would be the top man for the Chicago job . Unanimously , they have sounded the name of one manMarland . Report He 's Not Interested The word here is that Marland wants no part of the job . He reportedly has definite goals and programs in Pittsburgh he wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ills these plans . Marland has refused to discuss any question relating to the Chicago job . This reporter , in jest , walked up to Marland Sunday night , extending his hand , and said : " I 'd like to shake the hand of the man who will be Chicago 's next school superintendent . " Marland thundered back : " 0 ' no , I wo n't . " Shaheen Earns $26,500 Shaheen earns $26,500 as superintendent of 35,000 Rockford students . He came to Rockford in July , having served as head of schools in Paterson , N. J. , and Commack , N. Y. He then holds a doctorate from Columbia university . He is described as , dynamic and a master of public relations who has " gone over tremendously " in Rockford and is respected by teachers . Under his leadership from 1959 to 1965 , the Commack school system grow from 1 to 13 buildings and from 1,000 to 12,000 students . He was educe : tional consultant on the " school of tomorrow " at the New York World 's Fair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started a construction pro . gram that increased the number of schools from 1 to 11 as the population skyrocketed . Education observers here call Shaheen 's building program the fastest and best in the state of New York . " Shaheen knew where the houses were going to be built and had a new school ready by the time people moved in , " one New York observer said . " This was unprecedented planning for any school district in New York . " But in 1963 ; composition of the Commack school board changed and Shaheen 's troubles began . The board adopted a " philosophy of education , " including some provisions that Shaheen felt he could not tolerate as a professional educator . Downgraded Music , Art The Commack board insisted on rigid grading standards and ruled that if a student did not attain these achievement levels , he should be flunked . The board downgraded music and art instruction over Shaheen 's objections . As a result of these and other changes , Commack lost many of its good teachers , and Shaheen left last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superintendent in Kansas City for 11 years , and in that city 's school system since 1938 . He has been a principal and research director . Jenkins has been in Pasadena for eight years and previously was superintendent in Ridgewood , N. Y. A Formidable Challenge But indications here are that the Chicago board of education faces a tough time getting a top man to take the job . Candidates view the post as a formidable challenge , but do n't want it unless they could be reasonably assured they have a chance of success . The main question they raise is whether the Chicago school board will unite behind the man it picks . The bickering of board members is well known to superintendents across the nation .                     