@@722781

txt District Attorney Frank S. Hogan is investigating the State Liquor Authority and its ' chairman , Martin C. Epstein of I Brooklyn . The inquiry came to light yesterday when Mr. Hogan 's office confirmed reports that Supreme Court Justice Saul S. Streit had signed an order on Tuesday for a medical examination of Mr. Epstein . The examination will take place tomorrow morning at Mr. Epstein 's home , 25 Monroe Place , Brooklyn . The 69-yearold chairman has been confined to his bed for the last 10 days . His left leg was amputated two months ago , and he returned to work temporarily three weeks ago . Chief Assistant District Attorney Alfred J. Scotti , who is ' conducting the inquiry , explained that it had been under way for some time . He said Mr. Epstein was scheduled to be the first witness before the grand jury that would make the investigation . Authority Has Wide Power The authority is responsible . for licensing stores where liquor is sold for off-premise consumption , for licensing bars and grills where it is sold for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holder to another or from one location to another , for licensing distributors , wholesalers , salesmen and others engaged in the industry , and for the suspension , revocation and cancellation of licenses . Because the authority 's office at 270 Broadway here supervises liquor law enforcement throughout the metropolitan area , the inquiry could cover all phases of its operations within the city and its suburbs . Technically , if a bribe were passed in Suffolk County to obtain the transfer of a license , the prosecution could take place in New York County if the transfer were approved here . Mr. Scotti applied to Justice Streit last Friday for the order appointing a physician to examine Mr. Epstein . In an affidavit submitted to the court , Mr. Scotti said : " There is about to commence before the fourth November grand jury an investigation to determine whether violations of the penal law of the state have been committed in connection with the administration of the State Liquor Authority . " It has become neces%a.ry ana material to obtain , testimony of the chairman of the authority before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was duly served on Mr. Epstein commanding him to appear today ( Nov. 9 at 2 P. M. before the grand jury . " Instead of appearing , Mr. Ep-7 stein had Hyman Angel , the authority 's counsel , , telephone to Mr. Scotti to inform him that the chairman 's health did not permit his appearance . Because Mr. Amsel could give no indication as to when the chairman . would be able to appear , Mr. Scotti said he was asking for " ' the appointment ' of a physician ? .1. o determine whether Mr. Epstein was shamming . With the consent of Mr.- Epstein 's lawyer , Maurice Edelbaum , Justice Streit signed the order naming Dr. John V. Walker of 55 East 72d Street to make the examination .  --  The subpoenaing of state or city officals to testify before a grand jury is unusual . It is customary to " invite " them to appear and usually they do so . Failure or refusal of a public official to testify at a grand jury or other official inquiry automatically results in his forfeiture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Scotti said : " No comment . " Complete Study Planned Mr. Scotti declined to indicate whether he was more interested in particular phases of the Liquor Authority 's operation ' than others . He said the inquiry would cover " the entire operation . " The authority consists of five members appointed by the Governor with the consent of the . Senate . Not more than three can he members of the same political party . The chairman 's salary is $24.000 a year . The ' four other members receive $19.500 each . The Governor designates the chairman . Because no new package store licenses have been issued for the last 14 or 15 years . a The New York Times Studio EXAMINATION SLATED : Martin C. Epstein , chairman of the New York State Liquor Authority , which is under investigation . law to ascertain that the new great many transfers have been made . Before approving a transfer the authority is required by owner is a person of good character and /hat he has sufficient money of his own to carry on the business . Similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tavern , grill , night club and other on-premise licenses from one owner to another . Mr. Epstein has been chairman of the authority since 19601 when Thomas E. Rohan , a Dem- , ocrat , resigned to accept an appointment from Mayor Wagner as a Special Sessions Judge . Mr. Epstein had been appointed a member of the authority on Feb. 14 , 1959 , on the recommendation of John R. Crews , Republican leader %of Brooklyn . In making the appointment Governor Rockefeller announced that Mr. Epstein would be designated chairman " at the earliest opportunity . " He was a United States Commissioner in Brooklyn from 1927 to 1943 . During those years he presided over hundreds of arraignments for violation of the Prohibition law while it was in Wee . In 1943 he was made an Appellate Division referee to examine the accounts of committees for incompetents . He held that office until his appointment to the authority .                     