@@727371

txt All mysteries of the sea are not concerned with lost ships . Take the case of the vanishing blue crab . Fishermen of Chesapeake Bay are puzzled  --  and alarmed  --  by the shortage of this old-time favorite . Seafood dealers and restaurateurs are crabbing , too . What would a visit to the Chesapeake be without steamed crabs , fried crabs , crab cakes , or that delicacy of the old tidewater patrician  --  cream of crab soup ? Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. ' Udall has approved a $50,000 grant as the first step in sleuthing down this underwater whodunit . The value  --  if any  --  of playing host to a national political convention will get a hard look before Miami Beach makes any 1972 bid . The GOP got $800,000 in cash and services for holding its convention here in August . Miami Beach received in return a lot of attention and not much business . By Miami standards , the Republicans just did n't spend . And their presence and accompanying hoopla kept away potential visitors . M ? . issive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street for use by delegates stayed vacant while special buses hauled delegates back and forth , and regular customers had no place to park . The convention 's night sessions kept hotel dining rooms half empty . Publicitywise , national news media knocked the city continuously with complaints about its gaudiness , high prices , and " falseness . " As one local writer remarked wryly , the event was the city 's greatest image tarnisher since Hurricane Donna . 0 Georgia promises one of the nation 's closest races for the House in Washington . It could be one of the most intriguing too ? pitting a popular liberal against an attractive conservative in a strongly conservative state . Liberal Charles L. Weitner , a former congressman , had appeared very much , the underdog due to a conservative tide and the rending of his Democratic state party . But in the September primary he won a surprising two-to-one victory in conservative white areas while hanging onto most of the black vote , too . Rep. Fletcher Thompson , the incumbent Republican , will get more coattail help from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George C. Wallace is expected to carry Georgia . So whoever gets to the House will have done it mostly on his own . 0 North Carolina 's Redevelopment Act is draining extra dollars out of taxpayers ' pockets . Reason : A little-noticed provision in the act 's 1967 amendment . It requires redevelopment commissions to pay all appraisal , court , and attorneys ' fees in any condemnation case related to urban renewal . The law tends to encourage landowners to take cases to court where they are likely to get higher prices for their property . Next year 's Legislature is certain to repeal the provision . Trends ... After more than 40 years of dominating Virginia politics , the famous " Byrd machine " is running out of gas . This was demonstrated for the first time recently at a meeting of the newly reconstituted Virginia Democratic State Central Committee . What 's left of the old conservative organization , put together by Sen. Harry F. Byrd who passed on in 1966 , controls only a minority of the party machinery . For the first time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting . How and why ... Southern politicians seeking congressional and top state offices this fall are giving their parties ' national candidates a wide berth . It 's a case of political survival . In a year when antiparty , anti-Washington voices are strong , most Dixie candidates of both parties consider their presidential tickets more hindrance than telp . This is particularly true of Democrats , who glumly note the pull for Hubert H. Humphrey in their region is weak , while the Wallace attraction looms magnetic . If Richard M. Nixon bites significantly into front-running Wallace strength in the South -- -as he might -- Dixie Republicans can be expected to begin tying themselves to him . But as of now , they aren't.                     