@@722421

txt Letters to The Times Steel 's Need to Modernize Plant Improvement as Argument for Price Rise Rejected The writer of the following is on leave from the University of California , Berkeley , where he is Professor of Business Administration . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The steel industry tells us that the price increase is needed to pay for plant modernization and improvement , necessary if the country 's steel producers are to remain competitive . The logic of this argument is highly questionable . New capital equipment is bought to replace existing equipment with similar equipment ; to replace existing equipment with technically improved equipment which requires less labor per unit of output , or to add to plant capacity . It is the second purpose for which the industry now seeks funds . Depreciation charges are one source of funds for the purchase of equipment for the modernization and improvement of capital plant . But the steel industry has found that its depreciation charges ( plus retained earnings ) have not sufficed to modernize its plant , partially because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounting profession . Basis for Depreciation I refer to the accountant 's insistence that depreciation charges be based on historical cost , not on the replacement cost of the equipment . Surely a firm is justified in thinking of its income as being the amount remaining after deducting from its year 's receipts , among its other expenses , the amount required to restore its productive capacity to the level as of the beginning of the year . If the price of capital equipment has increased or decreased during the year , the year 's depreciation charges should be based on the new price level . But except for a vocal minority , the accounting profession ( as well as the Internal Revenue Service ) insists that the " true " cost is the original cost . Thus during periods when the price of capital equipment is rising , the firm understates its real depreciation expense , overstates its profits , and pays higher corporate income taxes than it should . A ccountants object to real depreciation charges in large part because one must , it is argued , use some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the depreciation charges during the life of the asset , before it has actually been replaced . The original cost , by contrast , is a clear , unambiguous figure . So the accountants choose to use the original cost , even though it may be years out of date . To buy the new equipment , the industry must find the immediate cash for the initial investment and it must also find a way to recoup the investment . The immediate cash is typically provided either by current depreciation charges ( the return of capital previously invested in equipment ) or by retained earnings , or by debt or equity capital obtained from the capital market . But regardless of the source of the immediate cash used to buy the equipment , this investment should be recovered , in real terms , in future depreciation charges . Lower Unit Cost If the new capital equipment is truly to modernize and improve the plant , this must mean that this will permit production of steel at a lower cost per unit of output . Generally speaking , then , the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future than in the past , but if the new equipment is more efficient than the old , the total cost of production per ton must be less . So why should the price be raised ? If this reasoning is correct , the steel industry can not logically use the plant modernization and improvement argument to justify a price increase . It must instead rest its case either . on the grounds that its cost of production , including real depreciation charges , is higher at a given rate of utilization of plant capacity than in the past , or on the grounds that it has been understating its cost in the past and must now pay the piper . RICHARD H. HOLTON . Rome , April 29 , 1962 , Medical Plan Supported TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am vastly amused by Dr. Leonard Larson 's complaint that the Kennedy Administration is " trying to create a bandwagon " to win support for its medical care plan for the aged . If there is any organized interest group in the United States that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " bandwagon " support for the positions it espouses than the American Medical Associ- ' ation , I am unaware of it . And let it not be maintained that opposition to the A. M. A. by Administration forces is " unfair . " The A. M. A. is now being obliged merely to surrender its monopolistic position in the field of educating the public with respect to the social , economic and political aspects of medical care . As in the steel case so here President Kennedy is putting himself forward as the spokesman for the public interest . He is to be applauded for so doing . JOHN N. PLANK , Assistant Professor of Government , Harvard University Center for International Affairs . Cambridge , Mass. , May 3 , 1962 . Hong Kong 's Refugees Crown Colony 's Curtailment of Flow From Inland China Defended The writer of the following is executive vice president of the United State Committee for Refugees . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The United States Committee for Refugees has been deeply concerned with the news stories from the Crown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's curtailment of the refugee inflow from mainland China . This is a very sad and complicated situation for which the normal news coverage provides far too little grounds for intelligent judgment , but I am not in this place trying to " fill in the blanks . " However , I do feel that it is essential that these stories do not reflect adversely upon the Government of the Crown Colony . His Excellency Gov . Robert Black and his devoted staff have shown a deeply responsible and humane spirit for many years . Their great work in providing housing and welfare services for this refugee community , now numbering over one million persons , has given reason for thanksgiving to many persons both in the refugee community and outside . These stories should best be interpreted as reflecting a recent and unmanageable aggravation of the refugee problem , due to unrest in the mainland and the tragically severe overpopulation of Hong Kong . When it is remembered that Hong Kong and to a lesser degree Macao are the principal escape hatches against which the pressure of the mainland Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why the Hong Kong Government has had to institute these curtailing actions . The description of the problem and our knowledge of the way the Government and the voluntary agencies have labored across the years in Hong Kong for the refugees point inescapably to the fact that the United States and other countries have made it virtually impossible for the Chinese refugees to emigrate and resettle . Until governments other than that of the Crown Colony begin to pursue a more humane and enlightened immigration policy no reproach of the Hong Kong Government is justifiable . NORRIS WILSON . New York , May 9 , 1962 . U. S. Chess Sponsorship Asked To THE EDITOR OF E NEW YORK TIMES : We have sent two young Americans ( through private fund raising ) to Curacao to play against five Russians and one Czech . The winner meets Botvinnik for the world chess championship title . The Russian team is accompanied by seconds ( analysts ) , doctors and masseurs at their Government 's expense . Our two boys can just get by . We all know that the United States spends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  yet this simple and inexpensive opportunity is overlooked . I hope that someone in authority in the State Department will do something about this . JACQITES COE , President , Manhattan Chess Club ; Vice President , American Chess Foundation . Paris , May 7 , 1962 . Attacking Modern Art To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower discerns a decline in morality and decries modern art . He deplores the loss of beauty we have been accustomed to see in the works of Michelangelo and Leonardo dh Vinci . There have been other times in Western history when startling objections to modern art have been made by political , social and religious leaders . Luther and Calvin , for instance , objected to the modernists in the works of Leonardo , Michelangelo and Raphael . PEPPING MANGRAVITE , Professor in Painting , Columbia University . New York , May 2 , 1962.                     