@@725927

txt Washington . Nov. 14 ? The Roman Catholic bishops of the United States tonight charged the government is coercing the underprivileged to practice birth control by tying welfare aid to its contraceptive programs . They also asserted that it is subsidizing birth control programs in foreign countries thru its food for peace and foreign money aid programs . We reject , most emphatically . the suggestion that any family should be adjudged too poor to have the children it conscientiously desires , " the statement said of domestic welfare programs . Deplore Aid Tie In the foreign field the bishops said , " we deplore any linking of aid by food or money to conditions , overt or oblique , involving prevention of new life . Our country is not at liberty to- impose its judgment upon another , either as to growth of the latter or as to the size of its families . " The protest came at the end of a day in which the bishops elected Archbishop John F. Dearden of Detroit president of their conference and settled down for week-long conferences to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they adjourn they are expected to decide whether to change the present regulation under which Catholics are required to abstain from eating meat on Friday . Reorganize , Change Name In the reorganization they changed the name of their conference from the National Catholic Welfare conference , under which they have operated since 1922 , to the National Conference of Catholic Bishops . In attendance were 210 of the nation 's 261 bishops . Archbishop John J. Krol of Philadelphia was elected vice president . Eight other bishops were elected to serve on the administrative board with Archbishops Dearden and Krol . Among the eight were Archbishops John P. Cody of Chicago , William E. Cousins of Milwaukee and Leo Binz of the St. Paul-Minneapolis diocese . Twenty other bishops without special duties were also elected to the board . All voting was by secret ballot . Archbishop Dearden was elected by majority vote on the third ballot . The five cardinals took themselves out of the running for office . Got the Message Bishop Ralph J. Gallagher of Lafayette , Ind. , told a news conference that the bishops became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke of it in his State of the Union message last January . He said they sought to present their point of view to the government but that no channel of communication could be established . " We did not receive the courtesy of a response , " he said . Altho Bishop Gallagher said the letter was addressed to the White House , it was later stated that the lettfer was sent to Sargent Shriver , head of the office of economic opportunity , which administers many of ? the programs for the poor . The bishop said the children 's bureau has set up a series of regional meetings dealing with birth control among the poor which are not " hearing meetings , but rather carefully programmed meetings in which information comes from one side of the table only . "                     