@@724665

txt Washington , March 19 ? Republican members of the House judiciary subcommittee today criticized the administration voting rights bill on the ground that it does not go far enough . While Atty . Gen. Nicholas Katzenbach and other witnesses were defending the bill before the subcommittee , House G. 0 . P. leaders arranged a press conference at which Edward W. Brooke , Negro attorney general of Massachusetts , described the bill as " a weak job . " " We are deluding ourselves , " he said , " if we think it will solve the problem of discrimination in voting . " Dismayed at Dallying Brooke said he was dismayed at the length of the time President Johnson took to act in the Selma case . He said the President must have seen the necessity for legislation and that " his proposal was late in com-in " The bill has certain weaknesses , " Brooke.said . " The administration must know this . Vast numbers would not be protected . The bill does not apply to some 200 counties in the nation where there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal drafters of the bill is Sen. Dirksen Ill. , the G. 0 . P. Senate leader , he replied that " if it is a bad bill , it is a bad bill , " regardless of who produced it . Katzenbach co need ed that this is true , but added that he does not believe that discrimination against Negroes is very widespread or significant except in the states covered by the act . May Snare Wrong Ones The attorney general said it is possible the law will bring under its coverage some states where discrimination is not practiced  --  such as Alaska . But if that occurs , all such states have to do is show they have not discriminated and if the justice department has no evidence of discrimination that is all there will be to it , he said . The Rev. Theodore M. Hessburgher , president of Notre Dame university and a member of the commission on civil I rights , told the subcommittee the commission wholeheartedly indorses the elimination of literacy tests and the appointment of federal examiners . " We have recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have done so in the belief that nothing less will suffice to root ' out the evil of discrimination in voting . " Rep. William M. McCulloch 0. , senior Republican on the judiciary committee , said the Republican members would strive for a strong workable law that would insure voting rights everywhere . McCulloch said he was not prepared to accept the constitutionality of Brooke 's proposal that the attorney general be empowered to use federal voting registrars whenever as few as 25 persons asserted they had been improperly deprived of their vote . In the subcommittee , Rep-resentatives William C. Cramer Fla. and John V. Lindsay N. Y. , both Republicans , led the criticism of the measure . Cramer told Katzenbach that states and counties witli more than 50 per cent of the voting population registered to vote would not be reached by the bill 's anti-discrimination provision , even tho there might be race discrimination on a considerable scale . He said discrimination exists in Florida but that Florida will not be covered because it has no literacy test . Cramer said there are counties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination is practiced and which will not be reached . He asserted the bill would make first class citizens out of some and second class citizens out of others . Father Hesburgh said he is for everyone being a first class citizen and added that it would be fine if a better bill can be drawn .                     