@@723454

txt New York , Sept. 14 - Dr. James B. Conant , former Diesident of Harvard university and currently an educational consultant , said today a twoyear study of teacher training in 22 states has shown that " vast numbers of youth are being taught by inadequately prepared teachers . " Conant , who headed a team of nine educators in the study financed by a Carnegie corporation , grant , will publish his findings Monday in a book , " The Education of American Teachers . " Conant recommends changes in teacher certification , practice teaching , and graduate study programs for teachers . He calls for a " truce " between the professors of education and the academic professors , who , he said , compete for influence in teacher training programs instead of frying to cooperate . Rips State Certification His main criticism is directed at the requirements for certification , which he says are " not rigidly enforced " in any state . " In all of the 16 most populous states it is relatively simple for the local school board to circumvent them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state should enter the certification process is to rule on practice teaching arrangements . State governments now issue certificates on the basis of their officials ' evaluation of the training a teacher has received . Suggests Requirements Conant said the state should require only this : ? " That a candidate hold a baccalaureate bachelor 's degree from a legitimate college or university . ? " That he submit evidence of having successfully performed as a student teacher under the direction of college and public school personnel in whom the state education department has confidence . " That he hold a specially indorsed teaching certificate from a college or university which . in issuing the official document , attests that the institution as a whole considers the person adequately prepared to teach in a designated field and grade level . " Practice Teaching " Slipshod " Conant 's survey , which included interviews with hundreds of educators , state officials , and students at 77 institutions and 16 state capitals , also criticized " slipshod " and even " appalling " conditions in practice teaching arrangements . " Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher education , I have found only two points on which all are agreed : 11 Before being entrusted with complete control of a public school classroom , a teacher should have had the opportunities under close guidance and supervision actually to teach , and 21 the ultimate question that the state should ask is , ' can this person teach adequately ? ' " Conant found a four-year college education adequate to prepare elementary and high school teachers but said a fifth year would be of great advantage after the teacher has had some working experience . He called on boards of education and state governments to encourage this back - to - school movement by granting academic leave with pay ,                     