@@726695

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the ' Editor of The Times Bail for the Poor To the Editor : Those concerned with the legal rights of the poor have long sought reform of the American money bail system which imprisons the poor man charged with crime , while the wealthy go free . Largely through the pioneering efforts of the Vera Institute of Justice , New York State has ' assumed a position of leadership in bail reform . While much unnecessary pretrial detention goes on , an impressive start has been made here . ' Unfortunately , the New York State Commission on Revision of the Penal Law , in its recently published revision of the state 's bail law , seems to ignore most constructive proposals made in recent years to eliminate discrimination on the basis of wealth . Progressive features of the Federal Bail Reform Act or of similar legislation in Connecticut , Illinois and elsewhere are not evident . In fact , the code reduces the likelihood that persons charged with crime will obtain release before trial . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which stresses use of tmsecured bonds , release on recognizance and alternate means of assuring that the defendant will return for trial , the proposed legislation seems to establish a presumption in favor of money bail . In other words , the decision as to who goes free will remain in the hands of the professional bondsman . Detention ' Authorized Moreover , while most American jurisdictions recognize a right to bail , the proposal authorizes outright detention on the-basis of an extremely broad and ill-defined concept of " dangerousness . " The decision is left to the unbridled discretion of the bail-setting magistrate . No meaningful criteria for determining danger are provided , and no adequate procedure is set out through which the judge 's decision may be scrutinized by a higher court . There are no limits set on the length of pretrial detention , and no recognition that pretrial detention tends to prejudice a fair trial . In short , this is legislation which should be vigorously opposed by all those who are concerned with providing fair treatment for the poor in our courts . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the writ of habeas corpus , so prized as a protection of our civil liberty , was developed as a response to attempts to deny those accused of crime  --  but not convicted ? of pretrial freedom . MICHAEL MELTSNER New York , Nov. 6 , 1967 The writer is director of the criminal-law program of the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense Fund . ? Cuban M.D. 's in Exile To the Editor : I have read with interest the views of Richard D. Lyons ( news article Sept. 29 ) and David Green ( letter , Oct. 22 ) with regard to the role of foreign physicians in the United States . When the Castro takeover of Cuba came about on Jan. 1 , 1959 , large numbers of Cuban physicians began to flee their homeland , the great majority coming to the United States . To assist these physicians to qualify for medical employment in the United States , the Cuban Refugee Program , Social and Rehabilitation Service , Department of Health , Education and Welfare funded special intensive refresher courses at the University of Miami , Florida 's School of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Foreign Medical Graduates examination of the American Medical Association . Over 2,000 have passed this test and are employed in their professions , and almost 1,000 of this number have obtained licenses to practice medicine in several states . The health-manpower shortage being what it is , we know of several , hospitals that could not have remained open were it not for the availability of Cuban doctors . Without doubt many Spanishspeaking communities like those in New York and New Jersey have benefited greatly from the presence of these bilingual Cuban refugee physicians . 3OHN F. THOMAS Director Cuban . Refugee Program Department of Health Education and Welfare Washington , Oct. 26 , 1967 ? Israel 's Stand , To the Editor : In . your , Nov. 1 editorial on the Mideast situation , while you lead off with a clear ratification of all the basic aims of Israel , you do not discuss the means of achieving these aims . But when you begin with your reservations you erase all the gains . registered by your opening , candor . You mention the shift in the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt an indication ' of a shift in position ? Is the attack of the Jordanian regular army on Israel to give cover to terrorists ? Or the declaration by the Arab religious leaders that the Arabs will never rest until they have recovered the religious sites ? You express trepidation at Israel 's statement that it will consolidate its hold on the occupied territories , and create a fait accompli . Israel has repeatedly offered to face the Arabs across the table not as victors but as equals . You say an attempt to annex seized territory is contrary to the U.N . Charter . There is no talk of annexation  --  Israel is now responsible for the administration of the occupied areas anal for the welfare of its inhabitants ; and Israel must arrange their administration in an effective manner . Intent of Cease-Fire You are concerned lest Israel do something contrary to the declared policy of its best friends , including the United States . When the United States pushed far an unconditional cease-fire , was it the ' Intent that the cease-fire should *lead to a stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their military machines in preparation for another round ? In view of the latter development , why did n't the United States and the other fair-minded nations protest that this was a flagrant violation of the intent of the cease-fire ? You say that Premier Eshkol 's insistence on direct negotiations is disturbing . Israel has always been ready to listen to suggestions and advice of wellmeaning parties . However , Israel dare not commit itself in advance to accept the mediation of even its best friends , who , when Israel 's very existence was at stake , were indifferent to its straits . It is not advantageous for Israel to rely on the mediation of nations which are overly objective . So far , volunteer mediators have not brought forward any concrete plans to assure Israel the security of its ' territory ; its people , its rights . Such plans might include , but not ' be limited to : the immediate removal by the U.S.S.R. of all military equipment it has sent to the Arabs since the acceptance of the cease-fire ; the right of Israel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Arabs . In order to . assure this , the major powers should ship a quantity of military material to a point , accessible to Israel . This material should be in escrow , of an acceptable neutral country . International " guarantees , " " assurances , " " commitments , " of the major powers or of the U.N . have been ineffective in the past ; and must be ruled out beforehand . ' J. GROSSMAN New York , Nov. 1 , 1967 ? Evidence Against Smoking Challenged To the Editor : In his letter of Oct. 21 Dr. Harold S. Diehl of the American Cancer Society voices the usual plaints of those who want to abolish cigarettes ; but ' as usual also neglects those points that do n't fit his dogma . Some of these points are significant : Dr. Diehl 's reference to some 2,000 papers as being " all the evidence on this subject " since 1964 neglects to say that a good proportion of these papers do not support his thesis . Also , some of these papers were misused . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a point against cigarettes , but was neglected in a discussion on coronary heart diseases because the study 's major conclusion was that cigarette smoking appeared to play no part in this disease . E. Cuyler Hammond , the Cancer Society 's main statistician , did indeed recently present some more of his statistics about people who are not typical of the average Americana fact conceded by the Surgeon General 's report . But he has no medical evidence to show that cigarette smoking was responsible for his statistical results , whether or not they are accurate . This same Dr. Hammond told THE NIGHTINGALE Once in London I heard Faintly and for a moment only A nightingale ; it was April And Keats a hundred years dead . It is a memory scarcely worth Repeating , for as I said the bird Was far away , and scarcely heard And yet I leaned for hours that night Over the sill , into the plane trees ' leaves , Thinking of Keats and how we all , Like birds that have flown , make distance firm , How hard it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little word . MARY OLIVER a Senate subcommittee on " safer cigarettes " that any rely - ' tion of " tar " and nicotine ' 0 reduction of alleged health hatards was purely a " guess . " This is contrary to Dr. Diehl 's usertion of " mOidally accepted findings , " which are neither medical nor accepted even ' by his own Hammond . As br . Hammond phrasal it , " A guess is no evidence . " Regarding the Barron 's Sr* de , the Tobacco Institute urged every adult American to ' rea4 this . We urge Dr. Diehl also to do so . It does not purport 0 present medical information . ' , A discusses dogmatic positions be , ing foisted on the . American public through forte of law and regulation Irentintscent of .10 ill-fated Prohibition:effort . Advertising ' Ban Dr. Diehl and his associates would do well to consider this , in view of the resolution theft put through the A.C , S.'boaNd Of directors ( by a far tram mous vote ) calling for abolition of advertising of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Smith 's speech , , but he does n't , deny that he and his associates have taken on a prohibitionist tinge by trying to . pressure the Government into accomplishing ) by legislative force what the A.C.S. has failed ' to ' do by persuasion . ' Dr. Diehl and his associates might turn more of their attett , tion and funds toward ' solving ' the cancer riddle instead of int : veighing against cigarettes . One promising field Of study might be the area discussed recently by Dr. Robert Huebner of the Public Health Service ( Times ; Oct. 20 ) , whose research has shown that viruses , including respiratory viruses , may well be implicated in most forms of human cancer . EARLE C. CLEMENTS President and Executive Director The Tobacco Institute , . Mc . Washington , Oct. 25 , 1967 ? No ' Plot ' by Miniere To the Editor : With reference to the charger made by Congolese Government officials as reported in C. L. Sulzberger 's ' column pt Nov. 8 , that Union Minlere du Haut-Katanga is involved in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' deny any political or military ' involvement in Congolese affairs . Charges to the contrary , are wholly mistaken . Lours WAILEr Chairman , Union Minters du Haut-Katanga Brussels , Nov. 9 , 1967 ? Referendum on War To the Editor : It is unfortunate that the San Francisco referendum on Vietnam was worded in ternts of immediate withdrawal ; to reject such a move , which Is all but totally impractical , is not necessarily to favor prolonged continuation of war . I wonder what the vote would have been it the referendum had asked , " Do you want American soldiers to be dying in Vietnam five or ten years front DOW ? " EDWIN KENNEBECK New York , Nov. 9 , 1967                     