@@725114

txt PARIS ? " There is no hate for the United States in France , " General de Gaulle once remarked . " France remains friendly to the United States but the French people do n't like the American people . The United States is our friend and will remain so , but the American people are not regarded sympathetically . " From time to time when moments of great danger arise , then only the United States and France will remain and people will tend to forget ' the Americans ' and ' the French ' who do not get on so well . Of course , during intervening periods , the fact that our interests are not really the same will continue to appear more obviously . " A Different View Some observers would reverse the phrase , contending that Frenchmen like Americans more than France likes the United States . While this seems true for many thousands of people , the Cartesian French mind and mild xenophobia can nevertheless prove unsympathetic to American romanticism and American craving for an immediate intimacy the French rarely accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realist who respects plain facts like power and geography . His own personality does n't easily lend itself to personal friendships , least of all with Americans . Such an innate tendency was reinforced by his disagreeable wartime relationship with President Roosevelt . For perhaps a brief moment there might have been an interlude in the psychological impasse . France and de Gaulle found the youthful , evocative President Kennedy and his attractive , French-speaking wife intriguing . This produced a temporarily sentimental feeling among the unsentimental French  --  but that aura faded . The Johnson Administration is less comprehensible here and more subject to inherited French bias . Now that de Gaulle has decided at 75 to run for re-election and will surely succeed , this background assumes importance in analyzing the prospect of Franco-American relations . It is therefore essential to distinguish national pride and personal prejudice from political realities . 5llsunderstandings The French and the Americans often display an unhappy talent for misunderstanding and irritating each other . Only recently on both sides of the Atlantic a tempest In a teapot was stirred by a Washington briefing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eve of its elections , that produced unnecessary pique here . When the pique was expressed , American officials and editors responded with selfrighteous irksomeness . This is all a pity because a very major negotiation must soon begin over the future of NATO and the Franco-American alliance within it , and reason must not be obscured by silly emotionalism . Everyone knows de Gaulle wants to reform NATO  --  although he has not yet prepared his blueprint . At the same time he wants to remain allied with the United States . He objects to supranational integration of forces and commands but does wish to reassert allied ties . We may regard this as illogical but it Is certainly not treason , even if Washington is convinced it would weaken Western defenses . Changing NATO The General wants to do more than just change NATO 's peacetime organization . He would like to denounce the North Atlantic treaty in 1969 , when this becomes permissible , and substitute for it bilateral pacts with his strongest allies . Certain of de Gaulle:s , , . ministers claim he merely wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I believe they are wrong , and they could be wrong for any of three reasons : ( 1 ) ? They might simply be misinformed , which is unlikely but possible . ** might believe that any such ministerial admission to a foreign ambassador would be tantamount to formal intention to denounce the treaty  --  which they may wish to avoid . ** they could reckon it better to postpone any final break on the theory that before 1969 de Gaulle might retire . Diplomatic Doubts Doubts still confuse diplomats who must prepare their countries ' future NATO and French policies . Some patient American statesmen feel it is wiser to negotiate quietly with Paris , to explore de Gaulle 's ideas , and to hope that a Fabian approach will permit acceptable alliance reform . Other impatient American statesmen would like to force a showdown , risking a break with France in order to integrate the rest of NATO . The latter school is obsessed with vague concepts of " power " and " leadership " and in my opinion is dangerously wrong . In either case emotions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual differences . It would be a good thing for everyone if opinions now being expressed so giddily on both sides of the Atlantic were henceforth tempered by wisdom , tolerance and true knowledge of the facts . Whether France and the United States or Frenchmen and Americans love each other does n't really matter . We are friends and we should remain allies .                     