@@723160

txt Premier Khrushchev failed to break the impasse in the negotiations for 3 nuclear test ban treaty in - " is latest message to President Kennedy , a well-informed Source said today . The Soviet leader stood by his earlier contention that Moscow already had made sufficient concessions in the nuclear talks with the United States and Britain . A similar message was sent through diplomatic channels to Prime Minister Macmillan . The Khrushchev messages replied to a joint proposal by . the President and the Prime Minister for a new effort , possibly on a high level , to overcome the deadlock . The proposal was delivered to Mr. Khrushchev on lApril 24 by Foy D. Kohler , the United States Ambassador , and Sir Humphrey Trevelyan , the British envoy . More Talks Possible The announcement yesterday by the United States Atomic Energy Commission of the cancellation of plans for nuclear test explosions in Nevada later this month left open the possibility of a continuation of the exchanges betwee. . the Western leaders and Mr. Khrushchev . Before the announcement , the iMoscow radio , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scheduled tests might re'suit in a resumption of Soviet testing . The radio warning was not published in the Soviet press . Mr. Khrushchev 's messages were said to have provided no assurance of progress in the near future toward a treaty to ban nuclear weapons tests . Ostensibly , negotiations within the framework of the 17-nation disarmament conference in Geneva are impeded by the , disagreement over the inspection issue . The Soviet Union insists that it will not agree to more than two to three on-site inspections annually to guard against violations of a test ban treaty . The United States demands seven inspections . It also wants the treaty to specify how the inspections should be conducted and the size of the areas to be surveyed by the inspectors . Diplomatic officials here believe Soviet intransigence stems in part from the Kremlin 's unwillingness to negotiate seriously with the West until its ideological quarrel with the Chinese Communists and certain internal problems are resolved . Talks With Chinese Set It was announced in Peking today that the projected talks between the Soviet and Chinese Communist parties on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no optimism apparent here among Soviet officials about the talks ' prospects . There exist fundamental differences between the two sides about the best strategy for attaining world Communism . Peking , which advocates a more militant strategy , is also bidding for the leadership of the international Communist movement . Moscow has hesitated to enter into substantive negotiations with the United States on nuclear testing or other EastWest issues because they would be regarded as prejudicial ? to the outcome of the talks with the Chinese Communists . The Kremlin is also hampered in its decisiOn-making : by in. : ternal problems . This was illustrated with the announcement this morning in Pravda , the party organ , of the postponement of the opening of the plenum of the Central Committee from May 28 to June 18 . The plenum is scheduled to take up ideological questions .                     