@@722716

txt The Mariner 2 spacecraft bound for a mid-December rendezvous with Venus , has dis . covered that there is a steady " wind " of charged particle ! blowing off the boiling sur face of the sun into inter Planetary space . In announcing this today , the space agency also said that the craft would pass within 20,90C miles of the planet , instead of within 9,000 miles , as previously thought . The experimental determination of the existence of a continuous " solar wind " provides a new insight into interplanetary " weather " and the manner in which some solar energy is transported to earth . Preliminary scientific findings made by the complex 447-pound spacecraft , launched Aug. 27 from Cape Canaveral , Fla. , were presented today at a news conference by scientists of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena , Calif. 180-Million-Mile Trip The latest estimates were that the spacecraft would pass about 20,900 miles from Venus on Dec. 14 , after a long arching flight of 180,000,000 miles to overtake the planet . Earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9,000 miles from the surface of the planet and then go into orbit around the sun . This prediction was made after the spacecraft , on orders from earth , was put through a delicate " midcourse correction maneuver " on Sept. 4 designed to correct a trajectory that would have taken the spacecraft some 233,000 miles from the planet . After some five weeks of more precise tracking , however , it was determined that the small mid-course correction . rocket had given the spacecraft slightly more velocity than planned . The velocity change required was an addition of 45 miles an hour to the 60,117 miles an hour the spacecraft was traveling in relation to the sun . Instead , for reasons not yet determined , the small rocket imparted an additional velocity of 47 miles an hour . At interplanetary distances , this overcorrection of two miles an hour was enough to alter the course of the spacecraft by more than 10,000 miles . Even the latest estimated " miss distance " of 20,900 miles may be off by some 3,000 miles , more or less . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations on earth , the distance of the astrotween the earth and the sunnomical unit  --  the distance bethe uncertainty about how the pressure of sunlight may affect the spacecraft . Even with the wider miss , Mariner 2 will still pass within the planned " bullseye "  --  a pieshaped target area extending from about 5,000 to 40,000 miles above Venus on the sunlit side of the planet . As a result , the space agency said , the spacecraft will still pass " well within the region where the scientific planetary experiments are expected to be very effective . " At 2 P. M. Eastern daylight time tomorrow , Mariner 2 will be 7,330,000 miles from earth and 30,200,000 miles from Venus . The spacecraft will be traveling at 7,724 miles an hour away from the earth and at a speed . of 65,693 miles an hour in its course around the sun . From information ? obtained by Mariner 2 , it appears that the solar plasma takes the form of a continuous " wind , " which at times reaches " hurricane " force with outbursts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magnetic Field While exceedingly tenuous , the plasma is sufficiently dense and has enough velocity to interact , with and move the magnetic fields in interplanetary spare . For example , abrupt changes in the velocity and intensity of the solar wind , as measured by Mariner 2 , have been accompanied by abrupt changes in the magnetic fields in space . Another finding made by Manner 2 was that the density of cosmic dust  --  microscopic particles weighing as little as five one-trillionths of a pound - - was only a thousandth of that observed by satellites in the environs of earth . Through some mechanism riot yet understood , the earth apparently traps the " dust " in its vicinity . While the findings of Mariner 2 are primarily of scientific significance in explaining solart. errestial relationships , they also will be of practical importance in the design of future manned spacecraft and in predicting the " weather " conditions , such as radiation , which will be encountered by space explorers . Dr. Homer E. Newell , director of the agency 's office of space sciences . said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for manned space flight on the basis of anything we have learned thus far from Mariner 2. "                     