@@723693

txt Washington , Jan. ** central intelligence agency staged an unprecedented press briefing today to warn the western world that Russia may have to ask for credit to buy 2 billion dollars worth of equipment for its chemical industry . The top secret agency welcomed a group of reporters into its well- guarded headquarters five miles outside of Washington in a wooded area on the Virginia side of the Potomac river . The CIA 's aversion to publicity has been so great that there are no road signs to guide an inquisitive public to its building . Finds Economy Slipping The gist of the CIA briefing , given by a battery of economists on the agency 's payroll , was that the Soviet Union 's economy is slipping . The information had been leaking out of the agency for several days . Today 's briefing , held with the approval of President Johnson , was called to give general distribution to the data on which the appraisal of the Russian economy was based . The briefing was held in a double-doored room , its windows covered by thick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States intelligence board , made up of the intelligence chiefs of the CIA , defense department , military services , state department , and Atomic Energy commission . Want World to Know CIA officials said their agency and . President Johnson believed the true picture of the soviet economy is fundamental to the foreign policy of the United States and other countries and should be made known to the world . It was learned that state department officials , who have had the CIA appraisal on their desks for weeks , were piqued by the sudden free-wheeling public relations policy of the usually secretive intelligence agency . Accordingly , Undersecretary of State George W. tall in a New York speech tonight used the CIA information as his principal subject . Here were the principal points made at ' the CIA briefing : The Soviet Union 's annual economic growth , which was believed to average 6 per cent a year between , 1950 and 1959 , dropped to 2.5 per cent in 1962 and 1963 . The Ainerican rate was estimated to be 3.7 per cent last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 billion dollars , from 3 billion dollars in 1956 . Moscow has had to dip into them to buy wheat from abroad to the extent of 900 or 500 million . dollars in recent months . Disastrous crop failures in 1963 added to the woes of the soviet economy . To increase farm productivity , Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has launched a crash program to build up his chemical industry and provide fertilizer for farmlands . CIA officials predicted the soviet economy could not finance foreign purchases for the chemical industry buildup on the usual five-year purchase plan . This meant , they said , Moscow would have to ask for extended credit or further drain its gold reserves . Called Too Ambitious The officials acknowledged that the first years of Khrushchev 's leadership were marked by a series of successes in industrial growth and agricultural production . But Khrushchev 's programs , they said , were " too ambitious for available resources . " The headlong rush to develop heavy industry , they ' said , resulted in a neglect of agriculture . " In summary , " reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been trying to do too much with too few resources . This living on borrowed capital , improvising cheap but temporary solutions to basic problems , such as agriculture , and chronically neglecting balanced development to push ahead spectacularly on a narrow range of goals has finally caught up with the Soviet Union . Brought to Head " A nearly disastrous crop failure in 1963 was not the root cause of Moscow 's economic difficulties . What it did was to bring to a head the many underlying problems of the soviet economy and force a reconsideration of the pattern of resource allocation . " One official observed that the Russians could learn something about their own economy from the CIA , appraisal . " They should be grateful for this independent analysis , " he said .                     