@@727591

txt MADRID , Jan. 24 VD ? The government imposed modified martial law on Spain today to end " m inority actions systematically directed at disturbing the peace of Spain and its public order . " The decision by Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's cabiPresident Francisco Franco net gives police and the armed forces sweeping powers . Under the order , termed a " state of exception , " authorities can search and arrest anyone and can detain suspects indefinitely . A government statement said the emergency was necessary because of " an international strategy affecting many countries . " Observers interpreted this as meaning communism , whose forces Franco defeated in the four-year civil war of the 1930s . Close Madrid University The crackdown began only hours after beleaguered school officials closed the huge University of Madrid , a hotbed of student protests against the government . Barcelona university , the country 's other major school , was shut down last week because of similar agitation . ( Reuters news agency reported a government official said Spain win reintroduce full censorshp of the press . Newspapers and news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the information ministry before publication , a ministry official told editors . ) It was the first time a state of exception had been applied thruout the country and marked a serious crisis for the 76-year-old Franco . His regime has been in power since the end of the Spanish civil war in 1939 . A state of exception has been in force since last August in the Basque provinces where the government has been fighting Separatists and other dissidents since mid-1968 . Suspends 5 Rights The cabinet 's decree immediately suspended five articles of the Spanish bill of rights , which said : Every Spaniard may freely express his ideas as long as they do not go against the fundamental principles of the state . Spaniards have the right to live wherever they like within the national territory . Suspension of this article allows the government to exile Spaniards to points far from their homes , which has been the punishment for about 60 Basques . No one may enter the home of a Spaniard without his consent , or without a warrant . Spaniards may meet and associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in the manner set by law . All detainees must , within 72 hours , be freed or turned over to judicial authorities . There was no immediate explanation as to why the severe measures , which took nearly everyone by surprise , had been imposed . Student unrest has become widespread , and dissension with the regime has been growing in recent weeks .                     