@@723974

txt George Meany declared here last night that the union plumbers who walked off a Bronx construction site two weeks ago when three . Puerto Ricans and a Negro were Hired " were completely justified in refusing to work . " Mr. Meany , the president of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations , said the four newcomers should never have been ; hired because they are not union members . He has been a ; member of the striking localtocal 2 ? for nearly 50 years . Referring to the striking plumbers , Mr. Meany said , in a telephone interview : " They walked off the job , and as far as I 'm concerned they 're going to stay off . This lunion wo n't work with nonunion men . " The labor chieftain 's unequivocal remarks came as a surprise because of reports that the White House had been pressing for a settlement of the dispute between the union men and the three Puerto Ricans and the Negro . Earlier this week , Mr. Meany had himself sent a fact-finding team from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then that if , after getting their report , he was convinced Local 2 was in the wrong , he would take a personal hand in settling the controversy . Mr. Meany 's top civil-rights troubleshooter , Donald S. Slaiman ; who led the fact-finding team , flew here to join Mr. Meany last night . Mr. Slaiman is director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. civil rights department . The plumbers ' walkout at the Bronx site began on April 30 , the day the three Puerto Ricans and the Negro were hired by the plumbing contractor , the Astrove Plumbing and Heating Corporation . Since then , no plumbing work has been done on the project , which is the $25 million Terminal Market being built for the city on 126 acres along the Bronx River in the Hunts Point section . Other Work Affected This stoppage has already forced a serious slowdown in other construction work on the produce market . The Public Works Department has said that unless the plumbers go back to work , all work will be forced to a halt by the middle of next week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotel suite last night . " This union does not work with nonunion men . It never has . Not in my memory , and that goes back 50 years . " The 69-year-old Manhattanborn labor leader got his start in the trade union movement in the plumbers ' local here and obtained his journeyman 's card in 1915 . He was elected business agent of the union in 1922 . Referring to the white union plumbers who walked off the Bronx site , he snapped : " There 's no law to make them work with nonunion men . There 's nothing in Taft-Hartley that compels them to do this . The only thing Taft-Hartley prohibits is a closed shop , and we do n't have a closed shop . " He paused and then added : " If they were to go to work with those nonunion men , I 'd resign from the union ? I 'd join some other union . " " It would be different if we had kept Negroes and Puerto Ricans out , " he went on . " But we have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puerto Rican who applied . These men the four nonunion men hired in the Bronx never came near the union . " " When these four were put on the job , the people who put , them there knew from the start that the union plumbers would walk off . " The Astrove plumbing company hired the four men at the request of the City Commission on Human Rights . The uru'on has insisted that the dispute ' s strictly a labor matter and t. - tat there is nothing racial abort it . The Human Rights Commission has said thei opposite . Mr. Meany , who arrived in the city yesterday , said he would be here until late Saturday evening " He said he had been in touch with the parties involved in the Bronx dispute , but he added , " I 'm in town for several different things . "                     