@@724977

txt Water Commissioner Armand D'Angelo yesterday suspended , his two top Manhattan engineers , accusing them of de- ! liberately hiding leaks from the Central Park reservoir . He : said they had apparently di- , verted the water into a nearby sewer . Irate over some water that was oozing from the bottom of , a stone wall at Fifth Avenue ' and 93d Street , the CommisH sioner coiled a news conference ' and cried , " Treachery . " Sternly , he said he was not , going to tolerate " such out- , rageous negligence and , practices " at a time when he was exhorting New Yorkers not , to take baths or to sprinkle their lawns . Purge Is Threatened He suspended John J. Crowley , Manhattan borough engineer , and William Melnichuk , ! distribution engineer for Man- ; hattan . He threatened a purge of ail employes who tried to cover Up leaks . He also threatened dismissal ; of David J. Tannenbaum , chief of the department 's water waste , division , for having told news- , men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10,000 , gallons daily , " which is prac-I tically nothing " ? and that ' seepage from the lake was un- ' avoidable . " You 've got a reservoir with dirt fill , " Mr. Tannenbaum was // quoted as saying . " What are you supposed to do ? empty a billion-gallon reservoir and then waterproof it ? You might as well put a cover on it , because there ' a lot of dirt in the air . " Commissioner D'Angelo was ? not amused . He said that if Mr. Tannenbaum were correctly quoted , it could indicate that he " ca n't cope with this problem " and " I 'll be obliged to get someone who can . " There was an angry murmur of protest from Water Department employes , who said the Commissioner was merely hunting scrapegoats . Seepage from the century-old reservoir is inevitable , they insisted . " Anyone with an elementary knowledge of sanitary engineering knows that you ca n't make an old , earth-banked reservoir watertight , " one engineer said . Silence Ordered Workers who were rushed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss the new leak with reporters . They grumbled that the total amount of seepage at this spot was too piddling to demand emergency action and that their efforts in detecting and repairing breaks could be better employed elsewhere . But Commissioner D'Angelo , angered by demands for his resignation coming from Representative William F. Ryan , a candidate for the Democratic mayoral nomination , went ahead with plans for a departmental purge . He ordered the instant recall from vacation of Herman Foster counsel to the department , and prepared for a hearing of negligence charges against Mr. Crowley and Mr. Melnichuk , starting today . The two suspended workers of the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity are long-term city employes . Mr. Crowley joined the department in 1929 . His present pay is $12,900 a year . Mr. Melnichtik went to work for the department in 1952 , His pay is $11,100 . " I witnessed a deliberate attempt to conceal a leak , and I think it is disgraceful , " Commissioner D'Angelo told a hastily summoned news conference at the department 's 38th Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he would have taken immediate action had he known about the new leak , which , accordine to residents of the area , had been running for years . A Dozen Cracks Found Workmen digging on Fifth Avenue along the base of the retaining wall near the sidewalk opposite the Jewish Museum , at 93d Street , discovered water trickling from a dozen cracks and holes . The reservoir , only a few hundred yards away , is higher than Fifth Avenue at thi point , aria there was little doubt that the water was seepage from the lake . The accumulated rivulet was debouching through a covered trench that also contained a rusty storm sewer . Commissioner D'Angelo concluded that his men had tried to hide the leak by diverting the water into the sewer . For about a block there was soft , watery rot along the bottom of the wall , and trees along tile sidewalk looked suspiciously healthy in contrast with the dessicated flora inside the park . Congressman Ryan was an early visitor . An anonymous informant had telephoned him about the leak Wednesday afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , this is another example of incompetence on the part of the Commissioner . " Old Leak Still Leaking The scene of the percolation was about a mile across the park from " Ryan 's Grotto , " the cavern where the Congressman uncovered the first leak from the reservoir last week . There was still some water spewing from that cave yesterday , despite efforts by a diver to seal a leaky sluice gate at the reservoir 's North Gate House . Commissioner D'Angelo was hunting a leprechaun-sized worker who could squirm into a drain pipe leading from the gate house to the cavern and perhaps detect another source of the water . There were several claimants to the discovery of the second leak . Among them was Paul Arthur Schwartz , 9-year-old son of Arthur Schwartz , producer and songwriter , who composed , among other things , " A Rainy Night in Rio . " " No wonder there 's a water shortage , " said the child . " I was riding by on my bicycle day before yesterday and saw the leak . I tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a park man who was cutting grass . I was very mad . Nobody notices anything . " His mother said the Schwartz The New York Times John J. Crowley as he talked to reporters following suspension yesterday . household at 1136 Fifth Avenue ' had been aware of seepage for some time , because their English sheep dog , Sarah , had tracked it into the apartment . And Joseph Bednarik , assistant superintendent of the Jewish Museum , recalled that a year ago during the digging of a foundation for a new elevator . the museum encountered so much water that pumps had to operate for a week . Late yesterday Commissioner D'Angelo issued a directive ordering his chief engineer , Edward J. Clark , to prepare immediately a record of all leaks that had been reported and not repaired . With the list , he demanded an accounting as to precise action taken and the reason for failure to make repairs , along with the date the leaks were reported . In a directive to all water supply employes , the Commissioner said : " The Chief Engineer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaks , breaks or loss of water anywhere in our system . I expect repairs to begin on all leakages immediately after discovery . I further request that all field personnel undertake a continuous search for any system failure . " Anyone who fails to report a leak to the Chief Engineer immediately upon discovery and who fails to report the corrective action taken at the time involved will be suspended immediately . " Earlier , at the news conference , Mr. D'Angelo had said that he was not told about any of the recent leaks uncovered at the reservoir in Central Park . Water Reserves Drop Meanwhile water in the reservoirs continued to dwindle . There were only 196 billion gal- , Ions of water left in storage yesterday , against 310.9 billion gallons a year ago . Normal storage for the date is 357.5 billion gallons , or 75 per cent of capacity . The reservoirs are now at 41.1 per cent of capacity , against 65.2 per cent a year ago . A downpour early today brought 0.61 of inch of rain between midnight and 1 A.M. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The total for the 21-hour period ended at 1 A.M. was 0.87 . There was also rain in the city 's watershed area early today , but no figures were available immediately . The Water Department said that about a half inch fell on the watersheds in the 24-hour period ended at 8 A.M. yesterday . The Board of Estimate gave final approval yesterday to the rebuilding of the Chelsea Pumping Station near Poughkeepsie by providing $7 million for land acquisition , pumps and other equipment . The station is to provide 100 million gallons of water daily from the Hudson River . The board 's action was unanimous . The city has asked the State Water Resources Commission to approve the Hudson tap , and the state agency is expected to give its consent on Sept. 2 , when it meets in Albany .                     