@@721577

txt The pictures in the Skiers newspapers of real-live in our skiers within the city ? Midst not just the kind seen so often this time of year In the newsreels  --  is certainly the most graphic indication we have had to date of the growth of skiing froth a remote sport into an almost everyday activity for residents of Our Town . Not That siding ever will become here the casual daily activity it is , say , for the townsfolk of Switzerland who live in the shadows of the Alps . Put the sight of skiers jumping over man-delivered snow along the reaches of Central Park 's Cedar Hill is in marked contrast to the situation up to a quarter-century ago , when skiing was an exotic and mysterious rite practiced in our environs by a handful of SOartans . Often these skiers were Hiking men and women of Scanon dinavian descent who Skis thought in terms , of hiking on skis rather than whizzing downhill . For centuries before , their ancestors had used skiing as transport rather . than sport . The fun-loving Austrians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was more pleasant to go down a hill than across it , and returning tourists in time brought word of this new game to a limited number of Americans . But the real lure for our first skiers was the still and peaceful beauty of the outdoors in winter . Skiing was akin to camping . The Winter , Olympics , To held at Lake Placid in 1932 the had aroused the interest of Hills Americans in skiing , but not sufficiently to start a , mass movement to the snow-sur-1 faced hills . The true dawn of American skiing as a sport rather than an ? uplifting form of torture came in 1934 when an American who had visited the Alps , Bunny Bertram , installed a primitive rope tow on a steep cow pasture near Woodstock , Vt. , and renamed the meadow Suicide Six . Soon other clever pasture owners and homesick Alpinists began to erect tows and to sell tickets for their use . The difficulties enMancountered were manMade made as well as the Troubles handiwork of nature . A 250-mile jaunt to the Green Mountains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Driving was hazardous on winding , badly marked roads . Hotels were closed , and lucky was the skier who found himself a comfortable farmhouse that would rent him a bed . Many of the natives of the mountain states were unfriendly when not downright hostile , and it took them years to realize that New Yorkers on skis were bringing in money along with their confusion and noise . In the late Nineteen Search Thirties the influx of for refugees from Hitler Snow brought in hundreds , who searched for mountains of snow as much as for pavements of gold . They . proselytized among their new American friends and contributed to the growing frenzy . Famed skiers and teachers were among them . Hannes Schneider , considered the father of ski technique , came from Austria to , New Hampshire , and was a pioneer in the development of ski areas . And like everything else in the United States , skiing even moved westward . After World War II Skiing the boom came . First on Our came the returning Doorstep G. I. 's who had sampled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and women enjoying our new prosperity and increased ? leisure time who found skiing an ideal answer to the question of what to do in winter . Technology has aided the boom , with better cars , roads , areas and lifts . From knitting stretch pants that beautify the female figure to building machinery that can make snow when Nature-aas with . the balmy skies over Central Park  --  is inadequate , the technologist and the entrepreneur have made ski fever a practical disease to acquire . Its contagion is reaching home , with 400,000 skiers reported in and around Our Town . Recently we , have seen establishment of a dozen areas within one-day-trip distance , Now , with the experiment at Central Park , we have skiing at our doorsteps.                     