@@724699

txt Some of the worst floods on record poured over dams and into city streets in at least three states yesterday despite the efforts of thousands of volunteers to hold back the waters . More than 12,000 persons were driven from their homes in Minnesota , Iowa , and Wisconsin . The mayor of North Mankato , Minn. , ordered evacuation of 5,000 residents ? all but 1,000 of the town 's population . Waters Pound Dikes California also was threatened with flooding . Two consecutive weeks of rain could trigger mud slides , officials warned . Other communities from Oklahoma to the Appalachians cleaned up the damage of tornadoes and devastating winds which struck Thursday . At least 20 deaths across the nation were blamed on a series of April storms and floods . Damage was in the millions of dollars . The Mankato area along the Swollen Minnesota river was the greatest danger point . Heavy rains and ? the runoff from melting snowdrifts sent icy waters pounding against the dikes . College girls worked under floodlights thru the night beside 1,000 male volunteers filling sandbags @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help . Radio stations broadcast appeals to the farm wives to make sandwiches for Salvation Army headquarters . Mayor Orders Evacuation North Mankato Mayor Ralph Eckes ordered ' the evacuation of most of his town as a precautionary measure . He said as much as 3 to 5 feet of water could sweep into the town . Women and children were asked to move into Mankato and their menfolk were urged to return and help save the town . Mankato zoo officials shot a bear when floodwaters swirled into its cage . A fence was cut to let a small herd of buffalo escape . Armed national guardsmen patroled flooded streets to prevent looting . In Iowa , Gov . Harold E. Hughes had to postpone an aerial tour of flood areas for the second consecutive day because of dangerous flying conditions . Fast-running rivers continued to eat away at dikes in the state and threatened to spill over in new areas . Iowa Health Commissioner Arthur Long urged that typhoid vaccinations be given to levee workers , clean-up crews and others battling the floods . Calls Wisconsin Emergency The Mississippi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gov . Warren Knowles declared a state of emergency in the river city . Knowles ' action made all state facilities , including the national guard , available to fight the flood . Families were already leaving their homes in lowland areas around La Crosse . Downstream , the swollen Mississippi swept a dozen barges from their moorings near the Jefferson Barracks bridge in St. Louis . The barges slammed against the bridge so violently that the structure shook . Coast guardsmen reported two hours later that the barges , including one carrying highly volatile benzine , had been corraled.                     