@@725374

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the Editor of The Times Fear of U.S. Policy To the Editor : Regardless of what now happens in Vietnam it is clear that President Johnson 's desperate gamble of escalation since February 1965 has backfired in the area of American-French relations . General de Gaulle has given this country ample warning that he wants out of NATO . The Asian and LatinAmerican policy of the United States is hastening the process . NATO came into existence in 1949 as a result of ruthless Russian behavior in Eastern Europe following World War II . Unlike the Americans , the Russians stayed out of the East Asian wars both in Korea and Vietnam . America 's ? stepped-up fighting in Vietnam Is causing other countries besides France to reassess their alliances . The question for President Johnson now to face is whether he will continue this endless war in Vietnam to the point of pressuring the rest of NATO and Japan to move out of the American affiance system . How many countries will begin to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our warlike actions ? ROBERT H. WHEALEY Assistant Professor of History Ohio University Athens , Ohio , March 9 , 1966 ? Subway as Fareless Service To the Editor : The discussion on a likely fare increase for the Transit Authority accepts as its basis a fare rise from fifteen cents : This ignores a vast body of Transit Authority passengers who pay it 30 cents on one-way trips . There are apparently no recent figures to prove how many combination bus-subway riders there are . Even if they are not a majority of the total traffic , they must constitute a formidable minority , consisting of many who live in those four other boroughs and on the subwayless edges of Manhattan . Their 30-cent fare is greater than the 25-cent fares in other cities that are so often mentioned as a justification for an increase here . The question is , of course , not whether New Yorkers are receiving a bargain at any . price . This merely imposes an unfair and unpleasant burden upon the authority , which must play the " heavy " in a situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The archaic institution of paying a fare for a system without which the city is hopelessly crippled  --  the recent strike and complaints from businessmen attest to this  --  should go the way of the trolley car . Certainly , transit must be paid for . But all of us should pay , not merely the rider . Our Police Department has never shown a profit , the Parks Department has yet to declare dollars-and-cents dividends , and the Fire Department has yet to break even . RICHARD FRANKLIN New York , March 8 , 1966 ? First Loyalty of Police To the Editor : The affair of the DuBois Club is a timely illustration of the reasons why members of a police force can not be permitted to owe their first loyalty to the John Birch Society or to any other organization dedicated to the persecution and elimination of a minority or ? if the more extreme Birchers are sincere in their contention that most nonmembers are Communists ? of a majority . Encouraging Attack This is not to contend that any of the police assigned to keep order at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the charges against them have any foundation . But any Birch Society member of the police in such a situation would be sworn to encourage , if not to aid , a mob attack on any supposed Communist or Communist front group . This is practically a matter of religious faith ? of revelation  --  not to be questioned and not subject to rational argument . If individual members of the New York police hold these same convictions and behave in the same way of their own choice , as has been alleged in this case , that is a matter for the force to handle in its own way . The point is that members of the John Birch Society , the Communist party , the Ku Klux Klan and other quasi-religious extremist organizations of their kind have by joining pledged their first loyalty to these organizations and placed themselves under their discipline . If their duties as disciples conflict with their responsibilities as police , the revealed religion must come first . A few centuries ago this was a religious issue . At that time it was unthinkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or that Protestants would respect the paper rights of Catholics . The SS in Hitler Germany was not fit to deal humanly with Jews . Birch Society members are not fit to enforce and administer the law in any city where there are groups the Society is sworn to destroy . P. SCHUYLER MILLER Pittsburgh , March 10 , 1966 ? Nazi Archives Rescue To the Editor : As a former acting editor ( 1960-62 ) of the German edition of " Documents on German Foreign Policy , 1918-1945 , " I would like to comment briefly on the letter of Julius Epstein , " Johannes Ullrich " ( Feb. 10 ) , and the rejection by Frederick Wallach ( March 1 ) of the claim that Dr. Ullrich was responsible for the evacuation and preservation of the German Foreign Ministry archives since 1867 , the bulk of which was captured in the spring of 1945 by the American Army . Mr. Wallach is correct in pointing out that the evacuation of archives of such magnitude as those of one of , the central German Government agencies could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his ironic and deprecating comments on Dr. Ullrich . He was a man ' of the highest integrity and never a member of the Nazi party , an ' outstanding archivist and one of the most faithful pupils of Friedrich Meinecke . It must be assumed that he , as the head of one of the hidtorically most valuable German archives , urged in the line of his duties an early evacuation of the ministry 's archives from Berlin , although the decision had to be made on a high level : The evacuation started in 1943 , as pointed out in the preface to Vol . I ( 1949 ) of Series D of the " Documents on German Foreign Policy , 1918-1945 . " Tribute to Move Dr. Ullrich executed the evacuation with high skill and success ; the enormity of his task could be measured by the AngloFrench-American historical mission in Berlin , of which I was a member , when a large part of these ' archives were moved to England during the Russian blockade of Berlin ix 1948 . The documents were restored to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be made to the wholly unfounded insinuation in Mr. Wallach 's letter that Dr. Ullrich might have been a " collaborator " during his captivity in Russia . He had miraculously survived Moscow prisons and interrogations and labor camps in the Russian north ( not in Siberia ) , and when he was returned to . West Ger , many in 1955 his health was broken and his days seemed to be numbered . He never regainc-i. his health . Innumerable German and foreign users of the political archives of the Bonn Foreign Ministry will . gratefully remember him for his unfailing , courtesy and helpfulness . FRITZ T. Etiinor Professor of HistolIndiana University Bloomington , IXcl. , March 4 , 196:8                     