@@728116

txt Indians celebrated the centenary of the birth of Gandhi today by acknowledging that too often his precepts of nonviolence and Hindu-Moslem amity are being ignored by his countrymen . Against a background of the recent religious strife that took hundreds of lives in Gandhi 's home state of Gujarat , Indians ? at ceremonies throughout the country marking his birth on Oct. 2 , 1869 , in the harbor town of Porbander  --  spoke sadly of the extent of violence and division in the country . Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , in a broadcast last night , said of the centenary : " It should be a day . for rejoicing and thanksgiving . But my heart is burdened with infinite sorrow . How can I speak of him , and how can we rejoice , after what has happened last week ? The communal riots have made mockery of all our celebrations . " Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan , the Pathan leader , who is known as the Frontier Gandhi , told memorial crowds in New Delhi today : " It is distressing to see you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I wonder how you will listen to me when you have forgotten the teachings of Gandhi . " Ghaffar ? Khan had been a close associate of the shy shriveled man whom Indians came to call Mahatma , or the great souled . He witnessed and supported Gandhi ' . successive campaigns of civil disobedience in which fasting and marches helped overcome the might of Britain . In those years of struggle , Ghaffar Khan led the freedom movement against  --  the British in the Nortwest Frontier Province , now part of Pakistan . After independence and partition in 947 , he campaigned for a separate state of Pushturiistan for his Pathans , for ' which Pakistan jailed him for 5 years . After his release in 1964 , he went to live among Pathans in Afghanistan and continued his campaign from . there . Yesterday he arrived in India for the first time since independence to participate in the Gandhi centenary . He received a hero 's welcome . Tonight , Ghaffar Khan , who is 80 years old and has heart trouble , announced to a crowd of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against his doctor 's advice , he would begin a three-day protest fast tomorrow . Unhappiness Echoed.  --  , , . " I have come here to remind you of Gandhi 's teachings , " the bearded patriarch said . " If there is any place for me to protest , it is here in India and now I am here before you to protest against the violence , hatred and communal feelings prevalent in this country . " Other Indian officials besides the Prime Minister  --  who is not related to Gandhi  --  echoed the unhappiness of Ghaffar Khan . President V. V. Giri said that the week-long Hindu-Moslem riots in Gujarat , which were finally brought under control by the army last Friday , " are a rude reminder to us that we have not cleansed ourselves and that violence in its ugliest form still rules in our hearts . " Indian officials have set the death toll from the religious riots at about 500 but reliable unofficial estimates put it between 1,000 and 2,000 . Most of the dead were Moslems and most of the bloodshed occurred in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rioting began , and where Gandhi lived for more than a decade and launched the civil , disobedience campaign that led to independence 22 years ago . These were the worst religious clashes since the HinduMoslem killing that accompanied independence and the partition of the subcontinent into predominantly Hindu India and predominantly Moslem Pakistan . Gandhi was one of the several hundred thousand victims of the partition violence . He was assassinated by a Hindu fanatic on Jan. 30 , 1948 . Gandhi , who had disapproved of the division of India , had spent the months of the winter of 1946 tramping barefoot through villages in Bengal and Punjab telling his listeners that the God they worshiped under different names was the same God and that the interests of all Indians , Moslems and Hindu were identical . Lifetime of Self-Denial He was then 77 years old and had spent a lifetime of religious self-denial , perfecting the thing he called Stayagraha , or soul force . This was the wellspring of the campaigns of nonviolent resistance that he led beginning in 1913 when as a lawyer practicing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have Indians living in the Transvaal issued special registration papers . Through several imprisonments by the British and through many fasts he adhered to the view that a person must undergo suffering for the truth he declares and when discourse and argument fail , sacrifices must be made . With the spinning wheel he carried as his symbol of the good and simple life he became a rallying force for Indian nationalism , crossing his country and pleading for a nonviolent struggle for self-rule , for a rejection of untouchability , and for the spread of hand-spinning that he thought would free multitudes of poverty and of a dependence on shoddy townmade goods . As Ghaffar Khan prepared to begin his fast , Morelli R. Desai , former Deputy Prime Minister , tonight ended a fast that he began 11 days ago as a " penance " until religious peace was restored in Gujarat . No incidents were reported today but a nighttime curfew remains in effect in Ahmadabad.                     