@@723227

txt Paris The French-West German treaty-of-cooperation has been ratified by the French National Assembly , leaving only action by the French Senate to complete approval of the treaty by both eovernments . Vote on the treaty , after a turbulent National Assembly debate lasting until the early morning hours of Friday , was 325 to 107 . Its passage had been assured by a strong Gaullist majority in the chamber . Turbulence of the debate was due , not to doubt about the outcome . but to sharp attacks by opposition leaders on the European and Atlantic policies of President de Gaulle . Former Socialist Premier Guy Mollet , Radical Party leader Maurice Faure , and Pierre Plllimlin , leader of the ( Roman Catholic ) Popular Republican Movement ( MRP ) , led the attack for the opposition . ? Loose-Tic Base Gist of their challenge was that the Paris-Bonn treaty showed preference for two European Common Market members  --  France and West Germany  --  over the other four ? Italy , Belgium , Holland , and Luxembourg ; that Gaullist policy was aimed at preventing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfairly casting doubt on the determination of the United States to . defend Europe . The opposition leaders seized the occasion to revive the argument for a truly federated Europe . President dc Gaulle regards French-West German rap prochement as the cornerstone on which may be built a loose EUropean confederation , confined at first to the six members of the Common Market , but open eventually to others , including Britain . Reuters quoted President de Gaulle as saying he wants to make sure the United States and Britain do not " grab all the bedclothes " in the Common Market bed . Stand Explained Members of the entourage accompanying General de Gaulle on his tour of French wine-growing regions said Th ? sday he gave that explanation of his position on British membership in the Market at an official dinner at La Rochelle , Wednesday night . It is General de Gaulle 's contention that the ancient-nation states of Europe are not ready yet to submerge their individuality and relinquish their sovereignty within a federation . This theme was advanced for the government during the debate by Premier Georges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special Benelux links between Belgium , Holland , and Luxembourg nor to the close tics between Britain and the United States . Why then , he asked , should anyone object to special links between France and West Germany ? Britain , the Premier said , had chosen at Nassau to align its defense with that of the United States . For this France did not reproach Britain , but this choice had made it impossible for France to accept Britain as a member of the Common Market , he said .                     