@@727831

txt Colleges and universities across the country are hurriedly instituting changes and reforms , as administrators attempt to deal with student restiveness and to avoid the kind of demonstrations that have shaken Ivy League and other major universities . Long-standing practices and regulations , ranging from a ban on beer drinking at the Colorado State University student center to the preponderance of defense research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , are being increasingly challenged , and in many cases overturned . " In terms of the situation as recently as five years ago , student involvement and participation has dramatically increased , " said Dr. Kenneth Roose , vice president of the American Council on Education , which is beginning a study of campus reforms . " Even in areas where faculty resistance was strong , " he added , " the wails are crumbling . " A look at 42 campuses by correspondents of The New York Times also shows that change is in the air at schools throughout the nation . But it seems unlikely to most observers that many of the quickly formulated reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changes that administrators hope will prove soothing are essentially nonpolitical . The most common is the liberalization of strict dormitory visiting regulations that have irritated students ever since there were coeds . Others are far more political , Involving increasing recruitment and special programs for minority groups and changes or abolition of campus military ' programs . These changes , and academic reforms impinging on the entrenched prerogatives of older faculty members and boards of trustees , have usually come only after student protests or the threat of protests . At campuses across the country , the survey indicated , change has come in such areas as : 9Black studies programs and Increased efforst to recruit Negroes and other minority groups . 9The seating of students on policy-making committees . 9Campus regulations , particularly dormitory hours and women 's curfews . 411The presence of the Reserve Officer Training Corps program . 9Curriculum changes , and reforms in departmental structure . 9Nonscholastic issues , such as the university 's expansion into neighboring low-income areas . Some of the changes have come only after great turmoil , most notably at City College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the five points at issue  --  that Negro and Puerto ) can history and Spanish language courses be required of education majors  --  was reached only after two days of battles among students and the damaging of a building in a suspicious fire . But at a majority of schools reforms have come less dramatically . At Emory University in Atlanta , for instance , the protesters have consisted largely of a handful of pickets against recruiters from the Dow Chemical Company . But students say the administration no longer sweeps aside proposals for change as " financially impossible . ' And at Emory , student government powers have been expanded , and committees of the board of turstees and on most committees of the university senate , the joint faculty-administration governing body . Dormitory regulations have been liberalized so that only firstand second-quarter freshmen coeds have curfew , and men 's dormitories are now beginning to have 24-hour open houses on weekends and one weekday . At the University of Utah , the only school in The Times 's survey at which no reforms were reported , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek out student opinion . Many of the changes came only after students had staged demonstrations , sit-ins or building seizures . Others , however , came when the administration responded to proposals from the student government , student newpaper or other channels and some came as administrators sought to avoid confrontation , disruption and adverse publicity . At the University of Notre Dame , whose president , the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh , won accolades from President Nixon for his warning that protesters would be given 15 minutes to desist or be suspended , activist students say that a series of concessions have been won from an administration fearful of a " bad press . " Manifestations of unrest at Notre Dame began in 1960 with the " Corby riots " in front of ! Corby Hall , the residence of ' many of the university 's priests , protesting the 11 o'clock lights-out rule . The next ; year , when a group of 19 fellowship nominees threatened to publish a critical 80-page reI ! port on the university , the ad. ministration capitulated lights out and compulsory attendance at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a report on student grievances , including a list of 13 demands , but the insurgency was quashed when the university suspended publication of the student weekly , " The Scholastic , " which contained the report . Three years later , however , a ' student government plot involving threats of demonstrations and an " embarrassing " advertisement to be placed in Chicago newspapers by some graduating fellowship nominees succeeded in eliminating curfews the following fall . In February of 1968 , the student government reissued ' the 1963 demands and succeeded in setting up a joint student-faculty board last fall , which removed the prohibitions on drinking in dormitory rooms for students over 21 and established women 's visiting privileges for a total of 24 hours each weekend . Demonstration against the annual R.O.T.C. review presided over by Father Hesburgh , began in 1966 with 25 students and grew to 250 protesters in 1967 and nearly 500 last year . This spring , the review has been canceled , R.O.T.C. officials explained , because the cadets need extra time to prepare for summer camp . Demonstrate at Game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and when they threatened to demonstrate at the opening basketball game with U.C.L.A. , which was also to include the dedication of a $9-million gymnasium , a student-faculty committee was set up to establish a black studies program . " Political power at Notre Dame , " suggests Howard Dooley , a 1964 graduate now studying history at the university , " does not grow from the barrel of a gun , but from the drum of a mimeograph machine . " At Wayne State University in Detroit , the administration has increased student power in the hopes of chapeling discontent by giving students a 50 per cent membership in a committee to choose the new vice president of student affairs and a say in the selection of the new Director of Public Safety . Two years ago , demonstrators at Wayne State discovered files on student dissidents , the existence of which had been denied by the university . " The administration has obviously looked around at other colleges and does n't want the same thing to happen here , " said Richard Dresser , a member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now involving students more in the decisionmaking processes of the university . " At the College of the Holy Cross , a Catholic institution in Worcester , Mass. , not noted for the radicalism of its students , the faculty voted this week to give students a 12 per cent voting representation in faculty meetings and a committee voice in the hiring , dismissing , promoting and tenure of the faculty . Last week also , Vanderbilt University in Nashville elected a 21-year-old senior , Pace VanDevender , to a seat on the board of trustees effective next fall . Princeton University and Fisk University are also developing plans to put recent graduates on their boards of trustees . In hopes of heading off trouble , some schools have been canceling classes and ' holding open meetings  --  sometimes called " agenda days " ? ! to thresh out problems and ' come up with solutions . It was at such a two-day'i period of " debate , discussion ! and meditation " at Amherst ) College early this month that a ; letter to Mr. Nixon from the president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , warning that student unrest would not cease until the " shoddiness " of society was cured . The Amherst meetings also adopted proposals permitting students and nonacademic employes to " organize and imple- , ment an adequate minimum , wage , " the providing of funds for more minority-group students , the introduction of coeducation and a " student and faculty bill of rights . " Similarly , Massachusetts In-. stitute of Technology sus- ; pended classes for two days ) last week to discuss , among other things , the large amount of defense research it conducts . But the M.I.T. " agenda days " were the outgrowth of mounting student and faculty protestsagainst secret military re- , search at two laboratories . On other issues , the admin- , istration has appeared flexible . and there have been several changes in policy . Taking the initiative away from radicals , M.I.T. recently announced , fort example , that it would supply land and aid in constructing 1600 badly needed low- and medium-income dwelling units in Cambridge . " Confrontation politics at M.I.T. is not possible because the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication . " We expect plodding ineptitude like there was at Columbia . " Meanwhile , at many other schools where there have been confrontations of far lesser proportions than those at Columbia , Harvard and Cornell , changes have resulted . At Tufts University , in Medford , Mass. , for instance , a series of campus protests have ' brought on a student-faculty- ' administration advisory hoard , , increased admissions and re cruitment of Negro students , ) an urban studies program , liberalized dormitory visiting hours , the abolition of n.o.T.c. , the initiation of two AfroAmerican culture centers and the retention of a month-long free reading and research period . At the University of Minnesota , after Negro students ended a 24-hour occupation oft , the administration building , the ' president , Malcolm Moos , and nounced that he had agreed to find private money to pay halfl the costs of a black student conference , support the development of an Afro-American studies program and expand the directorship of a scholarship fund for poor students to include more Negro students and community representatives . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs , Mr. Moos promptly set up a committee on the matter . Mr. Moos , according to aides , like many of his counterparts across the nation , has been busily attempting in this season of discontent to stay one step ahead of every potentially explosive issue .                     