@@722430

txt President Kennedy is moving all at once to satisfy his own convictions , soothe some of his most vociferous liberal critics and nail down Negro votes for Northern Democrats this fall . Between now and the November elections . he and his lieutenants are planning to shatter a whole row of civil rights precedents and start whittling away at some remaining barriers to racial integration Negro housing , employment and voting may all eventually show the imprint if the Administration follows through on plans now under consideration . The actions in prospect naturally fit the New Frontier 's basic concepts of what is just and right . They were almost bound to come sooner or later under the Kennedy regime . But visions of 1962 ballot-box gain are certainly shaping the timing now Among the impending possibilities and probabilities : The long-delayed Presidential order banning racial discrimination in Federally-aided public or private housing , promised during the 1960 campaign , will almost surely get John Kennedy 's signature at last . Expected timingAfter Congress ' summer adjournment , to avoid upsetting shaky legislative prospects , but before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all private home building . and Government men frankly foresee widespread upheavals in the North as well as the South . A Negro for Cabinet ? ' A Negro may be appointed to the Cabinet for the first time . Robert C. Weaver . now the Administration 's housing chief , is among various candidates being considered to succeed Health , Education and Welfare Secretary Ribicoff when he steps down this summer to run for the Senate from Connecticut . White House insiders already are trying to balance out the political pros and cons of picking Mr. Weaver The Justice Department may open a frontal assault on discriminatory voter registration practices in major cities throughout the South : So far the Government has moved mostly in lightly populated rural counties ; it-is timeconsuming to analyze myriad voter registration applications in urban centers so as to prove discrimination to a judge 's satisfaction But Federal lawyers are working on a " sampling " technique designed to produce a representative cross-section of applications in a big-city area . If the coprts accept such evidence , it may immensely simplify court fights in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be established to take an active role in breaking down segregation barriers in employment . education and housing . Some officials think civil rights has become identified as a " liberal cause " ; by putting some " conservative types " in the forefront of the fight they hope to rip away this label and enlist the active support of businessmen and other community leaders who tend to shy away from anti-discrimination campaigns . As a starter , one solid citizen with good business connections . Atlanta.lawyer Robert B. Troutman , Jr. , is helping the President 's existing committee on equal employment opportunity to get corporations to sign voluntary agreements not to discriminate in hiring . Legislation Being Pushed In its 16 months in office , of course , the Kennedy Administration has already done much to defend and extend civil rights . At the moment , it 's pushing two significant pieces of legislation to help Negroes vote in the South . One is a Constitutional amendment to remove payment of a poll tax as a prerequisite to voting in Federal elections . The other is a bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting . It 's true the literacy test bill appears to face imminent death ; the Senate voted yesterday not to shut off debate , so Southerndrs are free to continue filibustering . But the poll-tax amendment stands a good chance of adoption . Already passed by the Senate , it 's awaiting action by the House Judiciary Committee , and Southerners are not fighting it seriously . Outside the halls of Congress , the Administration has been busy , too . It has informally advised and assisted on school integration in some Southern cities . In and out of court , it has attacked segregation in bus , rail and air terminals . This week the Justice Department asked the Federal court in Greensboro , N.C. , to outlaw racial segregation in hospitals built with Federal aid . The Administration has challenged job discrimination in private industry , recently halting award ' of Government , contracts to two companies pending proof of non-discrimination . And it has given Negroes more and better jobs in the Federal Government ; where before the Labor Department . for example , had only 24 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 41 . Yet the more ardent civil rights advocates are far from satisfied . One of them , the Negro minister Martin Luther King , tossed some sharp barbs at the Administration during a recent Washington visit . He lamented the President 's failure so far to sign the promised housing order and his " failure to stand up vigorously " for a broad range of civil rights legislation . This turn of events has its ironies . For in the 1960 Presidential campaign , news of a phone call from candidate Kennedy to the distraught wife of the Reverend Kings  --  then jailed by Atlanta police in a race incident  --  was credited with swinging a lot of Negro votes to Mr. Kennedy in what turned out to be an extremely close race . He carried Michigan by only 67,000 votes and Illinois by a scant 9,000 votes ; an estimated 250.000 Negroes voted for him in each of these pivotal states . During the campaign , too , Mr. Kennedy chided . President Eisenhower for failing to issue an order barring housing discrimination and said the Democratic Administration will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day the candidate declared . Many things can be done by a stroke of the Presidential pen including an executive order fur equal opportunity in housing When after several months in office Mr Kennedy had still neglected to sign start an order even militant civil rights leaders sere silting to alloy that bigger foreign problems were occupy ing his attention But last October the L 'S Commission on ' nil Rights a Government ins estigating group rekindled their impatience In a 20-page report on discrimmation in housing it pleaded for a sseepmg executive order embracing not only Federally - bac ked housing but most cons entionally financed homes as sell Within the Administration pressure grew to issue a housing order late last spring Proponents of such timing . sho at one point included Attorney General Robert Kennedy . suggested it could give Southern Congressional tempers a chance to cool before the las makers returned to cork in January . But it was decided that such a move at that time , by antagonizing Southerners , could jeopardize too much high-priority legislation broad tariff-cutting power , medical aid for the elderly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval for a Cabinetlevel Urban Affairs Department with Mr. Weaver as its boss . As it turned out , Congress turned thumbs dosn on the Urban Affairs Department anysay And now , vs ith action expected this session on many of the Administration a remaining legislative proposals , and a ith an election in the offing . it has been all but decided to issue the housing order in September or October . No firm decision has yet been made , however , on a replacement for Secretary Ribicoff Associates report that the President is " very high " on Mr. Weaver 's abilities as an administiator and is tempted to woo the Negro vote by putting him in the Cabinet . But he is troubled that this action may smack too obviously of politics . especially since the President only recently insisted that Mr. Weaver was the ideal man for the urban affairs job . An alternative HEW choice is Congresswoman Edith Green of Oregon . Some Fringe Benefits Those pushing the Weaver appointment cite some fringe benefits : Chances might improve next session for a favorable vote on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet , the race question would be eliminated from debate over the new depart . ment An appropriate Government opening as housing or urban affairs chief would be created for New Haven Mayor Richard Lee , who shelved his own Senate ambitions so that Mr Ribicoff would have clearer sailing And the housing order might become a little less unpalatable to Southern lawmakers if Mr. Lee , rather than Mr. Weaver , were its chief administrator Whether or not Mr. Weaver gets the nod . firmer plans afoot in Government could have far greater impact in expanding civil rights Xt the Justice Department 's civil rights di . vision , a team of lawyers is trying to develop a sampling technique to simplify lawsuits aimed at ending discriminatory registration tactics in the South . In the one such suit filed so far in a major population center , Montgomery , Ala , the Government had to analyze 36.000 registration applications , more than 160 witnesses testified at the trial Because of the demands of such activity , half the division 's 40 lawyers now work almost exclusively on voting cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept a sampling of applications as a fair reflection of all , these cases would be tremendously simplified . The first lawsuit testing this streamlined approach may be filed before this year ends . If successful , it will open the say for more suits in large Southern cities . And if many more Southern Negroes do start going to the polls Administrationpffi , ials expect practical Southein politicians will sumplN nave to pas more attention to their v. ants or else risk loss of poser Indeed this process ahead beginning Some younger Dixie legislatui in ( luding Sens Long of Louisiana and Talmadge of Georgia . are sounding out home-state Negro leaders to sin their support And Sen I.ong , among other Southerners. recently %cited for the anti-poll tax amendment The effect of this change could be to liberalize the Dixie delegation on Capitol Hill in personnel as sell as policies At any race . some Administration strategists foresee the eventual departure of such an unbending conservative as Mississippi c Rep Williams unless he does more to cater to the wants of Negroes in his district But officials are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not be an overnight panacea for all their miseries In Tex tell County Ga . for instance , the Ei , enhovier Administiation filed and son the foist of the voting rights suits yet to date only a handful of Negroes there have actually registered By contrast , more than 1,500 Negioes in Tuskegee . Ala sue cessfully registered following a similar court victory Why such a varied response ' Civil rights officials suggest there was better Negro political organization in Tuskegee. the home of Tuskegee Institute , and that Negroes in Terrell County felt very " dependent " on the whites and did not care to risk their ire by rushing to register In any case , its said , lack of education and economic opportunity are two of the biggest obstacles to Negro voting progress . These same obstacles it 's added . are slowing Negro gains of every kind , in the North as well as in the South . One official sums up . - Because of the lack of good jobs to look forward to , and the need for supplemental family income . Negro youngsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take menial jobs Unemployment hits them hardest . Crime and illegitimacy rates are high . " ' ArOhlng Could Happen ' " Almost anything could happen , " he goes on " Continued frustrations could lead to expansion of black Muslim-type extremism or something else . There 's just no telling who will come along to capture the ear and the imagination of these people . The situation seems to be worsening , if anything " Yet some Administration officials do see openings in the clouds For one thing , they were impressed with last fall 's peaceful school desegregation in Atlanta . Dallas and Memphis The Justice Department quietly encouraged local officials and businessmen to take the leadership away from rowdy elements . Partly as a result of that experience , plans are taking shape for a " big business " adjunct of the President 's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity . Business leaders would be assigned the job of convincing associates and acquaintances that racial barriers exact a terrific price in swollen welfare expenditures. climbing crime and wasted manpower . They would stress that race disturbances do much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights . Helping to mastermind Administration efforts on these and other courses is the littleknown subcabinet group on civil rights , which meets monthly at the White House It 's made up of assistant secretary-level representatives from all important executive agencies : among them are Lee White . Assistant Special Counsel to the President , Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall and Berl Bernhard , staff director of the Civil Rights Commission . Already this group has pushed Government hiring Of Negroes and tried to combat Southern pressures against Negroes seeking to vote . One of its recent recommendations : That the Government refuse to renew leases of office space in private buildings in which segregated eating and other facilities are maintained .                     