@@723027

txt London It took about a month for the British Atomic Energy Authority ( AEA ) to gird its loins and start hitting back at critics of its nuclear shipping nolicy . Now its reactors chief , Sir William Cook , has broken silence and answered point by point the chargesjeveled by experts outside the authority . The controversy arose in February when Ernest Marples , ' British Minister of Transport , announced that two seagoing reactors had been selected for further study . These reactors ; one the AEA 's own pet project , the other put forward by a Belgian consortium with AEA backing , were widely denounced by members of the British scientific community as being uneconomic , inefficient , and even dangerous . Allegations Made Allegations were also made that the AEA had " cornered the market " for marine nuclear propulsion units and unfairly dissuaded the government from considering plans put forward by private firms . The delay of several weeks before the authority replied has not been completely explained . But it now is evident that the AEA's.scientific claims for its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based . Chief charge of the critics was that in a packaged reactor system , such as the two suggested , the pumps used for pushing the coolant through the plant would have to be inside the pressure vessel and hence impossible to get at in a breakdown at sea . Sir William Cook now has replied that this is true of the reactors aboard the United States nuclear vessel Savan nah , which has never had any trouble . He also is convinced that the pumps planned for the British reactors would be so simple that breakdowns would be most unlikely . The pumps , he says , will be protected from neutron damage by the water they work in . His second point is that special measures will be taken to prevent sea water from getting into the steam coming from the reactor on the way to a nuclear vessel 's turbines . This will be done by installing a closed cir cuit for the steam , thus cutting it off from contact with the sea water used in the reactor 's condensers . Problems Faced The essence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project that have not been faced either by the United States or the Soviet Union in building their seagoing reactors , or by nuclear scientists operating land-based plants . Where his case still seems to be weak is in the area of economics . To justify nuclear- powered vessels , they would have to be competitive with conventional ships . So far no nuclear-powered ship has been produced that is so competitive . The AEA now claims that a " series run " of A-ships would most likely prove economic . Sir William has put the minimum size 16zeof the series at " about 15 or This is rather different from what the authority was saying privately  --  and the government publicly  --  less than a month ago . The impression then was that at least the second seagoing nuclear vessel would break even on costs .                     