@@727757

txt The British Parliament has gone into recess over the long Easter holiday with the Labour government openly at odds with the Labour movement . In the public 's favor , so the polls insist , the government trails the Conservative opposition by more than 20 percent . And Prime Minister Harold Wilson , now staying at his holiday bungalow on St. Mary 's in the Scilly Isles , has a crucial question to answer on his return : Can he save his country only by shattering his party ? Improvement occurs One can imagine both the national situation and the Prime Minister 's own situation suddenly improving . One can imagine a not unpopular budget on April 15 . One can imagine a surplus on the balance of payments and a surge forward in Britain 's productive investment . ( Already where the Board of Trade expected a 2 percent increase in industry 's capital spending in the final quarter of last year an improvement of 7 percent now is known actually to have occurred . ) One can imagine a marvelous summer for weather , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can imagine a snap election at the end of it . Policy tinder dry But what is unimaginable is that success can finally be achieved by Mr. Wilson 's government without a remedy for the condition of near-anarchy that exists now in Britain 's industrial relations . Yet what remedy exists except " the smack of firm government " for the trade unions that Mr. Wilson earlier promised the rest of the population ? His incomes policy to collapse . The month-long strike at British Ford , the strike of British Overseas Airways Corporation pilots , the demands of dockers , the Prime Minister Wilson . . . has crucial question to answer militance of the two most powerful unions ( the Transport and General and the Engineers and Foundryworkers ) both with leaders from far on the political left , all point to the extreme dryness of the tinder that surrounds Mr. Wilson 's policy for the achievement of a balance-of-payments surplus . Yet the national executive of the Labour Party has voted down the new industrial-relations policy introduced by Minister of Employment and Productivity Barbara Castle . In that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary James Callaghan , party treasurer . Mr. Wilson returned from his fact-finding mission to Nigeria with the alternative of asking for Mr. Callaghan 's resignation ? for members of the Cabinet must subscribe to and support Cabinet decisions  --  or saying nothing in public and just letting the steam escape gradually from the situation . It could , after all , be argued that the industrial-relations policy allowing ' for sane* // *Must Wilson shatter Labour in order to solve crisis ? // tions against wildcat strikers is not yet in fact finalized . The second alternative was made the more difficult , however , by the increasing pressure of steam applied by the left wing of the parliamentary Labour Party  --  the Tribune group led by that magazine 's chief , Michael - Foot . This group has issued a statement warning that the government is , in its view , headed for the most serious clash yet with the whole Labour movement . " All over the country , we believe , there is a rising opposition to the antiunion legislation it ( the recent white paper ) contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Will the Cabinet heed these warnings in time ? " At the same time Anthony Crosland , president of the Board of Trade , emphasized a further and largely forgotten angle of the trade union-government row when he categorically ruled out the use of import quotas to correct the unsteady balance of payments . Quotas are absolutely basic to the trade-union concept ' of a proper economic policy . Unions believe they can have their cake and eat it providing only foreign cake is kept out of the country . Firm action by the government to pro- ceed with the policies that it on the contrary believes are right thus could split the British Labour movement wide open . But lack of firm action could endanger the nation 's economic recovery and ensure that the party , although apparently united , was decimated politically at the next general election . It is perhaps the final test for Mr. Wilson personally , and possibly for the political Labour movement here .                     