@@721819

txt In a world increasingInstants ly devoted to " instant ' in convenience products , it Japan comes as no surprise that the Japanese people , in their instantaneously enthusiastic way , currently are undergoing conversion to instant products . A recent Tokyo dispatch reports that the Japanese craze for instant items has now extended all the way from typically American products like in ? stant coffee and tea to something that probably could happen only in Japan  --  instant cherry blossoms . While it would seem that Japan 's predilection for " instants " has happened with almost push-button speed , our own taste for these convenience items has developed much more slowly , an apparent paradox between the traditionally American get-it-donefast attitude and the leisurely , contemplative approach of the Far East . As a matter of fact , Among instant products have the been known and used in Incas our Western Hemisphere for at least seven centuries . The pre-Columbian Incas of Peru produced instant mashed potatoes by letting the potatoes freeze overnight , then trampling them to remove water . Dehydration was completed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lumpy powder was stored for use later on . The American Indian and his anthropological cousin , the Eskimo , knew the use of instant convenience foods , too . Pemmican and beef jerky , prepared in advance , sustained many a brave on his journeys , while dried fish , raisins and prunes helped his family through hard winters . One of the most popular True of our modern instants Coffee dates back in this country Flavor to the time of the Civil War . In addition to the other hardships our troops had to suffer , they were occasionally subjected to a villainous kind of liquid whose resemblance to coffee was restricted to color and temperature . The first instant coffee that managed to retain true coffee flavor and aroma arrived on the scene seventy years later in response to an urgent plea frill the coffee growers of Brazil . They were troubled by an overproduction problem so severe that coffee beans were being dumped at sea or burned as fuel for locomotives . The Brazilians put their problem before a Swiss-American chocolate manufacturer who had pioneered in instants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in instant coffee . By the time our troops were locked in combat in World War II , instant coffee had become so tasteful as to be counted a blessing rather than a horror of war . Today instant On the products swarm Supermarkets over the supermarShelves ket shelves of the nation . In addition to instant coffee and tea , a variety of other instant beverages are available . The development of the pressurized spray can has opened up a whole new category of instant items , including an antiseptic for cuts , spray enamel and paint , shaving lather , hair sprays , compressed air for flat tires , room deodorants , cream for coffee , sweet whipped topping for desserts , even lubricating oil for motors . Recent research in dehydration and freezing has led to another category of convenience item that is brought into instant being by the addition of either water or heat . Among these products are juices , soups , cake mixes and a variety of prepared foods ranging from scalloped potatoes to scampi a la marlnara . This not-so-instanChanges taneous revolution in in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speed , has piled up some impressive statistics . In the United States alone , one of every three cups of coffee is prepared from an instant powder . The English , who are sometimes thought to greet innovations as reluctantly as the tradition-bound peoples of Asia , prepare two of every three cups of coffee the instant way . Only France , last bastion of culinary conservatism , holds the line with a ratio of one in eight . Manufacturers of instant foods , cheerfully investing more than $100 million a year in equipment and research , confidently expect American use of their products to double over the next decade . If this is true , then family life by 1971 will have undergone a subtle but noticeable change . But some things probably wo n't ever come instantly  --  literature , the arts and happiness , for example .                     