@@721522

txt Democrats are looking forward with confidence to making their best Presidential-year election showing in New York City since 1936 . Republicans familiar with the current campaign generally concede that the Democrats have a sound basis for this optimism . The Republican hope is for some last-minute development to re'verse the tide . Based on canvasses of their . own , the results of The Daily News straw vote , other straw votes and similar indices , the Democratic expectation is that Senator John F. Kennedy will carry this city by a minimum of 800,000 votes and possibly by more than 1,000,000 . , Biggest Since 1936 That would be the biggest margin a Democratic candidate had received here since President Franklin D. Roosevelt 's plurality of 1,375,398 in 1936 . The closest subsequent approach was in 1944 when Mr. Roosevelt piled up a 771,263 margin . His 1944 showing would have been better except that Mr. Roosevelt lost both Queens 3 , n d Richmond Boroughs . Some Republicans fear that the Democratic . tide that ap  --  ears to be running in the city All engulf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , State Senate and Assembly seats . The Republicans now hold six A the twenty-two Congressional listricts in the city as well as ! our of the twenty-five State senate seats and thirteen of the sixty-five Assembly seats . Several factors are generally : redited for Senator Kennedy 's apparently strong appeal to Cew York City voters . Foremost among them is his wrsonality , which seems to Lave a strong attraction for roters of many divergent backlontinued on Page 35 , Column 2 tion at the start of the campaign was that many Democrats , who were disappointed by the choice of Senator Kennedy instead of Adlai E. Stevenson as their party 's candidate for President , would sit on their hands this year . This , too , failed to happen . Some of Senator Kennedy 's strongest support comes from Stevenson Democrats . The time ; energy and money being put forward on behalf of both Senator Kennedy and Vice President Nixon in the city are enormous . Both candidates have made more appearances and speeches here than their predecessors in any recent campaign . Despite the generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party workers are doggedly sticking to their tasks , bolstering their morale by recalling that most of the experts and polls were wrong in 1948 and hoping that it will happen again . Republican Hopes Here Republican hopes for holding , the Kennedy margin in the city to a level where it can be overcome by up-state Republican votes rests primarily on the belief they can get 1,275,000 to 1,300,000 voters in the city to cast Republican ballots . This is roughly equivalent to the Republican Presidential vote in the city in 1940 and 1944 and slightly higher than the Republican vote of 1948 . It is substantially below the 1,495,493 Republican votes President Eisenhower received in 1952 and the 1,548,132 he got in 1956 . If the Republicans accomplish their aim , Senator Kennedy 's margin in New York might be cut to 700,000 . This estimate contemplates a total city vote of 3,300,000 of which Senator Kennedy would get 2,000,000 and Mr. Nixon 1,300,000 . Four years ago the total vote in the city was 3,221,178 , of which 48 per cent went to President Eisenhower .. The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats are the two in Queens now held by Seymour Halpern and Albert Bosch and the one in Brooklyn held by Francis E. Dorn . Mr. Bosch is not a candidate for re-election . CITY 'S DEMOCRATS SEE 800,000 LEAD // grounds . Next is the support he is getting from Catholic voters who began siding with the Republicans in 1940 . Third is a kind of distrust of Vice President Nhcon , typified by the frequently heard comment , " There 's something about him I do n't like . " Democratic expectations that Senator Kennedy.will run better than Mr. Roosevelt did in 1944 are based chiefly on the pluralities they expect to pile Up in Queens and Richmond . In Manhattan , Brooklyn and the Bronx most Democratic estimates are that his margin wilI be no greater than Mr. Roosevelt received in 1944 . Alr . Roosevelt carried the Bronx in 1944 by 239,367 , Brooklyn by ' 364,344 and Manhattan by 250,563 . He lost Queens by 72,325 and Richmond by 10,686 . This year the Democrats are hopeful of carrying Queens by better than 100,000 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ News straw vote Senator Kennedy is credited with leading in all boroughs except Richmond . Vote May Be ' Under 1944 Present indications are that the total vote in the city will be slightly lower than in 1944 despite a slight increase in registration over that year . The registration system has been changed since then with the result that the rolls contain duplications.and deadwood that were not included then . At the start of this year 's campaign , Republicans in the city hoped to benefit by splits and differences among the Democrats . That expectation was dashed when Senator Kennedy sent in campaigners from Washington to get all the Democratic factions to submerge their differences until after the election . In lesser danger is the Staten Island-Bay Ridge seat held , by John H. Ray , the Manhattan seat held by John V. Lindsay and the Bronx seat held by Paul Fino . None of the Congressional seats now held by Democrats is regarded as being in danger of loss to the Republicans . ? Of the Republican State Senate seats , those that seem in greatest danger here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and formerly held by Joseph Periconi , now a member of the New York City Transit Authority , in the Bronx . In lesser danger are those held by John Marchi on Staten Island and Mitchell in Manhattan . Three Republican Assembly seats in Queens are viewed by politicians of both parties as likely to be captured by the Democrats along with two of the three in Brooklyn and the only Republican seat ? in the Bronx . In only two of the sixty-five Assembly Districts in the city are there prospects that Democratic Assembly seats can be won by the Republicans . In these cases the prospects appear to be slim . Except Per internal feuds within the Democratic party organization they would be nonexistent . The two places in which Republicans could conceivably replace Democrats are in the First and Tenth Assembly Districts of Manhattan . The First covers the Greenwich Village-Midtown area and the tenth the Yorkville section .                     