@@722535

txt Washington , July 9 ( UPI ) - When the state department sent Comedian Joey Adams on a southeast Asian tour last fall to compete with Russian trained bear acts , it did n't expect his wife to call a prime minister " Honey . " Not only that , according to congressional test i.m on y released today , but she described in a newspaper column how the Adams troupe entertained " one of those cranky princes from Laos . " . Adams , the testimony showed , made many . demands " including a personal car , a photographer , and special treatment from the ambassador on down . " Discussed in Committee The results of the comedian 's government-sponsored tour were discussed recently before a House appropriations subcommittee headed by Rep. John J. Rooney ED. , N. Y.J. The trip lasted 122 days and cost the taxpayers $256,000 . Ada ms was paid $1,200 a week . Adams , who is president of the American Guild of Variety Artists , was in the headlines recently when . he got into a shouting match with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . McClellan was investigating charges that some striptease dancers are forced to double as B-girls in the night spots in which they work . Some of the dancers are members of AGVA . According to state department officials , public reaction in the southeast Asia nations was " unifon:dy good . " They said the 25 member troupe 's performance was much better in quality than the kind of vaudeville and trained bear acts which the Soviet Union had been staging in the same area . Adams , Rich Quarrel Officials told the congressmen , however , that Adams and the rest left behind a trail of derogatory reports on their offstage performance which , according to Rooney , included a near-fist fight at Saigon airport between Adams and his band leader , Buddy Rich. , Rooney said unpaid hotel bills run up , by three members of Rich 's band caused the quarrel with Adams at the airport . But the congressman said this was " by no means the root of the trouble . " he said Adams ' " demanding personality " resulted in. both Rich and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tour was-over . Calls Attack Vulgar In New York , Adams and his wife , Cindy , said Rooney 's attack on their tour was " unwarranted "  --  and " vulgar . " " This is the dirtiest trick that has ever been done to 25 Americans who were trying . to do a job for their country , " Adams said . " I was terribly misquoted , " complained Mrs. Adams , who wrote her articles for the North American Newspaper alliance , for which she still does three interviews with world personalities a week . " They said I hurt people ? well , if I . did why have I had several handwritten letters from Indonesian Prime Minister Sukarno , thanking me for the columns I wrote about Indonesia , and also letters from Indian Prime Minister Nehru and personal thanks f rom Indian U. NI . Ambassador Krishna Menon ? " Called Me ' Dear ' " " They said I referred to ' those cranky princes from Laos , ' but what I really said was that they were cranky ' in that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were very protracted . " They said I called a prime minister ' Honey , ' and I did because I had no idea he was a prime minister and he had his arm linked in mine and was calling me ' Dear . ' He was a darling and I meant no respect . " Adams said that " we fought a good fight and knocked our brains out playing to orphans , hospital patients , leper colonies , the blind , and beggars ' homes : They were sweeping mines out of the theater in Saigon while we rehearsed . All of the American embassy ' women had been evacuated to , the , hills in Laos , but we went in anyway and gave a smash performance . "                     