@@721707

txt Shortly after TrygU . N. 's ye ' Lie ( Secretary Local General ) and George " District " Marshall ( Secretary of State ) negotiated the " Headquarters Agreement with the United Nations , " Ernest A. Gross became legal adviser to the Department of State . Writing in the American Journal of International Law ( January , 1949 ) , Mr. Gross pointed out that , since the Headquarters District was to be " inviolable " there might he " certain problems in connection with police operations in New York City " and asked whether the principle of " hot pursuit " would be applicable . Under international law , if a vessel within territorial waters is guilty of misconduct  --  attempted smuggling , for example  --  the naval authorities can engage in " loot pursuit , " capture the vessel on the high seas and bring it back to the national domain for prosecution . Mr. Gross did not answer his question , but thought that , as a practical matter , the United Nations would not permit its headquarters to become a haven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot pursuit " could be " settled in the best interests of all  --  except the pursued . " Indeed the United Nations had accepted a general obligation to prevent the Headquarters District " from becoming a refuge " for persons seeking to avoid arrest . Last Week , when What Does violence erupted in " Inviolable " the gallery of the SeMean ? curity Council Chamber at the Unitee . Nations , the problem of " police op. erations in New York City " was posed in reverse : Would Police Corn'missioner Stephen P. Kennedy bt I asked to assist the United Nations guards in preserving order ? He hae to wait for an invitation since , i9 making , the Headquarters " invioiable , " the Agreement provides that " Federal , state or local officers or officials of the United States , whether administrative , judicial , military or police , shall not enter the Head-1 quarters District to perform any official duties therein except with the consent and under conditions agreed to by the Secretary General . " His consent is also required for the ; service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States I addresses the General Assembly , his Secret Service guards accompany him with the permission of the Secretary General . The negotiation of No Roulette the Headquarters Wheels Agreement raised a Allowed number of novel points . Legally it may not have been essential that the State of New York give its approval but it was certainly desirable and the Legislature took appropriate action . " Sovereignty " was not trans1lerred , but " jurisdiction " was ceded to the extent that seemed necessary . Federal , state and local laws ' continue to apply . " The courts of the United States have jurisdiction over acts done and transactions taking place in the Headquarters District , " subject to the powers of the ; District to make the regulations it thinks necessary " for the full execution of its functions . " Thus , disorderly conduct in the galleries can be punished in the New York City I courts . Thus , no enterprising entrepreneur could operate a concession  --  a roulette wheel , for example ? that would be illegal under the laws of the State of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Com'missioner Kennedy can not send in his plainclothes men without the agreement of the Secretary General . But under the Some Necessary Headquarters Underground Agreement the Operations Government of the United States must give entry to the delegates who are accredited to the United Nations by their Governments . Even when the delegations include persons who are ineligible for entry under our immigration laws , the Government of the United States is obligated to give them access to the Headquarters District . There are various immunities concerning imports and taxation . The draftsmen of the agreement were not unmindful of problems on a lower level . There are subterranean mazes under the Headquarters District , and they contain electrical conduits , water mains and sewers whose continued functioning is of importance to ' New Yorkers living far beyond the confines of the District . The Agreement provides for the access of city employes to inspect and repair .                     