@@722309

txt Thus , these state systems are almost bankrupt . They are forced to make payments to large numbers of unemployed workers who may be unaffected by an upturn in business . When unemployment compensation benefits are made by all states during a serious recession , all states benefit . But when paymop are made out of state systems because of a chronic condition other states benefit ( as a result of these spendings ) without the states suffering from chronic unemployment receiving benefits in return . Location of Industry In addition , because of certain variations in payments by employers and in benefits offered to unemployed we are allowing ' the unemployment compensation system to become a factor in industrial location . We should not allow this system to become a competitive factor in industrial development . Second , should we have a direct relationship between taxes paid into an unemployment compensation fund and the benefits paid out ? If we federalize the unemployment compensation system would it not be more desirable , from a fiscal point of view , to pay out benefits in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiscal policies ? Third , should we continue to require workers to build up work histories in the form of employment and earnings before they are entitled to benefits ? The fact that a worker who has just entered the labor force is unemployed in no way diminishes his need for financial assistance . Thus , new entrants hi the labor force might well be considered eligible for unemployment compensation . Link to Retraining Fourth , should we not consider the question of relating the training and retraining programs to the unemployment compensation program ? In other words , if workers are unemployed because they lack skills or have skills which are no longer in demand , why not make their unemployment compensation payments related to their willingness to under ' take training for occupations for which there is demand ? In raising these questions which go to the fundamentals of our unemployment compensation program there are obvious difficulties and problems . But we should recognize that a program which was developed in the Thirties for cyclical unemployment might be ipadequate to meet the structural unemployment problems of the Sixties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of severe technological changes and new entrants , coming into the labor force each year in increasing numbers , many of whom may be inadequately trained for industry . We must reconsider the unemployment compen sation program in light of these factors . JACOB J. KAUFMAN . University Park , Pa. , March 2 , 1962 , U. N. 's Role for Peace To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a letter published March 4 Emery Reyes describes disarmament as a " technical problem " and one which is " both irrelevant and insoluble . " Peace , he argues , can not be achieved within the existing system of sovereign pation-states . Embedded in his letter is the familiar prescription for " preventing war , " through " discussions on the fundamental principles which may lead to the construction of a political framework within which conflicts may be solved by legal procedures and not by wars . " The fallacy lies in the misconception of the nature and sources of To Aid the Unemployed Reconsideration Is Urged Now of Compensation Program TO THE EDITOR OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buck Says Action Would Have World-Wide Effect in Our Favor The writer of the following letter , Nobel Prize-winning author of " The Good Earth " and other novels , for manly years resided in Mainland China . TOTER EDITOR or Tam Naw YORK TIMM : We Americans today are faced with a question of prime importance . The Communist Government of China , I am told , has approached our Government through at least two international sources for a purchase of wheat to an amount of $400 million . Until now the United States has upheld an embargo on sales or gifts of food to Mainland China . We have , however , more than $4.5 billions worth of surplus foods on hand . The question is , Shall we continue to ignore the human situation in Mainland China ? To this date it has been possible to ignore it , for the Communist Government there has insisted that they can not accept relief . Now the request is before us . They wish to buy food . A Gallup poll of American opinion , as of March 20 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of sending food to China . A report from Hong Kong in the third quarter of 1961 gives the following ration figures : nine ounces of rice to each person a day , with little else to eat ; two ounces of oil to each person every month ; 5 cents ' worth of fish to each person a month ; ten ounces of pork ( the chief meat ) to each person a year . Hunger and Passivity It is obvious that serious undernourishment of an entire population is reaching the point where any active revolt against the regime can not be expected . Semi-starvation is an ancient weapon of arbitrary government . The time has come for action , based upon American tradition and principle . We should sell food to China with the conditions , first , that the food is not to be resold to other countries and , second , that the Chinese people know the food comes from the American people , who wish them no harm . The effect of this action can be a strong contradiction of Communist propaganda against us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are compelled to resume nuclear testing under President Kennedy 's conditions , the fact that we release food to the Chinese people would counteract , to a high degree , the inevitable criticism in Asia , South America and Africa . President Kennedy is faced with monumental decisions in these difficult times . Let us support him , without sentimentality and for sound practical reasons , if and when he decides to release food to Mainland PEARL S. BUCK . China . Perkasie , Pa. , March 7 , 1962 . Weightlessness No Illusion To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : I sympathize with you in your effort in the Science Section of Feb. 25 to present the confusing picture of the physical forces acting on the astronaut . But it is somewhat misleading to say that weightlessness is an illusion . Of course , the gravitational field is still there , but the astronaut is in a special situation where this force acts to change his velocity ( in this case , deviation from a straight line ) and thus the acceleration due to gravitation is canceled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curved course of flight . HARVEY E. SAVELY , Director of Life Sciences , Air Force Office of Scientific Research . Washington , Feb. 28 , 1962.                     