@@727933

txt President Nixon 's decision to appoint Dr. John H. Knowles to the Government 's top health post , a certainty Tuesday , was cast into doubt today  --  but not necessarily reversed . In a confusing day of rumors and contradictory statements from various parts of the Government , the White House told newsmen that Mr. Nixon had made no " final " decision on the matter . It also said that the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , Robert H. Finch , who has sought for five months to make Dr. Knowles his Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific Affairs , had made no " final , formal " recommendation on the post to Mr. Nixon . Finch Visits White House At the same time , however , Mr. Finch canceled his appointments and went to the White House in midmorning , presumably to lobby for his candidate . He spent 45 minutes with the President , conferred with the press secretary , Ronald L. Ziegler , and met with two of Mr. Nixon 's most powerful aides ? H. R. Haldeman , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House counsel . It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Finch had succeeeded in his lobbying effort . ' Late this evening , prominent Republican sources , who said they had talked to the Secretary , said that he had failed . They asserted that Dr. Knowles would not be approved . Mr. Finch 's department announced that he would have a statement tomorrow morning , but Mr. Ziegler 's office said that the statement would not identify the nominee . That prerogrative , Mr. Ziegler 's office said , was reserved for the ' , White House . since the appointmerit was Presidential . Mr. Ziegler expressed confidence that the White House would produce the name of the nominee either tomorrow or Saturday . There were strong reports that Dr. Knowles was expected to arrive in the capital tomorrow , presumably in anticipation of an announcement that he would get the job . At the same time , however , it was learned that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had been ordered to make quick ! checks on two other prominent doctors . One was Dr. John R. Hogness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board of health sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle . Dr. Hogness was among the medical men originally considered for the post last January . Dr. Hogness said today that he did not know that he was being checked out and that he had heard nothing from the Administration . The other doctor was Dr. Richard Wilbur , who is in private practice in California , He is a nephew of Dr. Dwight L. Wilbur , a former president of the American Medical Association . The sudden confusion over the Knowles appointment may have been related in part to the forthcoming House test over the Administration 's proposal to extend the income tax surcharge . According to some reports , the nomination was being withheld  --  and conceivably withdrawn ? in a frantic Administration search for votes . Mr. Finch 's visit to the White House came amid reports that he would resign if Mr Nixon reversed himself and bowed to the wishes the medical association and its . principal Senate spokesman , ' Everett Dirksen of Illinois , the minority leader . Mr. Dirksen and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dispatch in this morning 's late editions of The Loss Angeles Times , written by Tom Foley , Mr. Finch was quoted as having said that the President " will have to find another Sec-i retary " if he refuses to ple-e ? ' Dr , Knowles 's name before the Senate . Mr. Foley , who has known Mr. Finch for some years , called the Secretary late last night after the Columbia Broadcasting System reported that the Knowles nomination had become uncertain . Mr. Ziegler , at a long and occasionally heated briefing this afternoon , said he had discussed Mr. Foley 's report with Mr. Finch after lunch today and that the Secretary had denied having made the comment . " I can categorically and solutely deny that he said that or that that resignation would be his intention , " Mr. Ziegler said . In addition , a statement Issued over Mr. Finch 's name at the Department of Health , Education and Welfare said : " I have no intention of leaving the Administration . I regard my post as Secretary as a four-year commitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed that he had not threatened to resign , they appeared to concur on little else . For example , Mr. Ziegler 's statement that the President had yet to receive a final recommendation from Mr. Finch about the post seemed to conflict with an almost simultaneous statement from Mr. Finch 's department . That statement said in part : " During the month a number of names have been discussed with the White House . Secretary Finch has indicated his preference for Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific Affairs . The selection is now up to the White House . " And George L. Brand , Mr. Finch 's information director , said the Secretary 's position re . mained firm : He still wants Dr. Knowles . Further complicating , the issue is the fact that the President , in his televised news con- , ference last Thursday , pledged to support Mr. Finch 's recom ' mendation and send it to the Senate for confirmation . It was not clear why the Knowles nomination had been cast into doubt , although most observers were inclined to think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might need when the income tax surcharge collies to a test next week . " I just do n't know which ways this thing will turn out , " said one ranking White House official , who asked not to be identified . " But there has been strong opposition from the Hill , and what the President is apparently doing is trying to weigh the virtues of appointing this man against the risk of losing important legislation . " As the word spread rapidly this morning that the nomination was in doubt , liberal Senators on the Labor and Public Welfare Committee were altoo nded . Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York , the ranking Republican on the committee , said he had been told the nomination was all set . The office of Senator Edward M. Kennedy , Democrat of Masschusetts , said that when the Senator was in Portsmouth , N. H. , last weekend to speak to doctors at a conference on " Medicine and the Ghetto , " the informed word was that Dr. Knowles would be named the following Monday . The office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been a vigorous supporter of Dr. Knowles , said the Senator " had been virtually assured by unimpeachable sources that it was all set . " It seemed likely that a decision by Mr. Nixon not to go through with the appointment of Dr. Knowles would evoke sharp criticism in Congress . All 10 Democratic members of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee , which must pass on the President 's nominee , are liberals regarded as favorable to Dr. Knowles . Furthermore , Senator Javits made it plain today that he would be heard from . When informed of the Los Angeles ! Times report , Senator Javits said to a reporter : " I 'm not a bit surprised . Somebody rocked the boat after it was all decided . His Mr. Finch 's back is up . He 's been over there at the White House all morning . lie 's really sticking with it . They 're trying to change Bob 's mind , and I do n't think he 's going to change . " Alluding to the opposition of conservative Republicans , led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee will go for Knowles like a ton of bricks . " The post of Assistant Secretary for Health and Scientific Affairs is of major significance . Its occupant presides over the Medicare and Medicaid programs , most of the Government 's support of research in biology and medicine throughout the nation , widespread Fed eral mental health programs and a broad range of other efforts to improve the quality of medi-1 cal care . Dr. Knowles has long criticized the private medical profession for its alleged failure to meet the health needs of the poor and the elderly . He is also a strong advocate of Federal health programs . A Republican , he worked for Mr. Nixon 's candidacy in the 1965 campaign . But his views on medicine are offensive to much of the ruling hierarchy of the medical association , whose cause Mr. Dirlcson has championed in the Senate .                     