@@724270

txt Premier Nguyen Khanh warned today that his caretaker Government would use force to put down any protests or strikes that threatened public order . A key element in his thinking previously was that the use of force by public authorities would only incur charges of harsh rule . But when the policy of Government laxness was put to a test late in August , street demonstrations got so far out of hand that the Government fell . The Premier has issued a new warning in connection with threats of labor unrest in the capital similar to the general strike that paralyzed public , utilities for a day last week . He also referred to political agitation in the coastal towns of the central part of South Vietnam where student demonstrations have been continuing in defiance of local law-enforcement authorities . Shooting broke out between troops and street mobs in the town of ? 4uinhon last weekend . Communists Blamed Premier Kbanh attributed this agitation to Communist agents who he said intended to take over a provincial capital . " We will put them down by force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Europe in numbers greater than at any time since the French regime in Indochina collapsed in 1954 , The Associated Press reported . Military Intelligence reports from Quinhon reveal that several hundred Vietcong guerrillas entered a nearby district town to join one of the antiGovernment demonstrations . The Premier insisted today that the transitional Government he set up for only two months ' as a shaky alternative to threatening anarchy would end as scheduled by Oct. 27 . After the transition Premier Khanh would revert to being a military commander . He said the new regime would be made ' up of civilians . He Leaves Alternatives Although many observers have greeted this forecast with skepticism , Premier Khanh repeated it with conviction at a wide-ranging news conference . He left alternatives , however . " All military officers who want to be politicians , " he said , " will have to get out of the armed forces . " Observers have speculated that it is not out of the question that the Premier himself might resign as a general and head a civilian government . Asked directly whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seized in a bloodless coup d'etat on Jan. 30 , Premier Khanh replied : " I have said it many times , but I will say it again : I am ready to give power back to a civilian government as soon as possible and will go back to my comrades in arms in the Vietnamese armed forces on Oct. 27 . " If the people want me in the Government , if they call on me to serve , I can not refuse . But it must be truly the people who call on me , not through any representatives . " Thus the door was left open for a " draft . " American officials do not see any leader strong enough to replace Premier Khanh at this juncture . Prenner Khanh spoke cheerfully and freely today . He seemed more relaxed and good ' humored than he has seemed at any other time since he stepped down as President in the August crisis . He praised the strength of the armed forces in putting down this week 's revolt of mountain tribesmen in the cen- , tral plateau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisers to mediate the re volt , thus belying the interpretations of local newspapers that he was holding the Americans partly to blame for the rebellion . The Premier said the tribesmen had been incited by " Communists and foreigners . " - The Premier also spoke out against certain foreign correspondents who , he said , had distorted what has been going on 4n South Vietnam . " We will have to take appropriatemeasures against nonsensical articles , " he said . He seemed particularly disturbed by ieports that said he had refused to travel outside Saigon by plane on one occasion because he feared that the Vietnamese Air Force might be against him .                     