@@726422

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Anti-U.S . Remarks by Mrs. Gandhi Denied To the Editor : Representative Joseph Y. Resnick in his letter published June 24 has characterized certain statements made by Mrs. Indira Gandhi as " bitter and derisive " and as an attack on the United States . He has obviously based his letter on a New Delhi dispatch by The Associated Press which has led to a great deal of misunderstanding . We have carefully checked on the actual facts about these alleged statements and found that the press report in question was based on hearsay . Mrs. Gandhi was on a visit to certain remote areas badly stricken by the present drought . She spoke extempore in Hindi in a small town called Ambikapur . On the plane to Ambikapur Mrs. Gandhi was accompanied by a group of Indian correspondents and your correspondent and not the correspondent of the A.P . Joseph Lelyveld 's dispatch from Ambikapur in The Times of June 12 makes no mention of these remarks . It is not conceivable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleged , on the United States , your correspondent would have missed such a scoop . Comment on Food Imports In explaining the food situation to the villagers Mrs. Gandhi did say that one of the difficulties in the way of providing greater food imports was the matching requirement . The United States was not even mentioned as the originator of this requirement , much less blamed for it . The only occasion when the United States was mentioned by name and criticized was in connection with the provision of U.S. arms aid to Pakistan which enabled her to make war on us in August-September 1965 . In reply to another question , Mrs. Gandhi said that the economic aid to developing countries was inadequate  --  and surely nobody denies this . As for pressures developing out of aid , is there any question that as long as aid is bilateral every aid-giving country does wish that every aid-receiving country should support it ? Mr. Resnick 's letter itself indicates that this is what he would like India to do . Mrs. Gandhi did not say that the United States was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do was to make the general philosophical statement tnat aia is omen panied by pressures . Finally , the remark about President Nasser being a " force for progress " has been reacted to in the context of his attitude toward Israel . We consider President Nasser progressive because of his opposition to the regressive forces of feudalism and religious fanaticism , for his belief in the secularity of the state  --  which is important to us  --  and because of his opposition to any military alliances based on religion which could be a threat to our security . As for attitudes toward Israel , our own is clear ; however we may disagree with certain of her actions , we recognize Israel as a state , we fully respect her sovereignty and are firmly opposed to her destruction . AQIL AHMAD Press Attach ? Embassy of India Washington , July 8 , 1967 ? Tax Inequities To the Editor : The July 4 letters column carried a plea by Ernest Clough that " Congress should boldly face the fact that higher taxes are needed to finance the expensive Vietnam war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact will reveal the unlikelihood that " the tax challenge in Washington " will be " met by our politicians with the same degree of courage that characterizes the actions of our fighting men in Southeast Asia . " For , alas , Congressmen who are so brave about " fighting Communism " across the Pacific seem to lose their courage to pressure from corporations and landlords at home , as shown by the recent re-enactment of the " tax incentives for business " law which was suspended last year . This legislation permits corporations to deduct from their income taxes 7 per cent of in vestments in new or expandec facilities , and also provides ac. celerated depreciation benefit ? ing owners of income-produc. ing real estate . Hence it 's a corporation-landlord bill help . ing the rich and powerful at the expense of the poor and powerless . Displaced Workers A year after the original ( 1962 ) measure was enacted , one Congressional estimate placed the resulting Federal revenue loss at $3- to $5 billion annually , representing the increased profit to corporations and landlords . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the " labor-saving " equipment replacing the outmoded machinery eliminated by these " incentive " measures , but no one has maintained these losses did not occur . As pressure begins to mount on and in Congress for legislation increasing personal income taxes , the Vietnam war will increasingly be cited as the " justification " for these tax increases , and not a word will be said about the lag in Federal revenue caused by the " tax incentives for business . " As usual , this rotten war will be used to camouflage the injustice of the measures taken to perpetuate it . ED HOFFMANS Cedar Falls , Iowa , July 5 , 1967 ? Billboard Advertising For Lottery Opposed To the Editor : The billboard campaign being planned to advertise the New York State lottery , as described in the daily New York press , is a matter of considerable concern to The Municipal Art Society of New York . We have long stood against the indiscriminate distribution of billboards , which are so often permitted to destroy both our urban landscape and the natural surroundings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , when a national crusade for the press ervation of natural beauty is at long last being promoted , by our most influential leading citizens , it is inconceivable that the state of New York should deliberately set up a program running directly counter to such aims . While we trust that the lottery will fully achieve the educational funds for which it was designed , The Municipal Art Society urges that the advertising of its purposes be confined to subway and bus posters , to radio , television and the press . RUTH MCANENY LOUD , President , The Municipal Art Society of New York New York , July 1 , 19 ( 17 ? Conditions in Bolivian Mines To the Editor : In a news dispatch dated June 17 from your correspondent at La Paz , Paul Montgomery , I read that " under the private owners , the miners . . . worked under treacherous conditions with little recompense . . . " . The truth is that in the Aramayo properties our efforts to keep working conditions as safe as possible were entirely successful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents . As to the " little recompense , " the miners under our management earned rather more than double what they are making today . It is difficult in a reduced space to give intelligible figures because of the complications created by exchange control before 1952 , but at that time the actual cost to the company of a working man 's shift , plus fringe benefits , was $7.19 . CAItLOS V. ARAMAYO , President Aramayo Mining Company Geneva , July 1 , 1967                     