@@726092

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Consular Treaty To the Editor : Your Feb. 4 editorial " Test of the Consular Treaty " bespeaks zeal for a United States-Soviet rown-m  --  hr  --  vot rather than good judgment as regards the cireornstances under which said treaty would now have to he concluded . Furthermore , if the treaty is in the best interests of the United States . it should be concluded on its own merits and not in the expectation of some incidental favorable consequences which , though perhaps desirable , are not explicitly defined by the treaty . There are some good reasons which argue for the conclusion of the treaty : it might , for example , secure for American tourists better protection against arbitrary arrest than they now enjoy in the Soviet Union . There is a good  --  and . I believe , a better- reason that argues against the conclusion of this or any other proposed treaty with the S viet Union : as long as the Soviet Union and its allies supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affiliated National Liberation Front , operating in South Vietnam , this country has every reason to assume that . the Soviets lack that good faith which is the essential condition of all enduring international agreements . One need not he a " right-wing fanatic "  - -  your blanket label for all those of your fellow citizens who do not share your enthusiasm for the consular convention  - -  - in order to object to the making of this agreement here and now . Furthermore , your stated view that the conclusion of this treaty is crucial to the choice between two momentous alternatives  --  namely , cooperating with the Soviet Union or reverting to the " hostility of the worst days of the cold war , " oversimplifies , to say the least , the problem of United States-Soviet relationships . Shift in Soviet . Policy This problem Is posed by longstanding and profound disagreements over such issues as the division of Europe and , specifically , Germany , and by the ambiguities of Soviet policy which , in some matters , is accommodating and , in others , notably the arms race , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a far more explicit shift of Soviet policy from hostility to cooperation than has thus far been manifest should precede the making of United States-Soviet treaties have every reason to cavil at being lumped with " farright extremists " and " rightwing fanatics . " Finally , your reference to " similar reactionaries in Moscow " as counterparts of those in our country who , as you allege , pine for the had old days of the cold war , reveals a profound misunderstanding of Soviet rule . Soviet rule , though it might tolerate some dissent within the closed group of power holders , suppresses ruthlessly that radical public dissent which is the privilege of all Americans , ' including the editor of The New York Times , fanatics and extremists of many kinds , moderate Americans of all kinds of persuasion and this writer . ROBERT STRAIISZ-HUPE Philadelphia , Feb. 6 , 1967 The writer is director of the University of Pennsylvania 's Foreign Policy Research Institute . Need for Braille Texts To the Editor : New York City 's effort to supply quality education to the underprivileged and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this area is being completely overlooked and ignored . Blind children , approximately 300 , are required to perform their school work without a sufficient number of Bra lie textbooks . Board of Education . crating on a budget in excess of a billion dollars , is unable or unwilling to appropriate any funds to create a Braille writing unit to prepare text material not otherwise available . At present the Board goes begging to various volunteer organizations to obtain the necessary texts . More often than not , the material is never produced . It is indeed reprehensible that the Board does not allocate funds to set up a Braille writing unit . The total annual cost of this vitally needed unit would be about ** NAVY Brooklyn , Jan. 28 , 1967 ? Doctors ' House Calls To the Editor : A letter published Jan. 29 stated that ' ' it is virtually impossible to get physicians in New York City to make house calls . " This view is largely a myth . There are thousands of physicians in this city who make home visits when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a family doctor before an emergency occurs . and make sure that he is willing to come to the home when needed . In New York City medical service is avallable at any time of the day or night , on weekends and holidays . Those who have a family physician should call him ; if he is not available , he usually leaves the name of another doctor " on call " for hint . However , if a , doctor can not be obtained , there is the emergency room of a nearby hospital or ambulance service in a serious emergency ( dial operator and say an ambulance is needed ) . In each county there is a doctors emergency service , which can quickly reach doctors willing to make house calls . In Manhattan : TR 9-1000 ; Bronx , DA 8-1000 ; Queens , BO 8-7300 ; Brooklyn , IN 7-9000 ; Staten Island , YU 7-3377 . The sick person calls the emergency number or tells the telephone operator he needs a doctor . He gives the emergency service operator his name , address , phone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephoning , will reach the patient in a short time and give the necessary treatment and advice . He will later notify the patient 's own physician . The doctor will charge the prevailing rate for a private home visit . ROBERT E. KAUFMAN , M.D. Chairman Doctors Emergency Service Medical Society County of New York New York , Feb. 5 , 1967 ? Abortion Vote To the Editor : When can we men learn to shut up and , for a change , try to find and follow women 's insights on legalizing abortions ? If ever there is a subject where Father does not know best , it must be abortion  --  and this applies to church fathers from bishop to the newest celibate curate , along with male legislators , doctors , judges and the like . A referendum open only to women voters might clarify some present arguments about changing the 84-year-old New York State abortion law . Since such a one-sexed referendum is not now legally possible , I propose that some foundation make a trustworthy survey of what New York women think and want , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . SAMUEL MIDDLEERf The City College New York , Feb. 4 , 1967 ? For Change in FederalIndian Relations To the Editor : This winter American Indians are facing a major challenge . In January the Secretary of the Interior sent to the tribes a discussion draft of a new bill , popularly referred to as the " Omnibus Bill . " and tentatively titled the 1967 Indian Resources Development Act . The Secretary has called it the first positive legislation to be proposed in more than thirty years ; he must have expected a warm response from Indian people . Instead , many tribes and organized Indian groups took immediate issue with him , insisting that this was his bill , not theirs , and that its provisions must Tepresent their thinking or there should be no bill at all . Tribal Meeting Last week the Department of the Interior stopped to take this reaction seriously . A group of Indian leaders spent four days in conference with the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Washington discussing the proposed legislation and its implications . Later this month there will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is important now is that the right to be heard has been won , the opportunity to develop new proposals is open , and Secretary Udall is listening . We can congratulate the National Congress of American Indians , Inc .. the National Indian Youth Council and tribal leaders from all over the country who had the coinage to protest what they felt to be arbitrary administrative action . If the Secretary and his assistants are deeply committed to full consultation on this matter , there is some chance of a major breakthrough in the old pattern of colonialism in FederalIndia n relationships . Many of us have supported RONI ) EL Amon ! , the children thronging at the fair On , roundabouts , or laughing on the swings , Hind like a morning swallow , tears and sings . Oblivious of adults and their stare . And wind embraces light on beating wings , ' Whose patterns spin vibrations through , the air . Among the children thronging at the fair On mu ndabouts , or laughing on the su7ings . And , wind is unified in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And dances with the swallows playing there Amon ? the children thronging at the fair On TO umdabouts , or laughing on the swings . RICHARD BURNS community reservation leadership in tribal councils locally for a long time . Let us continue our support as Indian people slowly but steadily mobilize nationally to participate in decisions affecting their families . their properties and their country 's future . There are other issues on which Indian views need to be heard , and soon . There is legislation pending for the extension of the Indian Claims Commission . There is the possibility that Indian Affairs may he transferred from the Department of the Interior to the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . What chance will there be for Indian people to state their positions fully on these questions ? ELIZABETH CLARK ROSENTHAL Consultant on Indian Work Executive Council of the Episcopal Church New York , Feb. 5 , 1967 ? Black Power 's Damage To the Editor : The news report of Feb. 7 on the collapse of the civil rights movement in much of the South is further evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Negro was approaching success . Social doors as well as political and economic doors were beginning to open . Then . out of fear of the new world he was facing and out of the release of the pent-up feelings of revenge , too many Negroes rejected whites and proclaimed a new isolationist cultural and group pride and identity . The anguish felt by whites was that the adherents of Black Power sought identity not with their fellow men , but with their ancient brethren in persecution . A Regression While thirty and one hundred years ago in America minority group members sought their identification and power in their own ethnic groups , this is far less true today . Black Power is a regression . It is a regression to an adolescent stage of wanting to kick father out and , indeed , to act like father . Some Negro theorists say that it is historically inevitable for the . Negro to seek power and identification , mainly or exclusively , through his own group . It is submitted , however , that this philosophy is inherently antidemocratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open society . Similar Human Condition It may be a truism , but it Is also true for the Negro , that his future welfare lies with the welfare of his brethren of all colors , religions and ethnic origins . This does not mean dependency on others or adoption in toto of the culture of others . It means recognition that the human condition is substantially similar for all and that a " black man " is 100 per cent a human being , plus the color of his skin . If across the land Negroes will welcome whites as their ancient brothers , the civil rights movement ? the movement for all Americans ? will rise again . ALEXANDER GREENFELD Wilmington , Del. , Feb. 7 , 1967 The writer United States Attorney for the district of Delaware . ?                     