@@727619

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Feb. 10 Monday 0111 ) ? Allied troops patrolling the outskirts of Saigon uncovered three stockpiles of rockets and other weapons ? including the largest found in the war  --  hidden by the Communists in preparation for a maior offensive in South Viet Nam . United States spokesmen reported today . One cache described as the biggest store of heavy weapons ever captured by the Allies was found by South Vietnamese marines in an underground tunnel complex 60 miles northwest of Saigon . It yielded tons of munitions . Communists had put dozens of rarely used but powerful 240 mm. rockets in the tunnels . All the dumps were grabbed yesterday . Expect Tet Offensive High-ranking United States intelligence sources said they expect the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong to open a general offensive in the area around Saigon prior to the three-day Tet lunar . New Year holiday beginning Feb. 17 . The hidden weapons found close to Saigon apparently are part of an elaborate secret buildup by the Communists for such an attack . Several of the caches were discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive from beginning . GIs Uncover Other Caches American infantrymen yesterday discovered two other sizeable stores of weapons , including rockets and explosives . One ' cache , uncovered 24 miles north of the city , contained 122 mm. and 107 mm. rockets , 24 boxes of . exphisives and a case of communist Chinese-made hand gretes . The other , locat miles southwest of Saigon , included 517 rocket - grenades , 62,100 rounds of small arms ammunition , 590 pounds of explosives and 23 booby-trap grenades , spokesmen reported . Yet another cache , containing 52 assorted weapons , was discovered near Tarn Ky on the northern coast . And near the Cambodian border 59 miles northwest of Saigon , United States army air cavalrymen located 20 tons of rice and more than a ton of salt hidden in the jungle bush . The rice , in 200 bags , could feed 1,000 men for nearly a month , American spokesmen said . Record Cache Found The arsenal found by the South Vietnamese along the MInfiltration route to Saigon produced tons of ammunition in addition to at least 300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rocket is a homemade device , combining components of the 107 mm. and 122 mm. rockets and improvising a warhead with additional explosives . It is about nine feet long and has a range of 10 miles . About 50 of the missiles were turned up in the search , officials said . Included in the haul were 10 tons of ammunition , 2,000 North Vietnamese army uniforms , 500 packs , 9,000 pounds of rice , 250 122 mm. rockets and a launcher , 333 rifles , 15 anti-aircraft machine guns on wheels which require five-man firing crews , seven B-41 rocket launchers . 39 mortar shells , and four pistols . South Vietnamese commanders said the arsenal was " not well hidden " and apparently buried only recently for use by communist troops preparing for fights around Saigon . Describe Expected Attack American military officials were forecasting today that the Tet offensive , expected against the capital and provincial cities , will be mostly a guerrila and terrorist operation . " There are some indications the enemy may go as far as to try to hit Tan Son Nhut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it would be foolish of them to try anything more than terrorism inside Saigon . American intelligence sources expect the offensive to be attempted by about 30,000 enemy troops poised north and northwest of the capital . Meanwhile , United States military spokesmen reported 24 Communists killed in an attack by United States army helicopter gunships and air force AC47 " spookies " in an area 81 miles west of Saigon in Kien Phong province .                     