@@726349

txt A motion that would have authorized distribution to all public school pupils of a leaflet seeking- a signed declaration for open housing was narrowly defeated yesterday by the board of education . The leaflet discussed " Project : Good Neighbor , " a program of the Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open Communities . It explained that the project would open the week of June 4 with programs over , eight television stations focusing " on Chicago 's need to achieve equal opportimities in housing for all men . " Declaration of Equality It also included a " good neighbor declaration , " which said : " I believe that all men should be able to live where they want to and can afford to , including my neigbhorhood , without restrictions because of race , color , creed , or national origin . " The leaflet asked the reader to sign the declaration and mail it to " Project : Good Neighbor . " It gave no explanation of what would be done with the signatures . Board members adopted a motion , offered by Mrs. Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the project . Redmond asked for board direction on whether the leaflets should be distributed to pupils . But board members voted , 5 to 4 , not to allow distribution . How Vote Went Voting to authorize distribution were Warren H. Bacon , Bernard S. Friedman , Harry M. Oliver Jr. , and Mrs. Malls , Voting against were Frank M. Whiston , Cyrus H. Adams III , Mrs. Wen dell E. Green , Thomas J. Murray , and John D. Carey . Mrs. Lydon Wild abstained . Earlier in the week , Redmond wrote the board members , explaining that the Leadership Council had asked the schools to cooperate with " Project : Good Neighbor . " He asked the board for a resolution permitting that cooperaram . Before the regular meeting , board members met in secrecy to discuss the issue and were sharply divided . State law requires that all meetings of public bodies be open except when discussing personnel or land acquisition matters . Question of Policy At the open session , , Carey asked whether using children to take home the leaflets was contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributed to pupils in the past has had to do " with school related problems . " , " This is an educational matter , " Bacon insisted . Friedman said that the schools , in the past , have sent home notices with children urging their parents to vote .                     