@@726766

txt The proposed agreement to end the Cyprus crisis remained in doubt tonight with reports that President Makarios was resisting Turkish demands for immediate disbanding of the Cypriote National Guard . Despite the hesitancy shown by Cyprus , Greece announced officially that she had reached an agreement with Turkey on the Cypriote situation . Page 17 . Archbishop Makarios , who conferred with Cyrus R. Vance , President Johnson 's special envoy , is said to be insisting on discussing the future of the guard only in terms of eventual demilitarization of the island . Another reported Turkish demand , a widening of the United Nations peace-keeping role in Cyprus , was also understood to be a subject of Cypriote resistance in the talks taking place in the presidential palace . President Makarios similarly believes that any change in the United Nations role should be considered in terms of eventual demilitarization and that it must be taken up by the Security Council . The Cypriotes generally oppose widening the // mandate as an infringement on ' their sovereignty . Sources in Nicosia said the Cypriote Government had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering these points ; when Mr. Vance left here Thursday morning after an allnight session with President . Makarios . The procedure that was to have been followed , as the Cypriotes say they saw it , ' would have had Secretary General Thant make an appeal to Greece and Turkey to withdraw all their forces on the island ? except for the 950 Greek and ' 650 Turkish soldiers provided by by agreements in 1959 for the independence of Cyprus . In addition , Turkey was to dismantle the invasion force that had threatened Cyprus . A secondary point , according to the Cypriote version , would include the dissolution of forces built up on the island since 1963 , which include the National Guard and a smaller irregular Turkish force , and a possible widening of the United Nations role . Cyprus had believed that the points included in the first section would be acted upon immediately while those in the second section would be dealt with later . Cypriote sources say that Turkey apparently had intended both sections to be firmly fixed in the timetable . The disagreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presenting the possibility of a new round of discussions for Mr. Vance in Athens and Ankara . . Mr. Vance , who has been shuttling between the three capitals , left Nicosia two days ago with what seemed to many to have been agreement on the terms of the appeal to be issued by Mr. Thant . Published reports from Cyprus , Turkey and Greece offering conflicting versions of the proposed pact made it evident , however , that disagreements existed over fundamental issues . The main issue appears to be the one concerning the national guard . President Mararios has indicated that , if pressed on this point , he would reopen the status of the Greek and Turkish contingents legally stationed on Cyprus . Turkey has insisted that they stay and Cyprus had agreed , although she wants them to go . The question of a new United Nations role also is sensitive point here . The proposed role has not been specified , but it presumably would entail a strengthened mandate for the 4,500-man force , whose main function now is observation and mediation . Cyprus has expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infringement by sovereignty , but has said that she would consider a change in the role of the United Nations in terms of an over-all demilitarization of the island . Turkey apparently wants a more specific undertaking than that . President Makarios was understood to have expressed reservations to Mr. Vance on Wednesday on these points , but to have agreed to consider them in negotiations that would take in the entire problem of demilitarization . Greek Cypriote sources are saying that if the Turks are now demanding more specific timetable for the dissolution of the national guard , then Cyprus would demand withdrawal of the Greek and Turkish national contingents . One Greek Cypriote said : " To put it simply , what Makarios is saying is , ' If the national guard goes , then they all go . ' "                     