@@724490

txt A one-year county jail sentence was imposed on Willie Summers , 17 , yesterday in North Boys court for the beating Monday of the principal of the Upper Grade center . Summers , who lives at 1604 S. Ridgeway ay. , was sentenced by Judge Saul A. Epton for the attack on James P. Maloney , 34 , principal of the school at 2040 Adams st . Judge Epton found Summers guilty of battery and aggravated assault . The judge said he had suspended 6 months of the sentence of 18 months because he believed " in a measure that this boy acted on an impulse " without malice toward the principal . Principal Tells Story " The principal represented authority , and he Summers is in a sense the victim of the entire community , " Judge Epton said . The defense had asked for probation and the state asked for the maximum penalty of 18 months . The judge said the jail sentence was in keeping with this theory : " When a community is shocked by an act of this kind , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Maloney appeared in court wearing dark glasses to conceal an eye that was red with hemorrhage . He identified Summers as one of four youths who had entered the school and had been ordered out . " Willie Summers was standing near me and hit me in the right temple and the right side of the face , " he testified . " I became unconscious or semiconscious . I could feel someone kicking me in the face . " Pleads Not Guilty One of the youths , Donald Redman , 16 , of 1309 S. Homan ay. , identified Summers as the one who knock e d Maloney down . Summers , Redman , and two other youths , both juveniles , were arrested Wednesday for the attack . The juveniles were turned over to youth authorities . Summers appeared in court in khaki slacks , a blue sport shirt , and a green car coat . He pleaded not guilty , then asked that iris case be heard ' immediately before Judge Epton . The judge appointed Cecil Partee , an attorney and a state representative , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goading of one of his juvenile companions . " The other boys told me to do it , " he testified . When asked why he committed the act , he answered , " Because I was with somebody . " One of 13 Children Summers has been arrested 13 times as . a juvenile on charges of stealing cars , burglary , and theft . His mother , Irene ; told the court that Wffiie.was " one of fa children , aged la years to 7 months .. She said her husband has ' been in a state prison since 1960 . Judge Epton , who was assaulted Dec. 21 in a robbery , said the attack upon him did not influence his verdict in the Summers case . " The attack upon me was for financial gain , " he said .                     