@@721394

txt Congolese soldiers beat a Canadian captain into unconsciousness and manhandled seven other Canadians today at the Leopoldville airport . The Congolese then withdrew from the airfield at the demand of the United Nations . The United Nations forces at the airport  --  Ghanaians and Sudanese  --  had been preparing to clear the airfield of the Congolese troops , " by force if need be , " when an agreement Was reached for the Congolese withdrawal , The airport was entirely in United Nations hands by 5:30 P. M. , but a " symbolic " Congolese squad of six men was permitted to remain behind as a token of the fact that the airport belongs to the Congo . Bunche Reports Incidents Under Secretary Ralph J. Bunche was snubbed this afternoon when he sought a meeting with Premier Patrice Luinumba . He was informed that Mr. Lumumba could not see him but that a Belgian aide in the Premier 's office would see him . Dr. Bunche did not accept the offer . Dr. Bunche issued a statement tonight describing what had happened to the Canadians . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moroccans and Indians had also been victims of rough treatment from the Congolese in recent incidents . Dr. Bunche expressed thanks to the United Nations forces for patience in the face of provocation . The United States Ambassador , Clare H. Timberlake , called on . Mr. Lumumba by appointment today , but left without seeing the Premier when a Congolese guard refused to let him enter . Mr. Timberlake returned two hours later , however , after a new invitation from the Premier . Eight Canadians Stopped The beating occurred , this morning when eight Canadian officers and men , here as communications technicians , went to the airport to embark for Luluabourg in the interior . As they were boarding a plane twenty Congolese soldiers with a noncommissioned officer arrived in jeeps and trained machine guns ' on them . The Congolese ordered the Canadians to lie prone on the tarmac . The Canadian captain was injured when he did not lie down fast enough , according to United Nations military forces at the airport . A Congolese soldier struck the captain in the face with his rifle butt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadians were kicked as they lay on the ground mid two were injured , the United Nations said . As the Congolese began to put the Canadians in a truck , a Ghanaian officer , Capt . David Amenu , arrived with a squad of Ghanian soldiers . o- Accordin to his account of the incident , he " persuaded " the Congolese to surrender the Canadians . Captain Amenu said that the noncommissioned officer agreed almost immediately but that the other'Congolese soldiers argued at length about giving up their prisoners . " They do n't have any ' discipline . and they pay no attention to their leaders , " Captain Amenu commented . He said that the Canadian officer , Capt . J. C. Terchereau , was unconscious when he got him back to the Ghanaian command post in the control tower . He was treated by a Ghanaian medical officer and taken to a military hospital ' ten miles away . The Congolese were believed ' to have manhandled the Canadians because sonic wore parachutist badges . Many Congolese are fearful of " disguised Belgian paratroopers , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congolese . The Congolese stripped the Canadians of money , cameras , belts and some hats . The Chief of Staff of the Congolese Army Col. Joseph Mobuto , promised later to recover these articles . His promise was given to Brig . Gen. Yassou ' Mangasha of Ethiopia , Chief of Staff of the United Nations command . immediately after the incident , the Congolese forces at the airpbrt  --  about 200 strong ? began to withdraw as the Canadians . imposed strong security measures . The Congolese troops had moved in yesterday , under , the cover of Premier Lumumba 's decree of martial law , to share guard duty at the airport . About seventy-five Congolese remained in a big transport shed about a half mile from the tower . However they began to filter back into the control area shortly after midday . Ghanaian forces prepared to use force if necessary to clear the field . At that point Gen .. Victor Lundula , head of the Congo Army . arrived and said he had given the order for withdrawal " to avoid friction . " Shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced the agreement as " symbolic " force to stay at the airport as " observers who will keep me informed of what is going on . " Colonel Mobuto demanded that the Ghanaians evacuate housing they have , been occupying across the road ' from the airport . He said the United Nations had , taken over the housing without Congolese ' agreement . General Mangasha in turn demanded that the property taken from the Canadians be returned . The two chiefs of staff agreed to try to give the other satisfaction on these points . In an incident yesterday afternoon five unarmed American soldiers were extricated from Congolese soldiers at the airport by two Ghanaian officers . Four American enlisted men and a lieutenant , came to the airport in civilian clothes . They were taken out of their car by the Congolese and marched to a hangar where they were forced to stand against a wall , the United States Embassy reported . The Ghanaians then arrived and persuaded the Congolese to release the Americans . A United States newspaper man , Waldo Drake of the Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ferry across the Congo river to Brazzaville to catch a plane for Nigeria . He was later released . . ; tr . New York Times John Diefenbaker , Prime Minister of Canada , who denounced Congo attack .                     