@@726557

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 44 Letters to the Editor of The Times Toward Negotiations With Hanoi To the Editor : As your excellent editorial " Generals Out of Control " Sept. 1 recently pointed out , it is gravely disturbing that our top military men are being encouraged to contradict their civilian superior on a major policy question : whether to escalate further our air war against North Vietnam . But I beg to differ with your suggestion that another " bombing pause " should be undertaken , as " an indispensable precedent to opening negotiations with Hanoi for a political solution . " I fully agree that Hanoi will not negotiate , or promise to negotiate , so long as our bombing of the North continues , but I doubt the usefulness of another , obviously temporary , " pause . " If Hanoi were eager to start negotiations , even a pause might give it the opportunity . But if , as seems more likely , Hanoi believes it is winning and has no desire to negotiate , then it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . It seems to me that if we really want negotiations ( and no other road to a speedy end to the war seems open ) , we must try to find a way to make it impossible for Hanoi not to negotiate . The first step would be to remove altogether what U Thant and the East European Communists and many nonaligneds  --  and Hanoi itself ? have said is the fatal obstacle to talks , without attempting to obtain a prior commitment from the other side . Official Stand on Bombing The coming United Nations General Assembly offers an opportune occasion to make maximum use of such a decision . If , for example , President Johnson were to announce our willingness to stop the bombing and were at the same time to invite a group of neutral nations to arrange a time and place for negotiations , the whole political atmosphere would change . Hanoi would then he under tremendous pressure to enter into negotiations , pressure that hopefully would be enough to overcome the steady counterpressure from Peking . As Secretary 's fact-filled analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military advantages of the bombing are not compelling , and the disadvantage of a cessation would be manageable . Indeed , there can be no certainty that Hanoi would respond to cessation by stepping up the flow of men and supplies to the South , as the generals so positively predict . The response of Hanoi might just as well be the contrary : the flow might be cut back to the pre-February 1965 level when we started the bombing . In any case , whatever the short-run military result of cessation , if such bold action on our part were to open the way for negotiations and an end to the fighting , the saving of lives would be tremendous . Do we have available to us a better method of achiving peace ? JONATHAN B. BINGIIAM Member of Congress 23d District , New York Washington , Oct. 1 , 1967 Permits for Guns To the Editor : In your editorial on gun control Aug. 25 you state : " Since one needs a license to drive a car or go fishing , it is no special hardship to require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submit that this is not a valid analogy . To obtain a driver 's license one must merely demonstrate a degree of proficiency in the handling of a vehicle . Fishing licenses are issued primarily for the purposes of raising revenue and gathering statistics and are freely issued to anyone paying the appropriate fee . Neither present nor proposed legislation , to my knowledge , sets any objective standard relating to the ownership , possession or use of a firearm . Presently , issuance of a permit appears to depend either on the subjective feelings of the moment of a police official or , perhaps , the applicant 's contacts within police or political circles . I believe this to be a most inequitable procedure and strongly urge the establishment of relevant criteria , specifically defined , to govern the issuance of firearms permits . There should also be a system of review of any decision denying a permit . JAMES M. SPECTOR Hartsdale , N. Y. , Aug. 25 , 1967 ? Negro ' Anti-Zionism ' To the Editor : It is indeed the height of irony to see a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often justifiably , accused white Americans of refusing even to try to understand Negro aspirations , promoting a resolution to condemn the " imperialistic Zionist war " and add that this statement " is not to imply antiSemitism . " In view of the polls indicating that 99 per cent of the American Jewish community supported the Israeli position in the recent war , it is the proponents of the resolution who are refusing to understand other people 's aspirations . To be sure , they are not implying anti-Semitism . Considering the mood of the American Jews , they are declaring it . MICHAEL L. TICKTIN Princeton , N. J. , Sept. 3 , 1967 ? Nigeria 's Resistance to Civil War To the Editor : Permit a few observations on your Aug. 23 editorial " A Way Out for Nigeria ? . " The secessionist move in Nigeria received considerable encouragement from the attitude of certain big powers who have indeed been traditional friends of Nigeria . We agree with your analysis that an unequivocal and categorical warning from these powers would have nipped the secessionist move in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebels were emboldened . They were further encouraged by what appeared to them to be some covert support , or at the worst , the neutrality of these powers . Nigeria and the United States have maintained friendly relations for many years . For this reason we are anxious that the American people he not deceived by the heavy propaganda dose unleashed in this country by the rebels . The people of this country must know the facts : The rebellion is led by a group of mutineers headed by a former Nigerian army officer who stated at the time he joined the army : " I know that the army will one day rule this country and I want to be there when this occurs . " He has since shown complete disregard for democratic practices . At least 10,000 people who oppose the secessionist move are now in detention without trial . They must know that two of the three states in the former Eastern Region of Nigeria oppose the secession and are held in check only by force of arms , a violation of their democratic rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and justice to prevail in all parts of the country . Accordingly Nigeria is now divided into twelve more equal states in place of the previous unequal and unrepresentative four states . This insures that no state or ethnic group can override the country solely because of geographic area or population . The civilian-dominated Federal Executive Council has one representative from each of the twelve states , except the rebel state where conditions do not at present allow the common people to choose a nonmilitary and popular leader . Probe of Officials As an indication of its desire to eradicate corruption and injustice from public life , the Federal Government and various state governments have established impartial judicial commissions to probe the conduct of public officials in the late civilian governments . It is a matter of regret that many of the most corrupt public officials in the civilian regime are now fugitives from justice and hiding under the secessionist umbrella . The present civil war is regrettable . It has been forced on the people of Nigeria , who must fight to maintain the integrity of their nation . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Federal Government had accepted without reservations all the points made to the National Reconciliation Committee by Odumegwu Ojukwu , the secessionist leader . All Federal money grants made to the former Eastern Region for the purpose of rehabilitation of persons displaced by riots were ironically channeled to the purchase of arms for war . We feel the American people must know these facts in order to evaluate the Nigerian crisis objectively . We emphasize that the present armed conflict in Nigeria is not against the Ibos but for the preservation of national integrity . AKIN 0J0 Information Committee Nigerian Students Union in the Americas New York , Aug. 26 , 1967 ? Church Schools ' Enrollment To the Editor : The Blaine amendment is anachronistic and unfair . : It must be repealed . However , when the Constitutional Convention voted to repeal the Blaine amendment , it also approved a provision forbidding any school receiving public funds to discriminate in admissions , not only on the ground of race but also on the basis of religion . The prohibition against racial discrimination is desirable and should be retained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to be eliminated . It would deny church-related schools their necessary right , recognized by the Education Law and the reasoned policy of the state , to give first preference in admissions to their own co-religionists . This would open churchrelated schools to the public at large and would destroy their religious identity . It is worse than futile to repeal the Blaine amendment and at the same time deprive parochial schools of their reason for existence . CHARLES E. RICE Delegate to the Constitutional Convention 33d Senate District Albany , Sept. 1 , 196 ? ? Our Dirty Subways . To the Editor : Sanitation Commissioner Samuel J. Rearing deserves New York 's thanks if he keeps his attractive white sanitation trucks clean as he has promised . If he can do it , why ca n't the Transit Authority keep its red trains red ? New York bought the bright red subway cars in recent years as a result of recommendations by T.A . officials and selected private citizens who had studied firsthand the transit systems of . European countries . Having lived in London for two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transit for the passenger . However , the psychological effect in New York is just the opposite , since these trains have not been washed for months or years or ever , and the red cars are blanketed by grime and dirt . Why buy red subway cars if there is . no intention to keep them red ? An unfulfilled promise is worse than none , and a capital investment without upkeep is money ill-spe2t . With the reservoirs overflowing , there seems no good reason why our subways must stay dirty . Such visible neglect adversely affects the impressions of visitors and natives . WILLIAM S. GREENAWALT Brooklyn , Aug. 25 , 1967                     