@@723121

txt Letters to The Times Letters to The Times Franco in NATO Opposed Spain Declafed Ineligible Under Present Regime of Oppression TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : According to a report from . Madrid appearing in The Times of May 6 , Spain has begun another of her perennial campaigns to gain membership in NATO . This renewed effort is prompted by Spanish , hopes that the outcome of the Italian elections may have strengthened Spain 's bargaining position with the United States in renegotiating the bases ' treaties , along with her chances of obtaining Fight Washington 's backing for Spanish membership in NATO . Our nation 's mental health was in a precarious state before our Negro citizens in desperation began their demonstrations . White Americans unrealistically deluded themselves for far too long that it was their right to ' set the timing on when and where the Negro could expect acceptance as a human being . Yet they showed no responsibility in using that time to start removing the barriers between our separate worlds . Legal gains reinforced white complacency . Whites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfortable belief that " These things take time . Progress is being made . The Negro is better off . " " Civil rights " are to the majority race in this country a legalistic abstraction  --  not a human reality and necessity . Crises around the world have conveniently distracted our attention from our individual and collective responsibility for achieving democracy at home . It has fallen to the Negro to demonstrate the moral courage otherwise noticeably lacking in our national character today . He has seized the initiative and has set his own time schedule . The time is now . It is he and his wife and children who are risking their lives for the right of the individual  --  to live in dignity . ELIZABETH S. FRENCH . Bethesda , Md. , May 7 , 1963 . City 's Teaching of Science To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the controversy mildly raging in your letter columns concerning driver education , it seems to me that Dr. Calvin Gross , his critics , and his defenders all miss the point . I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young daughters call " real live cars , " is or is not a frill . The point in New York is that here we teach driving largely in classrooms , with no real cars and no real driving . And this sort of make-believe education certainly is a frill . A similar situation obtains in science . For years we have been teaching " laboratory sciences " without adequate time for laboratory work , and in biology without adequate laboratory facilities . This situation should not surprise authorities at Board of Education headquarters . Between 1950 and 1961 , 10 ? count them , 10 ? reports spelled out the details of this situation . I find it hard to criticize board authorities for this situation . Laboratory work is expensive , and the money has not been forthcoming . I do criticize them , however , for persistently pretending the situation does not exist . I hope that this letter does not lead to the organization of another committee and the issuance of another report on science teaching . What we need is not more committees and reports , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chairman , Biology Department , De Witt Clinton High School . New York , May 8 , 1963. wise come to have no meaning except as they may become interferences to , or playthings of , the mob . The collective debasement of selves and the wanton damage that so often results seem to me to bo equally reprehensible . I fail to no how a responsible newspaper .. can condone them , and even suggest that there are degrees of excellence assignable to them . ROBERT F. GOHEEN , President , Princeton University . New York , May 9 , 1963 . Negro Cause Backed Said to Be for Survival of Democratic Nation ment of these words will not alter the nature of the Spanish regime , which has not changed essentially since 1939 . Despite all propaganda efforts to convey the impression of a " liberalized " Spain , more palatable to the West , today the Franco rights . Lengthy prison sentences are constantly handed down by military tribunals to civilians charged with the crime of " military rebellion , " a blanket term applied to every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the most constructive , authentically democratic and anti-Communist opposition leaders were sent into exile . Now , as an abrupt reminder of the true nature of the Franco regime , we have witnessed the completely illegal and unjust trial of Julian Grimau , his conviction of the cynically invented " continued crime of military rebellion , " and his immediate execution by a firing squad . This act of brutal authority is General Franco 's reply to the teachings of His Holiness John 30C-Ea , in his encyclical " Peace on Earth . " The execution provoked tremendous mass demonstrations of protest in Paris , London and other European cities . It was publicly denounced by European political and religious leaders alike . It must surely have closed the doors of NATO and . the European Economic Community to Spain . There can be no doubt that Spain 's presence is urgently needed in these international organizations . But only a Spain which abides by their avowed principles can be a harmonious and firm element in the joint functioning of the Western democracies . VICTORIA KENT , Editor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab Retaliation TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A vociferous minority in Congress headed by Senator Javits has urged America to reverse its stance with regard to the legitimate aspirations of Arab nationalism and unity . These gentlemen ought to be reminded that it is the Zionists who are the interlopers and usurpers in the Middle East , not the Arabs , and that if America endeavors to sabotage the newly emerging Arab federation , the Arabs have an immense retaliatory capacity to frustrate America 's policies there if she succumbs to Zionist promptings and political agitation . GEORGE HAJJAR . New York , May 2 , 1963 . President Goheen Assails Riot To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I find The Times editorial of May 9 on student riots incredible . If it was intended to be ironic it failed in that intent . If it was meant to show that their parents in their day could top today 's students in thoughtlessness and unrestraint , it badly blurred that possibly quite valid proposition . The trouble with rioting  --  whether it be innocent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that it so easily and swiftly moves into a mass hysteria , wherein individuals lose not only their restraint but their identity and blindly aggressive impulses make their crude force felt .                     