@@723366

txt Bonn Italian President Segni is on a three-day unofficial visit to West Germany . That he is accompanied by Foreign Minister Attolico Piccioni , however , indicates his conversations with prominent German politicians are of more than private interest . " The unofficial visit is not the measure of its significance , " according to one comment . President Segni has had talks with German Federal Republic President Ltibke , Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , and Foreign Minister Gerhard Schriider . Chapel Dedicated Relations between both countries have been somewhere between correct and friendly during the past few years . There was first the aftermath of World War II and the Nazi treatment of many Italians , many of whom succumbed in concentration camps , This left unpleasant memories which were recalled whenever differences arose between Bonn and Rome . President Segni has clone much to remove this wartime legacy . His first act during this visit was to dedicate a chapel in the former Nazi concentration camp at Dachau , near United Press International Italian President Segni On West German tour Munich . This is a memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that while the past is not forgotten it has been forgiven . According to President Segni , this act indicated that the German and Italian peoples unconditionally and finally condemned that painful and tragic past . The memorial chapel bears the inscription " Regine Pacis " or Queen of Peace . Britain Backed For some time also it has been realized here that the German and Italian Governments are moving in the same direction but not in complete harmony , despite their membership in the NATO alliance and the European Common Market . This is aggravated by the fact that the French-German treaty last January convinced many Italians that those two countries together wanted to dominate Europe . West Germany wants to convince Italy this is not the case , that cooperation with Italy is as essential as ever . Both governments also agree that political I nity of Europe is impossible without the inclusion of Britain , and that they must work for this end despite existing obstacles . In Bonn , there is also a desire to get Italian support for the German standpoint regarding the Moscow test-ban treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty enabling Communist East Germany to advance along the road to diplomatic recognition by being accepted as a signatory to that treaty . For West . German anxiety is still far from allayed on this matter despite United States and British assurances . President Segnt 's visit also included a trip to the Italian colony in Cologne . There are about 300,000 Italian workers in this country . They form the largest contingent of foreign labor here .                     