@@727293

txt Key Biscayne , Fla. , Aug. 9 ? Richard Nixon announced today that he will meet with President Johnson at his Texas ranch tomorrow for a briefing session on the war in Wet Nam . The Republican Presidential nominee also told reporters he has decided against visiting Moscow before the November elections . Nixon said he was invited to the Texas White House when he talked with Johnson on the telephone Iasi night . The former Vice President said Cyrus Vance , deputy chief United States negotiator at the Viet Nam peace talks in Paris , Secretary of State Dean Rusk , and Nixon 's running mate , Gov . Spiro Agnew of Maryland , also will attend the meeting . Agreement Is Told In a Miami Beach press conference after he addressed a closed session of the Republican national committee , Nixon disclosed that he and Johnson had reached an agreement which will keep the war from becoming a political football in the coming Presidential campaign , Nixon said Johnson pledged last night to " play it straight " with the Republicans and keep their nominee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said the President termed it " vital " that both parties present a " united front as long as the peace negotiations continue , " The President expressed appreciation that the Republican platform adopted this week " made it clear we would not undercut the conduct of the negotiations , " Nixon said . He said that Johnson understands that the Republican nominee must be kept abreast of what is happening on Viet Nam if the agreement is to hold up during the campaign . Will Use Helicopter In Austin , Tex. , the White House said the Nixon-Agnew party was scheduled to arrive in San Antonio about noon tomorrow and fly by helicopter the 70 miles to the Johnson ranch . After lunch , the Republican contenders will receive a 15m inut e intelligence briefing from Richard Helms , director of the cent r al intelligence agency ; a 15-minute review of the Paris peace talks by Vance ; and a briefing of one or two hours on foreign affairs developments by Johnson and Rusk . Press Secretary George Christian said that with the President in Texas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most convenient time for Nixon to accept Johnson 's invitation ? first offered when Nixon was Vice President and Johnson was Senate majority leader , then repeated at the White House July 26 ? to visit the ranch . The meeting will serve to update Nixon on foreign developments . It will be Agnew 's first high-level briefing by the administration . Christian said the meetings are private and newsmen wo n't be permitted at the ranch Too Much Time Nixon said he decided against going to the Soviet Union because he found it would take too much time away from the intensive nation-wide campaign he plans to conduct between now and Nov. 5 . He explained that he does not want to confer with Russian leaders without also meeting with chiefs of state in England , France , Germany , Italy , and other noncommunist European countries . Nixon said that such an extensive foreign tour would cut too deeply into campaign time here and might hurt his election chances . The Russian trip , which Nixon disclosed he was considering earlier this week , may be made immediately after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puts Off California Trip President Johnson 's invitation to Nixon to come to Texas caused the G. 0 . P. nominee to postpone for a day his arrival in California for strategy talks with top Republicans at Mission Bay , a seaside resort near San Diego . The California talks are to last a week . Nixon told reporters he planned to visit with Gov . Ronald Reagan of California while on the west coast . After California , he has scheduled a nonspeaking sweep thru the mid-west , including Illinois , and the east for more strategy talks with local Republican officials . Nixon came to this resort island of private clubs and summer homes this afternoon for a short rest before the Texas and California trips . Congratulations from L. B. J. Discussing last night 's conversation with the President , Nixon said Johnson congratulated him on winning the nomination and commented : " Dick , you have my congratulations and my sympathy . " Nixon said Johnson told him Vice President Humphrey , the front runner for the Democratic nomination , already is being briefed on the Viet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same arrangement . Johnson recognizes , Nixon said , that the partial political moratorium on the Viet Nam issue depends upon the President keeping him informed . He said that the Democrats could make " political hay with some great announcement " if Republicans were not aware of key developments in the peace talks . Questioned about the brief floor fight yesterday on behalf of Gov . George Romney of Michigan over the Vice Presidential nomination , Nixon indicated he holds no ill feelings toward the few dissidents who opposed Agnew , his hand picked running mate . " We disagree within the Republican party , " he said , " but not nearly as much as the Democrats do . " Experience Is . Cited Nixon said his selection of Agnew was " the toughest political decision I ever made . " He said other Republicans were given consideration " down to the wire , " and included among these Gov . Romney , Gov . Raymond Shafer of Pennsylvania , and Gov . John H. Volpe of Massachusetts . He said Gov . Reagan and Mayor John V. Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential post when he arrived at the convention last Monday . He said he settled on Agnew because of his 10 years of experience as a local government administrator . Agnew was county executive of Baltimore county before being elected governor of Maryland in 1966 . Nixon said he found Agnew an attractive running mate because " there can be a mystique about the man . You can look him in the eye and you know he 's got it . " People say he 's not known , " Nixon said . " That 's nonsense in this day and age . He 's known now and as the campaign goes on he'll.become better known . " Nixon described Agnew as " one of the most underrated men in America . "                     