@@723715

txt Mrs. John F. Kennedy thanked the 800,000 persons from all over the world who have sent her and her two children messages of sympathy and grief . ' It was her first public statement in the 53 days since the assassination of her husband . She spoke before television cameras in the vaulted office of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , who has been a constant comfort to her from the day of his older brother 's death ? The Attorney General 's younger brother , Senator Edward M. Kennedy , sat with him on a bright red sofa facing the former First Lady . She perched on the edge of a deep leather chair . Several times in her talk Mrs. Kennedy faltered slightly and held back tears . Her voice was barely audible to those standing a dozen feet away . She was dressed in a collarless black wool suit . The sole piece of jewelry she wore was her gold wedding band . " The knowledge of the affection in which my husband was held by all of you has sustained me , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never forget , " she said . " Wgnever I can bear to , I read them . " " All his bright light gone from .. the world , " she said , speaking more slowly . " Alf of you who have written to me know how much we all loved him . . " Mrs. Kennedy hesitated , her eyes brimming . then went on , " . . . and that he returned that love in full measure . " Her voice grew stronger as she said : " It is my greatest wish that all of these letters be acknowledged . It will take a long time to do so , but I know you will understand . " Before the television cameras began to whirr , Mrs. Kennedy sat . chatting and smiling with her brothers-in-law in front of a crackling log fire . She grew solemn when the time came for her message . Her hands were tightly clasped in her lap . She told her audience that " each and every message is to be treasured " for her children and for future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy 's papers in the memorial library at Cambridge , Mass . " I hope that you and your children will be able to visit the Kennedy library , " she said . When her 13-sentence statement was finished , she swallowed hard and looked at the Attorney General and his brother without speaking . It was discovered afterward that there had been a technical breakdown . The American Broadcasting Company transmitted a picture of Mrs. Kennedy but no sound . The National Broadcasting Company had neither . The Columbia Broadcasting System had both picture and sound and made its videotape available to the other networks . Letters Made Public A few minutes after making her statement , Mrs. Kennedy returned from an adjoining room to the Attorney General 's office . He was at her side . She walked toward a cluster of reporters she remembered from White House days . They scattered , thinking she wished to make her way through the crowd . " Why are you all running away ? " she said , and stretched out her hand . smiling . " I wanted to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hundreds of thousands of letters she had received from every section of this country and from such foreign cities as Addis Ababa , Saigon , Moscow , Paris and Ljubljana , Yugoslavia . " I know this letter will probably never reach your hands " was a typical opening phrase . A secretary at the University of Alabama whose husband is a graduate student there told how she heard the first news of the assassination : " The Negro maid and I were in the kitchen of the building where I work when we heard the heart-shattering news of the shooting of your husband . We clung together , praying that he would live . Lolina , with tears running down her face , cried , ' He 's the only one who has really tried to help us . Oh . please do n't let him die . ' "                     