@@727899

txt The Judicial Conference of the United States laid down stiff new rules today that forbid all Federal judges except members of the Supreme Court to accept outside fees . The rules also 4crequire all lower Federal judges to file annual reports of their investments and other assets . " My understanding is that our conference has no jurisdiction over the Supreme Court , " said Robert A. Ainsworth Jr. , a Federal Court of Appeals judge , who presided over the committee that drafted the rules at the behest of Chief Justice Earl Warren . Judge Ainsworth add &; that the members of the Supreme , Court " will have to speak for themselves . " Panel Goes to Work Chief Justice Warren called Judge Ainsworth 's committee into action on May 16 , the day after Justice Abe Fortas announced his resignation from the Supreme Court under fire for having temporarily accepted a $20,000 fee from the family foundation of the convicted stock manipulator Louis E. Wolfson . It was widely reported that the Chief Justice hoped to head off Congressional measures to police the judiciary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judiciary 's belief that " the matter of discipline by Federal judges should be done by themselves . " However , today 's action could have the effect of stirring up more strident demands for Congressional action because the Supreme Court is untouched . New Pressures Indicated It is believed in some quarters that Chief Justice Warren allowed the double standard to develop , knowing that it would bring the independent-minded group of : men on the Supreme Court under intense pressure to adopt the new standards formally . These observers think that by the time the high court , imeets for its weekly confer ence on Friday , the pressure to embrace the new standards openly will be overwhelming . There have been recent indications that some Justices plan to conform to the new standards even though they are not bound by them . Justice William J. Brennan Jr . has been canceling public lectures and has withdrawn from the faculty of the appellate judges ' seminar , an annual refresher course for judges at // the New York University Law ! School . However , Justices Hugo L.i Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series of dissents that the independence of the judiciary would be threat-1 ened if judges could he dis-i ciplined by their fellows or pun- ! ished in any way short of impeachment . Justice Douglas was not available for comment , but his lecture agent said last week , that the Justice had not told him to stop hooking lecures . The resolution adopted by the 25-member Judicial Con- , ference barred all judges from accepting any outside compensation , including lecture fees . However , under special circumstances , the judges of a Circuit Court of Appeals might permit a judge in the circuit to accept a fee . These rules are more stringent than any that have been suggested in Congress . All income from writing , teaching , consulting and any other nonjudicial services would be ruled out , and judges would be allowed to accept only income from investments , other than their pay . Furthermore , any income from outside sources that might be allowed would have to be made public . Beginning May 15 , 1970 , the judges will file statements giving all investments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will decide later what public disclosure will be made of this data , if any . A code o : ethical conduct will be dro.Ovn up by Judge Ainsworth 's Committee on Court Administration for adoption later by the Judicial Conference . Judge Ainsworth said that a difference of opinion existed within the judiciary as to whether the judiciary had the ' , inherent power to punish any , judges who disobeyed the new , rules . To clear up the doubts , : the Judicial Conference will ! prepare legislation to recommend to Congress . The judge said the conference would ask for the power to impose sanctions nn judges who disobyed . Ernest C. Friesen Jr. , director of the administrative office of the United States Courts . said that Senator Joseph D. Tydings , a Maryland Democrat who is sponsoring a judicial reform bill , met briefly with the judges this morning in the Supreme Court . Attorney General John N. Mitchell and the newly confirmed Chief Justice , Warren E. Burger , were invited but thought , that it would be inappropriate for them to attend , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn . chairman of the House Judiciary Committee , was also invited but did not appear . Senator Tydings issued a statement praising the " major steps " taken by the Judicial Conference but declaring that he would continue to press for legislation to set up a panel of judges who could remove disabled or unfit judges . The Judicial Conference was created by Congress in 1922 to advise and assist in improving the Federal judiciary . The Chief Justice presides over the group , which includes the chief judges and a district judge from each of the 11 judicial circuits plus the ranking judges at the Court of Claims and the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals . It normally meets in February and September . Chief Justice Warren called today 's special meeting to act on the new rules .                     