@@724900

txt President Johnson asked today that a report be submitted to him within a week on how the Federal Government could help alleviate the " urgent water problem " in the New England and Middle Atlantic States . The President instructed Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall to call the Ad Hoc Water Resources Council together immediately to study the ques- , tion . The council is made up of Government officials whose departments deal With water problems . An Interior Department spokesman said that Mr. Udall hoped to call a meeting not later than Friday . Mr. Johnson said that the council would assess what further actions might be taken to assist the states in meeting the water problems now confronting the two regions . May Transport Water Some of the possibilities expected to be considered by the council are the use of flood control dams to create reservoirs , civilian use of reservoir systems at abandoned military installations , and transporting water supplies by tank car to emergency areas . Mr. Johnson met on the water problem with Buford Ellington , head of the Office- of Emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governors . The White House said that the President had asked Mr. Ellington to move ahead " as rapidly and efficiently as possible " with mobilizing the resources of the Federal Govern. - ment to help the states involved cope with the water shortage . Ellington Is Coordinator Mr. Ellington will work with the Water Resources Council and will coordinate Federal and state activities to deal with the situation , In New York , water conservation programs for the metropolitan area of 14 million population were stepped up and officials looked for ways to avoid further shortages . Page 59 . ) , Mr. Johnson said it would require imaginative planning , a willingness to cooperate and some sacrifices if the nation was to make the best use of its water resources . " We must move quickly and firmly to preserve what we have and what we receive , " he said , " An abundance of water is critical for the present generation of Americans and a vital legacy for the next ? ! Mr. Johnson said that the Water Resources Council would ! obtain the views of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doclared the four-state Delaware River Basin area to be in a state of drought emergency .. The basin supplies one-third of , New York City 's water . The commission is composed of the Governors of New York , New Jersey , Pennsylvania . and Delaware , and Mr. Udall . Meanwhile , the Senate approved today and sent to the White House legislation providing , for a 10-year , $50 million program to develop the nation 's water resources . The measure , approved by the House yesterday , establishes a Federal Water Resources Council and authorizes $5 million a year for the next 10 years in grants to states to help them develop comprehensive water resources plans . It also authorizes the President to set up river basin commissions to study ways of using water supplies to the best advantage .                     