@@725486

txt France and West Germany , still poles apart in outlook , will buckle down next month to final negotiations on the future of 70.000 French troops in Germany . Meanwhile , the United States and Britain plus 11 other NATO partners will coordinate the policy that Bonn will take to the French bargaining table . This much emerged from initial probing talks conducted in Bonn Monday between West German Foreign Minister Gerhard SchrOder and his French opposite nummer , Maurice Couve de Murville . Both sides declined comment on the talks , which officially were labeled " routine " - consultations within the framework of the French-German Treaty of Cooperation of January , 1963 . In fact , this was the first high-level confrontation between Bonn and Paris since President de Gaulle announced he was pulling French troops out of NATO July 1 . Both governments apparently would like to keep the French troops in question  --  two divisions and several air force squadrons ? on German soil after July 1 , But here agreement ended . Pact disputed Mr. Schriider reportedly insisted that the Status of Forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to keep its troops in Germany once France has withdrawn from NATO . Mr. Couve de Murville is believed to have repeated the French view that the 1954 agreement stands on its own and is not dependent on membership in NATO . Paris and Bonn , in other words , interpret differently the legal documents which ended the postwar occupation of Germany and welcomed the Federal Republic into NATO membership . The first of these documents was the Status of Forces Agreement of May 26 , 1952 , later amended by the Paris treaties of Oct. 23 , 1954 . These agreements gave the United States , Britain , and France the continuing right to base in the Federal Republic " military forces of the same nationality and effective strength " as had been the case before the treaties came into force . No time limit No time limit was set on this right . The agreements would be dissolved when a peace treaty had been concluded with a united Germany . That event looks as far away as ever . In the French view , a withdrawal from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forces in Germany . But a third document is involved ? the so-called London Final Act of Oct. 3 , 1954 . In this act the Federal Republic of Germany accepted the obligations of NATO membership . The London Final Act declared that all military forces of member states stationed on the European continent , except those retained under national control , would be placed under NATO command . This declaration was ratified by the 15-member NATO Council including France on Oct. 23 , 1954 . West Germany , backed up by every other member of NATO except France , holds that the whole bundle of treaties is linked to NATO . Dr. Schrtider reportedly informed the French Foreign Minister that a new status for French troops must be found by July 1 or they would lose their right to be in Germany . The problem breaks down into two parts  --  a " housekeeping " arrangement in peacetime and a clearly defined command link between French troops and-the NATO Supreme Commander in time of war . As to housekeeping , Bonn reportedly wants an arrangement similar to that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bilateral treaty signed in 1960 . France commands the bases on which German troops are quartered . But German officers command their own soldiers . The reverse would be true for French forces in Germany . Meanwhile , an American-British-German " working group , " established April 16 , will thresh out a joint policy . This will be communicated to NATO 's other partners for their approval . At the end of this process West Germany ? negotiating for itself and its NATO allies ? will get down to brass tacks with the envoys of General de Gaulle .                     