@@728183

txt The House Foreign Affairs Committee 's approval yesterday of President Nixon 's efforts " to negotiate a just peace in Vietnam " implies an endorsement of his policies hardly justified by the President 's address to the nation earlier this week . Mr. Nixon 's longheralded " plan for peace " has emerged , in fact , as a familiar program that contains nothing new and is founded on old premises and policies that have mired the United States in a debilitating conflict of indeterminate duration in Southeast Asia . Many Americans , including even some of the strongest former supporters of the war , long ago concluded that Vietnam is not so vital to United States interests as they once thought it was and therefore is not worth the terrible price in American and Vietnamese lives and resources the war is exacting . This tardy public awakening would be a powerful argument in support of a President determined to unite the nation for a compromise peace . Mr. Nixon instead has chosen to resurrect by implication . the old concept of a Communist monolith poised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political reality of the present day . He has revived and expanded the thesis of former Secretary Rusk that a row of tottering dominoes stretching from Bangkok to Berlin to Buenos Aires has only the American-backed regime in Saigon standing in the way of worldwide disaster . If the President really believes his own rhetoric , how could he possibly settle for less than the " victory " in South Vietnam that even Lyndon Johnson finally despaired of winning ? Mr. Nixon 's plan for victory  --  to " win America 's peace , " is the way he put it ? depends upon a continuing military effort , but with South Vietnamese troops increasingly relieving American troops of the main burden of fighting . This program of " Vietnamization " is based on assumptions repeatedly advanced in the past and repeatedly discredited ; that is , that the present Saigon Government is growing stronger and will soon be able to stand on its own feet , and that the enemy is growing weaker and will fade away . If during the course of a prolonged American withdrawal enemy forces should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and if South Vietnamese troops should fail to meet the test , as they have failed in the past , President Nixon has vowed " to take strong and effective measures to deal with the situation . " He has thus again committed the United States to protect the present regime in Saigon as long as that regime is unable to protect itself . This open-ended commitment to Saigon is , in fact , inconsistent with the Asian Doctrine the President wisely enunciated at Guam . It means that the level of American participation in Southeast Asia , and therefore the limits of American capacity to deal with other problems at home and abroad , will be determined not by Washington but by the actions of Saigon and the reactions of Hanoi and its allies . President Nixon says the only alternative to his strategy is " precipitate withdrawal of all Americans from Vietnam without regard to the effects of that action . " This is not the only alternative . Nor is it the position of the sober majority of Vietnam war critics , despite the President 's implication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old and new , believe that what is required is steady , orderly withdrawal of American forces from South Vietnam under conditions that offer maximum safeguards against the massacres and other calamities Mr. Nixon predicts . It is conceivable that this kind of determined , deliberate withdrawal is what Mr. Nixon really has in mind . There are passages in his speech that encourage such an interpretation , as do predictions from Saigon that all American combat troops can be out of South Vietnam by the middle of 1971 . If this is the case , it is most unfortunate that the President chose to confuse his true purpose with rhetoric reminiscent of the disastrous past , rhetoric which is not likely to deter the enemy or his critics but which could seriously limit his options in the difficult days ahead .                     