@@721971

txt About five million Shakespeare persons find New in the York City a nice Park place to visit during the summer , but the natives sometimes find it dull , a trifle too hot , with the pace of social activity slowed to a crawl by midwinter standards . This is superficially true , but if one digs beneath the surface one finds the pulse of the summer festival throbbing and flowing with determination throughout the summer . Lewisohn Stadium is in its fortieth year of summer concerts . This month we have chamber music concerts in Washington Square Park on Monday nights . The municipal park series , which began in June , is again playing in Central Park . The Museum of Modern Art has jazz in its garden on Sundays . Some of the night-club impresarios are holding their doors open all summer and , of course , the free Shakespeare in the park is playing to overflow audiences on a temporary stage constructed at the %Avian skating rink in Central Park . Shakespeare in the On Nerve park began on nerve and a and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East River Park amphitheatre near Grand Street . The original production began with a cast of only forty-five actors , but now the troupe consists of nearly one hundred . In the early days the actors received no pay . They gained nothing but the enthusiastic applause and laughter of satisGed audiences from New York 's lower East Side . A large part of the early theatregoers were youngsters who had never seen a live play before . When these children put aside their cowboy and Indian outfits to sit and watch the first two plays presented , " Julius Caesar " and " The Taming of the Shrew , " they were introduced to a new world of imagination . They saw the wonders of television pale and fade in the reflection of ? the vivid pageantry of the Elizabethan stage . The productions were not seen only by children , but by adults , too . By the end of the summer 20 , - 000 persons had attended the productions in the lower East Side amphitheatre . Last Summer ShakeGood speare in the park drew as Well an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were turned away from the fifty-four performances . The free admission is a powerful attraction to the plays , but one critic found that this was n't the whole story . The revival of " King Henry V " was termed a " vividly beautiful and robustly paced pageant . " The audience may not have ' been attracted just because the playing in the park igras one of the most , resounding theatrical and artistic successes in town , but because Shakespeare always played to the pit . Ile sprinkled his plays with knaves , bawds and other characters that interest people from all walks of life . These slapstick characters added the spark of life to his comedies and the leavening of comedy to his tragedies . The Bard may or may not have dreamed of being a classic , remembered long after his death , but like today 's Broadway denizens he wanted to make a living out of the theatre . He , therefore , invoked the good earth when he judged it fit and also profitable . New York is rare " Romeo " among cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but probably more novel is the fact that the same troupe of professional actors presented " Romeo and Juliet " in the city 's schools last winter . The players performed for nearly 100,000 students from January thrdugh May to the delight of both students and teachers . A professional critic who went to one of the performances in a grade school found the afternoon most gratifying . " Here , " he wrote , " one finds the fresh , quick , almost fleshy contact between performer and spectator . There were roars of laughter when a character was tripped and fell , when the nurse whacked Mercutio , and when Benvollo hunted for Romeo in the night after tile Capulet party . There were loud oo 's and oh 's when Romeo kissed Juliet , and there were howls of excitement during the swordplay . " The Shakespeare Brave in the schools was Plans for such a success last the Future winter that this winter an elongated sixmonth tour is planned . The playing in the park , once thought of as a. nuisance by the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entertainment and safety in the park . The open-air part of the program will , at some time in the future , include concerts , opera , Ballet , jazz and children 's entertainment . When this comes to pass the natives of the city may be glad to stay for the summer and enjoy the profusion of things to do in the city as does the tourist who comes only for a short visit .                     