@@727694

txt PARIS , March 10 ? A power blackout marked the beginning tonight of a 24-hour general strike , which caused tremors in world money markets when it was announced Thursday . The strike began officially at 10 P.M. as workers in the Government-owned electricity system cut off power in industrial plants . For millions of Parisians the strike began at 9:35 P.M. , when all of the city was blacked out except the Pigalle and Champs Elysees areas and the Eiffel Tower . When the lights went on again , from an hour and a half to two hours later , the authorities said the shutdowns had been precautionary to protect equipment from the serious damage that would result from a sudden cutoff . Midnight Tax Deadline The blackout was awkward for not a few Parisians who ' were still busy on their income tax reports , which were due at midnight . The power strike assured a shutdown at least as wide asI that of last May . Many plant managements had already ordered a closing for tomorrow , with plans to make up on weekends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to fall to about one-fourth of normal by morning . Power for households is to be cut off from 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. , and restoration thereafter may be spotty . The market fever abated considerably today , as financial interests generally concluded that France would weather the labor difficulty without grave cost and without a devaluation . The chief doubt remaining , in the minds-of close observers of the labor scene , was whether young militants at shop meetings ? tomorrow night might swing large numbers into continuing the strike until concessions were negotiated . But this was regarded as a long-odds possibility . The price of gold climbed to new highs , closing at $48.81 an ounce here and $43.80 in London and Zurich , compared with the official intergovernment price of $35 . This was widely attributed to the weekend flare-up along the Suez Canal . Trading Falls Away The volume of trading in gold fell away sharply . In a further sign of renewed confidence , French stocks generally advanced while foreign stocks tended to decline on the Paris Bourse . All three of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike . Refusing to join are a number of independent unions , the federation of foremen and executives , and a Roman Catholic right-wing splinter labor group . The Bourse , banks and retail JeAz.4 , are expected to remain open , with staffs heavily reduced . No mail will be delivered , and the pile-up is expected to delay service for some days . Automatic telephones will operate , but manual service will be spotty . Gas pressure will probably decline , but not seriously , so Frenchmen should eat as well as usual . Many housewives laid in an extra day 's supplies today . Candles , and fuel for camp stoves were in demand . At issue in the strike is the demand of unions for a substantial pay increase , to catch up with price rises and to extend the gains of last May . The Government and other employers have argued against any raise big enough to damage the ability of France to compete in world trade , and therefore big enough to threaten the franc . De Gaulle to Speak President de Gaulle is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night , originally scheduled to open his drive for public endorsement of regional reforms in a referendum in April . Household power is due to be restored well before the speech . A number of signs appeared today tending to reassure the public and the financial markets . Spokesmen for the nation 's employers repeated their argument for restraint , but expressed their willingness to bargain with the unions . The steel industry in the north of France agreed with unions to cut the work week from 48 to 42 hours , with employers paying for four of the six hours lost . A wage increase on top of that is to be negotiated later . The Government reported a further reduction in the trade gap in February , with exports continuing to rise faster than imports . 5% or 6% Expected Some observers felt that once the strike was over , a pattern of pay increases in the area of 5 or 6 per cent would be hammered out in negotiations , sector by sector . With productivity rising slightly faster than that , they believed that the economy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said a reporter who has covered labor since before the ' war , " is not tomorrow , but the day after . " He alluded to the possibility of a runaway strike movement . A secret poll of members of one union in two key industries ? railroads and gas ? is reported to have found a heavy opposition to a one-day strike . These strikes , frequent under the Fifth Republic , have had only partial following . Workers have grumbled that they are either too long  --  because they lose a day 's wages " for notlung " ? or too short , because a " real " strike to the finish , like the one last May , can bring big gains . Plant meetings tomorrow night may decide the question .                     