@@727464

txt Thousands of Chicago area residents felt the jolt of an earth tremor that began in southern Illinois yesterday and spread across 20 states . The tremor , which lasted for several seconds shortly after 11 a. m. , shook buildings , caused merchandise to fall off store shAves , and tilted pictures on walls . In the Chicago area it caused no injuries and no serious property damage , but plenty of con ? versation . Swamped by Calls Police thruout the area were swamped by calls from residents inquiring about the tremor . THE TRIBUNE , where reporters felt their desks tremble for several seconds , received 300 calls within an hour . Many callers thought there had been an explosion . At the central fire alarm office in City hall , tables slid across the room and pictures were shaken . " All of a sudden my legs ; started to move and I knew I was n't doing it . " said Fireman Robert Phelan . " I could feel ; the whole building shaking . " Furniture Starts Shaking A Deerfield man said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living room and thought his children were causing trouble . " But when the furniture started shaking , I knew something was up , " he said . Even the lake was affected by the tremor . Mrs. Frances Grenier , who lives in a fourth floor apartment at 1335 Birchwood ay. , said she saw a dirty yellowgreen streak appear in the lake at the time of the tremor . It was believed to be sand raised from the lake bottom . Resident Asks Wife The resident of a high-rise apartment building on the far north side asked , his wife , " What 's making this room shake like this ? " Probably the kids running down the hall . " the wife said without looking up from her magazine . " Not even our kids can shake a whole building like this . " replied the husband , The quake apparently was hard on dogs . Many residents said their pets howled fearfully when the tremor struck . John Howard , an artist who was working in his studio at 646 N. Michigan ay . said his dog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tremor made the liquor bottles rattle on the shelves of Fred Wasso 's store in Harvey , and knocked down merchandise displays in stores thruout the area . Commonwealth Edison company and the Illinois Bell telephone company reported no damage to their facilities and no interruptions in services . As a precautionary measure , the Chicago &; North Western railway ordered trains operated at less than 20 miles an hour until engineers could make certain that there were no breaks in the tracks . Normal train speeds were resumed later . The Rev. J. Donald Roll . director of the seismological station in Loyola university , said the quake measured between 4 and 5 on the Richter scale . He said such a reading would put the tremor in the " minor " category .                     