@@724073

txt The Board of Estimate , in compliance with the law , met yesterday to consider capital budget matters on which it had no power to act . Controller Abraham D. Beame denounced the entire procedure as " ridiculous . " Mr. Beanie spoke out angrily after the board had spent more than an hour going through a 296-item calendar . Every item represented a project in the city 's new 828,949,835 capital budget for the fiscal year that opened Wednesday . The capital budget had been approved in its entirety before the beginning of the fiscal year , both by the Board of Estimate and the City Council . However , under the new City Charter , effective Jan. 1 , 1963 , the Board ' of Estimate is also required to hold public hearings individually on the projects before they are authorized . Board Lacks Authority But the board may only open and close the hearing ; it has no power to authorize improvements . The record of the hearing goes to the Mayor , and he alone has the power to authorize projects . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and authorized projects . " Here we are dealing with hundreds of millions of dollars , and we get practically an empty hall , because we are powerless to act , " Mr. Beame emphasized . About 30 spectators and a half-dozen newspapermen were listening . I Noting that the Citizens Budg // et Commission had expressed similar objections and had called such a hearing a " waste of time , " the Controller urged the commission , a voluntary civic , group , to prepare a Charter amendment to provide for " meaningful " hearings . Last night Harold Riegelman , , counsel to the Citizens Budget Commission , said his organization would be " very happy " to prepare such an amendment and submit it to Mayor Wagner and the city Council . " We would be happy , " Mr. Riegelman added , " if the Mayor and the majority leader of the City Council David Ross , Bronx Democrat would join Mr. Beame in the invitation . " The lawyer said there was a question , however , as to whether ' the public hearing should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council or a committee of the Council  --  either the Finance Committee or a special , committee appointed for they purpose . In its June 30 letter to the Board of Estimate , the budget commission branded yesterday 's hearing as " meaningless and deceptive " and called its proceedings " mumbo jumbo . " Cariello Critical , Too Before the session had ended , gray - haired Queens Borough President Mario J. Cariello , whose benign appearance belied the sharpness of his remarks , seized upon an item of $2,425 , - 000 for staff work of the City Planning Commission . He asserted that the advice of the Borough Presidents had not been sufficiently sought by the planners in blue-printing projects for the various boroughs . Mr. Cariello noted that William F. R. Ballard , chairman of the ' City Planning Commission , had called a meeting of planning experts " from all over the world " for next October to discuss planning in New York City . The Borough Presidents should be included in any such meeting , Mr. Cariello declared . Clamoring for Improvements " The people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clamoring for improvements , " he said . " They do not want to be imposed on by nonresident , nontaxpaying , impractical planners  --  theoretical dreamers who overlook local realities . " Here we struggle with capital and expense budgets . It 's a tug of war . We should have something to say if the visionary proposals of planners threaten to crowd out muchneeded projects sought by the five boroughs . " Later the Borough President questioned an allocation of $10 , - 294,600 for the Transit Authority . Most of the money will go to buy 325 buses to operate in Manhattan and the Bronx . He demanded new buses for Queens and complained that residents of Jackson Heights had reported that " only the oldest buses of the former Fifth Avenue Coach Company " were plying the company 's former routes in Queens . Bus Parley Ordered Deputy Mayor Edward F. Cavanagh Jr. , directed that the Transit Authority , which now operates the former Fifth Avenue Coach routes through a subsidiary company , confer with Mr. Cariello before making final assignments of the new buses . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . Commenting on a park proposal , he repeated a former charge that the state did not properly credit the city with lands already city-owned in considereing properties for the joint city-state park program . The program calls for 75 per cent of park acquisition costs to be met by the state and 25 per cent by the city . Because the state does not credit the city with the cash value of city-owned lands in the park program , Mr. Beame argued , the actual division of the over-all program cost is 60 per cent state and 40 per cent city . The state therefore makes the city pay a larger share of this cost " than any other communities , " the Controller said .                     