@@725155

txt Washington , Nov. 19 ( AP )  --  The Communist party was convicted I tonight for failure to register with the government as an agent of the Soviet Union . Judge William B. Jones imposed the maximum penalty  - -  $230,000 in fines . Defense Atty . Joseph Forer had asked Jones to impose a nominal fine of $1 because . in his words , " this is a test case " and because of the prohibition against excessive fines in the 8th amendment to the Constitution . Jones did not even reply to the argument but meted out the maximum 510.000 fine on each count . Deliberate 21- . Hours A federal District court jury of eight women and four men returned the verdict  - -  on all 23 counts ? after hours of deliberation at the end of the third week of the party 's trial . Gus Hall , party general secretary , who sat expressionless except for a slight shrug of the shoulders as the verdict was announced , said the party will appeal  --  thus setting the stage for another major constitutional test of the 1950 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 counts of failing to file a registration statement with the attorney general and one count of failure to file an accompanying statement of party membership , finances and publications . Each count carries a possible maximum fine of $10,000 . Judge Jones had stressed to the jurors that the government had to prove that a volunteer , unafraid of possible self-incrimination , was available to the party to register for it . Closing Arguments Most of the trial 's last day was taken up by closing arguments by the government prosecutor , Joseph A. Lowther , and the defense counsel , John J. Abt . Abt , in a summation nearly two hours long , appealed to the jurors ' patriotism and urged them to demonstrate by their verdict " that the people of America stand by and uphold that great and glorious American tradition " exemplified by the Pilgrim fathers who sought a haven for free thought here . Lowther , shouting his rebuttal , asked . " Who 's trying to kid who in this courtroom ? " Then . he accused the party of " wrapping itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real issues . Jones , in instructing the jury about the necessity to prove the availability of a volunteer to register for the party . was following the mandate of an appeals court that reversed the party 's December , 1952 , conviction on similar charges . The court ruled that because party officers could not constitutionally be required to incriminate themselves by signing the forms , the government had the burden of proving the existence of a volunteer . The party leaders argued that if they registered under the 1950 law , known as the McCarran act , they would make themselves subject to prosecution under the Smith act which makes it a crime to belong to an organization advocating the violent overthrow of the government . The voided 1962 conviction carried a $120,000 fine .                     