@@724349

txt Mexico City A clamor of protest has arisen throughout Latin America against the overthrow of Victor Paz Estenssoro , the Bolivian President , and his replacement by a military junta . Much of this protest stresses the constitutional nature of the ousted Paz government , contrasting it with the " personalist government " ? as Mexico City 's Excelsior termed it ? of the junta set up by Gen. Rene Barrientos ' Ortufio . Hemisphere governments have been slow to recognize the new Bolivian regime . Overthrow Protested Indeed , Venezuela , acting In accord with its " Bentancourt doctrine , " has not only refrained from recognizing the Barrientos junta , but also broken relations with Bolivia . A Venezuelan spokesman said his country 's " political actions are founded on principles and not on circumstances . " For its part , Colombia 's Gov- ernment protested the overthrow and said that " Colombia will continue condemning all coup d ' ? tats that overthrow a legitimately elected government . " Visit Recalled While the Colombian declaration did not say so explicitly , Bogatfi was expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . Press reaction , as mirrored in comment here , has generally been vigorous in condemnation of the manner in which President Paz 's government was overthrown . . The Bolivian President visited Mexico about a year ago and received a significantly warm reception . His visit has been recalled by the press here , as well as by numerous government officials who privately deplore last week 's coup . " Paz was living on a powderkeg , " one of them said over the weekend , " but it seems strange that this one key figure in Bolivia should have been so summarily dismissed . " Responsible hemisphere circles generally credit President Paz and his Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionaria ( MNR ) with achieving major success in bringing Bolivia out of its centuries-long backwardness . There has been criticism of Dr. Paz for altering Bolivia 's Constitution to permit his own reelection last spring . But the view is widely held in the hemisphere that President Paz was virtually the personification of Bolivia 's struggle to free itself from its backwardness and the nation 's only leader of eminence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Bolivia needs Victor Paz , for without him there would be chaos . " Uncertainty about the course of Bolivia 's new government is widespread . Observers here do not expect that General Barrientos will have an easy course ahead . Pressures from the left , in particular from former Vice-President and mine union leader Juan Lechin , will be strong . The temporary alliance of right-wing general , who was President Paz 's Vice-President in the term which began in early August , and Mr. Lechin is not expected to hold together for long . Strong Support Moreover , the ousted President has strong support from Bolivia 's four million people , to many of whom " Victor Paz , " as he is known , is a symbol of a new way of life . The Paz supporters can be expected to champion their leader with firmness in the months ahead . The prospect is not bright for Bolivia , comments Mexico City 's El Universal . This capital 's " Novedades " agrees , adding with scorn that the emergence of the Barrientos government is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   