@@723948

txt An attempt by Negro families to overthrow two federal court decisions upholding Gary 's longestablished neighborhood schools policy ended in failure yesterday when the United States Supreme court declined to take up the matter The high court 's refusal to review the case was regarded as a decision of major but possibly temporary  --  significance in this area , including Chicago . A suit seeking an end to Chicago 's neighborhood schools system is pending in federal District court . The high court decision seemed destined to have widespread-if , again , possibly temporary-influence elsewhere in the nation where similar neighborhood schools systems are under fire on the ground they foster and maintain de facto segregation . In rejecting the Gary Negroes ' petition for intervention , the Supreme court let stand al ruling last Nov. 1 by the United States Court of Appeals , here . This affirmed the legality of Gary 's neighborhood schools policy . That appeals court decision upheld a similar opinion reached Jan. 30 , 1963 , by Judge George N. Beamer in federal District court in Hammond . The appeals court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be revamped to bring about integration if they had been honestly drawn originally with no intention of segregating the races . Need n't Follow Racial Shifts The appeals court concluded that Gary school boundaries had been determined without consideration of race or color . It also agreed with a defense contention that " there is no affirmative United States Constitutional duty to change innocently-arrived-at school attendance districts by the mere fact that shifts in population either increase or decrease the percentage of either Negro or white pupils . " The appeals court justices further said : " Plaintiffs ' the complaining Negroes ' position is grounded on their fundamental theory that their right to be integrated in school is such an overriding purpose that little , if any , consideration need be given to the safety of the children , convenience of pupils and their parents , and costs of the operation of the school system . " There was testimony that , under the plaintiffs ' plan , at least 6,000 pupils would have to be transported on each school day , presumably by bus , and that the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14th Amendment Judge Beamer had contended the 14th amendment to the Constitution would be violated if some students were required to " leave their neighborhood and friends , and be transferred to another school , simply for the purpose of balancing the races in the various schools . " The 14th amendment forbids any state from making or enforcing any law which abridges the privileges or immunities of citizens , and prohibits a state from depriving any person of equal protection of the laws . In their appeal to the Supreme court , the Gary Negroes contended that the Court of Appeals had misunderstood the issues involved . The appeal said in part : " The issue is not , as the appeals court . . . stated , whether the Constitution requires an intermingling of the races as some abstract exercise , but whether the Constitution tolerates a school board 's acquiescence in the operation of a school system which is segregated in fact , merely because it did not intentionally or overtly create it . " Refer to Brown Decision Referring to the Supreme court 's famous 1954 decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's public schools , the appeal said : " If school board policies which create and perpetuate racial segregation are outside the condemnation of Brown , there is no legal obstruction to the maintenance by school boards of biracial schools thruout the United States . " Gary authorities , on the other hand , argued that the system " must take residential patterns as it finds them and accommodate children by furnishing school facilities as near as reasonably may be to their homes . " The plaintiffs contended that 97 per cent of Gary 's 23,000 Negro students attend predominantly Negro schools . Edwin C. Berry , executive director of the Urban league in Chicago , said : " There has been much confusion among lower court rulings on de facto segregation , and the Supreme court eventually is going to have to clarify the matter . Did n't Rule Against Negroes ' " I 'm sorry that they Supreme court justices did not choose to review this case  --  but I 'm glad they did not rule against the Negroes . " Ruben L. Hedlund , an attorney representing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Chicago suit , had some comments on the Supreme court action . " This was not what could be called an affirmation of the Court of Appeals decision upholding neighborhood schools , because the Supreme court did not pass on that question , strictly speaking , " he said . " But it leaves the Court of Appeals decision as the law now , as far as the states of the 7th federal circuit are concerned  --  they are Wisconsin , Indiana , and Illinois . " In some other federal circuit , a Court of Appeals could issue a different ruling in some similar case before it . " You can read into the Supreme court 's rejection a number of theories . One would be that it is in accord with the appeals court decision . Another possibility is that the high court might want to wait and see what other appeals courts may decide on the question , then go into the matter at some later date . " Albert Raby , convener of the Coordinating Council of Community Organizations , a leading group in civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why they the Supreme court refused to consider the case . They did n't say that the case could not be reviewed in the future . " N. A. A. C. P. " Disappointed " After the third consecutive and final court defeat , Mrs. Jeanette Strong , head of the Gary chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , said , " Naturally , I am disappointed . " However , she declined to comment on what further moves N. A. A. C. P. leaders might make .                     