@@723892

txt Chicago The Illinois presidential , governorship , and congressional ! ' Primary is in its last lap , with the Republican governorship nomination still the chief object of political excitement . Businessman Charles H. Percy is still considered in the lead in an increasingly heated race with State Treasurer William .1 , Scott . But the lead has narrowed in recent weeks . " It 'll be a horse race . " say some . " Percy 's a cinch to win . " say others . Hard-driving Scott forces  --  in the race only 10 weeks compared to the 10 months of the tireless Percy campaign ? are optimistically forecasting a victory by 100.000 votes . But most indicators point to a Percy win and the question is  --  how big a win ? . Com  --  laeeney Danger Felt " I 'm less optimistic than I was a few weeks ago , " said one pro-Percy veteran Republican . " but I figure Percy to win by about 150.000 votes out of some 900.000 cast . I think Scott had everything he could get two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' The anti-Percy pitch of the Scott campaign makes for powerful voter motivation , " says a veteran student of Illinois politics . " It 's the sort of feeling that tends to get out the vote . I 'm not so convinced that all those people who for months now have been saying they are for Percy will actually follow through on this and get out to the polls . Complacency may be a real danger , as I see it . ' ' Mr. Percy has been crisscrossing the l02 counties in Illinois since last July . Whether last summer 's handshakes and friendly persuasions by the energetic businessman . who is making his elective political debut , made sufficiently indelible impressions to pay off in votes nest week is a big question for the Percy camp . Meanwhile , manpower , organization . endorsement by the Marshall Field newspapers  --  the evening Daily News and the morning Sun-Times  --  the candidate 's television and in-person manner , plus recently acquired seasoned political guidance , stand as the chief strengths of the Percy campaign . // Excitement Rises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly abandoned a pledge to stick to his four-year State Treasurer 's term ( till 1966 ) , in order to enter the race against Mr. Percy . is not without potent political stock of his own . Numerous well-known veteran Illinois Republicans are in his corner : Cook County Sheriff Richard B. Ogilvie : Hayes Robertson , Cook County Republican chairman : former congresswoman Marguerite Stitt Church : Mrs. Irl H. Marshall , finance chairman of the National Federation of Republican Women : plus assorted county , ward , and township leaders throughout the state , plus pro-Goldwater forces . The Tribune-owned evening American has endorsed Mr. Scott . The powerful Republican conservative voice of the parent Chicago Tribune , however , has not yet sounded an endorsement for either candidate . Several editorials have made clear an anti-Percy viewpoint , however , charging , as do other local GOP conservatives backing Mr. Scott , that Mr. Percy is too liberal for the Illinois Republican Party , a branch of the GOP that gave nearly one million votes to Sen. Robert A. Taft in the presidential preference primary here in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern Illinois , has endorsed Mr. Percy . The St. Louis Globe Democrat with similar circulation is friendly to the Percy campaign . Undercover sentiments among many voters may figure importantly for both candidates . Size of turnout will be crucial , too , a heavy vote likely benefitting Mr. Percy . Not the least of the 1964 primary 's uncertainties was injected by the passing April 4 of Charles F. Carpentier , Illinois Secretary of State . Known to many as " Mr. Republican " in Illinois , the veteran GOP figure had been front-runner in the governorship primary campaign until January when he withdrew for health reasons . Eventually Mr. Carpentier publicly threw his support to Mr. Percy . 1Patronage Lines Shift . Many key Carpentier backers joined the Percy campaign team , add ing a significant measure of political savvy which liberal critics of Mr. Percy disparaged as a deal with the " old guard " elements of the party . Mr. Carpentier 's passing has brought the appointment of a Democrat to fill his unexpired term . This means that nearly 3.000 patronage jobs will gradually shift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc in the state is now lost . And many elements in the Carpentier organization once pledged to Mr. Percy now are shifting to the Scott camp . All of these many factors have generated much bitterness between the contesting GOP elements . Indeed , some of the frictions may be enduring enough to frustrate the essential unity without which the Illinois GOP can hardly match the powerful Democratic machine operation that will back the reelection hid of Democratic incumbent Gov . Otto Kerner . The Governor is unopposed in the Democratic primary . Write-Ins Probable While these local political matters have held center stage here , the presidential preference part of the April 14 vote is not to be overlooked . Sens . Barry Goldwater of Arizona and Margaret Chase Smith of Maine are the only two entries . But write-ins are almost a certainty . The voting does not pledge delegates to the convention but it does stand as a popularity poll . Observers will be interested in the Goldwater strength and Goldwater opposition . The latter may be expressed as votes for Mrs. Smith , or write-ins for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . Lodge backers , for example , would doubtless delight in a write-in groundswell for the Ambassador on or near the order of the 147,518 write-in votes won by Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and which sent the general 's presidential stock soaring . In the congressional primary here , none of the incumbents seeking reelection is seriously threatened , apparently not even First District Congressman William L. Dawson whose long-time rule of the Negro districts he represents is being challenged by four candidates in the Democratic primary . Political unrest is unquestionably present in the Negro wards of Chicago , but its organizational strength is as yet no match for such entrenched regular Democrats as Congressman Dawson and Chicago Negro aldermen who serve as his lieutenants.                     