@@726598

txt Defense Secretary Robert S. announced today that a limited force of defensive missiles would be deployed in the United States to insure against the possibility of a Communist Chinese attack in the next decade . Mr. said that the ' " light " Nike-X network would cost $5-billion and that production would be under way by the end of the year . The mis siles are expected to be fully deployed in five years . In Washington , a drive began in Congress to build a " heavy " defense system against Soviet missiles . Page 15 . Fears a Miscalculation Mr. , addressing a meeting of United Press International editors and publishers at the Fairmont Hotel here , stressed that the defensive move was being made with China in mind , not Russia . " It would be insane and suicidal for her to do so , but one can conceive conditions under which China might miscalculate , " he said . " We wish to reduce such possibilities to a minimum . " The Secretary warned the Soviet Union , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this country would respond by increasing its offensive forces in order to maintain its overwhelming retaliatory capacity . At the same time , he called on Moscow to begin negotiations toward a halt in or even a reversal of the arms race . The United States has been pressing for such talks for several months . No System Impenetrable " What the world requires in its 22d Year of the Atomic Age is not a new race toward armament , " Mr. said . " What the world requires is a new race toward reasonableness . " The Nike-X system , as conceived by Pentagon planners , will rely on long-range radar to pick up approaching enemy missiles thousands of miles away . Within 400 miles of the target , Spartan missiles will he exploded in their path . If some slip through , fast-accelerating Sprint missiles will he fired at them from within 50 miles of the target . Although antimissile technology has improved substantially , the Secretary said , ' ' it is important to understand that none of the systems at the present or foreseeable state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States " against an all-out Soviet attack . Mr. IvIcNamara 's speech was described by , Administration officials as one of the most important statements on American strategic thinking since the start of the Kennedy-Johnson Administrations . The decision to deploy the missile defense system was revealed last Friday . More Arms Than Necessary In a wide-ranging review of strategy , Mr. made these other points : lThe United States and Russia already possess more ICBM 's than either requires to deter nuclear war . Mr. ascribed this to mutual distrust and unwillingness to let the other nation so upset the balance of power that a first strike could be successful . Cloth nations would benefit from a " properly safeguarded agreement first to limit , and later to reduce , both our offensive and defensive strategic nuclear forces . " This is believed to be the first time that an Administration official has publicly linked the proposed negotiations to an effort not only to limit weapons but also to reduce the size of arsenals . CCurrent ' ' intelligence-gathering capability , " presumably reconnaissance satellites , makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first strike force . The implication was that such satellites might conceivably serve to monitor an arms limitation agreement , perhaps removing the necessity for on-site inspection . Repeatedly through his address Mr. stressed that the cornerstone of America 's strategic posture was the concept of deterring nuclear war by guaranteeing to knock an aggressor state out of the Twentieth Century . " Our alert forces alone carry more than 2,200 weapons , a averaging more than one megaton each , " Mr. said . ' ' A mere 900 one-megaton weapons , if delivered on the Soviet Union , would be sufficient to destroy over one-third of her population and one-half of her industry . " The nation 's alert forces include Minuteman and Titan missiles in the United States , Polaris missiles on submarines and B-52 bombers based in this country and on Guam . A megaton is an explosive force equal to one million tons of TNT . Some Administration , strategists , notably the Joint Chief of Staff , feel that this is not enough . They want to provide a heavy missile defense against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war erupts such a system might save the lives of tens of millions of Americans . Mr. , presenting the Administration 's contrary position , dismissed this argument by insisting that it was a " certainty " that the Russians would react to such a larger American missile defense by building enough additional ICBM 's to overcome it . This point is expected to become a matter of increasing debate withing the next few years . Over the weekend certain key members of Congress including Senator John 0 . Pastore , a Rhode Island Democrat who is chairman of the Joint Atomic Energy Committee , wel corned the news of the limited Nike-X deployment decision as " a starter toward an over-all effective antiballistic missile system " against the Russians . Many of those who would proceed with such a system argue that powerful constraints in the Soviet economy , as well as limitations in its production and technological ability , render a fully compensating Russian reaction to a heavy American missile defense unlikely . Mr. showed that the Administration was concerned about expected pressures to expand the Nike-X @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinaoriented defense . He devoted a substantial portion of his 25-minute speech to arguing what he regards to be the " futility " of such a course . The Soviet Union can build so many missiles , he said , that it could exhaust such defenses but not so the Chinese . Red China , he said , is devoting " very substantial resources " to development of nuclear warheads and missiles to carry them . He said they might have medium range missiles this year , an initial intercontinental missile capability in the early 1970 's , and a " modest " intercontinental force by the mid-1970 's . It is understood that by " modest " Mr. meant from 50 to 150 ICBM 's in China 's hands by about 1975 . Even though a first-strike by China would be suicidal , he said , it could happen . Thus a light Nike-X deployment would seem " prudent , " he said . Mr. made it clear that while the planned Nike-X system might have some limited capability against an accidental launching of a Soviet missile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack .                     