@@724262

txt F.B.I . SAYS RIOTS HAD NO PATTERN OR SINGLE LEADER Tells President They Were Not Basically Racial , but ' Attacks on Authority FINDS SOME REDS ACTIVE Actions by Youths in Mobs Noted  --  Decline . Is Seen in Respect for Rights Text of F.B.I . report on riots will be found on Page 82 . By JOHN D , MORRIS Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 ? The Federal Bureau of Investigation reported today that there was " no systematic planning or organization " underlying riots this summer in New York and eight other Northern cities . The report , which was submitted to President Johnson , concluded that the riots were not basically racial . " While in the cities racial tensions were a contributing factor , " it said , " none of the nine occurrences was a ' race riot ' in the accepted meaning of the phrase . They were not riots of Negroes against whites or whites against Negroes . " Rather , the report said , " a , common characteristic of the riots was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The F.B.I . said that " the Communist Party U.S.A. does not appear to have officially instigated these riots , though its members were observed taking part " in some of them . ' No Systematic Planning ' " The evidence indicates , " it said , " that aside from the actions of minor organizations or irresponsible individnnle there was no systematic planning or organization of any of the city riots . " The mob violence , the F.B.I . said , was dominated by youths " variously characterized by responsible people as ' school dropouts , ' ' young punks , ' ' common hoodlums ' and drunken kids . " The report went on : " Rioting by these young people reflects an increasing breakdown across the nation in respect for the law and the rights of other people to be secure in their person and their property . " The findings were based on a comprehensive investigation that the President had ordered Sept. 9 . The report , submitted by the F.B.I . ' s director , J. Edgar Hoover , did not name any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in sufficient detail to make **25;459;TOOLONG easy . At one point , for example , the report referred to a widely publicized Black Nationalist movement leader who had urged Negroes last March to // organize rifle clubs " to protect their lives and property . " Malcolm X , on March 12 , said Ne-1 groes " should form rifle clubs that can be used to defend Our , lives and property . " Another reference was to " a former secretary of the New , York State Communist party " 1 who had printed and distributed a handbill protesting the shooting of James Powell , a 15-yearold Negro boy , by Police Lieut . Thomas Gilligan . The reference , clearly was to Milton Rosen , ' , chairman and chief ideologist of the Progressive Labor Movement . The report next cited another officer of the movement and , quoted him as saying , " We 're , going to kill cops and judges . " On July 18 , William Epton told ) a Harlem street rally : " And in the process of smashing this , state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these cops , a lot of these judges , and we 'll have to go against their army . " At another point , the F.B.I . report - " A Negro who formerly was an organizer of the Harlem region of the Communist party U.S.A. achieved widespread publicity early this year through leadership of rent strikes . Three days after the shooting of July 16 , this individual issued a public call for ' a hundred skilled black revolutionaries who are ready to die . ' " The quoted words are those of Jesse Gray , speaking from the rostrum of the Mount Morris Presbyterian Church . However , Mr. Gray has denied he was ever a Communist . Much of the report discussed the rioting in New York City . The investigation was concerned specifically with rioting and looting in Harlem and Brooklyn from July 18-23 ; in Rochester July 24-25 ; Jersey City , Aug. 24 ; Elizabeth , N. J. , Aug. 11-13 ; Patterson , N. J. , Aug. 11-14 ; Dixmoor , Ill. , a Chicago suburb , Aug. 15-17 ; and Philadel-1 1phia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofl the background , " the report Observed , " to recognize that many of these areas are characterized by miserable living conditions , houses that are badly maintained many of them rat infested and filthy . " Drunkenness , narcotics pedling , prostitution , idleness , frustration , poverty and lack of opportunity are part of the atmosphere many people in these districts breathe . " The report also touched on seashore riots Sept. 4-7 at Seaside , Ore. , and Sept. 6-7 at ' Hampton Beach , N. H. , which lacked racial overtones . ? Mr. Hoover sought to refute the frequently voiced charge I that excesses by the police ag- ! gravated some of the disturbances . In virtually all situations , the report said , the police ! showed remarkable restraint . " The investigation also re- ! vealed , " he said , " that where there ' is an outside civilian re-j view board the restraint of the police was so great that effective action against the rioters : appeared to be impossible . The police were So careful to avoid accusations of improper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Returning to his assertion ( that young people were demonstrating an increasing lack of respect for the law , Mr. ! Hoover attributed this trend toy the fact that in many places ! the names of youthful offenders ! can not be made public . The report lauded the recent appointment of a Negro police captain to command a Harlerdprecinct , and urged further ! such moves to improve relations between the police and the Nei gro communities . Noting that " the social and economic " conditions in which ' much of the Negro population lives are demoralizing , " the re -- port suggested these could b4 : overcome by the President 's antipoverty program and bk concerted efforts to diminish , the number of school dropouts , - " who have been an increasingly serious source of trouble . "                     