@@724423

txt ALBANY , Dec. 14 ? The Republicans gave a preview today of the reapportionment bills that they hope to enact at the special legislative session opening tomorrow . Four bills are to be introduced , starting Wednesday . Assembly Speaker Joseph F. Carlin disclosed at a news con- , ference that some Assemblymen , under a system of fractional voting in two of the four Republican proposals , would have as little as one-sixth of a vote . He said that two of the four bills would be based on citizen population and two on the number of votes cast in the 1962 election for Governor , and that all four measures Would prescribe a Senate of 65 members instead of the present 58 . Passage Considered Likely The membership of the reapportioned Assembly , Mr. Carlin added , will vary between 165 and 180 in the four bills . There are now 150 Assemblymen . Both Mr. Carlin and Majority Leader Walter J. Mahoney expressed confidence that they had the votes to pass the Republican program , and the Democrats did not disagree . The Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate , to be their Senate Majority Leader in the regular session of the Legislature in January . Page 35 . The extraordinary session that opens at noon tomorrow will be the 33d in this century . Its only task will be to redraw the legislative boundaries to conform with the United States Supreme Court 's " one-man , one-vote " decision . Committee Report Doe The court 's ruling on June 15 struck down the state 's 70-year-old apportionment formula , which allocated to each county at least one Assemblyman and gave large counties less than their proportional share of the legislators . Tomorrow 's session will open with the reading of Governor Rockefeller 's proclamation summoning the Legislature and with the presentation of the report of the Joint Legislative Committee on Reapportionment . A quick adjournment is expected . On Wednesday the first of the four bills will reach the Assembly and the Senate . It will come not in a message from the Governor ( although his counsel , Sol Neil Corbin , was a principal draftsman ) but from . the Rules Committee of each house . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is that the // Joint Committee has been under pressure from both Republican and Democratic legislators to make minor shifts in district boundary lines . Many such shifts have been made . Further delay has been caused by rechecking of the district ' maps . The Republicans , who will have no opportunity to correct errors at the regular session , are taking extra precautions against the possibility of flawed ? legislation , Mr. Mahoney said tonight that he hoped the work of the session could be completed byFriday or Saturday . But he conceded , as reporters crowded around him in a room on the third floor of the Capitol , that there might be no final vote until next Tuesday or Wednesday . Court Approval at Issue At his news conference , which followed a one-and-a-half-hour caucus of Republican Assemblymen , Mr. Carlino confirmed ' that the Republican strategy was to pass four bills in the hope that at least one would be approved by the courts . This course is also designed to Minimize the reapportion-1 ment opportunities of the Democrats , who will assume control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again and again about Mr. Rockefeller 's decision to call the special session . They plan to pass a bill of their own next year in the form of a con-1 stitutional amendment , which would not require the signature of the Governor . Mr. Carlino and Mr. Ma-'I honey , both of whom were de-1 feated in November , replied to their Democratic critics in a statement this evening . They said that the Republican bills would give New York State " the most equitable system of legislative representation in the nation " and argued that the important question was " not who draws the plan , but what the actual substance of the plan is . " Denying that their redistricting proposals had been secretly formulated , the leaders declared : " We will have a ' oneman , one-vote ' apportionment system . It will he fair , and it will be workable . " ? The four Republican bills will contain the following provisions for Assembly reapportionment : Bill A : This is the basic bill , the one that will be passed first and the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base thecitizen population ( the total pollulation less aliens ) shown in a special state census taken in 1960 ; Bill B : An amendment based on the 1962 vote . The Democrats argue that it would bias the system in favor of the Republicans , because a greater percentage of Republicans than Democrats voted that year . Bill C : Another citizen-population measure , , but with the addition of fractional voting , which would allow the sparsely populated upstate counties to retain their Assemblymen . Bill D : An amendment combining fractional voting with the voter-based system . This is the Republican favorite . 2 Systems for Senate Only two systems of Senate reapportionment  --  those embodied in Bills A and B ? will be offered to the court . Neither contains any provision for fractional voting . Mr. Carlin said that his own county , Nassau , would gain seven Assemblymen and two Senators under Bill D. The county now has six Assemblymen and three Senators . The Speaker declined to supply exact figures for the five boroughs of New York City , but it is anticipated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly seats , and some may also gain seats in the Senate . Asked what would happen to his own district , Mr. Carlin replied that it would be cut in half . He said it would include Long Beach , Point Lookout , Lido Beach , Oceanside , East tockaway and the southern part of Rockville Centre .                     