@@721835

txt Birmingham , Ala. , May 14 Special ? Violence broke out today here and in Anniston , Ala. , 50 miles east , when mobs of white men in each city attacked bi-racial groups riding buses to test segregation laws . In Anniston a white mob , armed with clubs , knives , and an incendiary bomb , damaged a Greyhound bus carrying nine of the self-styled freedom riders and trailed the bus out of town until it was forced to halt because of slashed tires . Make No Arrests The mob thereupon burned the bus to a mass of blackened metal while police watched without making arrests . Nine bus passengers were treated in an Anniston hospital for smoke inhalation and glass cuts . In Birmingham white hoodlums attacked with swinging fists when disembarking passengers , both white and colored , led by a Negro , walked into a white waiting room at the bus depot . Reports were that this Negro was beaten up and that others in the party were struck and roughed up . Street fighting broke out at several points in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored order but here also made no immediate arrests . Newsmen Are Beaten Newsmen and photographers for a Birmingham newspaper were among those beaten by the mob . Several cameras were destroyed or stolen . The " freedom riders " in each instance were members of the Congress of Racial Equality who had set out from Washington , D. C. , 10 days ago for travels in the south by regularly scheduled buses to investigated segregation practices affecting bus riders . Nine members of the group were reportedly aboard the bus burned near Anniston . No count was available on the number of members on the bus which reached Birmingham . All had arrived at Atlanta earlier in the day , it was said , and had split into two groups for the trip to Birmingham . State Cop Aboard Bus Only one of these buses was scheduled to stop at Anniston , a city of 35,000 in northeast Alabama . A state highway patrolman in plain clothes boarded this bus when it crossed the state line from Georgia , and authorities in Anniston ordered the bus station closed . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' arrival at the closed station , hurling stones thru windows and slashing tires . Anniston police broke up the attack without making any arrests , it was said . The bus driver decided to continue the trip to Birmingham and pulled out under police protection . Tires were holding up at ' the time of the departure but began to lose air after the bus reached the open highway . About 75 cars containing members of the mob followed the vehicle and occupants of this cavalcade surrounded it when flat tires forced it to halt . The bus began burning in a five minute interval before cars of Alabama state highway patrolmen reached the scene . Bus occupants asserted an incendiary bomb was tossed thru an open window . The occupants left the bus by both door and windows . Reported nit by Chain One Negro bus rider was reportedly hit with a chain by a member of the mob , but this Negro did not appear at the hospital and his name was not learned . Members of the touring group said they have knowledge he is safe but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flames to a mass of twisted and blackened metal . A search of the interior disclosed no bodies . A Negro identified himself at the hospital as Jack Perkins of New York City . He said he was a field secretary from the national headquarters of the Congress of Racial Equality and the authorized spokesman for the group . Says Tour Will Continue " I think the authorities allowed this to happen , " he said . " They probably did not mean to let it go so far but it was too late to stop it after it got under way . " He added that as far as he is concerned the tour will continue .                     