@@725202

txt North Vietnam repudiated today as false and unauthorized the soundings for peace talks relayed to Washington in its name by two Italian professors . An official statement broadcast by the North Vietnam press agency from Hanoi said the reports of secret exchanges in the last four weeks to ascertain the terms of possible negotiations were " sheer , groundless fabrications . " It accused the United States of having published the reports yesterday to " cover up " new acts of war . " This act of the United States , " it said , " is part of its peace hoax . " Giorgio Pira , one of the Italian professors , confirmed the main line of the published accounts of the position of the North Vietnamese leaders that he had reported to Washington . Page 2.1 The Johnson Administration withheld comment on this new development in what has become a bizarre and confusing diplomatic tale . Some Stress Skepticism Some officials thought the prompt disavowal had confirmed their skepticism about the peace feelers . Others said the repudiation had been expected as politically necessary but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here that at least one more message from Washington would be passed to Hanoi by Amintore Farifani , Italy 's Foreign Minister and president of the United Nations General Assembly . He had originally conveyed to President Johnson the essence of the conversation the two Italian professors had had in Hanoi Nov. 11 with President Ho Chi Minh and Premier Pham Van Dong of North Vietnam . Mr. Fanfani was expected to transmit to Hanoi the reasons for Washington 's sudden publication of the exchange of letters it had with him . Some sources thought he might also suggest further contacts , if desired , through better guarded diplomatic channels . Regardless of its private intentions , the Government of North Vietnam had been expected to reiterate its lack of interest in negotiations to end the war until the United States had shown by unspecified deeds that it accepted Hanoi 's peace plan . The publication of anything more conciliatory , officials believe , would strain Hanoi 's relations both with the Vietcong and with Communist China . This was understood here yesterday when the Administration regretfully decided to publish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they had no intention of sabotaging any serious exchange of views or embarrassing North Vietnam before its allies . Their sole motive , they said , was to protect the reputation of the United States after word had spread that Washington had rejected another peace feeler . Different versions of the impressions gained in Hanoi by the two Italian professors last month had begun to circulate among " peace groups " in New York and New England , officials said , as well as among private citizens in Italy and Moscow . The Administration was said to have tried to maneuver the exchange into diplomatic channels . But when partial accounts of it . leaked to the press , officials said , they were unwilling to accept a new round of worldWide charges that the United States had shown bad faith in the face of another peace bid . Thus it was that ; an Admin- ' istration that itself had made ' something of a fetish of secrecy ' about contacts with Hanoi , moved to the other extreme ofl exposing an official record even : before the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In making this judgment , senior officials appeared to have been influenced at least in parts by their skeptical view of the whole proceeding . They were not abashed by the . unorthodox sources of news ' from Hanoi  --  two Italian pro- , fessors passing the word first ; through the Italian Foreign : Minister , then to a New York attorney and a still somewhat : mysterious New York publisher . Officials here well recall that , at one of the tensest moments of the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. the Soviet Government , with many direct channels available , passed some crucial messages through John Scali , a correspondent here for the Ameri- ' can Broadcasting Company . Although the Administration had some misgivings about the motives and views of the Italian professors , it decided to treat their report at face value , on the theory that the issues were too important to neglect any possible avenue toward peace . No special investigations were ordered into their backgrounds , officials said . " We could n't afford not to trust them no matter what we thought , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the University of Florence , are Giorgio La Pira , one of Italy 's Most colorful and controversial figures and a former Mayor of Florence , and Mario Piimicerio . They visited North Vietnam in early November , and met for 90 minutes on Nov. 11 with the President and Premier . The Italians ' report of the two leaders ' conditions for negotiations was relayed through Mr. Fanfani Nov. 20. i The United States responded ' orally Nov. 29 and in writing , over the signature of Secretary lef State Dean Rusk , on Dec. 4 . Mr. Fanfani wrote Mr , Rusk Dec. 13 that he had conveyed the response to Hanoi and knew that it had been confidentially delivered to a qualified but unnamed North Vietnamese rep lresentative Dec. 8 . Since Nov. 11 also , officials said , Professor La Pira had pread accounts of his interview during a visit in Moscow , a news conference in Florence and , in some fashion , to the New York attorney , Peter Weiss , and the r ew York publisher . Mr. Fanfani 's second-hand : account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for negotiations : a cease-fire throughout Vietnam , including the cessation of landings by American troops , and a declaration accepting the Geneva agreements of 1954 as the basis for negotiations , including the four-point peace plan an'sistently put forward by North Vietnam . In reply , Mr. Rusk ter : red ' these conditions ambiguous and sought further clarification . He offered negotiations without any conditions . The United States , he said , would negotiate on the basis of the Geneva accords provided ' ; that the four-point formula is not the exclusive interpretation of them . Mr. Rusk objected particularly to one of the points that ; required a political solution in South Vietnam " in accordance with " the program of the Viet Gong 's political arm , the National Liberation Front . As for the military conditions , ' Mr. Rusk offered to talk with- : - out a cease-fire of any kind . ; But he stipulated that any re ; duction or cessation of fighting Ion one side would have to be met by " equitable " reductions : on the other . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he ; indicated , the United States would demand " restraint " on ! the infiltration of men and : equipment from North to South ' Vietnam . Mr. Fanfani 's account of North Vietnam 's position was : set into a generally hopeful framework . He himself attached seriousness to the apparent overture and reported the professors ' impression that Ho Chi Minh and Pham Van Dong , has expressed a strong desire ' to end the war . The North Vietnamese President was said to have told the Italian visitors that " I am prepared to go anywhere , to meet anyone . " Mr. Rusk , on the other hand , wrote in restrained terms , partly , it was said , to avoid a propaganda trap in which Washington 's " desire " for peace would be quoted or misquoted to its allies in South Vietnam . The Secretary of State said the Administration was " far from persuaded " by the ruessage from Hanoi that North Vietnam had any " real willingness for unconditional negotia-tions , " It was this line  --  and this tone in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They , too , recalled the Cuban missile crisis and a long , still secret and equally ambiguous letter to President Kennedy from former Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev . The diplomats noted that the Kennedy Administration , desperately eager to end the crisis , deliberately interpreted the Khrushchev proposals in the ( most acceptable fashion , wet . conies the approacn and said in effect that , " if you mean such and such and so and so , then we are delighted because we j also favor such a settlement . " And it was that response , it was added , that brought the Soviet offer to remove missiles ' from Cuba in return for a vague promise of " inspection " land no United States invasion of Cuba itself . A number of diplomats said Mr. Rusk might have advanced the cause of negotiations in Vietnam and also served Washiagton 's propaganda interests better if he had taken a similar tack . This has been , in fact . the private view of many officials I here about Hanoi 's , four-point peace plan . They note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops , for the temporary division of Vietnam into North and South and the eventual reunification by the Vietnamese themselves were all consistent with the 1954 Geneva agreements and acceptable here , if applied gradually . Only the call for a coalition government in Saigon with the Communist-led National Liberation Front has bothered Washington in the four-point plan . Officials here would substitute " free elections " for future South Vietnam governments . Basically , however , they think that the Geneva accords and Hanoi 's four-point plan could be reconciled if there were a genuine desire for negotiations . For that reason , some foreign diplomats saw significance in Hanoi 's slight movement from advocacy of the four points toward the statement that the points really " illustrate " the Geneva agreement . This formulation appeared in the Fanfani exchange and again in today 's statement of disavowal . The disavowal was by far the most authoritative and vigorous of several that Hanoi has issued in response to suggestions in the West that it had sought negotiations . For instance , when it was reported last month that North Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year ago , Hanoi newspapers dismissed this as the fabrication of an American magazine . The Burma meeting was being arranged by Secretary General Thant of the United Nations . But it was turned down by the United States on the ground that Hanoi had not given any indication of a sincere desire to do any more than arrange for an American retreat . The story was reported by Eric Sevareid , the television commentator , in Look magazine , and was based on conversations with the late Adlai E. Stevenson , former United States representative at the United Nations .                     