@@723681

txt LONDON , Dec. ** idea of putting together a package deal for a settlement with the Soviet Union on problems in Europe is emerging again in the major Western capitals . The idea represents a return to the diplomatic thinking of the Kennedy Administration early in 1962 . The package put together in Washington then had to be untied because of West German opposition . Since then , the West has been seeking so-called peripheral agreements on various proposals , hoping to work inward to what is recognized as the core of the East-West problem , in Europe  --  the future of Berlin and Germany . No progress has been made , and the idea being explored in Washington , Paris , Bonn and London is whether it might be worth while to start all over with a new package tying the central and peripheral problems together again . Ministers Discussed Idea No decision has been taken to do so , but Secretary of State Dean Rusk is believed to have talked over the idea in Paris recently with Dr. Gerhard Schroder , R. A. Butler and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and French foreign ministers . The next step would be for the ambassadorial committee of the Western Big Four in Washington to look things over and see if an agreed-upon package can be put before the Western Governments for consideration . There is still a vagueness to the project , but involved is a desire to see how strongly the Soviet Union is still committed to keeping East Germany tied into the Communist bloc . As far as anyone in the West knows , Premier Khrushchev 's views on this are unchanged . Talking in Moscow recently with Gaston Defferre , the Socialist Mayor of Marseilles , Mr. Khrushchev said he would support a unified Germany only if it was Communist . Otherwise , he was reported to have added , he preferred two Germanys . The Western powers are committed to a unified Germany having free choice to decide its form of government . Because the problems tackled in 1962 are basically unchanged , // a new package undoubtedly would take on some . of the same form if not exactly the same substance . These were major points in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1962 : 91A United States-Soviet undertaking to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons . CIAn exchange of nonaggression declarations between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact , the Communist military alliance . gEstablishment of several committees on a parity basis to handle " technical , contacts " between the two Germany 's . IlFormation of an international authority to supervise , travel between West Berlin and West Germany . ( IA conference of foreign ministers ' deputies to meet regularly on the Berlin situation . The American proposal envisaged no change in West Berlin 's status as a city with United States , British and French garrisons . The Soviet Union , since the end of .1958 , has called for the transformation of West Berlin into a demilitarized free city . The American proposals were abandoned as a package because , of West German objections , which France supported . Bonn 's main publicly stated reason for opposing the proposals was that they would enhance East Germany 's international status . In fact , however , Chancellor Adenauer 's objections were much more deep-rooted . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a settlement , preferring , as he said repeatedly in private at the time , to let time work for West Germany 's eventual absorption of East Germany . Bonn 's Outlook Changed It is a reflection of the changed political situation in Bonn under Chancellor Erhard and Dr. Schrti &r,; his Foreign Minister , that West Germany now favors as much flexibility as possible in dealing with the Russians . The West German people , Dr , Schroder is reported to have told Mr. Butler recently , would reject the idea . of not taking initiatives to see if a settlement with the Russians is possible . Although the Washington package was undone , the United States and the Soviet Union have continued to examine periodically the possibility of agreements to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and for some kind of nonaggression treaty between NATO and the Warsaw Pact . The Russians now refuse to consider the first of these because they contend the American proposal for a fleet of mixed-manned Polaris-armed surface ships would give West Germany a finger on a nuclear trigger . The allies have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put forward provides satisfactorily for West Berlin 's safety against aggression by subversion or other means short of physical conquest . These two points  --  nonproliferation and nonaggression ? would probably have to be included in any new package . New points have come up since for possible inclusion , including the posting of observers on both sides of the Iron Curtain , the reduction of military budgets and making bonfires of some , more or less obsolete bombers capable of carrying nuclear weapons .                     