@@725239

txt mayor Lindsay , who has been standing terribly alone in his efforts to end New York 's paralyzing transit strike , has now got top-level help from Washington . President Johnson 's decision to send Secretary of Labor Wirtz here , in response to a Lindsay plea , is a recognition that the nation 's welfare is directly affected by the illegal tie-up of subways and buses in this largest of American cities . Even though the Wirtz mission is described as " exploratory , " we hope he will help produce a key to unlocking the stalled transit lines . The place to do this is at the bargaining table , but if the Transport Workers Union keeps its demands in the stratosphere the full resources of the Federal Government should be added to those of the city in combating a stoppage that victimizes every New Yorker and millions in the rest of the metropolitan area . Governor Rockefeller , whose annual message to the Legislature Wednesday was strangely silent on the walkout , should show himself at least as concerned as the President in giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may triumph over principle in the outcome of this battle for basic decency in municipal labor affairs emerged with Mr. Lindsay 's hint early this morning that Michael J. Quill and other strike leaders may be released from jail in the interest of speeding a settlement . It has been precisely this approach of allowing Mr. Quill to consider himself immune to the laws that bind everyone else that has degraded collective bargaining in transit for two decades . The T.W.U. head was found in contempt of law and court order after a course of conduct brazenly designed to leave no alternative to any judge or responsible public official . He tore up injunctions and subpoenas as if they were confetti . In the last of an endless series of televised defiances of all orderly procedure , he declared that " the judge can drop dead in his black robes . " And now , at the behest of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . Central Labor Council and other ritualistic defenders of the indefensible , the new Mayor indicates that the Transit Authority is prepared to go before this same judge and ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes on in continued contemptuous defiance of law and court order . The chief reason for the strike was Mr. Quill 's determination to keep alive a system of transit labor relations built on backdoor political deals , rather than an honest assessment by both sides of what economic justice required . Mr. Lindsay 's resolve to wipe out the morass into which that policy had led the city and the union has now thrown a revealing spotlight on the injustices the discredited old system bred for many members of Mr. Quill 's union . His sole concern was in carrying the city to the edge of the cliff every two years and then emerging with an over-all package that was more political than economic . Hundreds of problems that were vital to the day-to-day welfare of his members were blithely swept under the rug . Now the contract talks are befogged with the necessity for unscrambling dozens of out-of-line rates . It is inexcusable that this process of correcting the default of the flamboyant Mr. Quill is now going forward while New York walks . The real need is for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patching up the creaky wage structure  --  which over-all is the highest for any transit system in the country  --  proceeds .                     