@@722419

txt A fundamental of classic architecture is the studied relationship Df the parts : of the exact dimensions of dentils , coronas , cymations and fillets and of the silhouettes of acanthus leaves . A severe loss occurs when thick coats of paint change all of the niceties of these proportions , as obtained before the , original front was rebuilt in marble . Marble Preferred In the circumstances , those charged by an Act of the Congress with the work of reconstruction and restoration , who made a careful study of the problem , failed to find anything " charming " in the appearance of the facade immediately before the restoration . The architects of the Capitol , Thornton and Latrobe , preferred marble , and if they had been able to secure it early in the nineteenth century they would have used it in place of the soft Aquia Creek sandstone of which the original building was constructed . The reconstruction of the East Front , which is called in your editorial " a kind of hard , grotesque vulgarity , " is not that at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the original details from which the paint had been carefully scraped away by trained workers . Thus the stone carvers were able to reproduce in marble copies faithful to the last degree to the designs of Thornton , Latrobe and Bulfinch . The work was done under the same direction and by the same methods that were used in the restoration at Williamsburg . The editorial further indicated that the new office space was " designed with depressing banality " ; actually the designs for this space follow as closely as possible comparable space in the Massachusetts State House , designed by Bulfinch . In Charge of Work The work of the restoration and reconstruction was carried out , under the general direction of the Architect of the Capitol , by distinguished members of the architectural profession , Messrs . Alfred Easton Poor , Roscoe Dewitt and Albert Homer Swanke , Fellows and Members of the American Institute of Architects ; they are especially well qualified by reason of their background of training and experience in the classic tradition . The restoration of the sculpture , including such architectural elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out under the expert guidance of the distinguished sculptor Paul Manship . The Architect of the Capitol has recommended that the West Front should be rebuilt ; it is deteriorating rapidly as it now stands under its more than forty coats of paint over countless cement patchings that were made to repair the continuous eroding of the sandstone . The West Front , we believe , should be rebuilt with the same meticulous care that was used in restoring the East Front and the work should be undertaken while trained and capable craftsmen are still available . HENRY R. SHEPLEY , GILMoRE D. CLARKE , JOHN F. HARBENSON , Advisers to the Architect of the Capitol . Philadelphia , April 27 , 1962 . An editorial on this subject appears elsewhere on this page . Louisiana and Vietnam Penalities for Parkers New Yorker Protests Treatment of Sunday Visitors to City Marano Bill Veto Criticized TOTHEEDITOROFTHENEW YoRK TimES : Governor Rockefeller 's veto of the Marano bill , which provided for arbitration of grievances by firemen regarding nonmoney items and fact-finding advisory arbitration on money items , is regrettable . This bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Senate and had the support of the A. F. L.-C . I. 0. , was the first rational step toward the elimination of conditions which the extreme CondonWadlin Law has served to perpetuate . The Uniformed Firemen 's Association demonstrated its sense of public responsibility a long time ago by including in its constitution a prohibition of strikes . The Governor 's veto of the Marano bill does not measure up to that same sense of public responsibility . On the contrary , it is reflective of the determination to have problems affecting such groups as the firemen and policemen resolved unilaterally and , much worse , a desire to repress government employes to the point where they would either revolt or supinely surrender and become abject slaves . Our country was not built upon subservience in the face of dictatorial , devious and none too subtle rationalizations on the part of those in authority to escape their responsibilities to deal bilaterally and fairly with those who come within their jurisdictions . The Marano bill would have quenched the " fires of discontent . " The action of our stubborn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only among firemen , but other city and state employes as well . HENRY MAYER . New York , May 3 , 1962 . Fair Science Museum Approved TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Robert Moses is to be complimented for his excellent idea of creating and building a science museum on the grounds of the World 's Fair so that it will become a permanent part of the City of New York . NATHAN DIAMOND , New York , May 1 , 1962 . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We hear outraged cries over the evacuation of Louisiana Negroes to the slums of Northern cities . But where is the uproar over the razing of villages in Vietnam and the evacuation of whole populations to barbed-wire-walled detention camps ? In fact , the White Citizens Council has proved itself to be considerably more courteous to the displaced Negroes than President Diem 's American-armed and American-manipulated troops have been to the peasants they have been evicting front the villages of Vietnam . At least the Negroes are not forced to leave at gunpoint , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In one respect , however , the White Citizens Council and the perpetrators of the war in Vietnam are agreed : both claim to be aiding their homeless beneficiaries in the interest of preserving freedom . And both , it should probably be added , appear to be equally indifferent to the opinion of the American people . GEOFFREY BERNE . Princeton , N. J. , May 3 , 1982 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : It was a balmy Sunday at the United Nations today . As I left the area and headed across town on quiet Forty-seventh Street , I noticed many out-of-state cars . Two policemen were placing green tickets on each auto . One man with his wife and two children ran up to the policeman who was about to ticket their car . They exchanged a few words but the policeman completed the ticket . I spoke to a young man and woman from Washington as they were examining their summons . He said he had noticed the " No Parking " sign but assumed that the regulations did not apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I apologized for our city . These cars were not blocking the street . Ironically , on the opposite side of the street three mammoth city buses were parked , without drivers , alongside identical " No Parking " signs even though a long section devoted to a bus stop was a few yards further on . These buses received no tickets . I wonder why ? I also wonder where the police are on any evening of the week at about 5:30 o'clock when traffic on First and Second Avenue , and all crosstown streets , particularly near the approach to the Fifty-ninth Street Bridge , is at a complete standstill . Where are the boys with the tickets on the main arteries , Fifty-seventh , Forty-ninth and Thirty-fourth Streets , any week day when cars and trucks are blocking traffic by illegal and double parking . Welcome , tourists , to New York , the Summer Festival . Commissioner Murphy , Mr. Barnes , and Mayor Wagner await you with a fistful of $15 green souvenirs . New York is a terrible place to visit and I wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , May 6 , 1962.                     