@@723904

txt The conspiracy charge in an indictment against Roy M. Cohn and Murray E. Gottesman was dismissed yesterday by Federal Judge Archie 0 . Dawson . But Judge Dawson refused to dismiss nine other counts alleging perjury and obstruction of justice . He said he would give the case to the jury of 10 men and two women tomorrow morning after hearing summations today . On the nine remaining counts , three cite Mr. Cohn for perjury , four cite him for obstruction of justice , and two charge Mr. Gottesman with perjury . Mr. Cohn , former counsel to the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , could still receive a maximum jail sentence of 35 years . But the throwing out of the conspiracy count was considered a blow to the Govern-1 ment . Now the Government must prove that the two defendants ' actually lied , rather than conspired to lie , to a 1962 Federal grand jury , and that Mr. Cohn actually threatened , rather than conspired to threaten , other grand jury witnesses , The Government charged that Mr. Cohn and Mr. Gottesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enable four stock swindlers to escape indictment in a $5 million scandal involving United Dye and , Chemical Corporation stock . Two of the stock swindlers testified that a $50,000 payoff for " fixing " the indictment was split between Mr. Cohn and Morton S. Robson , former chief assistant United States Attor- // ney . Mr. Robson , who appeared as a defense witness , denied receiving any payoff , and his testimony was supported by another witness , S. Hazard Gillespie , who was a United States Attorney in 1959 , Mr. Gillespie , an Eisenhower appointee , said that he alone had made the decision to keep the four off the indictment . To repair the damage done by the Gillespie testimony , the Government . called , as rebuttal witnesses two agents of the Securities and Exchange Commission , who said they urged the indictment of the four men but were blocked by Mr. Robson and Leonard Glass , then an assistant United States Attorney in charge of the United Dye case . The S. E. C. men , Allen S. Kilmer , financial analyst , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagreed strongly with the way Mr. Glass was presenting the United Dye case to the grand jury in 1959 . They found ' him reluctant to ask for the indictment of the four swindlers : Samuel S. Garfield , gambler and oil promoter ; Allard Roen , manager of the besert Inn in Las Vegas ; Irving Pasternak , oil promoter , and Allen K. Swarm , a Midwest attorney . They testified that when they asked Mr. Glass to take them to Mr. Gillespie for a showdown , Mr. Glass took them instead to Mr. Robson . In Mr. Robson 's office they were not even invited to sit down , they testified . Mr. Robson kept them standing while they argued for 5 or 10 minutes that the United Dye indictment would be gravely weakened without the inclusion of Garfield , Roen , Pasternak and Swarm . Robson Contradicted The S.E.G. men contradicted Mr. Robson 's testimony that they agreed at this meeting that the evidence against the four men was insufficient to warrant indictment . The four were not indicted in 1959 but were indicted in 1960 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four pleaded guilty in 1962 . Judge Dawson threw out the conspiracy charge after both sides rested at 3:30 P.M. He said the Government had failed to prove the existence of an agreement between Mr. Cohn and Mr. Gottesman to commit perjury and obstruct justice . The conspiracy count would only confuse the jury , he said . The judge 's decision was not a surprise , for early in the trial he had referred to the conspiracy count as " amorphous . " In arguing successfully for dismissal of the conspiracy count , Mr. Cohn 's lawyer , Frank Raichle , cited the reversal by the United States Court of Appeals in 1960 of conspiracy convictions of 20 men who attended the 1957 meeting at Apalachin , N.Y. ? the purported conference of Mafia leaders . Judge Dawson agreed with Mr. Raichle that the fact that Mr. Cohn and Mr. Gottesman had a breakfast meeting soon after the latter was handed a grand jury subpoena was not sufficient to sustain the conspiracy count . Mr. Raichle tried to persuade the judge to throw out other Counts that charged that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Cohn had done , Mr. Raichle argued , was to broadcast warnings that he would expose persons who were lying about him to the grand jury . Judge Dawson said he would leave it to the jury to decide whether the alleged threats made by Mr. Cohn were " corrupt threats " , that is , threats designed to impel witnesses to give false testimony . Earlier yesterday Mr. Gottesman completed his testimony Under cross-examination he conceded that he had changed his testimony at several points regarding a purported hotel room meeting in 1959 with the four who later confessed themselves to be swindlers . The Government contends that this meeting never occurred , that it was fabricated by Mr. Cohn and Mr. Gottesman to give a cloak of legality to their efforts to obstruct justice .                     