@@721460

txt Premier Fidel Castro brought a vigorous indictment of United States " aggression " against Cuba to the United Nations today and warned other underdeveloped , nations against a similar fate . In a major appeal for world sympathy  --  aimed especially at the new nations of Africa and the peoples of Latin America ? Dr. Castro ascribed most of mankind 's problems to the " monopolists " and " imperialists " who , he charged , were served by the United States Government . By contrast , he praised the Soviet Union for its avowed opposition to colonialism and endorsed many of Moscow 's major foreign policy planks . The Premier 's four-and-onehalf-hour address , delivered from only a single sheet of notes , followed for the most part the pattern- of his previous denunciations of the United States . Asks No U. N. Action Dr. Castro asked for no spe cific action by the United Nations in Cuba 's dispute with the United States . But he called several times on the nations of Asia , Africa and Latin America to support Cuba as a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point was his ? strong hint that ' Cuba might soon demand the evacuation of the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay . Dr. Castro vowed , however , that this demand would be- pressed diplomatically and legally , without resort to force and without offering any excuse for invasion of his Caribbean island . He accused the United States of having " decreed the destruction " of his Government on the pretext that it was Communistdominated . Actually , he maintained , Cuba is being punished because she has defied : ' monopolies " by asserting control over her own economy and resources . Cuba was not die first and would not be the last to stiffer at the hands of the United States , he declared . He listed other alleged victims through out Latin America , Africa and the Middle East , But he warned that if Cuba were physically at ' tacked , she would not have to stand alone . This apparently was a reference to Soviet offers of military aid in cast of attack . Dr. Castro pleaded with the American people to hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last twenty months with their own eyes . He would not want to confuse the United States Government with the talented and fine American people , he said . Cuba 's offers to negotiate her differences with the United States have been spurned in Washington , Dr. Castro insisted . He was pessimistic about relations with the next Administration and said both major candidates for the Presidency " lack political brains . " The bearded , 34-year-olds Premier , in a freshly pressed battle-green fatigue uniform , took the floor in the General Assembly at 3:50 P. M. He addressed the three-quarters-filled assembly hall and a television and radio audience in Cuba and the United States in a firm voice . At first he spoke slowly , his hands behind his back , apparently to assist the interpreters and to dramatize his posture as an injured party . But later , at key junctures , he waved papers and gesticulated with a powerful hand . His voice quickened in familiar patterns . He began with a promise of brevity . " Although it has been said of us that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall endeavor to be brief and put before you what we deem it our duty to say , " he declared . He then went on to deliver one of the longest orations ever given in the Assembly . Some of his audience disappeared over the dinner hour , but most remained and listened closely , especially the delegates of the Soviet bloc . The Communists , led by a frequently smiling Premier Khrushchev , interrupted often with warm applause . At times , delegates of Guinea , Mexico and Venezuela also joined in the clapping . Only Guinea and the nine Soviet-bloc nations applauded at the end of the speech . Twice during the evening Dr. Castro was interrupted by , the Assembly 's President , Frederick H. Boland of Ireland . The first time he was reproached for his references to the candidates in the United States election , including a statement that Senator John F. Kennedy , the Democratic nominee , was an " illiterate and ignorant millionaire . " Highlights Are Noted Later on , Dr. Castro himself asked for a ruling as he warmed up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Boland urged the Cuban to refrain from personal attacks on any chief of state and the speaker complied . These were the highlights of Dr. Castro 's address . On Cuban-United States relations : Cuba had always been a " colony " to her northern neighbor , " the motherland " ? and her people were doomed until two years ago to " permanent " unemployment , illiteracy , malnutrition and poor medical care . The revolution had made tremendous strides in undoing the damage of decades , but naturally had alienated United States " monopolies . " That is why Cuba suffered physical assaults from the air , " economic aggression " and now " subversion " with the aid of " war criminals . " He charged that the Swan Islands in the Caribbean , were now being used for propaganda attacks against Cuba and for the training of an invasion force . On Latin America : He was " amazed " that the San Jose conference of foreign ministers of American states last month had condemned not United States " aggression " but the innocent Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin-American nations on the United States . The new $500,000,000 United States aid program for Latin America was devised only because the " monopolists " feared the spread of the Cuban Revolution . But this was a wholly inadequate program of " social " rather than economic development . On the Soviet Union : Premier Khrushchev had aroused Cuban attention with his statement that the Soviet Union had no colonies or investments abroad , It would be wonderful if all countries could make that statement before the world . On issues before the current session of the General Assmbly : Cuba " wholly " supports the Soviet disarmament proposals and knows , by comparing Pre'eater Eisenhower 's statements who really favors disarmament . Cuba would not like to see the establishment of an international police force until there are guarantees that it would not be used to crush revolutions in smaller nations . Cuba " condemned " the manner in which the United Nations intervened in the Congo . That " mysterious third man , " Col. Joseph D. Mobutu was usurping power from the rightful Premier , Patrice Lumumba , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete independence . Communist China should be admitted to the United Nations and should not be prevented by the United States from " liberating " Taiwan . On treatment of the Cuban delegation in New York : Hotels had been ordered  --  presumably by the United States Government  --  to blackball the Cubans and to practice " extortion " with unreasonable cash demands . The Castro party had been given " humiliating treatment " and had suffered " hostility " and " isolation " on the pretext of security . It had been slandered by newspaper stories suggesting that it had turned its hotel into a " brothel . " The slaying in a West Side restaurant of a 9-year-old Venezuelan girl had been wrongly blamed on pro-Castro forces , he said ; it was really committed by " war criminals . "                     