@@722830

txt The policy question of how the communications satellite system being developed by the United States can be merged into a truly international enterprise is beginning to trouble the State Department and some of the nation 's closest allies . The position being taken by , the State Department is that the newly authorized Communications Satellite Corporation of the United States must be merged into an international , venture with broad ownership and participation by other nations . Unless such an international , enterprise can be developed , the State Department fears that competing satellite systems will be developed by individual nad tions , with resulting duplication and rivalry . The State Department 's policy was spelled out by Richard N. Gardner , Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs , in the latest issue of Foreign Affairs . His article on cooperation in outer space was cleared by the department and represents a statement of department policy . Foreign Affairs is published by the Council on Foreign Relations , a private organization . Whether Mr. Gardner 's article also represents an expression of Administration policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed a year ago , there has been a division within the Administration as well as the communications industry on how to achieve international participation in a global communications system . One faction within the Administration has been arguing that the international participation can be achieved through bilateral agreements between the United States Satellite Corporation and foreign countries , which would be guaranteed access , to the satellite frequencies and would establish their own ground stations . Another faction , which includes Mr. Gardner , contends ? that ultimately the United States corporation must become part of an international organization operating the global satellite system . Partly for domestic political reasons , t h e Administration has tended thus far to be leery of the idea of establishing an international satellite organization . For example , when Mr. Gardner suggest e d several months ago the formation of an international corporation , the idea was promptly repudiated by Administration officials . One reason was a prevailing view within the White House and Justice Department that an international organiza t ion would be unwieldy and impracticable for running a commercial enterprise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the international concept would complicate the Congressional debate on establishing a United States Corporation . Envisages Broad Ownership The approval in the last session of Congress of legislation establishing a United States Satellite Corporation , Mr. Gardner said , enables this nation to exercise effective leadership in developing the international arrangements necessary for a world-wide communications systems . He emphasized , however , that " we do not envisage that . other countries will satisfy their interests in satellite communications by purchasing shares in the United States company . " As he pointed out , existing law limits foreign ownership in the American company to 20 per cent . " Instead , " he said , " we envisage that the United States company would participate in a truly international arrangement which would provide for broad ownership and participafi tion in a world-wide basis . " His point was that it would not be sufficient for the United Corporation , in effect , to rent frequency space to other countries . " In view of the importance which all states attach to communications , " he said , " many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations as well as participate in ownership and management of the satellites themselves . " Behind his comments was a certain immediacy , since in recent weeks the British Commonwealth , represented by Britain and Canada , had asked at the State Department how the commonwealth might participate in a space communications system pioneered and owned prepondently by the United States . Reflecting issues raged in these discussions at the State Department , Mr. Gardner noted that establishment of a global system would require international agreement in such questions as participation in ownership of the system , allocation A satellite channels , location of ; round stations , technical standardization , assistance to ess developed countries and sates to be charged . Many of these problems , he toted , are analogous to those , hat have been solved on conientional communications systems , in which private United States companies have entered n bilateral arrangement with ' oreign communications agen ; ies . That a satellite system , le said , raises questions that tre quite new and " new organisations may eventually prove iecessary. "      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      