@@721188

txt SEOUL , Korea , April 20 UPI ? Defiant students and townspeople armed with guns , knives , and clubs held mob control over northern Seoul Wednesday in the bloody , fiery Korean civilian revolt against alleged political corruption . Ruins of public buildings still smoked from destructive mob-set fires . Additional Korean military forces were moving into the capital . President Syngman Rhee 's government  --  nowin its fourth 4-year term ? called troops into Seoul and proclaimed martial law here and in four other cities Tuesday night after clashes between police and 100,000 demon . strators challenging the count of ballots in recent national elections . Army Moves on Diehards The other cities place d under martial law were Pusan , Taegu , Taejon , and Kwangju . The troops quickly cleared , most streets in Seoul and other cities and restored a brooding peace . But in northeastern Seoul , hotbed of resistance to Rhee 's ruling Liberal party , hundreds of die-hard demonstrators still roamed . Army tanks and truckloads of soldiers moved on that sector . School boys were in the forefront @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thick and police rifles poured volley after volley into the ranks of the demonstrators . 81 Reported Killed Reports that 81 persons were killed and up to 300 wounded in Tuesday 's street battling brought rebukes from the United States . The government listed 21 dead in fighting before Rhee 's palace , but unconfirmed reports said the death toll was near 80 , with up to 250 wounded . Heavily armed soldiers , called into the capital late Tuesday , guarded key buildings in downtown S e o u 1 , where mobs virtually ruled for a time . Peace of a sort prevailed in the central sections . Troops Clear Streets Troops quickly cleared the streets . The ' soldiers moved firmly against crowds and frequently fired into the air but there were no reports of clashes between troops and demonstrators . Seoul was grim and battle. , ' scarred on the morning after , Sixteen buildings were set dire and destroyed . Among them were 12 police stations and the pro-government newspaper . Seoul , Shinmoon and the anti-communist center . Ten other police stations were damaged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minor government buildings smashed in mob fury . Twenty vehicles , including seven fire engine s , were burned or otherwise damaged . Seoul 's Mayor - Quits The mayor of Seoul , Kim Hung-Soon resigned . Some demonstrators were reported seizing taxis and other vehicles and using them to move north , away from the city and toward Uijongbu . This is in the direction of the army 's front lines facing Red North Korea . A witness said a few hundred students camped overnight in the auditorium of Korea university while national polite surrounded the school . Gunfire was heard between 6 and 7 a. m. when some of the students apparently attempted to break out . Tongsung high school , whose boys were in the forefront of battles Tuesday , is in the same area . The martial law command announced that about 30 demonstrators were arrested during the night while trying to flee the downtown area . Police have been a special target of demonstrators thruout the nation . The police are accused of torturing prisoners taken in earlier disorders and of brutality in dealing with crowds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns as a result of censorship . Many pictures were blanked out . Further reports gave a clearer picture of the clashes in other cities Tuesday : - In Pusan , where tens of thousands demonstrated against the government , nine public buildings we re attacked and damaged . The buildings included four police stations and two fire stations . Three police jeeps and three fire engines were burned . At Inchon , 30 miles west al Seoul , 1,000 high school students ' stoned police and injured 10 officers in a 30-minute clash . In Kwangju , 2,000 to 3,000 high school boys clashed with police , who used tear gas and blank cartridges . The boys stoned government buildings end a branch office of Ithee 's Liberal party . Crash Governor 's Office At Taegu , 3,000 college students broke into the provincial government office and demanded a conference with the provincial governor on their charges of illegal voting in the March 15 election . The attack on the presidential mansion reflected a public feeling that police brutality had helped Rhee to his landslide victory last month . About noon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the capital . Several hundred yards from the mansion they halted at the sight of the row of armed , helmeted police blocking the avenue . Mord students poured into the street , and hordes of townspeople started to join them . The crowd surged forward , shouting and hurling rocks . Police responded with tear gas . The Crowd retreated as streams of water came fr3m fire hoses , But others smashed toward a gate guardhouse at the edge of the capitol grounds . Scores poured over the walls encircling the grounds . Bricks smashed thru windows of two government ministries behind the capitol . Cars were overturned . The excited crowd pushed closer to the presidential mansion . A knot of 500 students rushed a barbed wire barricade , swarmed over it and captured four fire tr u c k s . Students mounted the trucks and moved toward a thin line of waiting armed guards . Suddenly rifles cracked . Volley after volley poured into the crowd . Some students fell . Others ran . Tear gas exploded among the wounded . Some students attempted to regroup @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guards fired . More students fell . Police forced the crowd back toward the center of the city , just as army trucks rolled into the capital .                     