@@724898

txt Washington President Johnson showed himself master of the press-conference medium here at a critical time , and left observers wondering why he does not use it more often . With the nation acutely interested in President Johnson 's " mood " following a series of critical press analyses of his style and approach , Mr. Johnson pitched what most professional listeners here regard as the equivalent of a no-hit game . It came at the precise minute in the escalating Vietnam war where any slip or sign of insecurity would have had serious overtones across the country . On the contrary , in the incongruous-set , ting of the glittering East Room of the White House  --  with George and Martha Washington looking down from full-length paintings with possible dismay on a scene equivalent to a tangled Hollywood set ? Mr. Johnson seemed restrained , confident , and as skillful as a Wimbledon tennis finalist  --  returning a cannonball serve . Questions hurled From Pennsylvania Avenue through the great windows of the White House came the distant sound of the huge Shriners ' parade with bands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murmur outside rose and fell like a theatrical device as inside , President Johnson simultaneously made the grim announcement of deeper commitment of American soldiers to the lethal jungles of Vietnam . Then came the questions . The reporters did their jobs skillfully , too . Smoothly and suavely they tossed every kind of embarrassing question at the President . These ranged , for example , from the Republican taunt that Mr. Johnson repeatedly voted against civil-rights legislation until recent years in Congress , down to the two latest versions of why he accepted the vice-presidency bid under President Kennedy . One of these , by historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. , was that Mr. Kennedy made the offer thinking the Texan would never accept it . Briefing evident If Mr. Johnson 's uncertain temper was strained it did not show . Recent critical analyses have interpreted him as a powerful figure of formidable gifts but with over-sensitivity that constitutes dangerous vulnerability . There are few figures in the intimate White House circle from whom Mr. Johnson will accept criticism . One of these is William ( Bill ) D. Moyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ailing George E. Reedy as Mr. Johnson 's press secretary . There was evidence that the President had been carefully briefed on the prospective questions for this full-dress press conference , the first since early June . ? Mr. Johnson had kind words for about everybody . He did not overdo it , as he sometimes does . He had meant no intentional slap at the Republicans , he averred , when he congratulated the House of Representatives for passing his version of the Civil Rights Act and not the GOP substitute . " I carefully limited myself to an observation , " he explained innocently . Articles mentioned How about all those critical articles about him recently in the press ? asked a reporter sweetly . Mr. Johnson was just as sweet . The press , and Congress , and the people " with very minor exceptions , " he said , had been good to him . With a kind of purr he noted that his popularity poll had " gone up 6 percent out in the country . " Mr. Johnson voted against several civil-rights bills in early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it . Mr. Johnson answered a reporter 's request to comment on the Republican charge . He spoke quietly and displayed neither irritation nor mawkish humility . " I am going to try to provide all of the leadership that I can , " he said , " notwithstanding the fact that someone may point to a mistake , or 100 mistakes , that I made ? in the past . "                     