@@722219

txt Presi'dent Kennedy switched his week-end travel plans today and announced he will fly back to Washington tomorrow afternoon , a day earlier than planned . He will meet Saturday with the chairman of the House ways and means committee , who may hold the key to three major administration measures to come before Congress this year . The chairman is Rep. Wilbur D. Mills ' D. , Ark. , who will hold the gavel over committee debate on measures considering tax revisions , a liberalized trade program , and the medical aid for the aged measure which the administration wants included in the social security program . Question His Optimism Altho Kennedy has been pictured as confident the administration will win its medical care program , blocked in the first session of the 87th Congress , some observers predict he will get no more than 10 votes in the committee . The membership of the ways and means group , which originates all tax legislation , is 15 Demoerats and 10 Republicans . One White House assistant of the President said that success or failure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic I program for the second session , will depend upon Mills . During the first session , the White House concentrated much of its legislative efforts on the rules committee , which is headed by Rep. Howard . W. Smith a , Va . When the efforts to win over Smith failed , the committee was padded by adding three so-called liberal congressmen after a stiff floor fight . Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , said that Mills and the President would discuss a number of subjects at the meeting . To Columbus Saturday It had been announced earlier this week that the President had no plans to meet with legislative leaders while in Palm Beach and would fly from here on Saturday directly to Columbus , 0. , to speak at a fund raising dinner sponsored by Gov . Michael V. Di Salle of Ohio , then return to Washington . In addition to the Mills meeting , it was indicated that the President wanted to hold other conferences in Washington with key aids before seeing other legislators . After the Mills meeting and conferences with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by jet plane at 3:30 p. m. , go directly to the fund raising dinner in Columbus , and return to Washington about 11 p. m. the same ' ' night . Clay Meeting Sunday Kennedy has scheduled another meeting on Sunday with retired Gen. Lucius D. Clay , his . personal representative in Berlin , who is flying home for the meeting . This is in addition to a Sunday conference planned with John McCone , director of the Central Intelligence agency . Salinger said the Clay meeting did not signify any worsening of conditions in Berlin . Salinger said he did not know at this time whether the President plans to consult with Republican leaders or Democrats in Congress before it reconvenes on Wednesday , but added " there is no doubt in my mind that the Presdent will meet congressmen next week . " Rep. Noah M. Mason Ill. is the ranking Republican member of the ways and means committee , while Rep. John W. Byrnes Wis. is the second senior G. 0 . P. member . Rep. Thomas J. O'Brien Ill. is the third ranking Democrat on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a Harvard graduate , altho he is considered by some to be more conservative in his political leanings than the President , also a Harvard man , The congressman will be the first legislator on the President 's official calling list since he left Washington Dec. 19 after the President 's father , Joseph P. Kennedy , suffered a stroke . Most of the President 's working time here has been devoted to conferences with appointed officials and Pentagon assistants . He also worked on the state of the Union message and a budget message to be delivered personally to Congress.1 Vice President Johnson left here yesterday for Johnson , City , Tex. , after two days of meetings with the President , but will he back ill Washington by Saturday . Johnson hinted to reporters that the major legislation may not have the smooth sailing that some persons have forecast . But he also said that in his 30 years in both houses he had not seen the Congress have more confidence in a President , Johnson is a protege of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ briefing from Maj. Gen. Chester V. Clifton , White House military aid , Kennedy took another cruise aboard the White House yacht Honey Fitz and also visited his father at St. Mary 's hospital in West Palm Beach . Salinger announced that the President 's wife would remain here until Wednesday , then fly to Washington aboard the family plane Caroline with their two children , Caroline , 4 , and John Jr. , 1 . The press secretary also announced that the President in- , tends to appoint Gen. Robert J. Fleming Jr. , chief of the United States army engineer division at Dallas , Tex. , as governor of the Panama Canal zone . The White House said that Fleming was special assistant to the commanding general , Hawaiian department , at the beginning of World War IL He was born at Fort Robinson , Neb . Aid for Dominicans In another announcement , Salinger said that a fact finding mission headed by Teodoro Moscoso , assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development , will depart from New York Sunday for Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid projects for that country . A statement said that Mos- , coso 's " mission will seek information in the areas of the mon-1 etary and fiscal situation in the Dominican Republic and the possible need for emergency programs , such as unemployment relief and literacy and immunization program s , as well as looking into the possible requirements for long term aid programs in the nation in order to strengthen the alliance for progress . "                     