@@727005

txt Lure in the last few weeks . Those emotional forces could yet explode , and then tragedy could push all rational calculations aside Fractured East Europe Not since 1956 has Moscow 's European empire been in such disarray as in recent weeks . In Poland , clashes between students and police as well as peaceful student protest demonstrations have occurred in almost every major city . Iri Czechoslovakia , an amazed world has watched a peaceful revolution , which in less than two months has given that country free speech and press of a quality and magnitude unknown during twenty years of Communist rule . Now the - ferment has brought the removal of Antonin Novotny , one of the last of the diehard Stalinists , from even his ceremonial post as President . Simultaneously Rumania has publicly defied Moscow twice in the last fortnight  --  by walking out of the Budapest international Communist conference and by refusing to sign the resolution on nuclear profileration endorsed by all the other participants in the Warsaw Pact meeting in Sofia . The comparison with 1956 inevitably raises the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tragedy will take place this year . Will Soviet tanks with blazing guns be firing at the people of Warsaw , Prague or Bucharest as they did in Budapest little more than a decade ago ? The possibility is very much in the minds of millions of Eastern Europeans these days . Yet precisely because there was a 1956 and because both the Eastern Europeans and the Russians learned from that encounter , there is ground for optimism that the blood bath of Budapest will not be repeated . Soviet troops moved into action in Hungary in 1956 after the short-lived Government of Imre Nagy announced that it wanted Soviet troops to leave that country . Hungary 's aim was to become a neutral state ' on the Austrian or Swiss model , rather than remain a member of the Warsaw Pact . With a typical mania for suspicion , the Kremlin decided then that these demands meant that Hungary was about to become a capitalist ally of the United States , and therefore an American-supported threat to Soviet security on Russia 's frontier . It was to prevent this imagined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the process Moscow suffered worldwide propaganda and political loss . ? Currently both sides give signs of a desire to avoid any repetition of 1956 . Soviet Communist party chief Leonid I. Brezhnev , for example , visited Czechoslovakia early in December at the height of the Prague power struggle , but he left the next day without any serious effort to intervene on behalf of the Novotny forces . This week the Soviet leaders even declined to aid Mr. Novotny in his abortive last-ditch fight to retain the Presidency . Conversely , those who are leading the movements for democracy in Czechoslovakia and Poland have sought to make clear for the most part that they wish to retain both Socialism and good relations with the Soviet Union . And the Rumanians , for all their dissidence , have remained members of the Warsaw Pact and have sought to maintain correct , if not warm , relations with Moscow . There is another major reason for questioning whether 1956 will be repeated . The chief propaganda and political theme of both the Soviet Union and the world Communist movement is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Vietnam . For Soviet troops to repeat the Budapest tragedy in any of the other major capitals of Eastern Europe in the next few weeks or few months would be to invalidate , politically , propagandistically and morally , the indignation that Communists assert they feel about United States policy in Vietnam . But such calculations are based on the assumption that both in Moscow and in the Eastern European capitals men who influence events will remain rational . So far they have . However , there are powerful emotional forces behind the superficial events that have so shaken the Eastern European political strucReproduced                     