@@728019

txt The New York State Insurance Department yesterday approved Blue Cross rate increases averaging 43.3 per cent . The new rates will go into effect no later than Oct. 1 , the Insurance Department said . The approved increases , which affect some 4.8-million Blue Cross subscribers , were only slightly below the 49.5 per cent average rate rise requested by Blue Cross last May . In a statement issued by his office , Governor Rockefeller expressed regret at the necessity for the rate increases , but said their need had been " fully substantiated . " " There is no realistic alternative at this time , " the Governor said . " Failure to approve the increase would has led to bankruptcy of the Blue Cross and the loss of health protection to millions of New Yorkers . " New Approaches Urged He said the rate increases " must be regarded as stop-gap measures " and added : " Our present system must be supplanted at the earliest possible moment with new approaches to the financing of medical care . " The Insurance Department , in announcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases ranging from 29.9 per cent to 64.7 per cent , depending on the type of coverage involved . Blue Cross had requested a range of rate increases from 30.1 per cent to 83.6 per cent . " The rate increases have been granted on an interim basis , " the Insurance Department said , " to avoid the imminent insolvency of Associated Hospital Service and to enable it to provide hospital insurance in the immediate future . " At the same time , the Insur- ance Department rejected Blue ' Cross 's proposals to have sub- , scribers pay a portion of hospital costs under certain contracts . The state agency also turned down a proposal by Blue Cross ' that would have compelled all community-rated subscribers to purchase additional benefits , and another that would have divided certain subscribers into smaller . classifications for . rating . purposes . The increases approved by the Insurance Department yesterday affect only those Blue Cross subscribers who hold socalled community-rated coverage . Those who are covered by experience-rated contracts are not affected by the increases . Community-rated . contracts are drawn on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the total policies issued by Blue Cross . Experience-rated policies are those based on the hospitalization experience of a smaller group and account for about 47 per cent of the policies . Blue Cross last received approval for a rate increase in 1964 , when the Insurance Department approved rises averaging 32.9 per cent ? The application for the current increases was filed by Blue Cross on May 22 . A public hearing on the application was held on Aug. .4 .. In his , statement , Governor Rockefeller said the major basis for the increased Blue Cross rate is " the unrelenting upward spiral of hospital costs . " ' " The way to halt periodic health insurance rate increases , " he said , " obviously is to bring rising hospital costs under control : ' Mr. Rockefeller recalled that earlier this year the Legislature had approved , at his request , a measure that permits the State Commissioner of Heath to prescribe a hospital cost control formula . He said Health Commissioner Hollis Ingraham " has already moved to develop a tentative formula , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this month . " " This approach , " Mr. Rockefeller said , " will create incentive for hospitals ' to economize through better management , and also wily relate hospital rates directly to the cost of efficient production of medical services . " In addition to such a formula , the Governor said , " There must also be the system of Universal Health Insurance , which I have proposed in each of the last three " years but upon which the Legislature has failed to act . " Mr. Rockefeller said such a system would provide for the standardization of basic ' hospital insurance benefits and would become " the first line of medical defense for millions of employed persons and their dependents , assuring them of adequate health care . " " The Blue Cross rate increases , " Governor Rockefeller said , " clearly indicates the need for prompt action by the 1970 Legislature to restructure our health financing system and eliminate periodic built-in rate increases . " At  --  the Aug. 4 hearing on the Blue Cross rate increase , John J. DeLury , the president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask the city and state to develop a hospital insurance program of their own " to give Blue Cross stiff competition " and to break what he called its " monopolistic stranglehold " on hospital insurance coverage .                     