@@722540

txt Premier Khrushchev proposed today that the United States , British and French forces in West Berlin be replaced by troops from the small nations in the North Atlantic and Warsaw alliances . In making the proposal concerning Western occupation rights in Berlin , a principal stumbling block in United States-Soviet efforts to find a solution to the Berlin problem , Mr. Khrushchev suggested that the new occupation be under control of the United Nations . The Premier said Norway and Denmark or the Netherlands and Belgium , all members of NATO , together with Poland and Czechoslovakia , of the Warsaw Pact group , might supply contingents for Berlin . Addresses Peace Meeting The proposal came in a twoand-a-half-hour speech by Mr. Khrushchev to the Communistsponsored World Congress for General Disarmament and Peace , meeting in the Kremlin . The meeting has attracted 2,000 delegates from 100 countries . Mr. Khrushchev repeated the Soviet demand for general and complete disarmament , but he defended Soviet nuclear testing . He said the Soviet Union had been forced to resume tests last autumn to " cool some hotheads who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when " the aggressive North Atlantic bloc openly threatened war over the German peace treaty . " He said " the new major series of nuclear tests that the United States Government is carrying out jointly with the British Government is a challenge to mankind . " " The matter has gone so far , " he added , " that the , United States is carrying out ! nuclear weapon tests in outer space , disregarding the fact that these experiments may have very dangerous , consequences for the conditions of man 's life . " He quoted President Kennedy as having said " In our country there is no danger to health as a result of our tests . " He disputed this , saying : " Mr. Kennedy has not told the truth to the population of his country . Modern scientific data show that the American tests bring great harm to the health of people . Besides , there are not only Americans on earth but also Englishmen , Russians , Chinese , Japanese , Frenchmen , Italians and other people . And those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mention the harm they might bring to these other people . " President Kennedy , in response to a question at his news conference June 27 , said " there is no health hazard here in this country , nor will there be from our tests . " The Berlin problem has grown out of Soviet demands that West Berlin , now occupied by the Western Allies , be converted into a demilitarized free city , possibly with the stationing of symbolic neutral or United Nat4ons military contingents . The West has insisted on its present occupation status . Premier Khrushchev reviewed Soviet positions on major world issues . He again stressed the Soviet Union 's military preparedness , but repeated his readiness to sign a disarmament accord on his terms " tomorrow . " Vowing that he would never use nuclear war to obtain his oft-predicted world-wide victory of communism , he paraphrased lines from Longfellow 's poem " Hiawatha , " declaring that he would gladly bury the hatchet and smoke the peace pipe with Americans " even though I am a non-smoker . " Denies U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military power had shifted to the United States . He asserted that the Soviet Union had thermonuclear bombs equivalent to 100 megatons ' of TNT or larger , that it had intercontinental ballistic missiles " against which there is virtually no defense " and also possessed , anti-missile missiles . Soviet development of the large bombs and the antimissile weapons was reported at the twenty-second Communist party congress last October . The existence of a so-called global rocket was announced by Mr. Khrushchev in a pre-election speech in February . The Premier assailed . as " monstrous " a speech by Secretary of Defense Robert S. at Ann Arbor , Mich. , June 16 , which suggested that opponents in a nuclear war should seek " the destruction of the enemy 's military forces , not of his civilian population . " " We must agree not on how to wage - war , but on , how to exclude the very possibility . of war , " Mr. Khrushchev said . Mr. Khrushchev stressed the danger of war by accident and cited a reported false alarm last November in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have sent bombers in the direction of the Soviet Union . " For twelve and a half minutes the Strategic Air Command was in a virtual state of war with the Soviet Union , " the Premier asserted . Premier Khrushchev was the only head of government to accept an invitation to the conference , whose organizers invited the eighteen members of the Geneva disarmament talks to present their views . Speech Warmly Applauded The Premier 's speech , which was not broadcast or televised " live , " met with wild applause from delegates . At the end of his speech , Mr. Khrushchev was about to walk off the stage in the Palace of Congresses when Prof. John D. Bernal of Britain , a chief organizer of the conference , motioned the Premier to join the officials on the dais while messages from other Geneva conferees were read . Brief replies from the Indian , British , French and other Governments stressed that their views were sufficiently well known and there was little purpose in having them repeated at the conference . Professor Bernal pointedly announced that no reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy . Before he left Mr. Khrushchev shook hands with each . of the 100 members of the conference 's presidium . Earlier in the day the conference heard a speaker whose approach to disarmament differed notably from the Soviet view voiced by most speakers . Soviet Accused of Error Canon John L. Collins of St. Paul 's Cathedral , London , who is chairman of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament in Britain , told the gathering that the Soviet Union " made a grave error , whatever reasons were advanced by its military advisers , in resuming testing of nuclear weapons last autumn . " The same point was made yesterday by Prof. Dale Pontius of Roosevelt University in Chicago . Canon Collins said the " balance of terror " must give place to " a balance of trust " between the two major nuclear powers if disarmament was to be achieved . He called on the conference to allow its participants to engage in a " real dialogue . " The meeting is 1- elieved to be the first such Moscow conference at which non-Communist peace organizations have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen whether these views will be reflected in final resolutions . Another speaker , Mrs. Ruth Gage-Colby of New York , who is active in women 's peace organizations , said Americans had refused to heed their Government 's call for , a shelter-building program because " it would have meant capitulating to the inevitability of nuclear disaster . "                     