@@723719

txt Twin 1,350-foot towers , the world 's tallest buildings , will be erected to house the World Trade Center planned downtown . The towers and a cluster of 70-foot-high satellite buildings will form a ring around a five-acre plaza containing reflecting pools . Plans for the $350 million complex on the Lower West Side were disclosed yesterday at a preview in the New York Hilton Hotel . The center will gather governmental and private activities in the export-import field now widely scattered in the metropolitan area . It will have exhibition halls , shops , restaurants and a 250-room hotel , for travelers whose business brings them to the center . Each of the center 's twin towers will be eight stories ? and 100 feet  --  taller than the Empire State Building . Without its 222-foot television antenna mast , the Empire State is 1,250 feet high and has 102 stories . The Latest ' Community ' The center is the latest of a number of self-contained " communities " in the city . It follows the trend of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn Bridge Southwest development almost directly across Manhattan . The center will occupy a 16-acre site bounded by Church , Vesey , Liberty and West Streets . It will have 10 million square feet of rentable space , direct access to major mass transportation systems and offstreet parking for 1,600 vehicles . Construction is to begin early next year and will be completed in stages by 1970 . The architects are Minoru Yamasaki &; Associates and Emery Roth &; Sons . Governor Rockefeller , Gov . Richard J. Hughes , and officials of the Port of New York Authority , New York City , Jersey City and Hoboken attended the preview . The Port Authority , which will build and operate the center , estimated that $200 million of the $350 million cost of construction would go for wages of construction workers . Mr. Rockefeller noted that construction of the center would take up the slack in the building industry expected with the missing column                     