@@728280

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam , Dec. 14 ? American military spokesmen said today that two women serving with Communist forces were among 53 of the enemy killed by United States soldiers in a battle yesterday two miles from SoAgmy , the town in which American troops are accused of having killed many civilians last year . Four other women were reported among 10 of the enemy captured in the battle yesterday , in which three Americans were reported wounded . United States spokesmen said there had been no civilian casualties in the battle , fought in a swampy uninhabited area five miles northeast of Quangngai on the South China Sea . The women , who were wearing the traditional peasant garb of black pajamas , were presumed by Americal Division officers to be either combatants or military nurses . It is not unusual for women to serve in Communist units in North and South Vietnam . Some of the soldiers who have recounted stories of Americal Division officers and enlisted men who allegedly shot down civilians in Songmy village in March , 1968 , have also said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States military authorities and men on the scene gave the following account of the battle : At 9:50 A.M. yesterday , the pilot of a light observation helicopter scouting the area // saw a man in a green uniform who appeared to be burning documents . An armed helicopter was called in and killed him . When the light helicopter landed to examine the burning papers , hidden enemy troops opened fire . The helicopter escaped and called in eight rounds of artillery fire . A platoon of about 40 United States soldiers was airlifted in by two helicopters . When they landed , the enemy attacked with hand grenades . Thirteen United States armored personnel carriers joined the fight and jets attacked enemy positions from the air . The enemy withdrew about 5:45 P.M. leaving behind the 53 dead , some dressed in green uniforms and others in black pajamas . United States spokesmen said . that the force was a mixed one of North Vietnamese and Vietcong soldiers . Americal officers said the soldiers had apparently come to the flat , sandy and swampy scrubland , about 400 yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was one of the sharpest reported in recent weeks in I Corps , the northernmost military command of South Vietnam , below the demilitarized zone . In addition , there were five other reported clashes with the enemy in I Corps yesterday . Another element of the Americal Division exchanged fire for a few minutes with an enemy force of unknown size south of Quangngai near Ducpho . Five enemy , soldiers were reported killed - and five suspects were held . One United States soldier was . wounded . In the province to the north , Quangtin , another unit of the Americal Division and South Vietnamese militiamen were reported attacked near Tamky by an enemy force that wounded 15 Americans and several Popular Force troops before withdrawing an hour later with unknown casualties . Altogether yesterday , 91 of the enemy were reported killed and 33 Americans were reported wounded , including four in a UH-1 helicopter shot down in Thuathien Province in the northern area of South Vietnam . It brought the total of helicopters downed by , enemy fire to 1,414 . U.S. spokesmen reported 20 enemy shellings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five Americans were wounded in the attacks . Troops from the Third Brigade of the First Cavalry Division ( Airmobile ) reported unearthing a large enemy weapons cache , near Songbe , 83 miles northeast of Saigon . The cache included 50 Chinese Communist submachine guns , 15 other weapons and 86,840 rounds of small-arms ammunition .                     