@@721844

txt Joe Howard , 83 , a vaudeville star with three-quarters of a century of entertaining behind him , went down singing last night in the Civic Opera house . He collapsed on stage during a benefit show while a packed audience of 4,500 joined him in singing " Let Me Call You Sweetheart . " As Howard sang the closing phrase , " I 'm in love with you , " he fell backwards . Band Leader Frankie Masters , who thought the fall was part of the act , reached down to congratulate Howard , but he was unconscious . Last Curtain for Him The curtain fell , five doctors in the audience rushed backstage , and the show went on . Howard 's ninth wife , Miriam , hurried to his side , but the vaudeville veteran was dead . Howard was billed on the benefit with another old song and dance man , Pat Rooney . The show was called " A Return of Vaudeville . " Those in the audience paid up to $25 a seat , the proceeds to benefit the Marmion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Floradora costumes of the Gay ' 90s , accompanied Howard on stage at the start of his act . He sang " Hello , Ma Baby " and " Honeymoon , " both songs he composed and made famous , and then asked the audience to request the next one . The audience . asked for " Let Me Call You Sweetheart : " Howard 's widow later remarked , " What a glorious way to die-in the town where he first made it big . " The greatest songs and musical comedies to come from Howard 's pen were written in Chicago in the early 1900s . They were produced in the old Princess the at e r on Clark street , between Jackson boulevard and Van Buren street , and the old La Salle theater , where St. Peter 's Catholic church now stands on Madison street . With Will Hough and Frank Adams , Howard wrote " I Wonder Who 's Kissing Her Now , " " Hello , Ma Baby , " " Honeymoon , " " Remember Pearl Harbor , " " , A Boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ songs . Sung in Own Shows The songs were sung in their shows , which included " The Time , the Place , and the Girl , " " Stubborn Cinderella , " " Prince of Tonight , " " The Goddess of Liberty , " " Sweetest Girl in Paris , " " Miss Nobody from Starland , " and " The Land of Nod . " Howard 's last Loop appearance was in 1952 when he played in the Empire room of the Palmer . House in " Hold Everything , " a Merriel Abbott production . Mrs. Howard said the entertainer will be buried in 01 d Calvary cemetery in New York City . The body was taken to the chapel at 6217 S. Ashland ay . Howard and his wife came to Chicago for the benefit performance from their home at 5950 N. East 22d st. , Fort Lauderdale , Fla.                     