@@727729

txt Middle East A View of the Suez Battleline ISMAILIA , U.A.R. ? Westward from this scarred garden town headed truckload after truckload of household goods last week . Bedsteads , matresses and ornate tables wobbled atop the trucks as they moved out down the highway toward Cairo ? and away from the Suez Canal . Gilded and plump , it was furniture to delight the comfortloving Levantine streak in the average middle class Egyptian . Its owners were getting it out of range of the Israeli artillery deployed along the canal 's east bank . Despite all of Cairo 's talk of steadfastness and high morale , the remaining inhabitants of the canal 's Egyptian-held bank clearly have no hope of a quick victory over Israel . As an Ismailia showowner named Kemal put it , " We know there will be more fighting , there will be more dead . " Yet visits to Ismailia , the Great Bitter Lake and the town of Suez show that the people of what the British used to call " the Canal Zone " have accommodated themselves to life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they stroll Ismailia 's tree-lined boulevards , carrying rifles and submachine guns in case of an Israeli attack . Urchins romp around the hombshelters . Bureaucrats pore over their dossiers in quarters piled with protective sandbags . United Nations observers report that Egyptian gunners have started most of the recent artillery duels that have blasted Ismailia 's flower beds and freckled its public buildings with shrapnel holes . But this is immaterial to the few score thousand inhabitants here who have not been evacuated to safer quarters in the west , They scamper for the shelters at the first trump of artillery fire , leaving it to the officials later to make the ritual accusation that Israel begins the shelling each time " to destroy Egyptian morale . " Nonetheless , the shooting serves Cairo 's interests in several ways . It forstalls charges that the Egyptian regime is leaving all the fighting to the Arab commandos . It wreaks some damage On worrisome Israeli armaments and fortifications on the canal 's other side . It keeps the soldiery busy and the Egyptian populace at least a trifle preoccupied ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But shellfire has created an unforgettably ugly landscape along the canal , a landscape as distinctive and expressive of the Arab-Israeli impasse as the bleak neighborhoods along the Berlin Wall were of the East-West crisis of 1961 . Fresh piles of rubble litter Ismailia 's sidewalks after each artillery exchange , and fresh sh=11-holes dot the boulevards . Almost all the damage goes unrepairecl , and graceful homes of canal engineers stand disemboweled , with electric wires dangling and children 's schoolbooks lying shredded in the debris . Whisky Low In addition to officials , the remaining inhabitants of Ismailia include workers at a light bulb factory and a plant that makes asphalt tile . There are also a few bearded hawkers still plying the boulevards . The men who can afford it go to the Center Bar , the only bar that is still open . Its Greek owner , George Pahiyannis , eyed his dwindling stock of imported whisky recently and muttered : " Maybe I will move to Cairo . " Along the Great Bitter Lake , life goes sleepily on in the villages under their swaying palms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with little foxholes . For fear of Israeli snipers , Egyptian officers remove their rank insignia when they approach the canal bank . Foreign newsmen are kept a prudent few hundred yards to the rear except where lakes provide a buffer between the Egyptian positions and the hidden Israeli gun emplacements on the other side . Some of Suez ' seedy restaurants remain open , and there is even a bookshop or two . But evacuations have long since left most streets deserted . And even a fire truck has been moved westward to the outskirts of town . to preserve it from damage in the next artillery exchange . Political Seesaw Two months ago , faced with growing student and political unrest , the Spanish Government imposed " a state of exception . " That meant strict press censorship , arrest without trial for the students and exile for political enemies . It was a victory for the " hard-liners " in the Government , particularly those in the military . Last Friday , after a Cabinet meeting lasting from morning to midnight , the Government said the restrictions would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal wing of the Franco regime , bolstered by unfavorable foreign reaction , especially in trade circles , had succeeded in a counteroffensive , The Government warned , however , that it was ready to " proceed anew against subversion " if necessary .                     