@@726449

txt Eight liberal Republican members of the House offered a plan today for a mutual deescalation of the Vietnam war by the United States and North Vietnam . The plan , developed by Representative F. Bradford Morse of Massachusetts , was presented by the ' Representatives at a news conference in. the Cannon House Office Building this morning . Mr. Morse contended that the plan was moderate and practical and avoided the extremes of rapid American withdrawal from Vietnam or drastic escalation of the war . He said that it offered as well an alternative to what he termed the " inflexibility " of the current policy of the Johnson Administration on Vietnam . Democratic Criticism The presentation of the plan on the House floor this afternoon set off an exchange among a number of the approximately 20 members present . Representative Carl Albert , Democrat of Oklahoma , the House majority leader , attacked the proposal and defended the Administration policy on Vietnam . He said the plan implied that " the key to peace in Vietnam lies not in Hanoi , but in Washington . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement released by the Republican group , with a United States initiative  --  a 60-day suspension of bombing raids against the uppermost fifth of North Vietnam , above the 21st parallel . This area includes the Hanoi region but not the Haiphong and Namdinh areas , which contain major logistics complexes for the support of the war in the South . If Hanoi then undertook a commensurate de-escalatory step within the 60-day period , the United States would suspend bombing for 60 days against the area of North Vietnam north of the 20th parallel . If this move was in turn followed by another commensurate North Vietnamese step toward , de-escalation , bombing would ; he suspended north of the ** parallel for 60 days and so on down to the 17th parallel border with South Vietnam . Thus , in five successive steps the United States would halt its bombing campaign against all of North Vietnam in return for a series of de-escalatory measures by Hanoi . The representatives asserted that the equivalent de-escalatory steps by Hanoi could inchide the following : 9The cessation of shipments to and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam . 9The erection of barriers on and the nonuse of specific sup ' ply routes in North Vietnam ' and Laos along the Ho 11Chi Minh trail to South Vietnam . 9The cessation of all terror1st attacks in specified areas of South Vietnam . The release of all American prisoners of war . The Republicans said that each of the mutual de-escalatory , steps should be " clearly visible to and measurable by the other side . " They would be , communicated through diplomatic or other channels . Mutual Agreement Essential The New York Tune% July 11 , MN Under Republican proposal , bombing would be halted by stages , starting at 21st parallel in North Vietnam . than necessarily ending the entire experiment . " Mr. Morse said that the staged implementation of the at every stage for diplomatic exchanges to arrange the commensurate de-escalatory steps that North Vietnam would have to take . Throughout the early stages , until confidence in the North Vietnamese intentions had been built , the United States would retain the ability to , interdict supply routes south of whatever parallel it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Representatives rejected ' the extremes , of a rapid American withdrawal from Vietnam lor a sharp escalation of the war as impractical and unwise , and largued that current Administration policy was " unyielding and inflexible " in demanding a simultaneous concession by Hanoi for an initial United States move toward de-escalation . Mr. Morse said he had presented the plan to Administration officials before making it public and had obtained some attention but no firm interest at the decision-making level . A White House spokesman was noncommittal , about the proposals today and said that President Johnson had not analyzed them . Although the plan received no public support from the Republican Congressional leadership , which has generally backed Administration policy , the proposals were regarded as evidence of the growing search the plan today were John R , Dellenback of Oregon , Marvin L. Esch of Michigan , Frank Horton of upstate New York , Charles McC . Mathias Jr . of Maryland , Charles A. Mosher of Ohio , Richard S. Schweiker of Pennsylvania and Robert T. Stafford of Vermont . Representative Ogden R. Reid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " new and fresh thinking " but would not " exclude an unconditional bombing pause over all of North Vietnam for a reasonable period of time coincident with diplomatic initiatives by the United States and the Soviet Union to bring the war to the conference table . " Admiral Sharp Assails Plan HONOLULU , July 10 ( AP ) -1 The commander of United , States forces in the Pacific said today that the Republican proposal was " a poor idea . " The commander , Admiral Ulysses G. Sharp , said that a military force that is winning should not " take the heat off . " Admiral Sharp returned to Honolulu from Vietnam today , accompanied by Gen. William C. Westmoreland , commander of United States forces in Vietnam .                     