@@723279

txt Premier Khrushchev called today for the simultaneous signing of an East-West nonaggression pact and an agreement to outlaw nuclear tests in the sea , ? the air and space . The Soviet leader 's proposal of a nonaggression treaty between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact nations casts a shadow on the approaching high-level meeting of the United States , Britain and the Soviet Union . Their representatives will meet in Moscow to seek an agreement on a cessation of atomic testing . Tie-In a New Plan The Soviet Union has not heretofore linked a nonaggression pact to a treaty to ban atomic tests . A nonaggression pact , which would imply recognition of the East German Communist regime , is considered unacceptable by the Western powers . Speaking before a crowd - of 5,000 East Germans in an . East Berlin sports arena , Premier Khrushchev avoided making the nonaggression proposal a firm condition for Soviet acceptance of a limited agreement on atomic testing . " A test-ban agreement , " the Premier said , " combined with the simultaneous signing of a nonaggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' a fresh international climate , more favorable for a solution of major problems of our time , in eluding disarmament . " The Soviet Premier took the occasion of his major speech on a " friendship " visit to East Germany to restate his offer to make an agreement to halt nuclear explosions under water , ' in the air and above the atmosphere . He charged that Western insistence on on-site inspectioni to guard against underground explosions was a scheme to get spies into the Soviet Union . " The imperialist gentlemen should know that the Soviet Government will never abandon the security interests of its land nor of all the socialist states , " the Premier said , " that it will never open the door to the NATO spies . On this question we shall never allow any negotiations . " But again he did not specifically withdraw a Soviet offer , made last winter , to accept two or three on-site inspections . In discussing this " big step " toward meeting Western demands , the Premier charged that the Western powers replied to the offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Premier Khrushchev 's discussion of the atomic tests issue was the key passage in a long speech otherwise notable as a restatement of his views on peaceful coexistence , a restatement directed at West Germany and other Western powers . He accused President Kennedy of " poisoning the atmosphere " with an anti-Communist statement in West Berlin last week . ' There was nothing wrong about Mr. Kennedy 's going to West ? said . However , he raised strong objections to the President 's speech there . The Premier said the words , at the West Berlin City Hall ' and the speech at American University in Washington June 10 , made it appear as if there were " two different Presidents . " The " spiritual leader " of West German militarists , the Premier charged , is John Foster Dulles , the late American Secretary of State . Mr. Khrushchev said Mr. Kennedy 's Berlin talks had recall the Dulles era . Presidents Kennedy and de Gaulle are competing for " the old West German widow , " the Premier said in allusion to Chancellor Adenauer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already . grown cold . " Without resorting to threats ' or setting time limits , Mr. Khrushchev restated the Soviet , position on Berlin and Ger-many : A peace treaty Is essential to ' restore normal conditions in Central Europe . West Berlin is not " and never will be " a part of the West German Republic . The Soviet Union understands the German desire for reunification , but Communist achievements in East Germany can not be sacrificed for it . By pressing nuclear weapons upon Germany , the Premier went on , Western powers were making the Bonn republic think that its influence was rising in the world . The Premier said this could lead to " catastrophe . " Mr. Khrushchev devoted most of his speech to a softly worded appeal to the West German people to abandon what he called " the policy of militarism and revenge . " He said that , if they reflected , without prejudice , they would recognize that the interests of the German people demanded the elimination " of the remnants of the war " and the " normalization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a road would open broad horizons for fruitful economic cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany with the German Democratic ' Republic and the other Socialist lands . " Mr. Khrushchev said there were plenty of " hard orders " awaiting West German industry in the Soviet Union . He urged businessmen in the Bonn republic to reflect on this .                     