@@725267

txt I PARIS , Jan. ** de I Gaulle was faced today with a fl ? -. tional scandal that many observers believe could undermine his regime and cloud the political future of some of his Cabinet ministers and closest advisers . Figuring in the scandal is the alleged suicide of Georges Figon , an underworld character with a literary inclination . He had been regarded as probably the only man either willing or able to shed full light on the kidnapping and probable murder of Mehdi Ben Barka , a Moroccan Opposition leader who disappeared from a Paris street at noon last Oct. 29 . According to his own account in newspaper interviews and the testimony of others to the // investigating magistrate , Figon was instrumental in the planning of the kidnapping in addition to participating in its execution . Figon was found shot dead last night when policemen forced their way into his oneroom apartment to arrest him . The police said the fatal shot had been fired just before they entered . Several French newspapers drew a parallel today with the " Stavisky affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent suicide " of the villain , a swindler , wrecked the careers of several members of Parliament , forced the resignation of two Cabinet ministers and then precipitated the fall of the Government of Premier Camille Chautemps . The Chautemps Government was accused by extremists of both left and right of corrupt deals with Serge Alexandre Stavisky , who had sold huge quantities of worthless bonds . The Premier was among politicians who were subsequently cleared . But the Stavisky affair was viewed widely as a symptom of the decay of the Third Republic . Effects on De Gaulle Cited Those who think the Ben Barka-Figon affair is a bitter blow to General de Gaulle give the following reasons : 9The reaction of many private citizens and public figures suggests that they feel his " New " Republic has lost the reputation of integrity , purity and general orderliness that is so close to his heart . 9Many editorial writers compared the Ben Barka-Figon affair unfavorably with the lesser scandals of pre-Gaullist regimes . During last month 's election campaign , the President denounced the " rotten , " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own Government one of the key arguments for his re-election . Many observers said the General might not have been re-elected if the scandal had assumed its present dimensions . ( IThe scandal threatens irreparable damage to General de Gaulle 's policy of a special , close relationship between France and the newly independent nations of Africa and Asia . Ben Barka was a hero and friend to many of the leaders of these nations . He had been the initiator and the organizer of the recent tricontinental conference of revolutionists in Havana . Moroccan Link Reported The Moroccan Government , which is regarded as reactionary by many of the progressive leaders of the " third " or uncommitted world , appears to be directly innvolved in the scandal . The French police officers involved are believed to have engineered Ben Barka 's kidnapping at the request of a faction of the Moroccan Government . The presence of Interior Minister Mohammed Oufkir a rightist army leader , in Paris during the crucial days has been established . Figon had declared in a press interview that he had watched as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figon 's death , moments before he was to have been arrested , came at a critical moment in the slow-moving investigation of the Ben Barka affair , when high ranking ofcers of various police branches started to accuse each other . Figon had been free in Paris for more than two months and had been interviewed and photographed by reporters even though a warrant was out for him and he had been identified beyond doubt as a key figure in Ben Barka 's kidnapping . The police had pleaded that they did not know his whereabouts . But the mass publication news magazine Paris Match appeared on the newstands this morning with a two-page picture showing Figon strolling and posing in front of Paris police headquarters . This morning Maj. Marcel le Roy , a secret service officer , was relieved of his duties for having waited two days before reporting to his superiors that one of his subordinates had given him what amounted to a running account of Ben Barka 's kidnapping . The subordinate , Antoine Lopez , has confessed to having been one of the kidnappers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both Major le Roy and Lopez belong , is under the direct control of the office of Premier Georges Pompidou . Major le Roy accused the head of the political section of the General Information Bureau yesterday of having followed the kidnapping even more closely than he . The bureau , which is an organization comparable to the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation , is ultimately responsible to Interior Minister Roger Frey . The name of Jacques Foccart , one of General de Gaulle 's most trusted and closest advisers for the last seven years , was also brought into the scandal a few days ago . He was named by Lopez as having been kept informed of the preparations for Ben Barka 's kidnapping , according to the testimony of a policeman who was one of the alleged kidnappers . Mr. Foccart holds one of the top positions in the Presidential Palace . Officially he advises the President mainly on African affairs . Unofficially he is known to have immense power over all or most of the country 's many secret services . With all these ramifications coming gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Figon 's death have created a deep uneasiness here , although nobody explicitly contests the suicide . Nouvel Observateur , an antiGaullist weekly , wrote : " Let 's say that the death of Figon serves the interest of all those who for the last two and a half months have been trying to hush up ' the scandal ' . " Gaston Defferre , Socialist Mayor of Marseilles , in a newspaper article this morning called on General de Gaulle to " repudiate " both Mr. Foccart , his adviser , and Interior Minister Frey . Pierre Lazareff , the stanchly Gaullist editor in chief of the mass-circulation daily FranceSoir , appealed to the Government to tell the truth about " how French policemen and members of counterespionage services got involved . " Numerous public figures , including many Gaullists , signed a newspaper appeal for clarification of the extent to which members of the Government were implicated in the affair .                     