@@725883

txt Vice President Humphrey and Sen. Douglas urged 1.500 cheering Democratic precinct captains yesterday to disregard straw polls and work hard for a party victory in the last two weeks of campaigning for the Nov. 8 election . " There is only one way we can lose this election ? thru apathy and indifference . " Humphrey said in a luncheon speech at the Sherman House . " If this party does n't deliver in this election , you 'll have the shame of the nation upon you . " The votes are there . Every survey shows that if we get the voters out . we win . The Republicans are using the soft sell to lull us into apathy . " Give Them Licking " " There 's no trouble in Illinois for Sen. Douglas if you make trouble for the Republicans . I suggest you give them a licking this time that will last them a generation . " Humphrey told the party workers to ignore newspaper comments indicating that Democratic candidates will suffer at the polls because of voter resentment over civil rights , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumer prices . Douglas , who is seeking his fourth six-year Senate term at the age of 74 , called on the precinct captains to " rebuke these false pollsters by piling up a tremendous majority for the entire Democratic ticket . " Rally Is Held Most polls show the Democrats lagging behind in voting strength in areas they normally rely on to win elections . Douglas said Sunday that his own private poll indicates he will win by a narrow margin . The luncheon followed a rally at State and Madison streets just before noon , a time convenient for Democratic patronage employes working in the Loop . Both Humphrey and Douglas spoke , but there seemed to be little enthusiasm in the crowd of between 3,000 and 5,000 persons , far less than the number of Democrats that usually turn out for rallies at that spot . Then Humphrey , Douglas , Mayor Daley , and Gov . Kerner walked to barricades along State street and shook hands with the crowd . " Friends , in spite of everything , we 're going to win Nov. 8 , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois needs at least one senator who is willing to fight the people 's battle . " Avoids the Press Humphrey did not hold a press conference in Chicago before he returned to Washington altho reporters wanted to question him about Douglas ' statement Sunday in support of the use of small nuclear weapons against uniformed forces in the field if needed in Viet Nam . Douglas ' Republican opponent , Charles H. Percy , has attacked the position as " irresponsible . " Humphrey campaigned vigorously against Barry M. Goldwater , the 1964 G. 0 . P. Presidential candidate , as a man who would be " trigger happy " in the use of nuclear weapons , Humphrey , at the last moment , canceled the taping of two television programs yesterday morning , saying he was tired . Reporters who were to appear on the programs also were eager to obtain Humphrey 's views on Douglas ' position on atomic weapons .                     