@@725504

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Civilian Review Board To the Editor : Your editorial comment of May . 8 on the Police Review Board covered many interesting points . Howewer , I respectfully submit it may dampen the spirit of the rank and file at a time when enthusiastic support of the police is badly needed . The ' news media remind us every day of our responsibility as citizens to uphold law and order . It may also encourage those disposed to break the law to resist arrest with the thought in mind of forcing the officer to take vigorous action and use this as an excuse to go before the board . In a situation like this the officer is at a disadvantage : while the board , because of inexperience in police matter 's , may have trouble making a decision , the officer can not estimate to what degree the board will be influenced by the mere repetition of charges we have heard so often in the past . Crucial Decisions Policemen are under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infraction , can become a major problem in a matter of minutes . Maldng any decision , right or wrong , under circumstances of this kind calls for steady nerves and a good head . This is a situation one can not very well judge and an experience one can not understand unless one has had police training end has spent a few years on the street . I therefore think it is a little naive to expect civilians to make a reasonable judgment when they probably could not tell how they themselves would act under similar circumstances . One thing we know from the records of the past  --  crime win increase in proportion to our lack of vigorous enforcement . This is the problem facing police and people . TIMOTHY B. Dorm New York , May 5 , 1966 doing so they recoup the tax on that part of their gainful employment which they contributed to the nonprofit-making cause or institution . Hence there would be no double taxation . The same thing is true of the small contributor who takes the standard deduction , in lieu of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PESHKIN Jamaica , L. I. , May 8 , 1966 ? Gruening Defends Charges ' on Repairs To the Editor : In your May 9 editorial " Over . stated Case " you concede that I " make a case which does cast considerable doubt on the efficiency and accuracy " of the Army 's system of declaring trucks , jeeps , cranes and similar equipment no longer worth the costs of repairs . But you call my charges " sensationally exaggerated " and say our presentation of facts is " undermined by ( my ) generalized accusations of deliberate fraud . " Millions of taxpayers ' dollars have been wasted over the years by this system of using fictitious repair costs . United States troops in Vietnam are desperately in need of this ' equipment which could be repaired . The Defense Department objects to my use of the word " fraud . " But how would you describe the department 's obviously padding its estimates of the cost of repairs to justify washing out equipment and giving it to the Agency for International Development ? A.I.D . then repairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to foreign nations . We question estimating repairs at $5 an hour ( United States rate ) when the repairs would be done overseas at rates varying from 24 cents to $2 an hour . We question using in the estimates the cost of shipping the equipment home for repairs when the repairs would be done overseas . The Defense Department says this equipment is " junk . " Neither you nor the Defense Department claim our facts are wrong . The Army right now is trying to get this " junk " back from A.I.D . We are not talking about a collection of isolated cases . We 're talking about systematic disposal of equipment which still . has years c life left in it . The Marine Corps is repairing and using the very same type of Vietnam-needed equipment of which the Army is disposing . ERNEST GRUENING United States Senator from Alaska Washington , May 9 , 1966 ? G. M. Schedules To the Editor : Your May 10 editorial " 1m. balance on Wall Street " contains an allegation of " fumbling " by General Motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Permit me to set the record straight . First , production schedules are continually reviewed and appropriate changes are made either upward or downward as conditions warrant . It has not been our practice to make announcements of production schedules whether these involve " cutbacks , " overtime or are unchanged . Since Jan. 1 at least eight major changes have been made in production schedules . Last week , in response to questions for news media about our assembly plant schedules for the current week , we initially followed our customary practice of simply confirming the facts , verbally . In this case the facts were that during the week of May 2 nineteen of our 23 passenger car assembly plants would work a full fiveday week and four would work less than a full five-day week . Subsequent to our response , however , certain news stories were incorrect and , in fact , one wire service news bulletin wait so far as to say that production had stopped at some of our plants . In an effort to correct this erroneous impression , when vie received calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about our production plans , we replied that all of our car assembly plants would be in operation Monday , May 9 . From reading news stories and listening to newscasts it soon became apparent that this statement hid also been misinterpreted . Therefore , on Saturday , May 7 , le an effort to clear up any misunderstanding , we departed from our customary practice and issued a news release covering our passenger-car assembly plant schedules for the remaining sixteen working days of May , Our response to inquiries concerning our schedules for the week of May 2 were in line with established practices and our efforts to clear up any misimpreisions received by the public were entirely reasonable and proper . I hope this explanation will serve to correct any misunderstanding . ANTHONY DE LORENZO Vice President General Motors Corporation Detroit , May 10 , 1966 ? Nazi Dress in City To the Editor : If a nude person were to ap .. pear in Times Square , he would be arrested . To some people . in this city it is more objectionable to see individuals appear in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How long will city police tolerate and protect such undesirable elements ? H. HADDAD New York . Mal , it loss ? No Double Taxation To the Editor : In his letter to The Times on May 2 the Rev. , Murray F. Sleeper states " that to tax an eleemosynary institution would be double taxation " because the contributors " have already paid taxes upon their gainful employment . "                     