@@721664

txt Republican Congressional leaders struck out in two directions today in response to the economic proposals of the Kennedy Administration . First , they downgraded moves that President Kennedy had already ordered , saying that the actions promise " little impact " on unemployment or economic growth . Second , they sounded a call to arms against what Representative Charles A. Halleck of Inilaa , the ** leader , called " spending proposals that will cost billions . " For good measure , Mr. Halleek and Senator Everett ' Dirksen of Illinois , Senate Republican leader , threw in a charge that the Kennedy Administration was following an " us , too " policy by adopting many positions of the Eisenhower Administration . Comment Limited Direct comment on Mr. Kennedy 's lengthy economic message today was limited , since Senators and ' Representatives needed time to digest its contents . It included increased oldage benefits , an emergency extension , of unemployment pay , depressed-areas legislation and a higher minimum wage . Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , called these measures " desirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued : " We must not be deterred. , from other more basic points like tiie necessity for a productivity drive , increasing exports and an economic offensive to raise free-world living standards . " Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , the assistant Democratic leader in the Senate , said the message " spelled out the New . Frontier for national growth and a dynamic economy . " ' A Proper Balance ' The Kennedy program , he said , " offers a proper balance of action to relieve the immediate and desperate needs of , America 's unemployed and longrange plans necessary to put our economy on a sound basis . " Representative Noah M. Mason of Illinois , - the senior Republican on the House Ways and Means ' Committee , said he opposed the plan . to ' increase cash - benefits . for Social " - Security recipients " because it 's unsound . " : ssaid Congress would probably approve the plan ; anyway . Representative James B. Utt // of California , another Ways and Means Committee member , joined Mr. Mason in opposing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Social Security tax increase of one-fourth of 1 per cent on employers and employes . Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas said the Social Security proposal , with its accompanying tax increase , would be passed in the House by April 1 . Senator Dirksen and Mr. Halmade their remarks following a meeting of the joint minority leadership conference , ' composed of ' the Republican chieftains of the House and the ' Senate . Senator Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , the na tional chairman of the party , presided . I They spoke before President Kennedy 's economic message had been transmitted to Congress , directing most of theirs remarks toward the economic proposals made at his news conference yesterday . Many of these proposals were included in the message issued today . Senator Dirksen said Mr. Kennedy 's order to reduce the interest rates on mortgages guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration would have little effect on housing starts . He said the proposal was rejected by the Senate in 1959,1 by a 58-to-27 vote , because it was " abundantly clear " that it would cause discount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mortgage market . Mr. Kennedy 's orders to distribute additional surplus foods , expand community facilities loans at lower rates , speed veterans ' insurance dividend distribution and revive the foodstamp program are " small items , " Senator Dirkses said . Mr. Halleck said those items were " not altogether earthshaking . " He and Senator Dirksen agreed , however , that no one was " unhappy " that President Kennedy had-rescinded former President Dwight D. Eisenhower 's order to bring home the dependents of service men stationed overseas . Mr. Halleck gave the following formula for securing the support of his forces : " If this new Administration will pursue A sensible course * with respect to domestic affairs * * * then certainly there 'll be full and complete cooperation among Republicans in the House of Representatives . " A sensible course , he suggested , would be toward a balanced budget rather than " spending proposals that would cost billions . "                     