@@726209

txt Following is the statement issued by Dr. David D. Henry , president of the University of Illinois , on the resignations of the three coaches : " I have received today and have accepted the resignations of Peter Elliott , head football coach ; Harry Combes , head basketball coach ; and Howard Braun , assistant basketball coach . The resignations were delivered to me with the statement which follows Dr. Henry 's statement : " The resignations preceded any action by the board of directors of the athletic association or the faculty senate committee on athletics , both of which I had requested to meet with me for consultation . Under the mandate of the Intercollegiate conference of faculty representatives , the case is considered closed . Inasmuch as the three coaches relinquished all duties with the athletic association as of this date , the board of directors of the athletic association have recommended and I have approved the honoring of existing contracts with the coaches , which will terminate Aug. 31 , 1967 . Their faculty status in the college of physical education part time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement : " It is apparent to everyone that the commissioner , athletic directors , and faculty representatives of the Western conference Big Ten have fired us : We are therefore reluctantly stepping down from our respective coaching responsibilities at this time rather than to allow the conference to unjustly force the University of Illinois to act on an impossible situation . We emphatically believe that the final decision in this matter must be made by the conference rather than the university and consider the announcement of March 18 , 1967 , as that final decision . " We have contemplated the future of athletics at Illinois in the light of the various possibilities available . We believe that the N. C. A. A. would necessarily support any conference action which would mean at some future date , if the N. C. A. A. suspended or expelled Illinois from membership , there would be no athletic program at Illinois . We do not believe we should jeopardize Illinois or intercollegiate athletics to this extent or that Illinois should be forced to make a choice which would lead to such a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so I many alumni , students , faculty , and friends have given us anymore than we . do . We are taking this action in order to help these people as well as the university . Finally , we want to thank Dr. Henry for his valiant efforts on our behalf . His loyal support has maintained us in the difficult periods which are now closed . We sincerely hope this action will cause the amelioration of the penalties imposed on the students and urge the university to appeal the decisions in their cases . " Harry A. Combes Peter R. Elliott Howard J. Braun                     