@@725143

txt White House sources said today that President Johnson anticipates giving increasing attention in the next several weeks to two major administrative problems ? additional American military manpower for the Viet Nam war and preparation of a substantially higher federal budget . The new budget , for the 1967 fiscal year starting next July 1 , will be submitted to Congress in January . The White House sources said the President is prepared to send American combat and supporting military forces to Viet Nam " as needed and as requested " in the months ahead . American forces in Viet Nam now total about 160,000 men . Reportedly , the Pentagon is planning to increase this figure to 200,000 . " Critical and Costly " Associates quoted the President today as saying he looks upon the Viet Nam conflict as " a serious situation . . . critical and costly . " Associates of the President said the fiscal 1967 budget will require " a very substantial addition " to expenditures compared with the current budget because of the Viet Nam war and Great Society programs voted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold down the over-all budget spending total , these sources said , Johnson has ordered federal departments and agencies to institute drastic economies . The chief executive interrupted his stay in Texas to return to Washington for the White House dinner dance he and Mrs. Johnson are giving next Wednesday in honor of Princess Margaret of Britain and her husband , the earl of Snowdon . President and Mrs. Johnson attended a communion service this morning in Fredericksburg , 20 miles west of their ranch , at the St. Barnabas Episcopal church . Johnson drove a station wagon from the ranch to Fredericksburg . Accompanying him from the ranch to the church service were two Viet Nam war army veterans and their families . Sgt. 1/C Robert S. Vandiver and Medical Specialist Robert G. Sullivan were breakfast guests of the President at the ranch this morning . Twinges of Pain ' Chatting with reporters at the ranch , Johnson said he felt " very well " and that the main reminders of his Oct. 8 gall bladder and kidney stone surgery were some persistent soreness in the area of his abdominal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretched " the wrong way . " The President and Mrs. Johnson flew back to Washington tonight from Bergstrom air force base near Austin , Tex . The President is expected to be back at the ranch soon , probably next week-end .                     