@@721448

txt Expanded educational programs and , in many instances , higher enrollments , will mark the start of the new college year here , Although a few institutions began their fall semesters last week , most of the colleges and universities will start classes this week or next . Scores of new courses and programs will be added to curriculums , including many designed to meet critical national needs . Major academic developments include more emphasis on international and area studies and new programs intended to meet the special needs of superior students . More emphasis will be put on higher academic standards . At many institutions , this already // deleted 27 lines at these colleges and universities was expected to he 228,962. fast fall 's total was 222,566 . These figures include all students  --  fulland part-time , degree and non-degree  --  and cover four-year institutions , graduate and professional schools and two-year community colleges . Freshmen Rolls Up Sharply Undergraduate enrollment , including those registered for two-year associate degrees , is expected to total 125,470 , a oneyear increase of about 5,000 students . Graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 49,287 this year . The total number of full-time freshmen students at twentyfour four-year institutions covered in the survey was placed this fall at 21,415 . This is up about 13 per cent from 18,591 last year and contrasts with the over - all one-year enrollment gain of nearly 3 per cent reported by all institutions . The biggest proportionate enrollment gain -- -22 per cent ? among institutions was recorded by two-year institutions . One new junior institution , the Queensboro Community College , opened last week for the first time with an initial enrollment of 300 . Among the larger total enrollments expected this fall are New York University , 40,600 students ; City College , 32,000 ; Brooklyn College , 25,750 ; Columbia University , 25,400 ; Hunter College , 17,800 ; Queens College , 11,625 ; Fordham University , 10,170 , and St. John 's University , 10,000 . About a third of the institutions surveyed reported they could have accepted more qualified undergraduate students had they sought admission . Among them are the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn , which has room for about 600 more students ; N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; St : John 's , 200 to 300 , and Fordham , about 130 . Even more institutions could have accommodated more graduate students . Some colleges attributed the vacancies to higher admission standards . One admissions officer observed : " Selectivity is the key word . We could have had far more new students , but we feel the time has come to emphasize quality , not quantity , in higher education . " However , many colleges  --  including the tuition-fee municipal colleges which long have had reputations for high standards ? will be filled . One of Columbia 's more significant academic programs this year is the International Fellows program . It will enable outstanding college graduates to combine professional education with advance training In international affairs . Other innovations at Columbia include : program for a law student to earn a bachelor 's degree , in business administration in. four years . Ordinarily , it would . take five years and separate ? admission to the law and business schools to earn both degrees . 9A new degree of Nuclear Engineer  --  more advanced than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctorate ? will be offered by the School of Engineering . 9 Able seniors at Columbia College , the undergraduate nen 's division , will now be able to earn almost a year 's graduate credit toward a master 's or doctorate degree while still undergraduates . According to one college official , this " is not just greedy acceleration " ; it will give undergraduates the opportunity to become serious students in a discipline . N. Y. U. this fall will have fifteen colleges and major divisions  --  one more than last year . The university 's Graduate School of Public Administration and Social Service has been divided to form two graduate schools ? one for public administration , the other for social work . Among the innovations at the municipal colleges are several new programs intended to provide for the special needs of superior students . City College students who qualify for the new program offered by the College of Liberal Arts and Science will now be able to complete the prescribed work for the bachelor 's degree in two years . This will give them more time during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater opportunity to take part in honors programs , independent study or special interdepartmental seminars . A Ford Foundation grant of $120,000 ? the largest such award ever received by the institution  --  will enable Brooklyn College to develop its honors work into a " full-fledged " program for a small number of students of outstanding ability in the next four years . The program will be worked out this year and put into effect next fall . Each student in the Scholars ' Program will complete the requirements for the baccalaureate degree at his own best pace . More emphasis will be put on independent study and other informal procedures . The college expects that the new program will enable students to complete their undergraduate education in three years , instead of the normal four , and thus they will be able to go to graduate school a year earlier , Two of the municipal colleges ? City and Hunter  --  will join forces this fall to offer a . new master 's degree program in chemistry to prepare muchneeded chemists for industrial and Government laboratories and for teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a laboratory science undertaken by the municipal colleges . Several new buildings will open at the municipal colleges . The Baruch School of City College opened its new student center last week . Queens College will open its new Music and Speech Building this fall and Hunter College is expected to open its new library on the Bronx campus soon . St. John 's will open a new Graduate Division in Business Administration as part of its School of Commerce . The division , college officials explained is organized on the concept of the " liberally trained executive , " and requires that all students take a core of subjects in the humanities . Other new programs going into effect this semester include a combined bachelor 's and master 's degree program in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences , a " World Area Study Program , " . and an " Asian Studies Program " in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences that leads to the Doctor of Philosophy degree and is intended primarily to prepare college teachers of Asian languages and cultures . Manhattan College will introduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , will , offer advanced ? Russian next year . Yeshiva University 's new Graduate School of Science  --  an outgrowth of the former Graduate School of Mathemetical Sciences  --  will expand teaching : and research in the experimen-1 tal as well as the theoretical sciences . Initial programs have been scheduled in experimental physics , with biology and chemistry expected to he added soon . A two-year graduate study program leading to the degree of Master of Social Service has also been added to the offerings of Yeshiva 's School of Social Work . The institution is planning to build a five-story , $3,000,000 classroom and administration building for Yeshiva College at the university 's main center . The building will be the first in a dual-campus , 830,000,000 development program . An entirely new Midtown Center is projected as part of this longrange program . The New York Institute of Technology , which received status as a four-year . college earlier this year , will conduct an experiment with the approval of the State Education Department that involves the extensive . use of teaching machines developed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching aids and other devices are expected to be able to complete their studies in less than the prescribed four years , depending upon individual ability .                     