@@723061

txt The body of a man identified tentatively as that of a missing Minneapolis bus driver was found yesterday in the trunk of his car at the O'Hare airport 's parking lot . The Federal Bureau of Investigation said the car belonged to Lloyd Richard Danielson , 42 , of 3639 Bryant ay. , N. Minneapolis , and the man apparently was Danielson . Car Parked 2 Months The car had been parked at the airport 's parking lot for more than two months . The FBI office in Minneapolis gave the Chicago FBI office a description and license number of the car and asked that it be hunted . The dead man 's skull had been crushed by four blows that could have been inflicted with a hand ax , said Dr. Andrew J. Toman , coroner . Dr. Toman said any one of the wounds could have caused death . The body , clad only in undershirt and short s , had been wrapped in a plastic sheet . Bags of dry ice had been placed in the trunk of the car , and fiberglass insulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Months Such measures , coupled with the cold weather in February , would have delayed decomposition of the body for some time , and it is possible the body may have been in the car trunk for two months or even more , Dr. Toman said . Investigators said Danielson is believed to have been killed by Harold Steen , a Minneapolis holdup man who was wounded fatally Feb. 7 as he fled police after a supermarket holdup in Davenport , Ia . Davenport police said that on that date Steen rented a car at O'Hare airport , drove to Davenport and checked into a downtown hotel , and then held up the manager and a carryout boy in a National Tea store . Steen forced the two into a cold storage room , but the boy slipped out and called police . Steen was shot to death a block and a half from the store as he fled . In his pockets Davenport police found $670 , taken in the holdup , and two checks from the Minneapolis-Honey well company made out to Danielson . Missing Since December Minneapolis police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next day that her husband had been missing since Dec. 6 . His car reportedly was last seen in Minneapolis early in December , but it or a car like it had been seen in January near Savanna , Ill . Minneapolis police said that Mrs. Danielson had been separated from her husband since last fall and had been keeping company with Steen . Danielson , after he separated from his wife , moved into Steen 's apartment . " It was a very odd arrangement , " said Edward M. Larson , Minneapolis detective supervisor . Records of the Chicago police inquiry section show that last Dec. 18 Steen reported to the Austin police district that Danielson was missing . He reported that Danielson was supposed to meet him in Chicago but failed to show up . ' Strange Arrangement ' In Minneapolis , Mrs. Danielson told reporters that she had planned to take her husband back and that she was sure Steen had done something to him . " I figured all along that he had done him in , " she said . " After Lloyd disappeared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure it was Steen , but I was afraid he would find out if I went to the bank to inquire . " Victim Not Known Criminal Larson said that Steen had a record as a holdup man but that Danielson had no criminal record with Minneapolis police . Mrs. Danielson told police she had last talked to her husband on Dec. 5 , Larson said . She was questioned again yesterday and released . Larson said Danielson was a Minneapolis bus driver for the Twin Cities Rapid Transit company .                     