@@728303

txt Freezing temperatures and occasional sleet turned slush into ice on thoroughfares in the metropolitan area last night , causing a series of multiple car accidents and the closing of some major roadways . The Sanitation Department , trying to stay ahead of the storm that dumped six inches of snow here , had most of the city streets cleared by late , afternoon yesterday , but when temperatures dropped below freezing again last night ice began forming on many roadways . There were some delays at the three major airports here , and commuter trains were delayed up to an hour by flooding . Commuting was less than normal yesterday , but drivers who ' ventured out found road conditions treacherous . Some Roads Closed The police reported that 16 ' vehicles  --  including a bus and two police patrol cars  --  were piled up in one accident at Bay Parkway and 60th Street in Brooklyn last night at 9:30 . Fifteen persons were reported injured . Fourteen other . cars were in an accident on the Long Island Expressway at Greenpoint Avenue in Long Island City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , nine cars piled up in a collision on the Kosciuszko Bridge over Newtown Creek , which divides Brooklyn and Queens . Because of the hazardous driving conditions , the police last night closed for a time the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway from Atlantic Avenue to the Gowanus Parkway in Brooklyn , the Kosciuszko Bridge , and short sections of the Long Island Expressway in Queens . The police also said that the limited snow emergency declared yesterday morning would continue until further notice because of the bad driving conditions . The city suspended **28;885;TOOLONG parking regulations for today . The state police advised motorists to stay off all roadways because of " extremely hazardous " driving conditions . On most streets and roads in the metropolitan area , traffic moved at a crawl during the day because of slush and flood ing , and during the night be cause of the ice . Rain freezing on windshields was a problem for many motorists . The snow , which began fallring late Wednesday afternoon , , was reduced to slush yesterday , afternoon by warmer temperatures , rain , salt and snowplows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Highway and the Franklin D. Roosevelt ' Drive were closed by flooding . ' The Sanitation Department ' put away its snowplows late ' yesterday and rolled out its salt spreaders last night . By 3 A.M. all of . the department 's 239 spreaders were at work . on the city streets . In outlying areas , the icy roads caused numerous accidents . A Nassau County police spokesman said that by 3 A.M. the Long Island Expressway was " still pretty icy . " It had been described earlier in the evening as like " sheet glass . " Salt spreaders were at work on many roads outside the city . The Long Island State Parkway Police reported eight accidents between 8:30 and 9 P.M. despite sanding . In northern Nassau , a dozen accidents were reported between 8 and 11 P.M. The Weather Bureau said temperatures were below freezing throughout the night . It was 25 degrees at 3 A.M. Officially , the snow stopped falling on the city at 8:30 A.M. , when it was replaced by a mixture of sleet and rain . A steady drizzle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , causing heavy flooding in many areas . The storm was part or a vast system that swept up the East Coast and covered all of New England with as much as two feet of snow . The fresh snow fell atop a two-foot covering already on the ground in some sections . In Queens , where much of the criticism of Mayor Lindsay 's snow-removal program was heard last winter , all roads were passable by midday , The only problem  --  and that was citywide ? came from large , pools of water at intersections . Mayor Lindsay , on vacation with his family in the Bahamas , kept in touch by telephone with his chief aides , directing them to tour the city and report to him . Later in the day , the Mayor began his return to the city . as previously scheduled , to see for himself . " He was away 24 hours and the city has its first major snowstorm. ' said Deputy Mayor-designate Richard Aurelio , " so he . was anxious to get back . " The Mayor arrived at Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before he had originally planned to arrive home from his vacation . He immediately headed for Sanitation Department headquarters , at 125 Worth Street . Mr. Lindsay said the Sanitation Department had turned in " an excellent performance . " , A " limited snow emergency " was declared early in the morning by Traffic Commissioner Theodore Karagheuzelf , after a consultation with Sanitation Commissioner Griswold L. Moeller . The decision meant that motorists must use snow tires or skid chains on all parkways and expressways and on all streets designated as snow emergency streets . However , Mr. Karagheuzoff 's decision did not ban parking on snow emergency streets . Additionally , alternate-side-ofstreet parking regulations were suspended until further notice . The heavy snowfall and resuiting runoff turned city in'tersections into quagmires and forced the closing of major airports for several hours during the . day . Hundreds of potential airline passengers packed waiting rooms . The New York Telephone Company reported some dial tone delays in midtown Manhattan during the day and attributed the trouble to overloaded circuits , the result , a spokesman said , of subscribers staying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Consolidated Edison reported " scattered " power failures , most of them the result of lines toppled by high winds . The biggest affected 1,800 customers for an hour along Coney Island Avenue in. the Sheepshead Basil area . Despite the . inconvenience : and wretched traveling condi-1 tions , the Department of Sani-1 tation appeared to . have been , well ahead of the schedule ' by the time the rain began ; to ease its burden . Officials of the department. , mindful of the political furor that followed a major snow- , storm last season in which snow removal and clearance was delayed for a number of days , particularly in Queens , were able to stay on top of ' yesterday 's storm through advance planning and fast response . As a result of Mayor Lindsay 's telephoned instructions . Mr. Aurelio , accompanied by several mayoral assistants , toured sections of the city by automobile in the morning . They reported to the Mayor that all major roads were in " good shape " and that there were only " isolated problems . " One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , stacks of refuse that went uncollected during the day . A spokesman for the Sanitation Department said refuse removal would not begin until the snow problem had ended . New England Hit Hard The storm , which struck upstate and New England harder than the city , began here at 5:10 PM on Christmas Day . Snow continued through most of the night , driven by winds gusting up to 45 miles an hour . At first , the United States Weather Bureau termed the storm a " near blizzard . " Later in the day , however , Milton Fayne , meteorologist at the bureau , said the city had been spared " a major snowstorm . " However the storm was defined , the snowfall did not come close to that of the bliz- ' zard of Dec. 26 and 27 , 1947,1 when 25.8 inches of snow ' paralyzed the city . Mohawk Airlines , which flies ! to many upstate cities , canceled all its flights during the storm , saying that only two of the 39 airports its uses were " flyable . " Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their limit by hordes of stranded potential passengers . , The airlines said that most of those waiting for flights were ' in good spirits . " Those commuters who did not get an extra holiday were generally late as snow-clogged switches failed to operate properly . Service on the Penn Central 's Hudson Division was up to an hour late because only one track from the Mott Haven yards in the Bronx to Grand Central Terminal was In operation . The Penn Central 's crack Metroliner service to Washiniaton was canceled by stormcaused difficulties , and during the day the railroad canceled about 60 evening rush-hour trains because of light holiday use . The Long Island Rail Road suffered from a shortage of crewmen who called in sick. , a spokesman said . Since Christmas Eve , the spokesman added , more than 200 trainmen and 100 engineers had called to say they were ill . As a result , several trains were canceled yesterday . " It seems to happen around every holiday period , " he said . There were also delays on the city 's subway system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of frozen switches . ? , The City of Newark declared a snow emergency and the New Jersey Turnpike cloSed Interchange 15 , at Newark Airport . The turnpike was passable , although a 35-mile-anhour speed limit was in effect and motorists were required to have snow tires . Upstate , the Gov . Thomas E. Dewey Thruway was closed for 282 miles between the Harriman Interchange in the lower Hudson Valley , to Geneva , because of poor visibility . In addition to flooding on some major roads in New York City , at least two power failures were reported in the Bronx and 4,200 residents of the Gun Hill and White Plains Roads area and near the Throgs Neck Bridge were without power for about two boars because of fallen wires .                     