@@726047

txt Finland 's widely respected Ambassador Max Jakobson may soon occupy a key United Nations chairmanship . The important South-West Africa Committee now is being formed . Ambassador Jakobson is given an edge as its likely chairman . The committee is expected to meet before the end of January to begin what will doubtless become a struggle . The issue is how the UN should go about preventing barren but mineral-rich South-West Africa from being assimilated into white-ruled South Africa . African members will , of course , push for . strong UN action to wrest control of the territory from Cape Town and establish a UN administration . Washington wants to protect the British economy from South African reprisal and to avoid an American showdown with South Africa . So it will urge a go-slow policy . The sensitive role of chairman of the UN committee may fall to Mr. Jakobson because Western members do not want an African chairman  --  and vice versa . The committee is to report its findings to a special session of the General Assembly in April . Trends ... Two political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause repercussions at the UN : ? Many Asian delegates still regard with suspicion the December assassination of Vietnamese parliamentary leader Tran Van Van and the later wounding of his undaunted colleague , Dr. Phan Quang Dan . Both men were stanch advocates of a more democratic government in Saigon . They goaded the military junta of Marshal Nguyen Cao Ky , but were anti-Viet Cong . Although some diplomatic doubters at the UN concede that the attacks on the two could have been made by either side in an attempt to implicate the other , much of the suspicion tends to center on supporters of the Ky regime . The two leading writers of the South Vietnamese Constitution were engaged in a dispute with Premier Ky over his powers at the time of the attacks . The government 's order suspending publication of the English-language Vietnam Guardian for its coverage of the Tran Van Van slaying only added fuel to doubters ' criticism . No Vietnam specialists at the UN claim inside knowledge of the two attacks . ' Yet all seem agreed that the democratization of government in Saigon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such intimidation continues , hopes for broadening the base of rule in South Vietnam will dwindle further . ? On the other side of the globe , the gunning down of Algerian exile Mohammed Khider in Madrid worries even those who opposed him . Mr. Khider was one of the nine inner leaders of the Algerian revolution who fled the country after a falling out with then President Ben Bella . What concerns Algerians is that Mr. Khider 's slaying creates a sad precedent . Heretofore the struggle among opposing groups from the original Algerian rebel leadership had been more benign . Counting the animals on ol ' McDonald 's farm was simple . But what about counting stock  --  and vegetables , fruits , tractors , fertilizer , etc. ? on all the world 's farms ? The process is so complex , yet so useful , that the UN 's Food and Agriculture Organization already is well under way with plans for its 1970 world census of agriculture . The FAO now has set up a fund to help poorer countries prepare to count their chickens  --  before and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more precise census in the areas that are the weakest link in current knowledge of world farming . Man-made earthshaking is usually earthshaking news only if it involves atomic explosions by the big powers . But there were some little-noticed blasts set of by seismologists in the Western Alps last year . And another round is scheduled in the U.S.S.R. later this year . Both are important to the study of earth tremors . Seventy-five teams of seismologists from research institutes in France , Germany , and Italy recently conducted joint studies of Alpine mountain structure . Modest charges of one to 50 tons were exploded for the research . Seismic recordings were made over a range of 300 miles . This year , quake specialists from the Soviet Union , Britain , Sweden , Finland , and Norway will join in measuring the speed at which seismic waves travel underground from Lake Ladoga in the Soviet Union to Scotland .                     