@@723079

txt The Newark branch of Rutgers , New Jersey 's state university , occupies a group of old buildings that once were used for such nonacademic purposes as brewing beer , housing horses and making razor blades . Within three years , if no snags develop . all this will change The Rutgers unit will move into new buildings on a spacious campus in the heart of what is now a rundown area near Newaik 's central business district . This dramatic transformation will be started soon when the city uses its powers of acquisition to buy up residential and commercial buildings from the owners of the seven-block section . The structures will be torn down and the cleared property resold to Rutgers at a considerable loss to the city . However , Newark 's deficit will largely be covered by a Federal subsidy under the Government 's urban renewal program . Needed : Elbow Room The Rutgers case is by no means an isolated one Colleges and universities are becoming increasingly involved these days in urban renewal projects to get more elbow room and to upgrade their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in small communities or are in sections critics charge tan be adjudged substandard only by the strictest application of the law , more often they are in plainly deteriorated neighborhoods of large or medium-sized cities . The schools ' interest in urban renewal is the Jesuit of two worsening problems ? Insufficient space to meet mounting enrolments. and the encroachment of slums which frequently create physical dangers for teachers and students and almost always deprive the institutions of the decent adjacent housing required to attract and hold a high-quality faculty . Expansion of urban campuses and redevelopment of their immediate surroundings have given rise to some sticky problems . Demolition of old buildings provokes cries of outrage from apartment dwellers and businessmen who are forced to move . Some cities find , to their dismay . that the land-buying programs of the urban institutions are creating new municipal tax woes because property is going off the tax rolls for tax-exempt educational use A study recently made for Boston warns that city its ability to provide services for its citizens is being impaired by the " uncontrolled expansion " of its tax-exempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1949 , Uncle Sam pays two-thirds of the loss cities suffer in purchasing private property for slum clearance and rehabilitation and reselling it at a writedown to developers . The cities themselves absorb the rest of the loss . sometimes with state help . Until recently redevelopment projects took in mostly residential and some commercial areas . Under pressure from academic interests , Congress wrote a provision into the law in 1959 giving cities financial incentives to launch urban redevelopment projects in college areas . These incentives were liberalized in 1961 . The provision grants a university bookkeeping " credits " for money it has spent on its own behalf for physical expansion over a seven-year period preceding the designation of the school area as an urban renewal site . Here 's how the provision works to benefit a university and the city where it 's located : Assume a school has spent $10,000 on improvements over a seven-year span . Then an area adjacent to the school is designated as an urban renewal site for expansion of the school . Ordinarily . the city would sustain onethird the loss in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to developers . But the new provision permits the city to apply the $10.000 spent by the school as a " credit " to help offset the city 's loss . Under the law , the " credit " is offset by added Federal funds . In Pittsburgh . Duquesne University is expanding through an urban renewal project . The city will use the school 's credits to reduce its financial loss from $2.5 million to $2.2 million Ineenth e Program Grow ; The University of Chicago . Wayne Universit in Detroit and the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia are among roughly 75 colleges or universities involved in urban renewal projects , planned or in execution , where the cities will apply credits to defray costs . Two years ago only four projects involving credits had been approved . Edward T. Lagonegro , mayor of Elmira . N Y strongly backing an urban renewal project for Elmira College . The reason : " The city wo n't have to put up a thing . " according to the mayor 's calculation of the school 's accumulated credits . The problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges last fall rose from 1960 . Compared with 1960 , it 's expected the number of students will jump more than 40. -c by 1965 and over 91 , ; - by 1970 . To meet the enrolment growth the schools must build and this requires more land . But in urban areas land is expensive and the Federal urban renewal program provides substantial relief James Kelso , a member of the urban renewal committee of the American Council on Education and an official of the Massa , husetts Institute of Technology , estimates Greater Boston schools would have to spend tin to $15 a square font for land bought in the open ma-ket. while the cost to the school is only $1.25 to II 50 a square foot when purchased from the city through an urban renewal project New York City s Fordham University . sorely in need of more breathing space for its Manhattan branch , acquired from the city 7.5 acres of valuable real estate for a campus in an urban renewal area on Manhattan 's west side . Fordham 's neighbors in the project include the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a middle income housing project . For this site Fordham spent 53.3 million , far less than if it had bought the parcel directly from the individual owners . Why should a city absorb part of the bill for the expansion of a local college or university ? Aside from the people and payroll the schools bring in. they may make sound contributions to a city 's economy . Engineering and research work carried on by Harvard University and MIT in Greater Boston are credited with drawing millions of dollars of research and development contracts to those schools . Some cities also find that university centers lure industry , particularly growth industries depending heavily on research and new technology . Wilkes College ( enrolment : 1.5601 of WilkesBarre . Pa .. is in the midst of an expansion program aimed at stimulating economic activity in that area of high unemployment . On a 3.5-acre urban renewal site , the school plans to put up a 250-unit dormitory and a cafeteria , in conjunction with a projected scientific research center and a graduate center for chemistry and physics . The school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for construction of the research center , contingent on the school 's raising $500. - 000 for the graduate center . A little over $350. - 000 has been raised so far . Attracting Industry Eugene Farley . president of Wilkes College . says the centers should " help revitalize the city " by attracting research-oriented industry . He notes that Radio Corp . of America already has come into the area . An RCA spokesman agrees the proposed research centers were an inducement in getting the company to build a transistor plant in that section not long ago . " High grade engineers are in great demand . " the spokesman says . " and one way for a company to hold on to them is to see they have the facilities to work on their doctorates . " Julian Levi . assistant to the president of the University of Chicago , believes the growth of scientific research at colleges and universities has made it mandatory that surrounding areas offer decent housing . His explanation : Researchers like to live near their laboratories so they can drop in at odd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . Thus they are reluctant to take positions with schools in deteriorated areas . The Chicago school has been instrumental in revitalizing the Hyde ParkKenwood section , where it is situated . New private housing has been built and the university has bought and rehabilitated old dwellings with the result that many more students and teachers are living in the section than did so 10 years ago . Columbia a Big Landlord In the past year . Columbia University has bought 10 buildings in the school 's Morningside Heights section of Manhattan for use as student and faculty housing . Columbia now owns about 50 such buildings in the area , at a cost of $17 million . But non-university residents in an urban renewal area may react with hostility toward university expansion . Some Pittsburgh merchants . for example . have expressed concern that a planned urban renewal project in the Oakland section of that city is a device to oust them and turn the land over to the University of Pittsburgh . The university , owner of 110 acres in the 572-acre area . got together with some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which proposes to develop and preserve the district as a " cultural center . " In Philadelphia . the University of Pennsylvania hopes to break down any possible resistance to an urban renewal project it will launch shortly in its West Philadelphia district by scheduling for renewal first a section whose redevelopment is intended to bring economic benefits to the neighborhood . The first section is planned as a focal point for a new research center , commercial facilities and new housing ; also . Presbyterian Hospital , based in the area . is due to be enlarged . " The research center alone should generate 5.000 new jobs , " says Leo Molinaro. executive director of West Philadelphia Corp .. a nonprofit group formed by the university and other institutions In the area to push for redevelopment .                     