@@727937

txt Julie Nixon Eisenhower led 25 surprised tourists around the upper floors of the White House today to show them her father 's hideaway study , a secret staircase she used to escape from a party and other intimate corners of the mansion . The President 's younger daughter has been conducting such special tours for a week and plans to continue them daily throughout the summer . The White House Curator , James Ketchum , said the tours marked the first time in the 169-year history of the White House that members of the general public had been invited to see parts of the Presidential family quarters . " I just wanted to do something special for the people who were waiting in line , " Mrs. Eisenhower explained . David Eisenhower 's bride has also been letting children sit in the President 's chair and " make a wish " ; showing off King Timahoe , his dog , and guiding visitors to the off-limits Cabinet Room , the putting green that President Eisenhower ordered for the South Lawn and the grape arbor under which Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chattered her way through a 40-minute news conference in the White House Library following today 's tour . It was her first formal meeting with reporters since her father was elected President . She commented on her sister ) Tricia 's visit to Britain , her husband 's summer job on Capitol Hill , how her father keeps a fire going in his study on the hottest days , how new Presidents switch around the , portraits of their predecessors land how it feels to be almost 21 . She will come of age Saturday . " The biggest thing about it , " she said , " is being able to vote . " The young Mrs. Eisenhower began her summer volunteer work a week ago . Each day , she takes several groups of 25 around parts of the White House that are traditionally forbidden to outsiders . Today , as on previous days , the first in line were picked . But from now on ; a White House spokesman said , tourists will be picked at random from the " front , middle and end " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning . The ' Surprise Element ' This will sustain the " surprise element " and give a special treat to " those poor people standing out there all the darned time , " said Michael Farrell of the Office of White House Visitors . In the summer , about 10,000 persons file through the mansion each morning from Tuesday through Saturday but see only a handful of public ** No guides are provided in these tours . Today , Mrs. Eisenhower showed her surprised and excited guests the diplomatic reception room where Franklin D. Roosevelt gave his fireside chats . They were delivered , she told them , " before the only fireplace in the White House that does n't work . " On the second floor , in rooms that have been seen only by ) official Presidential guests and by the press , she was full of lore . Outside the Queen 's Room ? a guest bedroom where at least five Queens , including Queen Elizabeth II , have stayed  --  she touched a panel on which was hung a portrait . It swung open to reveal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young Eisenhowers are living this summer . " I used this one time to escape a party , " she said . " I just walked out  --  but it was very late anyway . It is the only secret door in the White House . " No Secret Anymore She laughed and added : " But it is n't secret any more . " Mrs. Eisenhower showed off the Lincoln Bedroom where , she explained , Lincoln " never slept , " and her father 's private study next door , where he keeps a fire going " even in June . " After the half-hour tour , the President 's daughter went downstairs for the news conference . She said she had talked twice by trans-Atlantic telephone with her sister Tricia in Britain , where the older Nixon daughter saw Prince Charles invested as Prince of . Wales . She expressed regret that she had not been old enough to vote for her father in the 1960 and 1968 Presidential elections , and said she thought 18-yearolds should be able to vote . Mrs. Eisenhower also talked about her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate judiciary subcommittee on crime : " He said it 's the best summer job he ever had . " Asked what she liked most about living in the White House , the President 's daughter replied : " I ca n't really answer , I think it 's a thrill for David and me to show people the White House . I never get over the awe . " Today , Mrs. Gerry Van der Heuvel , Mrs. Nixon 's press secretary , issued a statement saying that " while most of Julie 's activities have been and will continue to be " with people who come to the White House during the " regular . visiting hours , " she is also ' setting aside Tuesday and Thursday afternoons for special groups . Some will be allowed to touch objects in the mansion during their tours .                     