@@725708

txt " Consensus " has been modified . The architect of this theory of the universal political embrace , Lyndon 13. was forced to decide this summer in favor of one group Of opinion against another . He bombed the oil farms at Haiphong and Hanoi in full defiance of the FulbrightLippmann group and its followers in Congress , in the intellectual community and abroad . They refused to go along . This capital city now is appraising the result . That was the first tune thiit dent Johnson was unable , in a major national decision . after months of enoit , conciliate many of his opponents . Between then and now he has emerged as the leader of a national majority against a formidable though scattered opposition . Increasing frankness He looks and acts as if a burden had been lifted from his shoulders . Those who have seen him privately have the same report : With the big decision made , the President seems freer to state his point of view and argue his case . His public speeches at Chicago . Des Mc.ines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he tried out on small groups , were increasingly frank in rallying support for the kind of war he is fighting . Mr. Johnson appears to have exchanged the muted tones of persuasion and conciliation for the trumpet . As the political campaign thickens he is expected to play the part of leader rather than mediator . It remains to be seen what the opposition will do on its side . The new Johnson tactic is a far cry , said one of his advisers , from the days of the first , epoch-marking Johnson civil-rights bill . Then , he had Senate Republican leader Everett McKinley Dirksen of Illinois supporting him on one side . And he managed to mollify leading Southern Democrats like Richard B. Russell of Georgia and Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana , so that they publicly came out in favor of voluntary compliance with the new law , once it was passed . Names avoided This averted massive Southern resistance which could have had extremely grave results . This was consensus at its apogee . It is pointed out that the earlier Johnson tactic was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President made strong statements of principle , as he conceived it , in launching bills like those on civil rights . But he refrained from attacking dissenters by name lest the spell of consensus be broken . In the case of Vietnam . this summer 's decision to escalate the northern bombing somewhat , moving up to the fringes of Hanoi and its port city , was taken in fullest public view after a winter and spring of continual public argument , at l'wine and abroad , on this ; specific move . Mr. Johnson extended iiii-nself to the limit to build it working con S el isus . The opposition refused to yield . The President wore down : . rime of the opposition over the months . He disconcerted many of its spokesmen by demanding what they would ( I() in his place . Their answers varied and did not bring liddespread public support . It is recognized that the President enlarged his popular support , as measured by polls and the nev:s media . by moving over to a more activist poF.ition . But he created a ney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d ( bates that rage in private discussions here , and to some degree in public print , is how foi 011.1.2i:11y the PrLsident will assume his hew : ole as head of one faction of Opinion on iet'u There is ro sign yet that he will seek to stir public imagination by strong speeches like those of President Kennedy in the Berlin and Cuban crises , or his American University speech on national self-examination as a road to peace . Mr. Johnson is using more colloquial , spontaneous talk on this issue , as at a political rally . It appears that he will continue to do this . But he does not presently have the powerful speech texts that marked , for example , the civil.rights message of 1965.                     