@@728272

txt Dr. W. Glenn Campbell and Frederick G. Dutton sport very different educational styles . Both are members of the University of California 's prestigious , board of regents . But their philosophical fashions often clash . Dr. Campbell is an economist by training , an educational administrator by trade , and a conservative by political choice . He holds a Ph.D . from Harvard and is director of the Hoover Institution on War , Revolution , and Peace at Stanford University . In 1964 , he was an adviser to Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater . Four years later , California Gov . Ronald Reagin appointed him to a 16-year term as a UC trustee . Mr. Dutton is a prominent federal attorney . He received his law degree at Stanford , held the post of executive secretary to former California Gov . Edmund G. Brown , and later served as assistant secretary of state for congressional relations under President Kennedy . Mr. Dutton , a liberal Democrat , became a regent in 1962 ? appointed by Governor Brown . Problems in the mainstream As members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this nation 's largest , and perhaps most controversial , educational institutions , Messrs Campbell and Dutton deal with many of the issues which are central to many , citizens . Some of these issues will doubtless stump the state along with gubernatorial candidates next November . Among them are the questions of academic freedom and student activism , Communists teaching at the university , tuition at a tax-supported school , and politics in public higher education . In separate interviews , The Christian Science Monitor solicited views on these and other subjects . " Academic freedom , " states Dr. Campbell , " is the freedom of a qualified person to explore ideas  --  and then freely express his views and findings . " However , " he adds , " academic freedom has been abused so frequently in recent months and years on college campuses that the attitude of the general public toward it is now largely one of contempt , as compared to the previous attitude of reverence and support . " Contempt for freedom charged Dr. Campbell says that the university is in trouble today because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Too many university people have decided that they are the most progressive class in society and that they are the repositories of the ultimate wisdom . Hence they think it is their duty first to restructure the university and then to use it as a sanctuary from which to promote ' desirable ' social-action programs and as a staging ground for revolutionary activity . " Mr. Dutton says he agrees with the concept of " free inquiry . " But he says that this privilege should be extended not only to faculty and administrators but also to students . " The functions of a university are changing today because the demands of the young people are changing , " he explains . " There is less emphasis on career goals and more on self-development . And the university is now a place where young people come to explore themselves . " We 're accused of spurring social action , " Mr. Dutton adds . " But the university has not been a leader of social action . Actually it 's been a bulwark of military research . " The university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , " he says . Split on Communist teacher Messrs . Dutton and Campbell snarpiy dash in their views over whether Miss Angela Davis ? the celebrated young black academician who is an admitted member of the American Communist Party 7-should be allowed to teach at the University of California . At the start of the fall term , Miss Davis ( who has signed a contract to teach philosophy at UCLA ) was fired by the regents for her political affiliations . She challenged this decision in Los Angeles Superior Court . And Judge Jerry Pacht ruled that the board 's decision to dismiss her for " mere member ship " in the Communist Party was a breach of the United States Constitution . The regents are appealing this verdict . Meanwhile , Miss Davis is back in the classroom . " Angela Davis is eminently qualified to teach , " Mr. Dutton insists . " The regents ' appeal will be purely technical . " ( UC attorney Thomas Cunningham now says that he will base his case , on behalf of the majority of regents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " objective " teacher. ) * Please turn to Page 3 By John Arms Regent Dutton Liberal *Self-discovery or social reform ? // " You ca n't weight objectivity legally , " Mr. Dutton says . " And the Eisenhower Supreme Court has already ruled that we ca n't prohibit public employment on ' mere membership . ' " Regent Dutton adds that the real test has to come in the classroom . " If an individual ? as a Communist Party member  --  propagandizes in the classroom , he or she should be removed from the faculty , " he says . " But that goes for anybody . I would be as much against a Republican or Democrat propagandizing in his teaching as Angela Davis . " Party discipline cited Dr. Campbell , who has pressed for the dismissal of Miss Davis since her Communist Party membership was first made public , states that the regents ' case is really based on the " fitness-to-teach " doctrine . " A Communist Party member is constrained by the strict disciplinary rules of democratic centralism , ' " he says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all issues and to teach objectively . " Regent Campbell says he has no objection to Miss Davis 's making her views public in a college " free speech " area . " I am also not against a Communist Party member being used as a resource person , " he explains . " But I do n't want a Communist determining course content and responsible for the grading of a class . " Tuition is another emotionally charged issue which has driven a wedge between UC regents in the past three years . Governor Reagan and his trustee supporters like Dr. Campbell have vociferously lobbied for the university to abandon a century-old tradition and impose an instructional fee on students . But up to now , a coalition of liberal-moderate regents , led by Mr. Dutton , has successfully fought off levying this charge . The tuition matter is likely to be finally resolved in the next few months . Pro-tuition forces predict easy victory . Learn , earn , and reimburse ' Dr. Campbell says an instructional fee is mandatory in order to raise additional funds to shore up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward a " learn , earn , and reimburse " plan which would allow those in need to borrow tuition funds and pay them back later . Dr. Campbell says he can not support the arguments of those who are " philosophically " opposed to tuition . " Education is important , " he says . " But so are food and housing . But just because something is important , this is no reason why the government should provide it free . " He points out that the average yearly cost for a student to attend the University of California is $3,000 . ( This includes fOod , housing , books , fees , and other expenses . ) " A $300 tuition would increase his overall expenses only 10 percent , " he says . " Further , tuition might have a positive effect on . students , " Dr. Campbell states . " eoPle are more inclined to appreciate that which they pay for . " Shift hi burden sighted Mr. Dutton says the imposition of tuition would be " merely transferring the tax burden from corporations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UC students now work part time to pay their college expenses . And a loan for tuition , he says , would only increase their fiscal burdens . " This would be especially hard on a young woman student thinking about getting married . Sort of a negative dowry double indebtedness , " he contends . Mr. Dutton also insists that a tuition charge would indirectly exclude low-income , particularly minority , students from the university . " The above-average in income should pay their own way . But they 're . paying for it now through the graduated income tax , " he says . " And we do n't have enough scholarships to help the others . Some of them will even be scared off by the sophistication of bureaucratic paper work . " Political influence debated The two regents also differ over the danger of political control of the university . Since the election of Mr. Reagan in 1966 , critics have accused the Governor of " playing politics " with the regents by insisting on taking an active role as an ex-officio board member . Mr. Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in university business and that California citizens expected him to do so . He attends almost every monthly iegents ' meeting and takes an active stance on important issues ? something few California governors have done in the past . Mr. Dutton says it would be better if elected officeholders like the Governor were not on the board . " The governor ? any governor ? has a real conflict of interest . He must weigh the university budget against other state considerations . " Mr. Dutton adds that even if three ex-officio regents ( most of them elected state officials ) were removed the 16-year terms of appointed regents would still be too long . He suggests shortening regental billets , limiting the governor to half the appointments , and including students among the trustees . " What we really need is a younger , educational viewpoint within the board , " Mr. Dutton says . " This is even more important than the issue of ex-officios or length of term . " Dr. Campbell says that ex-officio regents ? such as Governor Reagan ? " keep us in touch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 16 regents appointed for 16 years by the governor and 8 constitutionally guaranteed . ex-officio seats and it works well . " Bridge to . people seen . " We need money from the State Legislature . and the . governor to run the university , " Dr. Campbell goes on . So the exofficios serve a vital function . " They 're the bridge between the university and the people of California . And eliminating their . vote wo n't eliminate politics from the university . " Of the role of public opinion in influencing the running of the university , Dr. Campbell says : ? ? - " We ignore it at our own peril in the long run . In the short run , individual professors should be free to express their opinions . By a staff photographer Regent Reagan An active ex-officio member But we get in trouble when the university tries to solve all the ills of society . We have trouble enough with our own curriculum . " Coercive tactics deplored Dr. Campbell adds that he has no objection to student dissent  --  as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal customers in the university . They have a perfect right to raise questions about the product . And they should be listened to and consulted . But coercive tactics by a small minority are totally unacceptable . " Mr. Dutton counters that it is " unfortunate " a state university is forced to be sensitive to public opinion . " This is a limitation , " he says . " The Unversity of California has become great through the years because society supported it . Now , many members of the board have become too responsive to public opinion . " Mr. Dutton further charges that his fellow trustees tend to have an " antistudent " viewpoint . " And this is not really aimed at activism , " he explains , " but it is a desire to impose the social conditions of when the regents themselves were young . "                     