@@724118

txt The unexpectedly strong conservative groundswell in the United States and the Republican platform 's call for " ultimate liberation " of five Soviet republics  --  the Ukraine , Armenia , and the three Baltic republics  --  has strengthened Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's critics . Last December , Sen. Barry Goldwater 's prospects as a possible Republican nominee came up in every discussion this writer had in Moscow . Those all out in favor of the Premier 's policy simply belittled the Senator 's chances . More reserved Soviets however played them up as an indication of American aggressiveness . And , by implication , as an example of the futility of the Premier 's efforts toward cooperation with Washington . This impression jibes with the fact that Pravda , which repeatedly has leaned toward a critical evaluation of the Premier 's policies , gave the Republican convention a larger and more detailed coverage than Izvestia , whose chief editor is Mr. Khrushchev 's son-in-law , Alexei I. Adzhubei . Grist for Mill Senator Goldwater 's success also is grist for the mill of a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America 's instability in foreign affairs . In Poland , this group favored cooperation with Western Europe rather than with the United States . Several influential younger publicists privately told this writer that it might be safer for Poland to seek support in London and Paris and possibly even to establish a modus vivendi with Bonn than to rely on " fickle " Washington . Seen in Soviet perspective , the emergence of a surprisingly strong trend toward a more militant American policy , means that the three-pronged " axis " around which the Kremlin 's foreign policy turns  --  Washington . Peking , and Bonn  --  the latter has become increasingly important . Relations in Suspense Peking for the time being continues to hold top place on the Kremlin 's agenda . But there is little the Soviets can do at present to heal the rift or to stabilize their damaged position inside world communism . Relations with Washington , anyhow , are in suspense until after the American elections . In this constellation , the possibility of a rapprochement with Alexei I. Adzhubei West Germany , which below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained significance . On July 20 , Izvestia editor Adzhubei is slated to arrive in West Germany on the invitation of three leading newspapers . On July 15 , Mr. Adzhubei , who has been referred to as Mr. Khrushchev 's " private foreign minister , " sent one of his editors to the West German Embassy in Moscow to offer apologies in his name for an article calling recently reelected West German President Ltiblce a " confidence man of the Gestapo . " East German Quoted Izvestia 's article about President Liibke did not identify the Soviet newspaper with this view , but merely quoted from documents read by East German Politboro member and State Secretary of Information Albert Norden at a press conference of June 29 . Professor Norden is one of East Germany 's most prominent political leaders . Mr. AdZubei could have argued that it was normal for his paper to cover the East Berlin press conference . If the Izvestia editor decided upon the unusual step of presenti ? fnrmal apologies to West Germany . it is evident that he expects to conduct exploratory talks with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also on June 15 , Bonn disclosed that the Soviet Govern-Inuit was ready for new trade talks . This , too , is a new departure . On Jan. 16 , the Kremlin had informed Bonn that it . was not interested in renewing the existing trade agreement for 1964 . At the time this Soviet note surprised West Germany .                     