@@722936

txt The issue of Communist Cuba erupted all over Capitol Hill today . Democrats clashed with Republicans and members of both parties criticized the Kennedy Administration . In the Senate , Barry Goldwater brushed aside charges by J. W. Fulbright , Foreign Relations Committee chairman , that Republican critics of the Administration 's foreign policy ; were displaying " irresponsible " ! and " intemperate " partisanship . ! The Arizona Republican called for " a new and different kind ! of blockade  - -  -  a blockade of all shipments of any kind to Castro 's Cuba . " Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , after la closed session , demanded that ! the State Department take every possible step to prevent a , United Nations grant for an ! agricultural experiment station in Cuba . Danger Exaggerated ' There was also activity in the House of Representatives . Armistead I. Selden , chairman of a Foreign Affairs Subcommittee , opened a three-week inquiry into Communist subversion in Latin America with the : statement that it might be possible to classify missiles on Cuban soil as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no such thing as " defensive " sub- , vers'ion directed from that ! island . In a statement on Saturday , 1 Mr. Fulbright had specifically ! accused Mr. Goldwater , Gov-j nor Rockefeller of New York and Senator Hugh Scott of ! Pennsylvania of deserting the , bipartisanship in foreign affairs . established by the late Senator ! Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan . Yesterday in a television interview , Mr. Fulbright said he ! thought the Cuban danger was . " vastly exaggerated , " that " we are quite in control of Hi , " and ' that " irresponsible talk " could ! lead the Administration to " do ? something it does n't wish to " do , and which may be very unwise . " . Addressing himself to these criticisms today , Mr. Goldwater said that " the Kennedy Administration wants no part of a bipartisan approach to foreign policy ? except when they get into trouble . " U.S. Did n't Have Votes Mr. Goldwater said that " long before the President acted last October , Republicans had repeatedly called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " At that very moment when Mr. Fulbright was worrying about Republican " badgering " over Cuba , Mr. Goldwater declared , Senator John Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi and chairman of the Senate Preparedness Subcommittee , was demanding on television that the Administration make elimination of Soviet troops in Cuba " its number one foreign policy project . " Majority leader Mike Mansfield replied that Democrats had generally criticized the Eisenhower Administration only in a constructive way , and he was sorry that Republican criticism had forced the Administration to disclose as much as it had about air surveillance of Cuba . In the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee today , Richard N. Gardiner , Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs , explained to the senators that the United States had opposed for a year a grant of $1 , - 157,000 by the United Nations Special Fund toward the $3,000 , - 000 cost of the Cuban agricultural station . The United States simply could not command the votes in the 18-nation Special Fund Committee to stop the grant , Mr. Gardiner explained . He repeated President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would go into the project , however . The senators were not mollified . Senator Frank Church , Democrat of Idaho , and subcommittee chairman , said the State Department had not taken " every step that it might have taken . " Senator Frank J. Lausche , Democrat of Ohio , said that the United States supplied 40 per cent of the special fund , and that the contention that no United States dollars would be used " is plain deception . " The lead-off witness in the House inquiry into subversion was Edwin M. Martin , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , who read a 58-page statement before the subcommittee went into closed session . The burden of Mr. Martin 's statement was three-fold : 1 . Since the Cuban crisis in October , the Castro regime has shifted emphasis from propaganda and infiltration of leftist , but non-Communist , parties in Latin America to " open encouragement of terror as a principal weapon . " 2 . The Latin American countries could reduce the threat of Communist subversion by curbing the flow of their own Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla warfare . 3 . Though the Latin American nations , in cooperation with the United States , must adopt measures against subversion , these efforts will become meaningful " only in the framework of a longer term program " to improve standards of living , bestow social benefits , strengthen democracy and reshaping the attitudes of leaders in the political and financial life of the nation . Mr. Martin attributed the shift in Castro 's subversion tactics to the " loss of popular support " throughout Latin America following the disclosure of Soviet missiles in Cuba , To date , he said , this campaign of violence had been directed largely at Venezuela , Peru and Brazil , and had had only limited effectiveness . Though he expected this campaign of terror and sabotage to be stepped up in the coming months , he thought it unlikely that any nation would succumb . Mr. Martin estimated that between 1,000 and 1,500 persons from other Latin American countries had traveled to Cuba in 1962 . Most of the trainees were young , he said , and some of them had stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive and defensive guerrilla warfare , Venezuelans , he said , form the most numerous national group among the trainees , and therefore it was not coincidence that the Government of President . Romulo Betancourt , who begins a state visit here tomorrow , was being subjected to the heaviest terrorist attacks , In his news conference last week , Mr. Kennedy said the great problem in combating subversion was " to get the cooperation of other Latin American countries in limiting the flow " of their Communist nationals in and out of Cuba .                     