@@722115

txt The West German Government crisis was intensified tonight . The Free Democratic party balked at suggested changes in the agreement for a coalition previously reached with Chancellor Adenauer , leader of the Christian Democratic Union . The new snag , involving differences on social and economic questions , came after a day of dramatic developments . They included bitter protests by the Berlin Christian Democratic Deputies against the choice of Dr. Gernard Schroeder to succeed Dr. Heinrich von Brentano as Foreign Minister . The Berlin members charged that Dr. Schroeder , the Minister of the Interior in the outgoing Government , was " soft " on the Berlin question and withdrew their objections to him only after having received assurances from him and Dr. Adenauer that the present Government policy on Berlin would remain unchanged . A spokesman for the Free Democrats said the substance of the changes in the coalition accord was less important than the fact that Dr. Adenauer now wanted to go back on an agreement already ratified by the party 's recent conference . The comment implied the Free Democrats ' continuing distrust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace by Dr. Ludwig Erhard , the Minister of Economics in the outgoing regime . No formal ? agreement would be needed if Dr. Erhard were to head the government , the Free Democratic spokesman said . The Berlin Christian Democratic Deputies issued a statement that made clear their concern over Dr. Schroeder 's reported views on Berlin . They did not name him , but it was clear to all concerned what and Whom they meant . Resignations Deplored Dr. von Brentano 's resigna  --  tion last Monday caused " shock And concern " within the Berlin section of the Christian Democratic Union , the statement said , because there had been close agreement between them that " Berlin 's security and viability  --  regardless of Allied guarantees and occupation rights  --  can be maintained only if Berlin is a part of the Federal Republic . " After saying that they shared Dr. von Brenfano 's view that . a demand for a change of foreign policy lay behind the Free Democrats ' demand for a change of the Foreign Minister , - ithe Berlin Deputies went On : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future Cabinet , , whatever the coalition may be , convincing assurance that he will support unreservedly Berlin 's case with all its conse- , consequences . " The Berlin Christian Democratic Deputies said Dr. Schroeder had told friends and many newspapermen that he favored a " realistic appraisal " of the Berlin problem . This has been interpreted 8. s , willingness to find a settlement with the Soviet Union that would separate West Berlin from West Germany . Behind this reported view of , Dr. Schroeder , it was said , lay his conviction that the Allies in West Germany were committed beyond their strength to maintain Berlin 's present status , With the question of the Foreign Minister settled by the assurances of Dr. Schroeder add Dr. Adenauer , it had been expected that the coalition agreement would be quickly ratified . But the Free Democrats , incensed over the Christian Democrats ' reversal of Dr. Adenauer 's acceptance of the coalition agreement , held out insistently . Shortly before midnight they voted against entering an Adenauer-led Government if the original agreement were not allowed to stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of proposals by the Free Democrats without consulting his Parliamentary group . The proposals would have reduced the Government 's role in social welfare programs and given tax concessions to certain classes - of industry . The Christian Democratic Parliamentary group refused to endorse the Chancellor , another sign of the way his authority has been eroded since the West German elections of Sept. 17 , He was sent back to negotiate changes in the original agreement . It was these changes that the Free Democrats rejected tonight . Dr. Erich Mende , leader of the Free Democrats , said he would consult tomorrow with President Heinrich Luebke . But after so many wrong predictions no one was any longer willing to guess how the crisis might be resolved . , Dr. Adenauer 's own future was again placed in doubt by the developments , although earlier in the day the Christian Democratic Deputies voted overwhelmingly again to support his nomination as Chancellor .                     