@@726420

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Control of Jerusalem To the Editor : A recurrent theme in the editorials and in the Letters to the Editor of The New York Times is that the prospects of peace in the Middle East would be greatly enhanced if ? Israel turned over the Old City of Jerusalem to an international authority . There is no historical basis for the hope that international control of Jerusalem would - bring the United Arab Republic , Syria or Saudi Arabia to the peace table . The hatred of Israel which led to the present conflict was no less fierce when Jordan held Old Jerusalem . The " magnanimity " urged of Israel would be interpreted by the Arab leaders to their people as proof . of Israeli weakness and , guilt . Unilateral Israeli concessions can only add to the political strength of these . Arab leaders who seek to regain lost territory and prestige while avoiding sincere peace discussions . No Plea to Jordan How many nations spoke out and how many Times editorials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ andthink of its , " moral position " during the nineteen years that Israelis , ' Jews and Moslems were forbidden access to their holy places ? The Times July 4 editorial speaks of Israel 's " moral position " vis-a-vis Jerusalem . Surveying today 's globe , - which reverberates to the fury of power politics , The Times editors indulge in the wistful dream that the lion and the lamb are ready to lie down together , that only Israel 's magnanimous gesture is needed to put . " an end to the centuries of international and interreligious strife . " Yet they know that today 's decisions are made in the vo , cabulary of national self-interest : alliance , , power , geography , oil . The words morality , justice , even aggression and . peace have become words of convenience , their true meanings distorted to keep diplomatic rhetoric flowing . The political reality of Old Jerusalem is that . its sanctity and preservation are best secured under the guardianship . of a people with the ' physical capability and the spiritual dedication to protect this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in the well-being and happiness of its citizenry . Along these lines , Israel has taken R giant stride forward . The evident pleasure of the people of Jerusalem on the reunification of their city offers strong hope that  --  when freed of outside pressures  --  Arabs and Jews can live in peace . Rather than propose that the gates and walls of Jerusalem be fortified again , let us encourage the further removal of physical barriers and nourish this new embryo of brotherhood . THOMAS H. STIR Princeton , N. J. , July 5 , 1967 ? Patakos Attack on Papandreou , Backers , To the Editor : In your June 18 issue Gen. Stylianos Patakos , a member of the military triumvirate now ruling Greece , stated two falsehoods in his reference to ' the 700-member American-Canadian University Committee for Andreas Papandreou . First , he told your correspondent that he had " intercepted " a committee letter dated April . 28 " addressed to Greek university professors . " Aware that his new " government " monitors international telephone calls and purloins the international mails , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of our circular letters . The letters were sent exclusively to Americans and Canadian academics . General Patakos then added that he had written to us stating that " Greece 's unbiased justice " will determine Dr. Papandreou 's fate in the forthcoming " treason trial . " A copy of our original letter and the general 's reply were first puhlished in the New York Greek-American Herald on June 21 . The unreliability of General Patakos 's statements and the deviousness of his methods should make clear to Washington and the world the extent to which " unbiased " testimony will be used to shore up the cynical and trumped-up charges against the former Center Union Deputy , Andreas Papandreou . We wish also to point out to your readers that after several false announcements of the imminent trial Of Andreas Papandreou , the junta ' is now unconscionably violating- all semblance of due process by the indefinite postponement of an open : trial . But , then , one does not expect due process to be observed by a military dic-tatorship , The general should keep it firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully accountable before world opinion for the treatment and ultimate disposition not only of Andreas Papandreou but of all political prisoners in Greece . STEPHEN W. ROUSSEAS ROBERT J. CLEMENTS Co-Secretaries American-Canadian Committee New York , July 1 , 1967 ? Competitive Education To the Editor : C. Stanley Lowell 's letter ( July 4 ) on American educational traditions deserves an answer . Educational historians know that Horace Mann in all sincerity started what he considered to be a " neutral " school , where , as it actually coincided almost exactly with his own religion of nonsectarian Protestantism . Today the public school teaches a humanistic system of values which also conveniently coincides with the religion of millions of Americans  --  but not all Americans . Suppose that twenty or thirty , years from now the Establish- ' ment , the power structure , happens to be Birchite and the Birchite values prevail in the public school . Should parents ? including poor parents  --  then . have any alternative available ? The great danger is that the public school might become the ? only American school . Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one school system . This is the American tradition . ; The American tradition recognizes that government ownership and operation in . any sector of life always creates the danger of government MoliCPbly ' It is ? the . American tradition to encourage competition . Healthy ' competition . is the.best way to preserve freedom and to improve the product . Education is no exception . ' ( Very Rev. Msgr . ) ' EDGAR P. McCiaakx Director Research Institute for Catholic Education in New York State New York , July 7 , 1967 ? Adirondack Preserve To the Editor : The July 8 letter of Dr. Sheridan B. Albert , with reference.to Adirondack Park , seems based on a misconception , " The cry ' Forever Wild ' is usually comparable , in emotional content , to those of the antivivisectionists , antifluoridationists and other extremists . " How can the park be forever , wild , he protests ; when it already contains so many roads and towns ? - In fact , the " Forever Wild " clause in the State Constitution , the clause conservationists want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but only to state-owned portions of it , roughly 40 per cent of the total . The " Forever Wild " clause , then , simply guarantees that some ? less than half ? of the Adirondack land will remain unspoiled , preserving the general impression of beauty and freshness that has made the area famous . ' This is all that conservationists are driving at ? surelY a modest and commendable goal . JOHN BIERHORS'T New York , July 9 , 1 a 7 Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     