@@725803

txt A mood of deep anxiety exists in the Dominican Republic as the last units of the Inter-American Peace Force ( IAPF ) leave the island nation Tuesday . Responsibility for the maintenance of stability now reverts fully to the Dominicans themselves  --  particularly to the widely disliked military and police forces . With leftist and rightist extremists blamed for a variety of recent acts of terrorism , concern is mounting that a renewal of the April , 1965 , contest could follow withdrawal of the peace-keeping forces . Moreover , the actual role of the military in the equation is an open question . The final days of the IAPF presence in Santo Domingo have been marred by the death of two United States members of the force . They were killed last week by unknown assailants in downtown Santo Domingo . The incident points up the explosiveness of the Dominican situation . Absence extended In preparation for IAPF withdrawal , Dominican President Balaguer has made several significant changes in the Army command and the posting of right-wing officers . Among these : ? Gen. Elias Wessin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last April 's revolution has been named alternate Ambassador to the Dominican delegation to the United Nations . The appointment extends General Wessin y Wessin 's exile from the island for an indefinite period . He had been in Miami since being forced to leave the Dominican Republic in September , 1965 . ? Commodore Francisco J. Rivera Caminero , who was Armed Forces Minister until early this year , has been released from the diplomatic service and will attend the 1966.67 class of the Inter-American Military College in Washington . He had been serving as naval attach ? in Washington since he was sent out of the country by Hector Garcia Godoy , the provisional President , earlier this year . ? The 600 men in General Wessin y Wes-sin 's old command , the Fourth Brigade , at San Isidro Air Force Base outside Santo Domingo , have been transferred to other bases , along with the brigade 's artillery . It was this brigade under General Wessin y Wessin which ousted Juan Domingo Bosch from the presidency in September , 1963 , and carried out action against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dominican Republic . Insurance against coup All of these actions , according to official sources in Santo Domingo , should ease the uncertainty about the withdrawal of the IAPF . General Wessin y Wessin , for example , is regarded as a key figure in any projected coup against the Balaguer government . His acceptance of the UN post seems to eliminate the likelihood of any early return by the right-wing general to the island . At the same time , President Balaguer in a recent speech appeared to accuse Commodore Rivera Caminero of conspiring against the government . Without naming the naval leader by name , Mr. Balaguer said " a former chief of staff of the Navy is among those false reporters of a possible coop who hope to return to the high position which they lost , Commodore Rivera Caminero was chief of staff of the Navy during the revolt against military rule in April and May of last year . Despite the Balaguer moves , however , power in the Dominican Republic continues to reside with the military and the police . Top leadership in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former dictator Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina . Those forces which fotight last year 's revolution watch with concern as the IAPF leaves and charge that they have been the principal victims of violence in recent weeks ? at the hands of military and police elements .                     