@@725818

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Further reproduction prohibited without permission . The Unions and G.E . To the Editor : Your Oct. 3 editorial " Strike Delay at G.E . " misrepresents both the purpose of the unions ' cooperative bargaining efforts and the true nature of the issues . The eleven A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions having contractual relations with General Electric were brought together by the sheer force of economic facts . Over the years , operating separately and without effective consultation , they were no match for a tough , skillful and completely unified management , equipped with all known propaganda communications resources . The divided unions failed simply because of their divisions . And the workers were indeed shortchanged as a result . Though your editorial ignores it , G.E . workers earn far less20 to 25 cents an hour less ? than workers of comparable skills in such industries as aerospace , auto and steel , Their fringe benefits are inferior to the same degree . And so are their contract terms in the areas that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration of grievances , recall rights after layoff and the union shop . At this moment the G.E . workers are no better off than they were in 1960 . Rising living costs have eaten up the whole amount of the meager wage increases they have received in these six years  --  wage increases of less than 2 per cent a year , far below even the " guideline " figure of 3.2 . Common Goals This is the basis for the union coalition ? an agreement on common national goals , pursued by each union in- its separate bargaining sessions . What you call G.E . ' s " bargaining technique " enters the picture for two reasons . First , it is not bargaining at all , but merely the presentation of an economic proposal which the company will rearrange but not improve . The " additional values " recited in G.E . ' s full - page advertisement , published in the same issue as your editorial , are fraudulent . They are conditioned upon a contract extension , so that the average worker would get $23 less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Second and more important , G.E . ' s " bargaining technique " has fallen far short of doing justice to the workers . This applies to what G.E . is now offering as well as to its previous performance . In these times , no wage offer is meaningful unless protected against total erosion by living-costs -- unless , of course , it is so high that no predictable price rise could cancel it . G.E . ' s offer is in neither category . Actually , our unions took the almost unprecedented step of accepting the company 's wage offer  --  provided it was linked with cost-of-living protection . How reasonable would you have us be ? Other Issues The same applies to the other remaining issues . For example , we are seeking impartial arbitration of disputes that arise during the term of the contract ; G.E . insists that a union 's proper recourse is to strike . We want G.E . workers to be paid for what they do , rather than where they do it ; present geographical differentials are in excess of 50 cents an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . So it goes down our very short list , cut to the bone in an effort to reach agreement . The modest improvements we are seeking in G.E . ' s offer are neither unreasonable , inflationary nor out of line with terms of employment in other industries . This is the basic fact The Times ignored in favor of an attack on our motives and those of the President . PAUL JENNINGS President International Union of Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers A.F.L.-C.I.O . Washington , Oct. 5 , 1966 Use of Napalm To the Editor : In his letter published Oct. 3 Harcourt A. Carrington postulates that the recent sadistic burnings ' of derelicts by juvenile delinquents and the use of napalm in Vietnam by our armed forces stem from the same faulty " social attitude . " Such a correlation is patently fallacious . The burning of the derelicts stemmed from no logical motivation . On the other hand , the use of napalm by our troops is carried out under orders designed to repel an enemy aggressor . If there is any " social attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it possible to revile and vilify those who risk their lives to defend the outposts of our free society against totalitarian aggression . HAROLD F. SMITH Editor and Publisher The Mobile Home Citizen Riverhead , N. Y. , Oct. 4 , 1966 ? Arthur Levitt Backed To the Editor : In this rather confused political year , In which many traditional loyalties have been shattered , there is one candidate as to whom there can be no confusion or doubt . Arthur Levitt has served as New York State Controller for twelve distinguished years , under both Democratic and Republican governors . He has earned universal approval and commendation for his outstanding service . Republicans , Democrats , Liberals , Conservatives and Independents have acclaimed his record of performance . It is generally known that a substantial number of delegates to the Republican convention in Rochester favored the bipartisan nomination of Controller Levitt . This is because his twelve-year record has earned him the confidence and gratitude of the great majority of New York State 's electorate . He has always stood solidly , alone if necessary , in defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all dealings involving state money . No partisan consideration should interfere with his reelection by a resounding majority . KEN NET II C. ROYALL New York , Sept. 26 , 1966 ? Making Corporate Gifts to the City To the Editor : Now that corporate gifts to the city are under study  --  kicking up a considerable amount of political dust  --  it might be of interest to note that during the twelve years of the La Guardia administraion such funds were often accepted for constructive purposes . The ceremonies for " I Am an American Day " in Central Park were financed to some extent by gifts from corporations and public-spirited individuals . Such receptions as those tendered General Eisenhower , Admiral Nimitz , and General de Gaulle received financial help from private sources . This was true for concerts and other entertainments which were held in the parks . At that time the city Nv ; ; s pulling out of an economic abyss caused by years of political misrule . Economy IV ii S the order of the day . The situation was very similar to that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to determine without mental strain when such gifts are given without strings attached or when they are made with a smell of bribery clinging to them . The city needs private help , honestly contributed , to avoirl adding further burdens to the taxpayers ' load . Editorial Oct. 7 ' Paying for the City 's Parties . " GOODHUE LIVINGSTON Former Executive Secretary to Mayor Fiorello La Guani:a Watch Hill , R. I. , Oct. 3 , 1966                     