@@724303

txt One useful propaganda date for Peking 's purposes would be Nov. 1 , when the Soviets have their annual big show in Red Square . Will the Chinese Communists try to blanket the world 's press with their detonation and place Moscow 's parade and speeches in the shadow ? Secretary of State Dean Rusk 's formal statement that the Chinese explosion was imminent was played powerfully in the newspapers ' front pages of the world . This was the American aim . The Johnson administration wants the Chinese , and the rest of Asia , to know the West has technical and intelligence sources which to some degree know what is taking place in Mao Tse-tung 's secretive China . The Rusk disclosure also was designed to take the wind out of Sen. Barry Goldwater 's sails should the Republican Presidential aspirant argue that the United States was poorly informed . Counter Devices Officials are satisfied that the Rusk announcement will help cushion the shock of any nuclear device explosion in the smaller nations of Asia . As it is , the arrival of China as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam and the rest of Southeast Asia over the long pull . - A three-man spaceship launched by the Soviet Union is seen as a further useful device to be used in Moscow to weaken Peking 's propaganda after its detonation . Earlier , Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 'S talk about a monstrous new nuclear weapon , specialists feel , was aimed primarily at the Communist parties in Asia and Africa , trying to offset the psychological impact of a Chinese device leading toward nuclear weapons . Mr. Khrushchev seemed to want to emphasize that despite Communist China 's impending arrival among the nuclear powers the Soviet Union is still the prime Communist power . Officials here surmise the Chinese would not be concerned if some of the nuclear fallout dropped on the Soviet Union . The Chinese remember that Soviet nuclear testing in central Asia brought fallout with north and northwest winds . India May Act Prevailing winds over the great Tarim Basin and the Takla Makan Desert at this time of the year are from the north and northwest . But there are periods when the winds shift and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ path of the prevailing winds oft China and the Sinkiang Desert . Any fallout from the Chinese device is almost certain to bring out a vigorous protest from the Japanese Government and the Japanese press . One question is whether or not the United States , with Japanese acquiescence , will not place nuclear weapons in Japan to counter the Chinese threat as it develops over the next five years or so . After the Chinese explosion India is expected to be forced to reassess its position on nuclear weapons . What concerns the United States Government is the possibility that " 15 , 20 , 25 nuclear powers ( will ) come into being " over the coming decades unless a nonproliferation treaty is signed , beyond the test-ban treaty .                     