@@721845

txt Jackson , Miss. , May 24 ( Special ) - Two groups of self-styled freedom riders , traveling in separate buses under national guard and police convoy , were arrested and jailed by city police here today when they walked into a waiting room line missing the bus station here . All told , 27 of the bus riders were seized , 12 on the first bus , including one white student , and 15 on the second bus , including two white persons , one a woman . The police charged them with breach of the peace and disobeying police orders .. The buses came here from Montgomery , Ala. , and arrived about four hours apart . Those arrested were hustled into a patrol wagon and taken to the police station , two blocks away . They were immediately arraigned before a city judge who set bail for each at $500 . None of the prisoners made an immediate effort to post bail and all were locked up . Delay Trips , Kennedy Urges In Washington , Atty . Gen. Robert F. Kennedy called for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It would be wise for those traveling thru these states to delay their trips until the present state of confusion and danger has passed and an atmosphere of reason and normalcy has been restored , " the attorney general said . He added that " a mob asks no questions " and that travelers not connected with the freedom rides might be hurt . Uriah J. Fields , president of a Montgomery integration group , later sent a telegram of protest to Kennedy saying : " Had not there been a cooling off period ' following the Civil war , the Negro would be free today : Is n't 99 years long enough to cool off , Mr. Attorney General " Police Chiefs Named The justice department moved to add two Montgomery and two Birmingham officials to the list of those against whom the government is seeking an injunction against interfering with interstate travel . A hearing on the injunction application , which previously had named three Ku Klux Klan groups and certain individuals , is set for tomorrow in the United States District court at Montgomery . The officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Chief Jamie Moore , both of Birmingham , and Police Commissioner Lester B. Sullivan and Police Chief Goodwin J. Ruppenthal of Montgomery . Meanwhile a new group of socalled freedom riders arrived in Montgomery after a bus trip from Atlanta . Tins included three Negro students and four white college professors , two of them froni Yale university . This group debarked peacefully under police and military ? guard at the Montgomery bus station and departed in private automobiles without attempting ' to enter segregated facilities . Omit Stop at Meridian Before the arrests here the riders on the first bus had said they planned to spend the night at Tougaloo Southern Christian college , about 3 miles north of Jackson . It had been their plan to resume the journey tomorrow by boarding a bus for New Orleans . Both buses skipped a scheduled stop at Meridian on orders of officials as a safety measure . A personal inspection of the Meridian situation was made by W. P. Wilson , Mississippi adjutant general , and Col. T. B. Birdsong , state director of public safety . Wilson said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep order . Gov . Ross Barnett alerted the guard last night when it was learned the freedom riders would probably enter the state today . Departure of the freedom riders from Montgomery was made without violence with Alabama guardsmen and highway police providing heavy guard . Authorities cleared the Montgomerry bus station and kept would be spectators at a distance of a block from all approaches to the station . As a final gesture , the freedom riders entered a previously allwhite lunch counter at the station and ordered coffee . W. E. Evans , manager of the lunchroom , served them without comment . The white man aboard the first departing bus identified himself as Paul Dietrich of Washington , D. C. , a college student starting his first freedom ride . The second hus carried 13 Negroes including James Farmer , national director of the Congress of Racial Equality , which has been organizing the freedom rides . The single white man in the group was Peter lege . A white girl , not identified , was also reportedly in the party . Scout Border Area Both buses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicles which included jeeps filled with troops and state police cars . National guard planes circled overhead as the caravan moved westward . Reports of a plot by segregationists to toss a short fused dynamite bomb into the bus at the state line brought a stop at Cuba , Miss. , while troops scouted the territory ahead and forced spectators to retire . The change of guard between Alabama and Mississippi troops and police was made without incident . The new entry in the freedom ride derby was the result of a reportedly chance encounter in Atlanta last night of professors from northern colleges and three Negro students . Professors Identified The professors were identified as the Rev. Gaylord B. Noyce , assistant professor , Yale Divinity school ; the Rev. William S. Coffin ' Jr. , Yale chaplain ; Dr. David E. Swift , professor of religion at Wesleya n university , Middletown , Conn. , and ? Dr. John D. , an assistant professor of religion at the same school . The Negroes were George B. Smith , a Yale student , and Clyde L. Carter and Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charlotte , N. C. They left Atlanta today for a bus ride to Montgomery , traveling over the same route taken by previous groups last week .                     