@@722597

txt President Kennedy will disclose his decision on an immediate tax reduction in a special television and radio address from the White House Monday evening . He spent more than an hour with a half-dozen of his principal advisers this morning reviewing the economic situation and the advisability of proposing a tax cut at this time . The White House said nothing more than that the President " will discuss the national economy " in his talk at 7 P. M. , Eastern daylight time . The prevailing view in Washington remained , as it has for , some time , that the President will not ask Congress to cut taxes now . But even some of his closest advisers say that they do not know which way he will go . Retail Sales Show Gain This morning 's conferees examined reports on economic developments in July . Some of the information . was still coming in as the meeting began . The overall picture was one of improvement , but it included some distinctly disturbing signs . Today 's reports disclosed a 2 per cent pick-up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but  --  the particularly disturbing point ? some further shrinkage in the average weekly hours put in by production workers in factories . Those reports were published today by the Commerce and Labor Departments . Not published , but presented at the White House meeting , were es ? timates that industrial production ' had risen 1 per cent last month and that new orders for durable goods had increased for the first time since January . Interpretations Vary Different analysts gave dif ' fering interpretations to the assorted news . Some noted spew cial circumstances that made some of the reported increases less impressive than they appeared on the surface . Others found the general upward move ? ment better than they had expected . In any event , the picture was better , not worse , and the economic case for a tax-cut stimulus was thus diminished . The political case was the same as before . Some members of Congress think it would be irresponsible to vote a tax cut that would enlarge the budget ' deficit . Others think it unwise to use such potent anti-recession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress is not enthusiastic . The President 's address will be his fourth special talk of this sort since he took office nineteen months ago . The others covered his Vienna meeting with Premier Khrushchev , last year , the Berlin crisis last summer , and the resumption of nuclear , testing . this spring . Considering the importance that attaches to such talks , and the amount of discussion of taxes and the economy that has gone on in the last two months , it is hardly likely that the President will deliver a passive declaration for inaction . There was some speculation today that he might say that he actually leaned toward a tax cut now but that the crowded Congressional schedule and other considerations made it impossible . Presumably he would also make another strong plea for legislation that he has proposed already , but that Congress has been sitting on  --  a special program of public works in areas of high unemployment , standby authority to undertake short - term projects when the economy turns down , extended Federal aid for jobless workers whose regular unemployment insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut . Only the last of those four measures ? tax cut authority ? is rated absolutely dead . The two public works plans , somewhat modified from the Kennedy proposals , seem to be moving toward enactment , and there is talk of moving the unemployment insurance bill , too . Other Moves Pondered Evidently there has been some talk within the Administration of trying to forestall the automatic increase in Social Security taxes scheduled for Jan. 1 . But President Eisenhower tried the same thing and failed in 1957 , and the precedent discourages trying it again . There are other possibilities ? some speed-up in Federal spending , perhaps another special pay-out to holders of G.I. life insurance ? if the situation seems to warrant it . But biggest of all is the tax bill that the President has said he wants Congress to enact next year . That bill will include big reductions for individuals and corporations effective , retroactively , next Jan. 1 . The officis who attended today 's meetlig were Douglas Dillon , Secretary of the Treasury ; Luther H. Hodges , Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter W. Heller , chairman 04 the Council of Economic Advisers ; Kermit Gordon and Gardner Ackley , members of the council ; Budget Director David E. Bell , and Theodore C. Sorensen , the President 's special counsel . Also present were Professor James Tobin of Yale University , who left the council only last month , and two economists from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Paul A. Samulson , a frequent Kennedy 2ounsellor , and Robert Solow , formerly chief economist on the council 's staff . Talk to Be Carried Here President Kennedy 's address Ionday will be carried live on 111 radio and television network stations in the city and iy many independent radio staIons , including WQXR , WINS , , VNEW , WNYC , WWRL VRFM , WOR and WVNJ . Several other local television Lnd radio stations will rebroad ! ast the talk later in the evening .                     