@@721159

txt HAVANA , Cuba , April 4-Workers and employers , persons working for their own account , and the unemployed will be brought under the iron control of the Cuban revolutionary government with the labor census which begins April 18 . This is to carry out a new law which reaches . into every home in the island . From the lowest paid laborer to the president of a company including Americans and other foreigners , workers in Cuba must register in the census and give full details of employment . The only exemptions from registration are children below 14 years of age , persons disabled or living off an income , students who do not need employment , and housewives . Unions Lose Control The employer no longer has any control over the hiring and firing of his workers . ' Previously under the contracts every industry , com-1 mercial firm or other operation signed with its workers , the employment and dismissal of workers was more or less under the control of the union with the ministry of labor and even the president of the Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union and turned over to the ministry of labor in the new legislation . The ministry V11 decide all new employes and decide whether or not anyone can be dismissed . The labor legislation also provides that no employer may dismiss workers for reasons of economy . If there is any possibility of the employer running out of funds and closing down , or if any labor difficulty arises , the ministry of labor will seize the enterprise and operate it . Hundreds Already Seized Hundreds of commercial and industrial firms have already been seized by the government . Whether " employes of confidenn " who are not members of organized labor will be strictly controled by the ministry of labor has not been clarified since the regulations have not yet been issued . Previously employers were at libertyto hire or dismiss any of these employes . The ministry of labor will classify all workers , both employed and unemployed , according to their ability under the new labor legislation . Must Await Call to Job ' The unemployed workers will be placed in line for jobs thru a drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he or . she must wait until called by the ministry of labor in accordance with the list prepared after the drawing . The number of unemployed at present is estimated by government officials at around half a million and the total is rising . Any worker who loses his job after the drawing is made will be placed at the end of the list , according to the legislation .. Reportedly all workers are frozen in their jobs and ' can not change employment without presenting a petition to the ministry of labor and receiving permission to do so .                     