@@726674

txt Two Americans and a Swede , all authorities on how the eye passes its images to the brain , were selected here today as joint winners of the 1967 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine . The Americans are 63-yearold Haldan Keffer Hartline , professor of biophysics at the Rockefeller University in New York , and George Wald , 60 , professor of biology at Harvard . The Swedish laureate is Ragnar Granit , 66 , now in Britain as a visiting professor of neurophysiology at St. Catherine 's College , Oxford . He is a member of the faculty of the Royal Caroline Institute , which makes the annual Nobel Medical Awards , and is head of its research organization , the Nobel Institute for Neurophysiology . The three professors were honored " for their discoveries concerning the primary chemical and physiological visual processes in the eye . " They will share the prize money , which this year amounts to the equivalent of about $61,700 . The Caroline Institute hailed ; Professor Wald as " one of the world 's greatest authorities on  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prof. Carl Gustaf Bernhard said - Professor Wald 's primary contribution was toward the understanding of how light activates the photo-receptive cells in the retina , causing molecular readjustments . Observed Receptor Cells . Professor Wald was able to show how the substance rhoslopsin , which is contained in receptor cells called rods , breaks down when light hits the retina . This breakdown , it was explained , activates the receptors and the rhodopsin is built up again during periods of darkness . Professor Wald turned toward the field of physiology of perception while he was at Columbia University where he obtained a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1932 . He has been a professor of biology at Harvard since 1948 . Professor Hartline , the biophysicist , recorded by electronic means the electrical impulses from nerve cells and fibers when light strikes the retina . He studied the impulse pattern representing the message that was being passed to the brain by single visual cells . He was able to explain , the institute said , how the eye , by sharpening contrasts , was able to differentiate form and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent in his field in the nineteen-thirties . He joined the Rockefeller Institute , the forerunner of the university , in 1953 . The third laureate , Professor Granit , a Swedish subject who was born in Finland , was hailed by the Caroline Institute for his early work in color reception research . The institute said he was the first to show how different neural units in the retina reacted to different parts of the spectrum . On the basis of this , he concluded that there were three types of cones or color receptors in the retina covering different parts of the spectrum . The color message going to the brain , therefore , would be the result of a mixing of the impulses from the different types of cones . Professor Granit has been in ? volved in color perception work since the nineteen-twenties while in Finland where he studied and later served as professor of physiology in the University of Helsinki . Professors Wald and Hartline are the 31st and 32d Americans to be chosen as winners of the medical prize since the first Nobel awards were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be honored . Last year the Institute cited two Americans for their cancer research ? Professors Francis Peyton Rouse of Rockefeller University and Charles Brenton Huggins of the Ben May Laboratory in Chicago . The three laureates chosen today were among about 160 scientists who had been nominated this year . The selection was made in the Administration Building of the Royal Caroline Institute , a university-level Swedish medical faculty dating from 1810 . Forty-two of the institute 's 53 faculty members had gathered around a huge conference table for the vote which took place in accordance with the will of Alfred Nobel , the sickly and lonely Swede who invented dynamite . Tomorrow , the Swe : ? ish Academy is scheduled to announce the award for litera ? ture , and on Oct. 30 , the Royal Academy of Science is to name the physics and chemistry laureates . The Nobel Peace Prize , ii there is any , is to be an ? nouced in Oslo by a five-mein ? ber committee named by the Norwegian Parliament . Last year no prize was given . DR . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University . His research into the fundamental problems of vision are credited with exerting strong influences in his field and in related areas . He was horn Dec. 22 , 1903 , in Bloomsburg , Pa. , He was awarded a Doctor of Medicine degree at Johns Hopkins University in 1927 after earning a Bachelor of Science degree at Lafayette College . He served as a National Research Council Fellow at Johns Hopkins from 1927 to 1929 . Dr. Hartline was one of several scientists associated with Dr. Detlev W. Bronk when Dr. Bronk directed the University of Pennsylvania 's Eldridge Reeves Johnson Research Foundation . He joined Dr. Bronk at Rockefeller UniverDR . WALD has been proiJ of biology at Harvard University since 1948 , where he teaches 300 Harvard and Radcliffe students . The 60-year-old native of New York attended New York University and Columbia University , where he received a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1932 . He joined the Harvard faculty in 1934 and was named professor of biology 14 years later . In 1953 , the professor was presented with the Lasker Award for his contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study of sight was the belief that seeing begins with a chemical reaction . He has worked in this area ever since . Authorities have agreed that most of what is known about visual pigments and how light affects them has come from the work of Dr. Wald and the researchers who have worked with him for the last 25 years . He holds honorary degrees from a number of universities . Among his awards are the Eli Lilly Research Award in 1939 , the Proctor Medal in 1955 , and the Rumford Medal and Premium of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1959 . He has studied in Berlin , Zurich and Heidelberg on a National Research Council Fellowship . He , his wife , Ruth , and their two children live in Cambridge . He has two sons by a previous marriage . sity when Dr. Bronk became its president in 1953 . Dr. Hartline was named a Johnson Traveling Research Scholar and studied physics at the Universities of Leipzig and Munich after his graduation from Johns Hopkins . From 1931 to 1936 , he was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was professor and chairman of the Jenkins Department of Biophysics at Johns Hopkins . He has held teaching positions at Cornell University Medical College and the University of Pennsylvania . He has written extensively in his field and holds a number of honorary degrees . Dr. Hartline is married to the former Elizabeth Kraus . They have three children and live in New York , commuting to a farm near Baltimore on weekends . DR . GRANIT is professor of neurophysiology at the Royal Caroline Institute of Medicine and Surgery in Stockholm , and is presently serving as a visiting professor of neurophysiology at St. Catherine 's College in Oxford . Ene. , lend . He was born Oct. 30 , 1900 , in Finland . He was graduated from the Swedish Normallyceum in Helsinki in 1919 and received Do6.er of Medicine degree from Helsinki University in 1927 . He taught there from 1929 to 1937 , spending two years as a Fellow in Medical Physics at the Eldridge Reeves Johnson Research Foundation at the University of Pennsylvania . He also spent two years studying neurophysiology under Sir Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Caroline Institute and was named its director in 1945 . He was the Thomas Young Orator for the Physical Society in London in 1945 and Silliman Lecturer at Yale University in 1954 . Since 1956 , he has been a visiting professor on the staff of Rockefeller University here . He holds awards and honorary degrees from a number of universities and has been published widely in his field . He is married to Baroness Daisy Brunn . They have a son , Michael , who is an architect in Stockholm .                     