@@721764

txt When Westinghouse Electric Corp ' s Chairman Gwilym A. Price pounds a gavel this morning in the gold-walled grand ballroom of the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel , he 'll be touching off what promises to be the most contrm ersial annual stockholders ' meeting in the giant electrical company 's history . Before 2.500 shareholders expected at the meeting , Mr. Price will be faced with a demand that he , President Mark W. Cresap , Jr. , and Executive Vice President John K. Hodnette be dismissed as " incompetents . " He 'll be obliged to call for a vote on resolutions that the company sue several of its officers for a total of $372,000 and fire " forthwith " a list of its officials involved in recent antitrust cases . These cases saw Westinghouse , General Electric Co. and 27 other electrical equipment makers plead hinny or no defense to Federal charges of price-fixing on heavy electrical apparatus . 31r . Olsen Arrives The resolutions at the Westinghouse meeting will come , not from small shareholders , but from a former president of a Westinghouse subsidiary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valued at close to $4 million . This shareholder , C. A. Olsen of Cleveland . arrived in Pittsburgh yesterday with two lawyers and authority to vote 80,000 to 100,000 shares of Westinghouse common stock in favor of his proposals . Although he admits his proposals stand no chance of adoption today , Mr. Olsen displayed a grim determination to put the company 's management on the spot to the maximum extent possible . Similar attempts to censure management are likely at annual stockholders ' meetings of other major companies involved in the antitrust case . At G.E . ' s meeting April 26 , James B. Carey , president of the International Union of Electrical Workers , will attend to press for adoption of a number of the union 's resolutions , including one that civil damage sults be filed against G.E . executives by the company . AllisChalmers Manufacturing Co .. Milwaukee , will hold its shareholders ' meeting next month : already the company reports a " larger than normal number " of letters from stockholders . Yesterday in Cleveland , Clark Controller Co. , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its annual meeting . The press was barred . R. H. Hoge. president , said later that no " unfriendly " questions were asked by the 5D stockholders present regarding the company 's involvement in the case and its 525.000 fine or the 30-day jail sentence and 52,000 fine given E. R. Jung. vice president and director . Stockholders re-elected all directors , including Mr. Jung . Mr. Hoge said newspapermen would be permitted to attend future meetings . In the case of Westinghouse , there 's evidence that Mr. Olsen is n't the only shareholder who is dissatisfied with the company 's management . The company 's proxy statement discloses that several individual stockholders already have filed lawsuits seeking to recover from " some or all of the present and former members of the board of directors and officers of the corporation " the fines , legal fees and damages the company already has paid or may he liable for as a result of the antitrust cases . One of these suits , according to the proxy statement , also asks that company executives repay to Westinghouse incentive compensation payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ options . Lack of Knowledge Although top officers of both Westinghouse and G.E . have said they were not aware of the conspiracy to fix prices and divide up markets for heavy electrical apparatus , several executives of the companies pleaded guilty or no defense to charges of participating in the conspiracy . J. H. Chiles , Jr .. a Westinghouse vice president , went to jail for a month as a result of the charges , along with two officials of G.E . and several from other companies . General Electric demoted most of its officials Involved in the ease and cut their pay : all 16 have since resigned or retired from the company . Westinghouse , however , has retained In their old positions and at their old salaries all of Its officials who were involved in the case . It contends these officers were acting out of a misguided belief that they were helping the company and already have been punished sufficiently for their acts . Although the criminal proceedings in the ease have been closed , the companies still face potential civil damage stilts from customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundreds of millions of dollar s Mr. Olsen 's essential argument Weqtinghouse 's top officiers , Mr. Pi lee . Mr Cresap and Mr Hodnette , should have known about the alleged con piracy . If they didn t know about it . Mr. Olsen contends , they 're not competent to run the affairs of so big a company . So he 's prepared to offer a resolution demanding that Mr. Puce . Mr. CI csap and Mr. Hodnette be removed fi one jobs that paid them 1150.850 , $106,450 and $111,316 respectively , last year . An Internal Ins estigation Proposed In the set of five resolutions that Mr. Olsen hauled into Pittsburgh in his briefcase is one proposing that the company appoint a committee of independent lawyers and accountants to investigate " to what extent , if any " illegal activities may still be going on within the company . This committee 's report would he made directly to shareholders rather than to Westinghouse management . Though he has no illusions that any of his demands can be passed . Mr. Olsen , a florid . gray-haired man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the company 's shareholders to fdrce management on its own to take some of the proposed steps . Although the 80,000 to 100,000 shares owned by Mr. Olsen and various members of his family are a small fraction of the 3.1.660.466 Westinghouse common shares outstanding . they are more than the total of 74.363 shares which the proxy statement shows are owned by all the company 's directors . Mr. Olsen and his family acquired their Westinghouse stock in 1955 when they and other shareholders sold to Westinghouse the Olsen Manufacturing Co. , a home furnace manufacturing concern In Elyria , Ohio . which Mr. Olsen founded in 1940 and ran until the sale . Mr. Olsen continued as president of the company for two years after it became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westinghouse , and though he resigned at the end of 1957 he was still collecting $60,000 a year from Westinghouse under a long-term employment contract until last fall . Though Mr. Olsen has not sought proxies from other shareholders . he may have some allies at the meeting nevertheless . James J. Mattes . an official of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which claims to represent about 18,000 Westinghouse workers , says the U.E. will send a delegation of three or four employe-stockholders to today 's meeting . Mr. Matles says the union men " Will ask for binding assurances to the stockholders that from this time on bids for contracts will be based exclusively on the desire to get business and that the company will absolutely break every vestige of the collusive arrangements with other companies . " Westinghouse Takes Steps Since Mr. Olsen has informed Westinghouse only that he will be at the meeting and will seek a paper ballot on several resolutions . without telling the company what the resolutions will concern , it 's not known exactly what sort of reply Westinghouse will make . However , the company undoubtedly will cite a series of steps it has taken in the past year to tighten compliance with antitrust laws . Last February , Westinghouse disclosed it had set up a new antitrust division within the company to " help all levels of management in every way necessary to assure compliance with the law . " The division is headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who formerly worked for the antitrust division of the Justice Department . It also rewrote its book of company rules at that time to provide specifically for dismissal of any employes found guilty of " clear-cut price fixing or bid rigging acts or illegal activities with competitors to divide or allocate markets or customers " ? all key allegations in the Federal antitrust case . Since February 1 , in addition , Westinghouse has held a series of 32 management meetings at which President Cresap has lectured " more than 2,775 employes " on the necessity of complying with antitrust laws . Also . Westinghouse recently disclosed that since last June it has been requiring every employe who attends a meeting at which competitors are present  --  including informal gatherings such as cocktail parties ? " to submit certificates of adherence ' to company policy . " This presumably means the employes must certify they did not discuss prices or other competitive matters with the competitors .                     