@@725588

txt The Cuyahoga County Prosecutor , John T , Corrigan , announced today that Samuel H. Sheppard must stand trial for a second time in the bludgeon slaying of his pregnant wife , Marilyn , on July 4 , 1954 . At a crowded press conference in the Criminal Court Building , where Mr. Sheppard was originally convicted of second-degree murder , the prosecutor said : " We will retry Sam Sheppard .. He will be arrested or he can come in voluntarily . New bail will be set by the court . " The former Bay Village osteopath will be tried for second-degree murder . The state , in 1954 , charged him with firstdegree murder , but the verdict of the jury , after a 65-day trial , was second degree . He was sen- be as long as late Mr. Corrigan , who has been prosecutor since 1957 , said public opinion had not played any part in his decision to retry the case . There was no newspaper clamor for aretrial . The prosecutor was ahked about the condition of the evidence and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I have no comment on whether I will be less able or more able to try the case now than the prosecutor was 12 years ago . " Some of the witnesses are dead . Others have moved away from Cleveland . Common Pleas Court Judge Edward Blythin , former Mayor of Cleveland , who tried the case , is dead . A number of the investigators are no longer living . Two of the top defense lawyers are dead . Mr. Sheppard , upon hearing the news of his retrial , said : " This is the day I 've been waiting for . I 've asked for it . I 've challenged it . " He said he was willing to testify again in his own behafl . He added , " I know I can prove my innocence as I have said a thousand times . I am eager to obtain complete vindication , not only for myself but for my wife and family . " F. Lee Bailey of Boston , Mr. Sheppard 's lawyer , has said that he knows who killed Marilyn Sheppard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CleveLawyer Doubtful on Site PROVIDENCE , R.I. , June 10 ( AP ) ? F. Lee Bailey raised doubts today that his client could get a fair trial in Cleveland . Mr. Bailey said in an interview " whether or not Cleveland is the place for the trial , is a serious question far from resolved in my mind . " He listed several steps he said would be needed for a fair trial . " Newspapers should be discouraged from editorializing , " he said . " The press should be discouraged from announcing evidence to be introduced by the prosecution without regard to its admissibility . " He also said : " The suspense accompanying the last trial should be diminWarning From Marshall WASHINGTON , June 10 ( AP ) ? The United States Solicitor General , Thurgood Marshall , told the nation 's prosecutors today that in light of the Supreme Court 's decision " you 've got to guard against leaks to the press . " " It is improper for the arresting officer or the prosecuting attorney to say the accused admitted a crime , confessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Mr. Marshall told a luncheon session of the Natinal District Attorneys Association Foundation . " The Sheppard case means you 've got to be very careful about publicity , about letting the press run your office or the courts , " Mr. Marshall told the district attorneys. tenced to life imprisonment in Ohio State Penitentiary in Columbus . Dr , Sheppard was freed , as a result of a habeas corpus writ , in July , 1964 , on $10000 bail by United States District Court Judge Carl A. Weinman of Dayton . The judge said that Dr. Sheppard 's rights to a fair trial had been violated by prejudicial newspaper reports . Last Monday , the United States Supremee Court ruled , 8-to-1 , that Dr. Sheppard had not received a fair trial in the fall and winter of 1954 " consistent with the due process clause of the 14th Amendment . " The Court ruled that he had to be retried or freed entirely . The reason Dr. Sheppard will be retried on second degree , rather than first degree charges , is because of a United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in murder cases . Mr. Sheppard , 42 years old , lives with his second wife , Ariane , and his 19-year-old son , Samuel Jr. , in suburban Rocky River . Mr. Sheppard and Ariane , a German woman who began writing to him from France while he was still in the penitentiary , were married in it might Chicago shortly after he was October . freed . Marilyn Sheppard , 31 , was found beaten to death in the bedroom of th eSheppard home in Bay Village , overlooking Lake Erie . Mr. Sheppard , then 30 , testified to a harrowing story of grappling with a " bushy-haired " person , who knocked him unconscious . Mr. Corrigan , in his announcement , said that the arrest of Dr. Sheppard could not be immediate because it would take until about July 1 for the county authorities to regain jurisdiction from the Federal courts . " I have reviewed all of the evidence in the case and I have reviewed the witnesses , the exhibits and all of the statements , " he said . " I have talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have reached this decision to retry Sam Sheppard . " We are a government of laws and not of men . I have the determination that society has been the victim of a most heinous crime and society demands redress . However , society also affords to an individual a fair , impartial and objective trial before a jury of his peers . " Therefore , we will again present the matter of Sam Sheppard for their consideration . " He repeated that sometime in September would be the earliest that Mr. Sheppard could be retried ; it would take that long to get the wheels of legal procedures in motion . Some court observers thought                     