@@726907

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Feb. 5 Monday - North Vietnamese troops launched a heavy artillery and ground assault against the United States marine camp at Khe Sanh early today . The attackcould he the start of their long-awaited offensive in the northwest corner of South Viet Nam . An enemy force at Hill 861 , near Khe Sanh , penetrated the marines ' barbed wire perimeter in the first 90 minutes of fighting . The North Vietnamese were driven hack after a 25-minute fight inside the wire . Withdraw After 2d Attack Later , at 6:20 a. m. , North Vietnamese forces attacked the hill again . By 7:25 a. m. " the contact had terminated with the enemy 's withdrawal , " the United States command said . The name of the bill refers to its height in meters . The main position was under heavy rocket , artillery , and mortar fire from 4 a. m. to 6 a. in. , the United States command said . By 7:45 a. m . " Khe Sanh was reported as quiet and the air field remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berets in the area withdrew from the village of Kite Sanh , from which the camp takes its name , two weeks ago . The marines reported killing 102 enemy . soldiers who attacked their positions . They said 7 marines were killed and 24 wounded . 40,000 Enemy in Area An estimated four divisions of 40,000 North Vietnamese surround the more than 6,000 United States marines and South Vietnamese in Khe Sanh . The United States command disclosed it had moved , 3,500 army paratroopers to the northern sector " to be prepared for any contingency . " The command said the Communists have lost 16,976 men killed since launching the cities ' campaign last Tuesday . It said 1,477 allied soldiers have been killed , 471 of them Americans . As the biggest communist offensive of the war entered its seventh day today , fresh fighting broke out again in and around Saigon . Hundreds of refugees fled thru hails of bullets a mile from Saigon 's central market as savage fighting broke out between government troops and Viet Cong carrying antitank rocket launchers . Terrified families fled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground floor of a house while camouflaged government troops fired a machine gun from an armored tank into the upper story of the same building . Cong Fire Back A Viet Cong machine gun shot back and snipers fired from nearby roofs . The civilians sought safety in the grounds of the residences of the International Control commission where Canadian officials were rendering emergency assistance to the refugees . Government Skyraider planes skimmed over the rooftops but did not fire . Armed helicopters banked and plunged overhead but could not spot their targets . A policeman said many civilians were wounded in this outbreak , one of several in the Saigon area today . Earlier , fierce fighting broke out in the Chinese quarter of Saigon , Cholon , where Viet Cong mounted a stolen machine gun on top of a captured police station and dared govern- column missing marines fighting from house to house , rescued 38 United States air force and army aviation personnel trapped for five days in a house three blocks from the American military assistance command compound . Turn to Helicopters With the destruction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to helicopters , which ferried out the seriously wounded on return trips . The Communists swept into Hue at the start of their offensive last week . In fighting around the country , South Vietnamese troops swept the northern part of the province capital of Ban Me Thuot in the central highlands yesterday and met pockets of enemy resistance . However , United States military spokesmen said the Communists were withdrawing in the late afternoon . Overrun Enemy Camp Units of the United States army 's 173d airborne brigade reported overrunning an enemy base camp two miles southeast of the city . The paratroopers reported killing 13 enemy without any casualties . Farther south , a cavalry unit attached to the United States 1st infantry division cleared a tunnel complex and deserted village 16 miles north of Saigon . Tunnel rats-small soldiers sent to clear enemy tunnels-uncovered 58 enemy bodies and found two mortars , a United States spokesman said . Report heavy Contact Around Vinh Long , a province capital in the Mekong delta , 70 miles southwest of Saigon , units of the United States 9th infantry division reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before daybreak today and the infantrymen said the Communists were trying to break contact. - American bombers struck at suspected enemy supply dumps and base camps in and near the demilitarized zone between the two Viet Nams , 14 miles north of Khe Sanh . The United States command in Saigon disclosed for the first time that marines have been in action on the eastern end of the demilitarized zone since Tuesday , when they made an amphibious landing . American officers in Saigon said 557 enemy troops had been killed in the battle of Hue as of yesterday . Straddles Slain Road Hue is the seat of a Buddhist faction that opposes President Nguyen Van Thieu 's South Vietnamese government . The city straddles the main highway from Da Nang to United States marine outposts along the demilitarized zone , which begins about 50 miles northwest of the city . Marine convoys carrying supplies to headquarters at the American advisers ' compound in Hue came under heavy fire on- roads leading into the city : UPI Telephoto ) Guerrilla Suspect - Age 16 South Vietnamese police and soldiers pummel a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Da Nang , South Viet Nam . ( Story on page 1 )                     