@@727602

txt President de Gaulle proposed today a constitutional reform that would relinquish to France 's provinces some of the powers tightly held for centuries by the national regime in Paris . In a speech to a crowd of 7,000 Bretons , which was broadcast , nationwide by television and radio , the President announced that a referendum would be held in the spring to approve the reform . He said the referendum would include a grant of powers , still to be defined , to 21 regions of France , These powers woud be assigned to assemblies of local councilmen , Deputies to the National Assembly and representatives of labor , ? farmer and business organizations and the universities . Measures adopted by these assemblies would be carried out by regional prefects . Senate Would Study Bills Also to be included in the referendum , President de Gaulle said , will be a transformation of the Senate , now elected by councilmen of France 's 95 departments , into a body representing the regional assemblies and the same social organizations on a national scale . The Senate would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not blocking bills passed by the Assembly . Instead it would become a consultative body that would ' examine all economic and planning legislation before it was submitted to the National Assembly . The President did not set a date for the referendum other tha . to say " because it concerns opening the way to a new hope , we will do it in the springtime . " The announcement was a // crucial fulfillment of a pledge made by President de Gaulle during the general strike last May that he would submit a referendum to the people granting them wide " participation . " ' He did not recall today his pledge then to resign if the ' referendum did not result in massive approval . Observers predicted that the proposed reform would receive a massive endorsement although the extreme left and some conservatives would probably urge negative votes . Centralization of authority In Paris is deeply resented in the provinces , and nowhere more than in Brittany . A Breton editor commented , " I am strongly anti-Gaullist and I am going to vote no , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and urge the people to vote it down . " As the President spoke , plainclothesmen pounced on a score of leftist students and hustled them away for " identity checks . " At the close of his 15-minute prepared speech , which he delivered , as usual , from memory , the President added , smiling : have heard shouts of " Liberate Brittany ! " in the crowds during my trip . Tho'se people forget that we did that 25 years ago , we did it with many Frenchmen and above all with many Bretons . " The remark drew a loud cheer , one of the few to greet the President . The public displays of opposition met by General de Gaulle on this tour did not come from Breton separatists but rather from several hundred extreme leftist students who added the black-and-white Breton flag to their usual black and red banners for the occasion . Among largely Gaullist crowds of several ? thousand at Rennes Friday and at Brest yesterday they raised clenched fists and chanted nationalist slogans and the ' ' Internationale . " In Rennes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President 's helicopter was the target of two gestures of discontent as it passed overhead . Printing workers in Rennes released hundreds of balloons to protest a merger that might cost them jobs . At Douarnenez , fishermen fired two or three distress rockets yesterday to symbolize the difficulties they are meeting from foreign ! competition . Otherwise , the visit was free of open demonstrations of hostility . But crowds were smaller and less enthusiastic than during the general 's last visit to Brittany , in 1960 . While reporters found little sentiment for separatism , they heard everywhere complaints that Brittany was not receiving its due from Paris . The President himself , meeting with local leaders at each stop , heard the same complaints . His speech today was largely a rebuttal . From his opening , he posed the question whether the progress of France would leave some regions behind . " I say today in Quimper that the choice is made , " he declared . " Our country , " he added , " has decided to live its new life ardently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Atlantic , the Channel , the North Sea , the Rhine basin , the Alps , the Mediterranean , the Pyrenees . " In a gesture to the Bretons , the general recited a few lines by his great-uncle , a Breton poet also named Charles de Gaulle , and sketched the history of Brittany as a redoubt of Gaul against its invaders since Roman times . Expressing sympathy for Bretons ' worries , the President said , " All is changed today . " He said that a persistent decline in the region 's population , had ended and that progress had been made in agriculture , fishing , industrialization and education . Decisions have been taken to build an oil refinery and port near Brest to handle tanaers of up to 250,000 tons and to build two superhighways and a three lane road along the , length of Britanny , the President added . In the past , he said in discussing political reform , " an authority systematically centralized in all domains " was a necessary condition for the unity of France , menaced by invasion on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But now , he went on , unity is " tightened automatically , so to speak , by the new elements of ' modern evolution : rapid communication , instantaneous transmissions , information spread everywhere , generalized credit . " In these circumstances , national unity " demands that some limbs of the national body not waste away while others are transformed , " the general said and added : " Every region - whose extent and importance justify it must have the will and receive the means to take its due part in the national effort . " In each of the 21 regions , he said , measures concerning it must be deliberated " on the basis of participation of all concerned . " President de Gaulle did not further define the powers of the regional assemblies , but plans under discussion have called for them to make decision on local planning and investment of public funds , within budgetary links finally to be decided by the National Assembly . In other words , the nature and location of projects will be decided by the localities rather than by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their Parisappointed prefects will be diminished in favor of regional authority . In some measure , the reform will mark a re-establishment of the provinces abolished by the French Revolution , although the borders will not be exactly the same . Some tax powers are expected to be assigned to the regions , but these remain to be defined .                     