@@727266

txt Russians seem eager to spare Burma a possible Vietnam-type war which Communist China appears to be planning . Moscow has sent top undercover military intelligence agents to Rangoon and Mandalay to find out how strong are the insurgent tribes and White Flag Communists there and whether these groups can get together and overthrow General Ne Win 's government . If their own Communists took over Burma , the Russians would have no objection . But they would rather see General Ne Win in power than have pro-Peking Communists ruling the country . After studying reports of its agents , Moscow will decide whether the Ne Win regime can be saved or whether to write off Burma altogether . If the present government seems likely to survive , the Russians will send in military aid , if requested . The U.S. military assistance pact with Burma expires this month . If Washington does not renew it , Burma may very well take up the Soviet offer . Edward G. Lansdale , an American legend in Asia , left Vietnam last month for home . But discreet predictions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned an important post in Vietnam , possibly even as ambassador . He is a close friend of both leading presidential candidates  --  Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey and Richard M. Nixon . Retired Air Force Major General Lansdale was the model for the famed Colonel Hillandale , in the " Ugly American , " as well as prototype for Graham Greene 's " The Quiet American . " He was known as the kingmaker of Philippine President Ramon Magsaysay during the pro-Communist Huk insurrection there after World War II . Later he advised then President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam . He returned to Vietnam in 1965 as a special liaison officer for the American Ambassador . But his advice was largely ignored . Known as a hawk , he nonetheless disagreed with the predominantly military emphasis of American strategy . Japan and the Soviet Union have been talking Siberian development for years . Now well-informed sources say an agreement on Japanese development of timber resources in Siberia is expected to be concluded " within the near future . " Negotiations are still under way . But it is thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consumer goods under a five-year deferred-payments plan . In return , it will import eight to nine million cubic meters of lumber . If the agreement goes through , it is expected to spur other projects , notably Japanese help in developing Soviet ports along the eastern seaboard . The Russians have told Japanese traders they even want to open up the port of Vladivostok  --  long closed to foreigners  --  once hostilities end in Vietnam . Significantly , they already have published Japanese-language pamphlets about Vladivostok . Filipino politics is the deciding factor in the new quarrel between the Philippines and Malaysia . The squabble is over ownership of Malaysia 's timber-rich Borneo territory of Sabah . The Philippines is withdrawing all but nominal diplomatic representation from Malaysia , and the question is whether there will be a complete break . President Marcos of the Philippines is anxious to preserve the image he has built as a responsible and progressive leader in Southeast Asia . To break relations with Malaysia would harm that image . But he faces a reelection campaign at home next year , and the dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Political pressures could compel him to get tough with Malaysia . Trends .. . Indonesia is moving to implement the cultural pact it recently signed with Australia to cooperate for peace in their region . It has opened West Irian to visits by the press . The territory ( formerly Dutch New Guinea ) , which lies north of Australia , has been barred to the press since the 1962 Indonesian take-over . A pledge to permit the Papuan people of West Irian to determine their political future by plebiscite was repudiated by the Sukarno regime . But General Suharto says he will honor this pledge when due next year . Now , with the territory open to the press , the election will come under on-the-spot international scrutiny .                     