@@722692

txt TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Antipathy to the censorship provisions of the new Post Office law of Oct. 9 makes me hope that many voices will follow yours in protest , and thus cause amendment in the next session of Congress . It is terrible to think that we Americans are again going to be subjected ' to that censorship which we so loathe in Russia . Regardless of motive behind the bill , the fact is there for all the world to see ? that we in this country will no longer have free use of the mails , and " the use of the mails , " said Justice Holmes , " is almost as much a part of free speech as the right to use our tongues . " In the McCarthy period , many of us know from personal experience , mail from Communist countries was censored and delayed by the Post Office . This hampered research and stultified inquiry into activities in Russia and other countries allied to Russia , Sonic Results Cited It resulted , even , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ copies of The London Economist , denial of permission for a Coast Guard officer to study Russian naval problems from magazines , prohibition of Russian material for bibliographical purposes to The Mathematical Review , and so on . It is frightening that such measures should be reintroduced at a time when many of us are sanguine about possibilities of new , fresh and reciprocally rewarding cultural and political relations . The fruitful results of the patient , peaceful labors of a number of Americans in dealing with the Soviet Union must not be hampered or vitiated by a group of irresponsible fanatics . The activity of this handful of agitators casts doubt on the seriousness and competency of our legislators at precisely a time when we may properly ask for their devotion and loyalty to the entire United States . The world is less interested in the ideals of freedom for which we have stood in the past than it is in those ideals for which we stand today . The censorship provision is humiliating . Even as censorship and oppression in the Russian world is being relaxed and various kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? our Government reinstitutes control here . Data on Russia The great danger is not that materials from Russia , if freely admitted here , will contaminate us by their propaganda , but that , if they are shut out , we who study them will be ignorant of what is going on and unable properly to inform our Government and its people of precisely what they want to know . If we ask for our material , how will we defend ourselves , to quote Senator Clark , against " slander by any professional flag-waver who chooses to contend that those who make such requests are soft on Communism because they choose to inform themselves about what goes on behind the Iron Curtain " ? How will I , for one , know when to request unsolicited books and materials sent by friends and scholars ? What kind of interrogation or " listing " must I face every time I inquire ? What would my Congress have me say to other men in Britain , in France , in Russia itself about our freedom here in America ? If our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , always knowing as much as possible ? if it honestly advocates freedom of inquiry for its citizens , it dare not presume to assign to anyone but its citizens themselves the right to determine what they read . F. D. REEVE . Middletown , Conn. , Oct. 11 , 1962 . Foreign Policy Assailed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : My opinions will not appeal to those who wish only to hear soothing lullabies . The picture of unwisdom and vacillation in foreign policy is alarming . The fiasco in Cuba was followed by strong words , but not by strong action . The attack upon Katanga by the U.N . which we supported was in flagrant disregard of the right of self-determination . We have pressured the Dutch to evacuate western New Guinea and to permit its occupation by Indonesian forces . Thus we have insulted the Dutch , disregarded the natural rights of the native population and favored the aggressive policy of a Government which is oriented toward Communism . Can citizen reasonably expect that the President will deal wisely with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of confidence in the foreign policy of this Administration . GEORGE C. SHATTUCK , M.D. Brookline , Mass. , Oct. 8 , 1962 . Supporting the Humanities Professor of Fine Arts Deplore Lack of Federal Grants in Field TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK ** : The figures published in your columns on Oct. 7 of the Federal Government 's outlay in 1961 for support of basic research and development in our colleges and universities help publicize the imbalance of the distribution of these funds . Of approximately $568 millions , 99 per cent went to the natural scienceS ( including agriculture ) , 1 per cent to the social sciences , and nothing to the humanities . This lopsided allocation should cause as much concern outside of America 's institutions of higher learning as it does within them . No one would argue that Federal moneys needed for research and development in the natural sciences should be withdrawn , or that a troika allocation of equal aid for the natural sciences , social sciences and the humanities be established . Physicists who build reactors to carry on experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or mathematicians who can proceed about their business with a pad of paper and a sharp pencil . Mathematicians , however , receive substantial support for their work from Federal sources ; humanists , it seems , must get their funds by selling pencils to social scientists . Needed Publications Grants which would enable scholars to have time for research , and funds for materials and publication are needed in every field . The argument that private foundations give social scientists and humanists the assistance they require is lame . Natural scientists also receive support from the foundation ? ) . But , more important , the programs of the private foundations ? admirable as they are  --  are not designed to answer the nation 's needs . The sum allotted to the social sciences and the humanities for basic research and development in 1961 from a Federal budget of over onehalf billion dollars is an appalling index of United States Government 's estimate of these needs . The figures probably will not affect the current research or plans of scholars working in the slighted disciplines , but on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small number of excellent young people in our colleges and universities dedicated to the study of man 's heritage and values . SEYMOUR SLIVE , Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Oct. 8 , 1962 . Rhodesian Party 's Ban TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your otherwise thoughtful editorial of Sept. 27 " Crisis in Rhodesia " misses these aspects : Nkomo 's Zimbabwe African People 's Union was banned because of its tactics of beatings , burnings and killings , directed principally against other opposition parties , the Zimbabwe National party and the African Trade Union ( both of which are probably more extreme Africanists than ZAPU ) . It denied political freedom to others and its violent tactics were , in the words of the Prime Minister , " reminiscent of the worst aspects of the Hitler Youth organization . " Its avowed model was the Fascist dictatorship of N krumah . We have a new Constitution in Southern Rhodesia , to which Nkomo originally gave approval . Under it the right of intervention by the British Government is largely abrogated . Britain will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Constitution , even although under it Africans could control the Government , because the Declaration of Rights and the powers of the Constitutional Court will block ' any legislation which discriminates against any race  --  black , white , Asian or mixed . ZAPU did not - want to govern , it wanted to dominate . Without rigid Safeguards and a feeling for democratic processes " one man , one vote " in Africa means , tragically , a one-party state and suppression of all freedoms . H. L. RYAN . Salisbury , S. Rhodesia , Oct. 3 , 1962.                     