@@726275

txt At a moment when Americans ' anxious gaze is toward Vietnam , a widely respected ariton , Sir Alec Douglas-Home , former Tory Prime Minister , has spoken out affirmatively and analytically on the Anglo-American relationship . " My judgment is that we must keep the closest contacts between our two countries , " Sir Alec said in an interview here . He had just spent a month lecturing at junior colleges on the American West Coast and addressing other representative gatherings of Americans . He gave them the same message . " The point is , Britain 's relationship with the United States is a natural relationship , " Sir Alec declared . " It works . It is durable . It has developed slowly over a long history . We respect and value each other . " It is not exclusive , but we on this side place great store in it . " Relationship studied Sir Alec had been an effective and shrewd foreign secretary before his surprise elevation to the prime ministership in 1963 . His present comments come at a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question whether either country any longer " needs " the other , is being closely reexamined , especially in Washington . Eldon Griffiths , Conservative MP for Bury St. Edmunds , has declared his judgment , based on his own recent American tour , that the United States is increasingly turning its face toward Asia , toward Japan and Australia as well as Vietnam . And , of course , toward the containment of Communist China . It is also groping toward a new relationship with the Soviet Union . Pullouts anticipated Some American admirals and State Department officials ' are worried lest Britain , despite contrary protestations , will soon be pulling out of its Indian Ocean defense arrangements as well as Singapore , even as Britain already is quitting Aden in the Mid-:Ile East and threatening to pull some of its troops out of West Germany . Sir Alec sees the British-American relationship as indeed undergoing change , as Britain dismantles unneeded outposts and concentrates its energies toward playing a major leadership role in a powerful , resurgent Europe . But this , he reasons , should not mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world , including the Far East . " If Britain goes into the Common Market as most of us earnestly hope , " he declared , " this should not change the fundamental relationship with America . Unity accented " The United States always has been understanding about the British need to achieve closer unity with Europe . Indeed it has been willing to contemplate paying an economic price to get Britain into Europe . " If Britain is able . to join the Common Market , it would be moving inside a tariff wall which would apply to American goods . But a Britain that was a member of the European Economic Community would direct its influence toward obtaining the lowest possible external tariff , and this would be directly to America 's benefit . " Sir Alec was asked whether he detected much support in the United States for the counterproposal , embodied in a recent letter to the Times signed by a number of members of Congress and university figures , urging an Atlantic free trade area embracing the United States , Britain , Canada , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EFTA countries . European goal " Not at present , " he replied , " and I be-. lieve that we in Britain should aim at one thing now , getting into Europe . But I believe that if Britain 's present bid fails , then we shall have to think seriously of alternatives . But right now our effort should be directed toward the main chance . " Some observers believe that the Anglo-American affiance has changed from government-to-government to people-to-people . That is , it is said that Americans admire British films , fashions , sports cars , people . But that the old days of intimate cameraderie between a Churchill or Macmillan and an Eisenhower or Kennedy are fading . Baroness Asquith ( Lady Violet Bonham Carter ) in a lovely television reminiscence of earlier years , recalled that she found Sir Winston Churchill in a very depressed mood immediately after the wartime Teheran Conference between Stalin , Roosevelt , and himself . He explained that , sitting between Roosevelt and Stalin , he had suddenly had a presentiment of how Britain 's global power had declined in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this decline manifests itself in new ways , and there is talk of a serious technological gap between Europe and the United States , " Sir Alec said . " This has to be faced . " Undoubtedly Europe can gain great advantages if , through the Common Market , larger units of production can be developed which command far greater capital resources . They must be able to mobilize capital on a giant scale and to find money for research in the new fields of computers , in the aircraft industry , in the whole range of modern technology . And in this expanded Europe they will of course find bigger markets . " Airliner spotlighted ? " An example of effective cooperation is the Anglo-French venture in building the Concorde supersonic airliner . Neither the British or the French could have carried this through alone . We should learn the lessons of America 's industrial size . " ? Sir Alec was asked about the criticism that British industry lacks the drive and the energy , to exploit new markets . " For British industry to gain momentum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be lifted , " he replied . " British taxation , both on personal incomes and on business , has come close to the point of diminishing returns . " Sir Alec pointed out that the Conservatives , in their rule between 1951 and 1964 had cut the tax rate by ? 2,000 million a year , while the Labor Government since 1964 has increased the tax rate and added new taxes to the value of ? 1,000 million a year . Respect gained Sir Alec is a 14th earl , with a thoroughly democratic bearing . He has an independence of mind and a directness of speech which belie his easy informality . He manifests an integrity which commands respect whenever he rises to speak in the House of Commons . Sir Alec recognized that preoccupation with Vietnam has tended to shift Americans ' gaze from Europe . In fact in his American lecturing he was frequently asked , during the question periods , to explain " why " the Americans were in Vietnam . " I said it was to defend the self-determination of nations , the right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States had accepted this obligation toward South Vietnam . " I believe the war will end only through a direct approach by North Vietnam , to the United States or Saigon or through the Soviet Union ; Hanoi must decide that the war is too costly . The Americans have made all the offers that they could be expected to make . "                     