@@727408

txt Contingents of the militant Black Panther party are being organized thruout the midwest among known street gangs , including the Blackstone Rangers in Chicago , THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . First evidence of the group 's existence in Chicago came last Friday when police undercover agents observed 30 members of the Panthers at a meeting held in the Senate theater , 3158 Madison st . The group , dressed in their " uniform " of black berets and black leather jackets marched in military fashion ' to their seats to hear speeches by admitted revolutionaries and street gang leaders . Advocate Guerrilla Tactics In a report released last week , the Federal Bureau of Investigation noted that leaders of the Black Panther party , which was formed in Oakland , Cal. , base their political philosophy on the teachings of Mao Tse-tung , the Chinese Communist leader , and advocate use of guns and guerrilla tactics . The meeting was attended by more than 200 persons and was originally described as a " rally for the defense of Huey Newton . " Newton , defense minister of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for manslaughter in the death of an Oakland policeman . Police also learned that Bobby Seale , chairman of the Panther party , had planned to announce the formation of a Chicago chapter but failed to show up at the meeting . Call for Unification Instead , black militant leaders spoke for almost three hours , calling for unification of militant groups and street gangs . The street gangs were described by one speaker as the " warriors that are needed . " Also present at the meeting , investigators said , were leaders of the Blackstone Rangers , a south sidestreet gang , and two west side gangs , the Egyptian Cobras and the Vice Lords . Oakland police said the recent activity in Chicago fits into a pattern of organizing by Panther leaders thruout the midwest and in some southern states . Investigators said that the Panthers have already formed 26 chapters in cities thruout the country . Other chapters are in the process of being organized in St. Louis , Des Moines , Dayton , and Cleveland . The most recent chapter was organized in Omaha . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources that they have been working hard to recruit the Blackstone Rangers . " The leaders try to pick up a gang that 's already in existence and which is willing to adhere to the principles of the Panthers , " said an Oakland investigator . " We have found this same pattern in every city where a Panther chapter was established . " Professor Visits Cuba Investigators disclosed that George Mason Murray , an English professor at San Francisco State college and former educational minister of the Panthers , recently visited Cuba to make a series of tape recordings . The tapes , espousing the revolutionary line of the Panthers , have been broadcast by Havana radio to several southern states , authorities said . Murray recently was named finance minister of the party and Eldridge Cleaver , an exconvict and Presidential candidate on the Peace and Freedom ticket , was named educational minister . Oakland police say that Stokely Carmichael , militant black power leader who also visited Cuba , is listed on party records as its prime minister . H. Rap Brown , another black power militant who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firearms act , is the Panther 's minister of justice , investigators said .                     