@@725479

txt As NATO and SEATO alliances were being challenged in the East and West , the Central Treaty Organization ( CENTO ) began meetings in Ankara . CENTO members , Turkey , Iran , Pakistan , and Great Britain , met with Secretary of State Dean Rusk of the United States . The United States is not a full member , but it bases its Middle East defense policy on CENTO . The northern tier of Middle East countries serves , also , as a containment ' frontier against the U.S.S.R. Ankara , Turkey This year 's annual Central Treaty Organization ( CENTO ) council meeting here April 20-21 opens at a moment when Middle Eastern history seems to be repeating itself . United States Secretary of State Dean Rusk and the British , Turkish , Iranian , and Pakistani foreign ministers face a situation rather like that on the eve of CENTO 's organization in 1959 . Then as now , Ankara and Tehran were in the forefront of a wide diplomatic encircling action . Its purpose then was to curb the influence of United Arab Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last good friend among the Arab chiefs of state , President Abdel Rahman Aref of Iraq , adds new drama to this encircling action . Turkey extends hand Two factors weigh heavily on President Aref 's successors in Baghdad and the CENTO deliberations here : the continuing revolt of Iraq 's autonomy:seeking Kurds and the rapprochement of Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , and Iran to exclude Mr. Nasser 's Arab nationalism from Arabia and the Persian Gulf . Early this year , Saudi Arabian King Faisal and the Shah of Iran began exerting diplomatic pressure on Iraq . Their aim was to persuade President Ares to postpone indefinitely his already retarded plans for federation with President Nasser 's Egypt . At the same time , Turkey began a careful attempt to improve its ties with Iraq , Egypt , and other Arab states . King Faisal progressively visited Tehran , Kuwait , and Jordan . In each , he stressed " Islamic solidarity " to fight the " atheism " of self-styled socialist states like Egypt and Syria . President Aref sent out feelers in all directions , from Cairo to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Iraq 's " socialist " line in foreign policy , and to resist the overtures from Ankara , Tehran and Riyad . But the continuing Kurdish revolt in northern Iraq and the enduring commitment of President Nasser 's forces in the Yemen weakened the Cairo-Baghdad axis . Just before his passing , Field Marshal Aref appears to have been seeking Soviet aid against the Kurds . His brother , Maj. Gen. Abdel Rahman Aref , now made his successor as Iraq 's President , was in Moscow on an arms mission at the time of the late President 's passing . Disappearance of President Aref increases President Nasser 's isolation . It adds new strength to King Faisal 's diplomatic offers ? sive against him . . The big stakes in the Middle East 's immediate future appear to be Aden and South Arabia , Yemen , and the oil of the Persian Gulf .                     