@@723201

txt President Kennedy and his friends on Capitol Hill are now convinced that Senate review of a comprehensive nuclear testban treaty would ignite a controversy as bitter as the Senate battle over the League of Nations 44 years ago . That grim prospect , evoking the memory of Woodrow Wilson 's futile effort to enlist the United States in an international peace-keeping venture , is said not to have diminished Mr. Kennedy 's strong desire to end nuclear testing . Soviet opposition to his terms has thus far made it a largely academic problem . But the President has promised to make no arrangement on nuclear testing without calling it a treaty that would need the consent of a two-thirds majority of the Senate . The political difficulties of winning such a vote already inhibit the West 's negotiators and appear to account for some of the legislative maneuvering now coming into view . Russians Unyielding There were signs last week that the Senate might look more kindly upon a limited test-ban agreement , but in five years of negotiations the Russians have never consented to talk about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is divided on the issue . It has been under strong pressure from some military and scientific quarters not to surrender the nation 's freedom of action in the arms race . It has been urged to retain , at the very least , the right to continue underground nuclear experiments . There has also been some opposition to the idea of yielding to an international inspection authority the right to administer and enforce a test-ban treaty with the Russians . But for two years Mr. Kennedy has insisted on pressing ahead with the negotiations . He believes that the risks of further testing are much greater than the risks of a test ban with reasonable safeguards . Diplomatically , , he sees a testban accord as the only likely beginning of better relations with Moscow . For these reasons , the Administration remains committed to ' acceptance of a treaty that would provide for a few  --  perhaps a half dozen  --  inspections of Soviet territory . The Russians have offered three inspections , but they have given no satisfaction on the rules that would govern them . Negotiations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials feel that it would be politically as well as militarily dangerous to yield much more ground . Last winter , however , while ' I the negotiations looked momentarily promising , the opponents of a test ban took their case to the Senate and obtained a much more sympathetic hearing . So much so that there is at least great doubt here , about how a test-ban treaty would fare in the Senate . Early this year , three prominent Democratic Senators with unusual influence on defense matters sent the President a letter warning that they could not approve the Administration 's treaty in its present form These men  --  Richard B. Russell of Georgia , Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Stuart Symington of Missouri ? have no ' changed their minds . Senator Joseph S. Clark of Pennsylvania , one of the most vociferous champions of a test ban , became so concerned that he asked his staff to conduct a careful survey of the views of all 100 Senators . He found , according to articles he has written for coming issues of War/Peace Report and The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " might support a treaty as currently proposed by the Administration . A minimum of 67 votes would be needed to ratify a treaty if all Senators voted . Similar doubt about ratification was expressed last week by Senator Thomas.J . Dodd , Democrat of Connecticut , even as he led Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and 32 other Senators in suggesting a much more limited kind of test ban . They urged the Senate to recommend a ban on tests in the atmosphere and under water , without inspection . This proposal was rejected by the Russians as long ago as 1959 and as recently as May 18 . It is an arrangement that . would still allow . unaerground experiments and avoid the need to set up any supranational enforcement agency . An even more modest proposal , simply to limit the amount of radioactive fallout forward this week in the joint forward this week in the joint Senate-House Atomic Energy Committee . But Senator John Stennis , Democrat of Mississippi , whose Preparedness Investigation subcommittee has been taking secret testimony on the test-ban issue since September , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before endorsing even these longstanding Administration offers . He has said that any agree- ment must be safe " not only beyond all reasonable doubt , but to the exclusion of every reasonable hypothesis of doubt . " The Senate would demand assurances , he said , that the end of testing would always leave the nation with a " certain " capability to penetrate Soviet defenses , with an immune second-strike missile system and with guaranteed defenses against all present and future Soviet weapons . The testimony on these points , he added , is neither complete nor clear so far . President Kennedy is said to feel that if the Russians ever accepted a satisfactory treaty , he ? could probably rally the country , as President Wilson could not , to push it through the Senate . But he concedes the difficulties and agrees with his critics that the secrecy surrounding the subject would force the public to take sides largely on faith . Space Scientists to Confer WARSAW , June 2 ( Reuters ) ? Scientists from 30 countries , including the United States and Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is organized by the Committee on Space Research . Exchanges are expected on the results of the United States Vensus rocket and the Soviet Mars probe .                     