@@723701

txt Panama decided yesterday to defer a request for specific United Nations ' action in her dispute with the United States pending the outcome of conciliatory efforts by the InterAmerican Peace Committee . This decision was disclosed in a cablegram by President Roberto F. Chiari of Panama to his representative at the Organization of American States , Ambassador Augusto Guillermo Arango . It cleared the way for an early departure for Panama by the five-nation Peace Committee , which was reluctant to leave unless it had assurances that its conciliatory mission would not conflict with any other international efforts . Venezuelan Hails Move Mr. Arango transmitted his Government 's decision to Dr. Enrique Tejera Paris of Venezuela , chairman . of the committee , a special agency of the O.A.S. , in a telephone conversation at 9:30 P : M. The Venezuelan diplomat welcomed the move as contributing to a peaceful solution of the deepening United States-Panamanian conflict within a Western Hemisphere framework . " It is an encouraging sign , " he said . The United States and Panama agreed earlier in the day to let the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As the group prepared to leave , however , some members felt the committee 's mission would be impaired by the pending Panamanian request for action before the Security Council . Ambassador Manuel Trude ? of Chile , a member of the committee , said any action by the world organization would conflict with the mandate of the committee . His concern was relayed to the Panamanian representative , who immediately asked for clarification from his Government . President Chiari 's reply clearly endorsed the InterAmerican effort by promising to defer action before the Security Council . The committee was scheduled to leave Washington for Miami early today . In Miami it is to transfer to a Peruvian airliner for a flight to the city of Panama . The Inter-American Peace Committee moved into the United States-Panamanian crisis after the two countries agreed yesterday to use its good offices , to settle their dispute . The agreement , which followed ' six hours of hard diplomatic negotiation , set aside , at least temporarily , a Panamanian request for action by the Organization of American States on Panamanian charges that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Peace Committee was seen as an urgent effort by the two countries to prevent a further deterioration of their already strained relations by an all-out debate of their differences in the O.A.S . Council . An emergency meeting of the Council under the provi-1 sions of the Inter-American ! Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance , known as the Rio de Janeiro pact of 1947 , was requested yesterday morning by Foreign Minister Galileo Solis of Panama in a cablegram to the Council 's chairman , Ambassador Juan Bautista de Lavalle of Peru . The Panamanian official accused United States military authorities of having opened " an unprovoked armed attack " against his country by firing at rioting civilians in the Canal Zone . Dr. Solis demanded that the Council meet as an organ of consultation on behalf of the foreign ministers of the Americas under Articles 6 and 9 ( a ) of the Rio pact . Article 6 states the rights of an O.A.S . member to appeal to the regional organization whenever it feels its sovereignty threatened . Article 9 ( a ) provides for collective action in event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the history of the inter-American organization that the United States had been accused as an aggressor under the Rio treaty . Although Dr. de Lavalle summoned an emergency session for 4 P.M. , United gtates and LatinAmerican diplomats began to work feverishly to develop another procedure that would ease Panama 's fears and at the same time avoid invocation of the Rio treaty . Diplomatic officials said privately that the way for another solution had been set by President Johnson himself in a telephone conversation with President Chiari . It was shortly after that conversation that Mr. Arango , Panama 's Ambassador to the United States as well as her representative at the O.A.S . Council , indicated his Government was ready to authorize action by the Peace Committee . The Peace Committee has considerable autonomous powers to mediate in disputes without requiring specific authority from the Council . It does need , however , the assent of the parties to a dispute before it can set in motion peacemaking machinery . At 3 P.M. the committee held a private session attended by Mr. Arango and Ward P. Allen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting took place at the office of illiam Sanders , Assistant Secretary General of the Organization of American States , at the Pan American Union . Dr. Tejera Paris emerged , from the meeting at 4:40 P.M. to announce that the United States and Panama had agreed to use the good offices of his committee . The Council was called into session by Dr. de Lavalle at 5 P.M. to hear the committee chairman 's report . Dr. Tejera Paris asked the Council to elect another memher to the Peace Committee to substitute for the United States . The representatives promptly elected Ambassador Trucco , vice chairman of the Council . Besides Venezuela and Chile , the committee members are Argentina , Colombia and the Dominican Republic . Before the 10-minute session came to a close , Mr. Arango said Panama had agreed to accept the committee 's good offices " because this is a very urgent problem and because the peace committee has the greatest possibility to move quickly . " The Panamanian envoy served notice that his Government " expressly reserves its right " to revive its request for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Immediately after the meeting he prepared to fly home in lint ; with earlier instructions that he return for consultation and leave diplomatic relations with the United States " in suspension . " The envoy later said that commercial flights had been canceled and he expected to fly with members of the Peace Committee . United States and LatinAmerican officials considered the shift of the dispute from the Council to the Peace Committee a major gain . They felt that an open debate of the Panamanian charges in the Council could have had a dangerously disruptive effect on the inter-American system .                     