@@723763

txt Fort Worth , Feb. 9 - A witness being held in protective custody can identify Lee Harvey Oswald as the slayer of President Kennedy , the Fort Worth Star Telegram said tonight . It attributed the information to " an informed source . " The report was denied by government spokesmen . The newspaper said t h e source identified the witness as a Negro porter employed at the Texas School Book Depository on Nov. 22 . The witness has been in protective custody since the day of the assassination , the source ; continued , and will appear before the Warren commission investigating the slaying . Edwin 0 . Guttman , spokesman for the justice department in Washington , said " there is I no truth to the story at all and no such witness exists . " Denied by Chief In Dallas , Police Chief Jesse Curry said he knew of no such witness . Dallas county Sheriff ; Bill Decker said , " I know absolutely nothing about it . I do not have such a person in my : custody . " Roy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The anly janitor we have is still working there . I know nothing about all this . " Truly said that one employe who had worked at the depository Nov. 22 left the job before Jan. 1 . He said he was a Negro who worked as an order filler and that other depository employes had reported they had teen him in Dallas since Jan. 1 . The Star Telegram said that n his original version the source referred to the witness as an eyewitness and said he was working on the sixth floor from which the assassin fired the bullets that killed Kennedy and wounded Gov . John Connally . Source Revises Story The Star Telegram said that after the publication of the story in its first edition for Monday , the source telephoned to offer several revisions in his original story . One revision , the newspaper said , was that the man described as a witness was on the fifth floor at the time of the shooting which he heard and did not see . In the revised statement he said that after the shots were fired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crates . Details not altered in this revision , the newspaper said , included statements that the porter surrendered to police the ; same day and told them " I was scared to death . I thought he Oswald was going to kill me too . " Sees Him Once The source said he had seen the witness once " while he was being questioned by officers . " " They slapped a vagrancy charge on him so he could be held , " the source said . " He was jailed in Dallas but has since been moved elsewhere . I do not know of the new location . " The man was described as being in his 30s . He told police , the source said , that " Oswald almost stepped on me when he ran past me down the stairs . I know it was him . "                     