@@728091

txt In a stinging attack on President Nixon 's Vietnam policy , Senator Edward M. Kennedy said tonight that if the " corrupt and repressive " government of President Nguyen Van Thieu in Saigon would not agree to a " sensible compromise " with its Communist , opponents , the United States should declare , " It is your war and you must fight it alone . " In a speech to a dinner audience here , Senator Kennedy said that President Nixon 's policy " is the road to war , and war , and more war . " " And as we follow this Incredible path it will continuo to erode the health , the economy , and the moral and spiritual strength of the United States of America , " the Massachusetts Democrat said . Senator Kennedy , in his first political appearance outside the Senate since the accident last summer that killed a passenger // in his automobile , Mary Jo Kopechne , said : " The Vietnam policy of today is the discredited policy of the past  --  we will simply continue t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that something will happen to bring it to an end . This is not a policy of peace ? It will not end the war  --  it will not stop the killing . " Senator Kennedy thus appeared to be returning to the critical stance he assumed before the events on Chappaquidick Island , when Democratic and Republican politicians and many others considered him the leading contender for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1972 . In the months before the accident , the heir to the Kennedy political legacy , while declining to discuss 1972 specifically , seemed to many to be seeking to establish himself as the candidate of the constituency to which his two brothers had so effectively appealed . Since the accident . he has said he will , not seek the Presidency in ' 1972 . The Senator 's speech was in- ! terrupted three times by mild applause , and he was applauded briefly at the beginning and end of his 20-minute talk . Senator Kennedy spoke in his home state tonight at a testimonial dinner for Dr. Sidney Farber , who has specialized in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator 's sneech was devoted to Dr. Farber and the need for funds and research on cancer . Turning to Vietnam Senator Kennedy said , " We are in a war difficult to justify , impossible to win ; a war not worthy of our lives and efforts , a conflict that had made us ill as a people , as surely as any disease that attacks the body . " Today , 10 months after we ended the futile bombing of North Vietnam , 16 months after peace negotiations began , we still have half a million men , countless billions of dollars , and many of our hopes for a better America bogged down in Vietnam , " he said . " For three quarters of this year , " he continued , " the American people have waited hopefully for new policies designed to end this costly war . Now the answer to those expectations is becoming painfully clear . The war will continue , the immense toll of death and suffering will continue to mount . Poverty at home will go on . Prices will rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even violence between our people , as the war works its corrupting effect on every aspect of national life . " " The harsh fact of the matter , " he went on , " is that , despite the election of 1968 , despite the promises of a new President and some new officials , despite new rhetoric , the war in Vietnam is virtually unchanged . " Finds Lesson Ignored " When measured against what must be done for peace , " the Senator said , " we have made only token troop withdrawals on the battlefield , more an exercise in politics and improvisation , while the level of fighting and casualties continues . " Senator Kennedy said that the North Vietnamese and Vietcong had fought the South Vietnamese and the Americans " If we refuse to compromise op this issue , " he continued , " we are asking them to accept defeat . And we have not defeated them . This crucial and overwhelming fact has been asserted by almost every leading critic of the war . " " Yet this lesson is still ignored , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we pursue the shadows of hopes long gone . And no talk of concessions , no hints of compromise , can cover up the fact that we have not been willing to consider the continued control of the Thieu regime ' as a negotiable question ; and that as long as we remain unmoved on this issue there can he no peaceful solution . " " It is time to say to the Saigon government : If you will not agree to a sensible compromise  --  even if it endangers ' your personal power  --  then it is your war and you must fight it alone , " he declared . Day Line steamer moored along a pier here as a restaurant for special events . weaken under the strain of a war rejected by a great majority of the American people . ' We can expect , " he said .                     