@@722146

txt Governor Rockefeller , rather than Mrs. Rockefeller , ' took the initiative toward ending their thirty-one-year mar-I riage , it was disclosed yesterday by an authoritative source . Mrs. Rockefeller was said to have agreed to the separation reluctantly . The Governor and his wife stayed in separate homes yesterday on the vast Pocantico Hills estate near Tarrytown that has been the Rockefeller family seat since the time of John D. Rockefeller Sr. , founder of the Rockefeller fortune . The announcement on Friday of an agreement of separation preparatory to a divorce suit was received with expressions of shock by the general public . The consensus was that a divorce would have a serious impact on the political future of Governor Rockefeller , who has been a leading prospect for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1964 . Rift Began a Year Ago The rift between the Governor and his wife reportedly started nearly a year ago , but the differences were kept closely within the family circle . Some further details of the separation settlement , which eventually will be incorporated in a divorce decree , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-floor , twenty-room apartment at 810 Fifth Avenue for her use Mrs , Rockefeller also will have their home at Paeantico Hills " available . " There are several homes on the estate and Governor Rockefeller will use one of them . The agreement also allots to the Governor 's exclusive use the family 's summer home at Seal // Harbor , Me. , where the couple first met . The Governor will also have the use of a home on Foxhall Road in Washington . Sources close to he Governor referred to the fact that both he and Mrs. Rockefeller would have homes at Pocantico Hills to substantiate a satement by a family spokesman on Friday that the separation and divorce arrangements had been conducted amicably . Mr. Rockefeller plans to make his temporary home with his brother , Laurance S. Rockefeller , who has an apartment at 834 Fifth Avenue . The divorce suit is to be instituted by Mrs. Rockefeller outside New York State . There was wide speculation in political circles over the impact the divorce might have on Governor Rockefeller 's political future . Mr. Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a serious obstacle to his public life . One of his aides said : " The Governor does not regard it as affecting his plans in the smallest iota . " Silent on Presidency Governor Rockefeller announced his intention to seek re-election next year many months ago but has never expressed publicly any aspirations for the Republican nomination for President in 1964 . From Washington , it was reported yesterday that his marital situation was likely to complicate the problem of the Republican party in finding a candidate to oppose President Kennedy . Politicians generally regard divorce as a handicap for a Presidential candidate because it violates a basic dogma of the Roman Catholic Church and many Protestant churchs . It was widely noted yesterday that no divorced man had ever occupied the White House . The Democratic party three times ran candidates for the Presidency who had been divorced  --  James M. Cox in 1920 and Adlai E. Stevenson in 1952 and 1956  --  and both lost . But it is doubtful whether in any case Mr. Cox could have withstood the Warren G. Harding landslide , or Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' senator Barry Goldwater of krizona have been the named most prominently mentioned in speculation on the next Republican Presidential candidate . Issue Would Be Clear A contest between the two for the nomination would present a clear issue between the liberal wing of the party , represented by Mr. Rockefeller , and the conservative wing , in which Mr. ? eq " .. awater is the leading spokesman . A divorce would weaken any claim by Mr. Rockefeller that he is the party 's strongest candidate because of the appeal his liberal views would have in urban areas , where President Kennedy is strongest . However , his position could be enhanced by a landslide victory in his race for re-election next year . Some Republicans , including Mr. Rockefeller , still feel that former Vice President Richard M. Nixon is a possibility for 1964 , despite Mr. Nixon 's declaration that he will not be a candidate . Senator George D. Aiken , Republican of Vermont , said in Washington yesterday that it was too early to know whether the prospective divorce would damage Mr. Rockefeller 's chances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be assessed until after the 1962 election , which he said could provide a test of the divorce as a political liability . Mahoney Comments State Senator Walter J. Mahoney of Buffalo , the Republican majority leader , said he did not think a divorce would have " an adverse effect politically . " He was a candidate for the Governorship nomination that was won by Mr. Rockefeller in 1958 , and he has the responsibility for steering the Governor 's legislative program through the Senate . The Democratic leaders of the Legislature voiced sadness at news of the Rockefeller marital problem , but declined to make an assessment of its political effect . ? Senator Joseph Zaretzki of Manhattan said he was " deeply , sorry . " Assemblyman Anthony J. Travis , of Brooklyn expressed a similar sentiment . A crowd of 150 persons waited at the gates of the Pocantico Hills estate yesterday . It included reporters , news and television cameramen and residents of the area . Among those who entered the estate were Mrs. Philip Wallis of Philadelphia , a sister of Mrs. Rockefeller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographed or to talk to reporters . Steven Rockefeller , 25 years old , one of the Rockefellers ' five children , arrived with his wife , the former Anne Marie Rasmussen of Soegne , Norway . Steven is a student at Union Theological Seminary . Near by , in Yonkers , where Young Republicans from upstate gathered for a convention , matrimony vied with politics as a major subject of conversation in the corridors and cocktail lounge of the Westchester Town House . Between workshop sessions the participants pondered the possible consequences of the Rockefeller divorce plans upon Republicanism at state , county and national levels .                     