@@726144

txt Once again the President is lighting a fire under those who are responsible for putting through his legislative program . It has been learned from administration sources that Mr. Johnson is pushing and prodding just as much as he has in years past  --  when he has been so successful in getting masses of bills through Congress . Top presidential priority is being given to ( a ) aid for older Americans ; ( b ) civil rights , including a three-year phasing into open housing ; ( c ) anticrime legislation ; and ( d ) legislation to provide relief to the consumer . Model-cities test Already the President is marshaling his forces for what is being described as an " historic struggle " with the Republicans over appropriations needed for carrying on these " on-going " programs : rent supplement , teacher corps , poverty , foreign aid , and model cities . Actually , the big test battle is expected over the administration 's request for $400 million to carry on a model-cities program that was put into effect last year only after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House Republicans , bolstered by 47 new members , do to this and other programs involving urban problems . At this point the thrust of GOP alterna ? tive programs is on doing these same jobs through revenue-sharing with the states . The test , as GOP leader Melvin R. Laird of Wisconsin sees it , is simply this : whether the jobs should be done by federal grants-in-aid or by turning back money to the states and localities without strings attached . Mr. Laird has introduced a bill that calls for returning to the states a straight 5 percent of the federal personal-income tax . Another leader , Rep. Charles E. Goodell of New York , has introduced a bill that proposes escalating to a 5 percent return to states over a four-year period . Actually , the real test for Republican leadership lies in how attractive a record it can present to voters in 1968 , Support queried Republicans in both houses now are committed , through their own " state of the Union " message , to programs that will solve the urgent problems of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such programs , even though they stress the concept of implementation at the local levels  --  an approach that is widely popular within the party ? Administration Democrats say they are counting on what they phrase as " Republicans , in the end , acting like Republicans . " That is , they expect the GOP leadership to lose control of their troops . And that , in the end , alternative programs will be forgotten and the Republican thrust will be obstructionist . This , Democrats feel , may well threaten some of the administration 's most desired progra ms . At the same time , they feel that any obstructionism Republicans commit this year in Congress will come home to haunt them in the presidential election .                     