@@722625

txt Congressional investigators told the Pentagon today to scrap most of its reserve plan and to develop something better to cure weaknesses exposed by the limited call-up in the Berlin crisis of last year . They reminded Secretary of Defense Robert S. also that the wide powers given to him by Congress could be taken away unless deeds replaced words . In a unanimous finding , a House Armed Services subcommittee criticized botki past and planned handling of reserves , asserting it was likely to depress morale and let the program " rock and stumble alofig " without significantly increasing military readiness . The report was issued by the chairman , Representative F. Edward Hebert , Democrat of Louisiana , after prolonged hearings . The coupled criticism of what the subcommittee regarded as the inflexibility of the Pentagon , with recommendations for positive action by the Defense Department not later than next Feb. 1 . Endorsed by Vinson Representative Carl Vin-1 son , Democrat of Georgia , who is chairman of the parent committee , endorsed the report and its conclusion that " neither the . Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pentagon with the cloak of infallibility . " The report said the Army had " demonstrated inability " to select the best prepared men , and units for the small-scale mobilization . It deplored what it called attempts by the Army and the Defense Department to " justify these confusions " with the admission that they " have not prepared contingency plans which contemplated a partial mobilization . " The committee placed the blame for the recall of numerous older veterans and many " completely unqualified " younger reservists on the Army 's failure ? to police its reservists and the " inability to identify " the skills of six-month trainees . Army laxity went so far , the committee held , that one reserve maintenance company got away // with listing and paying two men clerk-typists as helicopter mechanics . The Air National Guard was ' praised for " outstanding . accomplishment " in deploying ' units overseas . But the committee found " most reprehensible " the Air Force action in recalling a few reservists assigned to organized units , contrary to law . The Navy Reserve was commended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Berlin crisis . The Navy Department however , was chided for accepting the " increased inflexibility " of outside controls over its reserve program . The committee encouraged Army to eliminate obsolete and unnecessary reserve units , but only on the understanding that they would be replaced with outfits trained and equipped to meet modern requirements . The report also called on the Defense Department to submit before Feb , 1 draft legislation to permit longer training for six-month service men and to tighten the draft liability for short-term trainees who fail to keep up their duties . Other recommended legislation included establishment of an assistant secretary of defense for reserve affairs . The committee urged also that the Army request $600 , - 000,000 more in each of the next five years to pay for modern equipment and arms for reserve components . Pentagon 's Plan The Pentagon plan called for a reduction of 58,000 in the number of reservists receiving pay for drill . The plan would wipe out eight divisions , four from the National Guard and four from the Army Reserve . It would also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve now have a total of 8,734 units of all sizes and descriptions . The House group said the Pentagon reorganization plan had been dictated more by " budgetary considerations " than practical military necessity . It would call for about the same annual expenditure for the reserves , . now running at about $771,000,000 . The plan approved by Mr. would designate only six of the remaining Reserve and Guard divisions as ? " high priority , " or capable of being trained and equipped for combat within eight weeks . Two additional divisions would be supported at about the current rate of money and men , with a twelve-week readiness late . deleted 14 lines                     