@@725644

txt Hong Kong Telltale signs are cropping out that the Chinese Communist leadership is encounter-ing some lack of enthusiasm for its new series of purges euphemized as the new " cultural revolution . " Between the lines of some Chinese newspapers one can detect hints that the campaign has run into apathy in some circles . There is even some talking back  --  a phenomenon unheard of under a regime which has consistently claimed total unanimity of Communist thought . The purge of so-called party rebels which has reached into the topmost ranks of the Chinese Communist Party hierarchy now is sweeping across the country even into such distant provinces as Yunnan , Szechuan , and Tsinghai . In a desperate campaign to restore their authority , party leaders have retooled the party machinery in Peking , fired prominent university heads , reorganized the staff of three metropolitan newspapers , and initiated a shake-up of the Communist Youth League in the capitgl . Now universities and many schools have been closed for six months so that " bourgeois " intellectuals can be hunted down . Thousands across the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necks . Correct thinking ' As the purge moves from phase to phase it is all trumpeted by the party 's propaganda machine as triumph after triumph for the " correct thinking of Mao Tse-tung . " In the party 's view not even China 's prowess with the table-tennis bat and ball could have been achieved without the application of Chairman Mao 's thinking ? as one unfortunate official who forgot to stress this point found out recently while being purged . Just what heresy the dissidents preached still is not clear . Was it all a straightforward power struggle for the succession to Chairman Mao , with Peking 's Mayor Peng Chen pitted against Defense Minister Lin Piao and possibly Party Secretary-General Teng Hsiao-ping ? Or were there policy differences within the party between the hard-line elements who appear to have been successful and more moderate Communists who sought to relax certain party policies both internal and ex-ternal ? Or was it a power struggle and a policy disagreement all mixed up together ? NCW experiment hinted At this stage no outsiders can be certain . But if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flicker despite the current purge , then there apparently are factions which question the direction and validity of various existing party policies . For the moment the apostles of leftist purity are pressing their case . There are indications they are planning to embark on new economic experiments  --  a sort of new " great leap forward " despite the crashing failure of the earlier leap . Indeed , it may have been resistance to this new leap which touched off the current purge and toppled Peng Chen . Struggles explained Currently , Communist China 's main newspaper , the People 's Daily issued explanatory notes on the three Massive internal struggles of the last 16 years . The present one is the most important , the Daily stated , because the Communist Party 's opponents this time are " more insidious and cunning " than previous cliques . The People 's Daily said the present opponents reached out to grab power in the party , army , and government . Their aim was to restore capitalism . Detailing the previous struggles , the newspaper said the first was in 1953 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to develop on a large scale . " The second struggle the Daily said , was against another small handful of people of a revisionist antiparty clique . The party had then put forward the general line of going all-out to achieve quicker , better results in building socialism . This " great leap forward " threw imperialists , modern revisionists ( the term of abuse used to describe the Soviets ) , and reactionaries at home into a great panic " so that they launched a concerted and frenzied attack on us , " the Daily said .                     