@@724286

txt London Discussion of issues vied with the din of repeated heckling as the 1964 British general election campaign entered its final phase . Prime Minister Sir Alec Douglas-Home was so beset by hecklers in a crowd of 10,000 at Birmingham that his entire speech was virtually inaudible . Quintin Hogg , Minister for Education and Science , and Mrs. Hogg required a police escort to reach their car through a yelling mob of young people . Mr. Hogg created a teapot tempest this week with a provocative remark comparing the relative state of personal morality represented on the Tory and socialist front benches . Posters Destroyed More than once in the past few days , obstreperous hecklers have been ejected from meetings at which Labor opposition leader Harold Wilson was the speaker . Meanwhile , the Liberals have reported wholesale and systematic destruction of their posters in Orpington , a " dormitory " constituency near London which they are fighting to hold . Tory baiting seems most often to come from young people , teen-agers , and children . Asked if he was old enough to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm 19 , but speech is free , is n't it ' ? " Disturbances Deplored Speech indeed has been free at some of these election meet ' ings . At times the badgering has acquired a raucous ugliness which seemed to be giving vent to a deep-seated resentment and animosity . According to some observers , the hectoring in this campaign has been the worst in years . Both Sir Alec and Mr. Wilson have deplored the disturb . ances . Regarding disruption of his Thursday night Birmingham meeting , the Prime Minister declared : " Heckling is a very good part of political life in this country and I used to enjoy it in the old days , but this is something quite new . . . . This has been a pattern for the last week or so , these organized bands of people shouting one down . Contrast Seen " This is a very bad thing because the essence of democracy is to listen to the other side . I hope it will stop , indeed it must stop . " Sir Alec contrasted the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of young people present at all his meetings who " have behaved extremely well . " With stepped-up coverage on television and radio , with a relentless round of political meetings , issues have at least not suffered irom lack of exposure . The Conservatives have been pressing their themes of future prosperity based on past performance , full employment , the rising standard of living , planning through cooperation between government and industry , and military security founded on Britain 's nuclear deterrent . Issues Hammered Labor speakers have hammered away at the need to modernize Britain . economic planning , pension reform , the high cost of housing ( caused by land speculation and grasping landlordism ) , the role of science and technology , their program for educational reform , and what they call " economic stagnation . " The minority Liberals , basing their appeal on what they call " a radical , nonsocialist alternative , " have been stressing such issues as a better deal for Wales , Scotland , and other outlying regions . According to the Times of London ( Friday ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Which party will give Britain a really radical government . " Choice of Change " If the voters really want to maintain their prosperity , and even more if they wish to increase it , they should vote not for the most comfortable government but for the one that will be most thorough in change . " declared the Times . " That means change for the trade unions as well as for other parts of the nation .. . " It is on the determination , and on the ability , of Sir Alec Douglas-Home or Mr. Wilson to induce change , particularly of attitudes , over the widest possible area of the nation 's life , that Britain 's future depends . Both the Conservative and the Labor Parties are stiff with backwoodsmen . Which will be the more radical ? "                     