@@723456

txt James R. Hoffa , president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , yesterday ruled out a nation-wide trucking strike if negotiations should break down when the union demands a national contract in the motor freight industry . Hoffa informed teamster officials that any strike would be selective and not a general walkout , which he said would create a national emergency . Hoffa said he will make the selection of carriers to be struck if a strike materializes . Outlines Union Tactics Teamster strategy in mapping goals for coming bargaining talks was revealed by Hoffa ha a meeting with the freight division of the Central Conference of Teamsters in the Palmer House . Hoffa received unanimous approval from delegates when he told them that the union will seek a national contract . He said he has notified 16,000 trucking companies employing 500,000 teamster members that expiring contracts are open for negotiations . Aim at Fringe Benefits The president and other teamster leaders revealed that they will demand increases in fringe benefit payments , such as pensions and health and welfare funds . He said they also will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union does not intend to make an all-out effort for wage increases . Hoffa told 500 officials the union does not want to get into the same position as the railroad unions , which brought on government intervention after threatening a nation-wide strike . He said the . steelworkers - arid longshoremen unions blundered and lost control of negotiations when they created a national emergency by striking their entire industries . The best strategy to gain satisfactory terms with the carriers is to strike them one at a time , if necessary , he said . Hofa said , it will be important that all local unions cooperate I fully and follow instructions from the international union on where and when to strike . Seek Job Security Hofa said he has been working out details for a national trucking contract since 1934 , and the negotiations will be the most important business the truck union has ever conducted . John T. Sandy O'Brien , vice chairman of the conference , said in a speech that members of his Chicago local are satisfied with wages and are mostly concerned with job security . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity by other forms of transportation has cost many drivers their jobs by forcing carriers out of business . Louis F. Peick , president of Chicago local 705 , agreed with O'Brien and Hoffa that there has been an increase in nonunion drivers bringing freight into Chicago . He said the teamsters must check closer for such drivers . The officials said these " gypsy " drivers give certain carriers tremendous competitive advantages over companies paying union scales and fringe benefits . Sees Competitive Edge Hoff a scolded some teamster officials for what he termed playing " buddy " with freight carriers . He said that he has found that some business agents have failed to insist carriers live up to the full terms of their contracts . He said these operators were able to undersell other truckers . There also have been instances of " featherbedding , " Hoffa said . He said he knows of instances where business agents forced truckers to pay drivers " for not working . " " There 's " a featherbedding provision in the Taft-Hartley law and , if any of you get in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working , do n't come to us for help , " Hoffa said .                     