@@725894

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 223 Letters to the Editor of The Times Public Understanding of Science To the Editor : In your Nov. 6 editorial " Incomprehensible Science " you criticize the diminishing range of communication between the scientist at his research and the rest of the world . This is certainly true . Furthermore , even scientists not infrequently experience difficulty in understanding what is going on in another discipline . There may really be no solution for this , given the complexity of scientific specialties . However , I personally fear something much worse than this is actually the case , that both ? the aims and the practice of science are now less widely understood than they were a generation ago , both by scientists themselves and the public at large . It the practicing expert is trained too narrowly , and this is a growing tendency in contemporary education , he may readily conceive of his entire reason for being as a functionary in his profession and may even remain oblivious of the broader implications of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it . On the other hand , a public continually bombarded with halftruths , or worse , vicious propaganda of the kind used in the recent campaign against the Police Review Board , can easily lose both the capacity soberly to appraise facts and the high level of rationality necessary to at least appreciate scientific achievements . Perhaps the creation of a new type of intellectual , sufficiently versed in the history and philosophy of science not to be terrified of the specialist , and sufficiently literate to be able to - inform others , would be a step in the right direction . FREDERICK KREILING Professor of History Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn Brooklyn , Nov. 7 , 1966 ? New Right in Germany To the Editor : The news of the election of eight right-wing , neo-Nazi National Democrats to seats in the State Parliament of Hesse ( Times , Nov , 7 ) must not go unnoticed . Our State Department currently tells us we are in Vietnam to prevent the spread of aggressive Communism . For the same reason , according to our State Department , our marines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silent now while the ancient Teutonic cancer begins to grow in the body politic of the " new " ' Germany ? If the United Nations can not prevent these ghouls from rising out of the blood spilled in World War II of our brothers , fathers , sons and comrades , then we must repeat the action taken in Vietnam and the Dominican Republic . STANLEY MARLIN New York , Nov. 7 , 1966 ? Anti-U.S . Swedish Stand To the Editor : The Nov. 6 letter from Dean D. W. Ferm " Anti-U.S . Agitation in Sweden " documents the currently all-too-pervasive attitude that Sweet Reason used in support of " our role in Vietnam " must ultimately triumph over those views proposed by dissenting American citizens or chauvinistic foreigners . Heralding future triumph affords the faithful a certain protection from the agony of having to examine our present unendearing qualities . But the time for such glib , vague statements has long since passed . It is not only " United States foreign officials " who are ill prepared to be convincing about our " commitment " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aback by our Government 's actions . Here , as well as in Sweden , what is said about our policy in Vietnam , not how it is delivered , is increasingly important . Other Factors Do Chinese information officers and disgruntled young American students mesmerize Swedes , while American information officers can not ? Instructing our officials to present " clear-cut , articulate and carefully prepared discourse " would not of itself be sufficient to eliminate platitude . It is certainly a strange tactic for countering the notorious sloganeering of Chinese propaganda . Moreover it provides no assurance that well - organized rallies " spearheaded by " disgruntled American students will be affected in the slightest particular . ? I suggest that other factors beside " outside agitation " influence the people of Sweden and the rest of Western Europe . Why will Swedes have to be compelled to commit themselves to U.S. policy if they " still sympathize with our role in Vietnam in spite of our Government 's inept explanations ? " The answer may be that their sympathy does not imply commitment , but stems from pity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Swedes will commit themselves to " anything important " only under duress or unless . wooed by wellrehearsed propagandists . Perhaps some disgruntled young Swede living in the United States could explain such curious behavior . As a thesis closer to the mark , I propose that many Swedes are indignant at the suggestion that our ill-conceived foreign policy priorities should become guidelines for Swedish foreign policy and are too polite to say so . R. DAVID DRUCKER Rochester , N. Y. , Nov. 6 , 1966 ? U.S. Stance in Vietnam To the Editor : I have never been an admirer of former Vice President Richard M. Nixon , In fact , I am a registered ( and increasingly desperate ) Democrat . But I do feel that , in his recent challenge to the Administration 's Vietnam policy ( Times , Nov. 4 ) , he has done us all a great public service . Mr. Nixon approvingly quotes General Eisenhower to the effect that war can be won by " putting in the kind of military strength we need to win and getting it over with as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such Republican prodding I doubt , Mr. Johnson 's coonskin reference during his morale boosting trip to our troops in Vietnam , combined with the already loudly announced plans to bomb strategic targets so close to Hanoi as to threaten the city 's survival , seem to me ample indications that Carthage is about to be destroyed . Willingness to Talk My praise for Mr. Nixon is for the frankness and clarity with which he has shown up the many contradictions and uncertainties besetting our stance with regard to Vietnam . I particularly commend him for pinpointing the continual double-talk that , if anything , keeps increasing . It is quite true , as he says , that Ambassador Goldberg 's statement to the General Assembly differs in substance , not only in tone , from what the President and Secretary Rusk have been telling Americans at home . It is equally true that the Manila Conference communiqu ? contained a promise of conditional American withdrawal from Vietnam which , were it taken seriously by North Vietnam , could place the Administration in an almost intolerable position vis-a-vis the American electorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatically alert enough to catch us off base , " but then ' it may be too early to rejoice : Hanoi has on earlier occasions shown its willingness to talk , Washington 's disclaimers notwithstanding . Mr. Nixon has , indeed , touched on several matters that go to the very core of the Vietnamese problem . Mr. Nixon lets the cat out of the bag by suddenly telling the American public that the " major area " where the Vietcong " hold the upper hand " is the Mekong Delta , where so far neither Americans nor North Vietnamese have been engaged . Does this " disclosure " fit in with our repeated assertion that we are essentially and primarily dealing with a clear-cut case of aggression from the North ? Containing Vietcong A recent dispatch in The Times drew attention to the fact that , to the Saigon junta at least , the Vietcong are a very real , South Vietnamese phenomenon which they themselves could no more contain let alone destroy than could or did the far better organized government of President Diem . This means  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even should the North Vietnamese withdraw , we could not , given our present total commitment , make good on our Manila promises . And this leads me to the secand major point : What will or - would it take to " win " either against the " foreign aggressor , " or even , should he " call our bluff , " against the real adversary , the Vietcong ? Do our military leaders believe that there is a point  --  and if so , where is it ? ? at which sheer quantitative increments will produce a qualitative change ? But suppose that somehow North Vietnam obliges us without insisting that we honor our Manila commitment , what then are our ( and Saigon 's ) chances of " victory " ? I agree with Mr. Nixon that the numbers game has gone on for far too long ; invariably , yesterday 's estimates of needed manpower turn out to be about half of what tomorrow 's estimate confidently assumes to be the optimal , maximal and final requirement . My guess would be ( in part guided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or three million American troops might well be needed for the real " pacification " of Vietnam . Beyond our immediate Vietnamese engagement there already loom quite ominously further areas where we may again become involved in drawnout guerrilla combat . The Administration , it is true , loudly proclaims that we must now or never prove that Communistled " wars of national liberation " can not and must not succeed . But how convincing is our proof ? HARRY J. BENDA Professor of Southeast Asian History Yale University New Haven , Nov. 7 , 1966 ? Negroes ' Role in G.O.P. Victories To the Editor : Many post-mortems hold that a white backlash was influential in the rejection of some candidates . It is this writer 's feeling that an injustice is being done to the Negroes , who are voting in greater numbers , and to the leaders of the Republican party , which has been the beneficiary of many of the victories . Editorial Oct. 10 " . . . and New Republicans Win . " The valid fact should be recognized that many thinking Negro voters realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the platform upon which today's. progressive Negroes are coming into political prominence . Contrary to the stated position of the Democratic party , minority groups are not gaining their rightful stature within their organizational scheme of things . It is the Republican party which has made it possible for Edward W. Brooke to become a United States Senator and for other local and state offices to be filled by Negroes of great courage and quality . It is evident , also , that many voters of all backgrounds appreciate the fact the Republican party is offering these men the opportunity to be active leaders in the political world , where being elected is proof of success . Influence on Parties The success now being scored by Negroes in the Republican party will certainly influence future choices of both major parties . But it can not be taken from the Republican leadership that it was they who proved the practical merit of true liberal understanding . The Republican party has taken the lead and deserves recognition for its foresight and sincerity in showing the way that will mean men of good stature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have an opportunity to become leaders at all levels of Government . Let us hear less of white backlash and more of a positive nature . The results of the 1966 elections prove that the masses . of voters are not sheep to be taken for granted ? and that the electorate  --  North or South ? will choose and elect men of quality when presented , regardless of race or creed . It was not backlash that elected men such as Senator Brooke ; it was true progressive , forward thinking , political awareness and understanding . This rebirth of the positive is refreshing and should be nurtured and encouraged . CHARLES H. MEYER New Rochelle , N. Y. , Nov. 9 , 1966 ? Limits on Foreign Aid To the Editor : The figure of $2 billion of United States economic assistance to the developing areas , which is used by Prof. Ranbir Varma Times , Oct. 23 in his argument that this country is not meeting its " responsibility , " seriously understates the extent , of American economic aid . That figure covers only the aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Export-Import Bank , Food for Peace and aid through international agencies . The total figure of official economic assistance ( not including military assistance ) will be approximately $4.5 billion . In addition , we should note that American private investment in the underdeveloped areas , which our Government has endeavored to stimulate through investment guarantees and other efforts , is running over $1 billion a year . Formula Questioned It is true that the more complete figure of $4.5 billion is only six-tenths , of 1 per cent of our gross national product , rather than the 1 per cent which has mysteriously become the sacred rule for judging the adequacy of aid programs . But perhaps it is time to re-examine that 1 per cent formula . Should the same standard be applied to all giving countries without consideration of other foreignaid burdens , such - as military assistance and mutual defense , which a country may be carrying ? In the case of the United States , there is another important reason why 1 per cent of G.N.P . would be too large . If our total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of present G.N.P. , and if the application of this aid were to be properly supervised , it is difficult to see how the United States could avoid the intolerable frictions that would arise from such extensive intervention in the economic affairs of other countries . Even at the present level of aid this problem is troublesome . The question ? of sheer size of one country 's aid program , therefore , can not be ignored as it is when the same percentage figure is applied to an economy as large as that of the United States and to the much smaller economies of the other developed countries . GERALD SIRKIN New York , Oct. 28 , 1966 ? U.S. Trusteeship of Pacific Islands To the Editor : The United States has been coasting along for almost two decades in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands , doing relatively little to replace the World War damaged economic infra-structure built by the Japanese . Belatedly , under the Kennedy Administration , Congress raised the appropriation ceiling . But after a momentary increase , capital improvement expenditures have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used for paying operating costs . Now comes the discouraging news that the proposal for massive rehabilitation for this Far Western outpost died in the last days of the 89th Congress ( H.R. 17505 and S. 3504 ) . No Long-Range Policy There are only three trusteeships left of the original eleven . With little Nauru demanding independence , and Australia pushing New Guinea along as fast as it and Papua can move to self-governance , the United States faces the prospect of being left as the administering authority of the sole remaining trusteeship in the world . We have no long-range policy for the future of any of our Pacific island holdings , and we are sure to become the target for ever greater censure in the United Nations as the days go by . The least we could do is to anticipate this by building up the physical facilities of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands to a minimum standard acceptable in an American community . We are particularly vulnerable here because of our annual accounting for our stewardship to the United Nations . We already have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our health program in Micronesia . It is hoped that the rumored reason for the demise of the Trust Territory 's augmented budget ? a " long-standing battle " between Secretary of the Interior Udall and the chairman of the two Interior Committees ? is just a rumor and nothing more . There is no place for personal quarrels in the international stance of the United States . NORMAN MUER Mexico City , Oct. 31 , 1966                     