@@725584

txt The Soviets presently hold the key to both Vietnam and the new patterns evolving in Europe . A strong conviction persists here that they will use their influence constructively , when an appropriate time comes . Not much is being said about this quiet optimism here . It could turn out wrong , of course . But it seems to be based on several quite solid facts . 1 . United States firmness . Whatever the future brings , to Vietnam or to the NATO alliance , President Johnson intends to keep a stable power relationship between the non-Communist and Communist worlds . It was this balance , in which neither side could successfully intimidate the other , that brought the " thaw " in the West . 2 . Soviet self-interest . It is felt here that the Brezhnev-Kosygin leadership is realist and respects the American firmness . Starting from there , the Soviet choice lies between pushing " wars of liberation " in competition with the Chinese Communists and seeking less dangerous forms of coexistence and nonviolent rivalry . The present Soviet leaders are thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . Two key assumptions 3 . Recent Soviet experience . The Soviets still felt compelled , when the Vietnam war expanded last year , to match the Chinese in supporting wars of liberation . Otherwise the Chinese might win control of the world Communist movement . But since then , Chinese excesses have been rebuffed in many in-between countries . The Soviet role of greater moderation , and of working with existing governments , has proved more attractive in the uncommitted world . So Moscow is thought to be more free , now , to develop the spirit of Tashkent and to work openly for a more stable and less perilous world . In addition , Washington has its own private resources in judging the motives and intentions of the Kremlin . NATO changing character While nothing is taken for grantee , the following two assumptions are carefully built into American policy for the months ahead : ? That continued military progress in Vietnam , presuming the political crisis can be weathered , could well cause the Soviets to urge Hanoi to pull out . The most likely plan would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it completely out . The Communists would then turn more fully to politics . ? That in the West the Soviets may well begin to talk seriously about an antiproliferation treaty on nuclear weapons . And that this could be followed , or accompanied , by even more momentous tasks about easing strains between East and West Germany and Europe . In both cases , no initiative is expected from the Kremlin until a point is reached . That point would come in Vietnam when it became obvious that political trends did not unseat the United ? States war effort , and that it would be pressed ahead vigorously but only to regain control of South Vietnam . In Europe , the point would come when it was clear to the Soviets that NATO , although it was changing character like its Warsaw Pact counterpart , had not collapsed . And that the United States did not seek to use German nationalism as a cold war weapon against the Soviet Union . This trend of policy within the Johnson administration has been slowly developing for a year or more . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the President has the responsibility for keeping policy in a constructive direction , and he can not let prejudice or minor objections or past difficulties dissuade him from testing the really big opportunities .                     