@@724704

txt Richard M. Nixon came back to Moscow today and found himself in another debate . But his encounter with a leading official of the University of Moscow was pale and ! undramatic compared with the famous 1959 " kitchen debate " in which , as Vice President , he exchanged views with Nikita S. Khrushchev , then Premier . Today 's debate , took place at the university when he was greeted by the deputy rector , Seleyezov . Mr. Seleyezov said he did not want to talk about the Ku Klux Klan and the John Birch Society and other " reactionary " organizations but about what he should tell his students when they asked , as they often did , how it could happen in a freedom-loving country that a President could be killed . Mr. Nixon replied that evidently the United States was not perfect , and he added : " But we in turn could ask : ' What happened to Beria ? Why was he killed ? Trotsky , what happened to him ? " Lavrenti P. Beria , First Deputy Premier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1953 , and was executed on Dec. 23 that year . Leon Trotsky , an exiled Soviet War Minister , was assassinated in Mexico in 1940 . Mr. Nixon arrived this morning as a private tourist with a group of American and Canadian businessmen with whom he had visited Helsinki on business . His trip to Moscow was decided upon on the spur of the moment Thursday after the group had completed its business in the Finnish capital with unexpected speed . To the surprise of all , including the consular officers at the United States Embassy in Helsinki , a Soviet visa came through quickly ? in less than three hours . On arrival , after a 20-hour train ride . Mr. Nixon told reporters that he had made no arrangements to see any Soviet officials or any United States or other diplomats . He was philosophical about his own changed station in life and that of his debating partner of almost six years ago . I was on July 24 , 1959 , that Mr. Nixon . in Moscow to open the American National Exhibition , debated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , observing a model kitchen design , commented : " You Americans expect that the Soviet people will be amazed . It is not so . We have all those things in our new apartments . " Mr. Nixon replied : " We do not claim to astonish the Soviet people . We hope to show our diversity and our right to choose , " From this they ranged to other subjects , with television cameras recording the exchange . Involuntarily ' Retired On his arrival today , Mr. Nixon , referring to Mr. Khrushchev , who was deposed in October , said : " If I see him we will have a friendly discussion . If we 've retired , we 've both retired involuntarily . " Then , like any other foreigner in the care of the Intourist travel agency , he and his com- , panions went to the Kremlin to look at the churches and from there to the skyscraper on Lenin Hills that houses the university . After his exchange with Mr. Seleyezov , he held an improvised news conference at the United States Embassy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking differences in Moscow since his visit six years ago . He said there were more cars and that people were better dressed , but that beyond that he had noticed no substantial change . Referring to this talk with the university official , he said it was " good to come back to he reminded that progress is being made toward a more open society but that the gulf between us remains deep . " Points to Speed on Visa Mr. Nixon listed as a significant improvement the fact that it was now possible to get a Soviet visa in a few hours . He said that in his discussion at the university he had found a v ; illingness to admit that things were not all black and white . an attitude that he said would have been inconceivable six years ago . He said that the subject of Vietnam had not been brought up in the discussion and that this had surprised him . Asked about his views on Vietnam , he said that he ? had supported President Johnson 's " strong stand " in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read the President 's latest speech and therefore could not judge it . Mr. Nixon said that in the elections of 1966 the Republican party should adopt a strong position on foreign affairs and on the issue of equality of opportunity for all citizens and that it should adopt constructive programs in such fields as health . housing , unemployment and automation . The former Vice President came here in the company of John Shaheen and Dr. Joseph Smallwood , Premier of Newfoundland . Mr. Nixon acted as legal adviser to Mr. Shaheen. whose New York concern is taking part in a joint United StatesCanadian-Finnish paper and pulp mill project in Newfoundland . Mr. Nixon and his companions were received by United , States Ambassador Foy D. Kohler early this evening . They will leave by air tomorrow for . London .                     