@@721879

txt Twenty more persons - school representatives and contracting company employers  --  were questioned yesterday about alleged irregularities in the city 's school building program . School Superintendent John J. Theobald and Charles J. Bensley , chairman of - the Board of Education 's committee on buildings and sites , were questioned by the State Investigation Commission . Both had appeared previously before the commission , which will start public hearings next Tuesday on the school situation . Joseph R. Weiss , deputy superintendent in charge of school buildings , is scheduled to be questioned today by the state investigators . Joshua Okun , the commission 's as- sistant counsel , is conducting the inquiry . Mr. Weiss said yesterday , " I will answer whatever questions that are put to me . " Dr. Theobald said Mr. Weiss had denied to him that he had ever accepted gifts from contractors . During his session with the state investigators yesterday , Dr. Theobald reportedly reiterated his previous expressions of confidence in Mr , Weiss . A professional engineer , Mr.1 Weiss joined the school system in September , 1959 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial improvements in the building and repair program . 18 Queried in Queens In Queens twelve school inspectors and six representatives of concerns doing business with the school system were ' questioned by District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor . Additional school employes will be called today and tomorrow . City Investigation Commissioner Louis I. Kaplan , whose findings have already led to the recent suspension of one school inspector and to charges of accepting gratuities against thirty-nine school employes , said his staff was working " night and day , " drawing up additional reports to the Mayor . Meanwhile the United Parents Associations suggested that the school board consider the feasibility of turning over the new school construction and modernization program to another agency , possibly the City Department of Public Works , because of present legal difficulties . This suggestion followed a report that the school system was delaying the award of contracts for new school building projects because of pending litigation . Two construction concerns recently blacklisted by the board have started court action to upset the board 's ruling . On Tuesday a school official explained that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be held up for projects if the barred concerns might normally submit bids . Two Projects Held Up Jerome B. Kovalcik , the board 's director of education information services and public relations , confirmed that the award of contracts for two pending projects had been held up . He declined to " speculate about the future , " however . The parents ' group statement , issued by Mrs. Adele B. Tunick , president , declared . " Delaying the school construetiqn and modernization program will only serve to intensify and multiply intolerable conditions . Therefore the time has come to consider seriously the feasibility of relieving the board from overall responsibility for carrying forward the final construction phase of the school-building program until conditions are normalized. "                     