@@724794

txt qwq In Dominican Tangle " The Marines were to be neutral in the Dominican Republic , but were at first ' neutral ' on the side of the junta , and then on the side of the rebels , and then back again to the junta until a new order of ' strict neutrality ' went out . " That was how James Reston of . The New York Times last week described the U.S. shifts in the Dominican crisis . The confusion was not limited to the U.S. role . At the United Nations , in the Organization of American States and in Santo Domingo itself , uncertainty and contradiction seemed to be the dominant notes . The U.S. , with 20,000 troops in the Dominican Republic , clearly held decisive power . Officially , the Administration was trying to achieve a compromise between the rebels led by Col. Francisco Caamato Defto and the junta led by Brig . Gen. Antonio Imbert Barreras . The aim was a constitutional regime composed of all factions except the extreme left and right . At one point last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive against the rebels  --  some reports said they abetted the drive . One explanation was that the U.S. hoped thereby to soften Colonel Caarnafio 's resistance to a compromise . But the nagging question was : Would the tactic not simultaneously harden General Imbert 's position and identify the U.S. with a new military dictator in the Caribbean ? Yesterday , the U.S. informed the U.N . Security Council that it would prevent " by force if necessary " any attacks on Dominican rebels concentrated in downtown Santo Domingo . The U.S. also announced that it would withdraw 1,700 troops from the Dominican Republic when an equal number of O.A.S . replacements arrived . O.A.S . mediation and supervision , in theory , represented a way out of the morass . But for the moment , the O.A.S . role was largely symbolic and the dilemma remained squarely in the United States ' lap . The dimensions of the dilemma were underscored by other tensions in the hemisphere last week  --  notably in Bolivia and Colombia  --  that might raise anew the question : How could the U.S. find the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened the stability of many of its Latin neighbors ? Chaotic Week American involvement in the Dominican struggle has gone through four phases : Phase I was the operation to rescue American citizens . Four days after the outbreak of the revolt nearly a month ago , President Johnson ordered a task force to evacuate endangered Americans from strife-torn Santo Domingo . Helicopters took some to safety . Within 24 hours 405 Marines had landed to protect other lives and property . Phase II followed almost immediately with the declaration by U.S. officials that Communists had seized control of the rebel movement . Moving quickly to prevent , in President Johnson 's words , " another Communist state in this hemisphere , " the U.S. poured more and more men into the city until about 20,000 were standing guard in its streets . Phase Ill involved the establishment , with U.S. backing , of a civilian-military junta , led by General Imbert , to replace the then faltering counterrevolutionary leadership . With American protection and financing , despite Washington 's declaration of " neutrality , " the junta took the offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set up a compromise , coalition government that would include representatives of both sides . Negotiations toward this goal went on all last week though mostly with little hope of success . The principal arena for the efforts was Santo Domingo  --  a city roughly rectangular in shape along the Caribbean shore . It is bounded on the south by the sea , on the east by the Ozama River and on the north and west by open country . East of the Ozama , outside the city , is the San Isidro military base , the junta stronghold . The city , like Caesar 's Gaul , is divided into three parts . One part is Ciudad Nueva , a 10-square-mile section of old buildings and narrow streets in the southeast quarter , bordered by the sea and the Ozama . This is the principal rebel stronghold . The second is the International Zone , which includes all the rest of the seafront area west of Ciudad Nueva . It is guarded by U.S. troops . The third is the northern half of the city where the rebels hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this northern half by a U.S.-held corridor through the center of Santo Domingo from the International Zone along the northern edge of Ciudad Nueva to the Duarte Bridge over the Ozama . Last Sunday , junta troops , pressing . an attack begun earlier , blasted their way down into the northern suburbs of the city . This drive , spearheaded by tanks , crunched southward toward the U.S.-held corridor . The aim was to cut the northern part of the city in two . The junta threw about 2,000 of the roughly 5,000 to 6,000 soldiers and police it controls into the battle . There was no indication of the number of rebels holding out in the area . The rebels claim to have more than 10,000 fighters throughout the city . Observers estimate the hard core of their force at only about 2,000 but these are reinforced by an undetermined number of armed civilians . While the battle raged , a factfinding mission sent unannounced by President Johnson flew into the city for consultations with U.S. officials ton the scene and with Dominicans of both sides . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for national security affairs , and Thomas C. Mann , Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs . As the bloody house-to-house fighting continued on Monday , it was learned that U.S. representatives had reached agreement with the rebel leader , Colonel Caamerit ) , on a tentative ? settlement . This provided for the establishment of a new interim compromise government to be headed by Antonio Guzman , a mMister ill the Administration of former President Juan Bosch , a scholar and liberal who was ousted in a coup in 1963 . Washington officials argued that Communist elements within the rebel ranks had been isolated , thereby opening the way for a coalition regime . But General Imbert refused to resign , despite U.S. urging . Instead , his troops stepped up their attack to the most furious pitch of the civil war , driving closer and closer to the U.S. corridor . the coalition government plan ran into opposition . The rebels accused the U.S. of trying to dictate who would be in the proposed government , and the junta flatly turned down the idea . Its chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked a group of American officials : " Why are you dropping us when we are winning ? You set up our government . " The junta similarly rebuffed a U.N . cease-fire call . The special U.N . representative , Dr. Jose Antonio Mayobre , reported that although the rebels had agreed to a truce , General Imbert had " spoken of his military operations and indicated he thought he was winning and therefore could not talk of a cease-fire . " The fighting reached a climax on Wednesday when the junta drive overran the rebel radio station and crashed through the last barrier to the U.S. corridor . Reports from Santo Domingo said U.S. troops aided the junta forces , but Washington officials insisted the Americans were under strict orders to be " impartial . " General Imbert told a rally of ; cheering followers : " We have absolute control of the Dominican Republic . " In Washington , the O.A.S . peace mission criticized both the U.S. and the U.N. , charging that as a result of their actions it faced " really insoluble " difficulties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thursday brought a lull in the fighting as the junta forces paused to regroup . Efforts to arrange at least a truce paid off when the two sides agreed to a 24-hour armistice beginning at noon on Friday . The U.S. continued to push with fading , hopes for a compromise coalition even though frustrated officials made clear they continued to distrust the rebels . The Johnson Administration was reported to have decided against trying to block the junta 's troops if they resumed their offensive . Officials contended any such move would be a violation of U.S. " neutrality . " The fighting resumed in full force Friday with junta tanks and machine gunners driving to clear the rebels from the northeast quadrant of the city . The relentless push had backed the rebels to within a mile of the banks of the Ozama River by the noon cease-fire deadline and junta spokesmen later claimed the resistance " had been crushed . As the fighting died , down , Red Cross teams moved into the battle area picking up dead and wounded . An official source said at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fighting in the northern sector . Estimates put the number of dead during the previous three weeks of the civil war ? at between 1,000 and 1,500 . Although there was hope that the 24-hour truce could be extended , General Imbert on Saturday rejected any prolongation past the noon deadline . But the junta leader said his refusal did ' not mean that his forces would immediately begin new " aggressive measures . " There were indications that the negotiations for a political settlement were going forward again , however . It was suggested that an American-backed agreement might even be completed as early as tomorrow or the next day . Secretary , General Thant told an extraordinary session of the U.N . Security Council " preliminary indications are that the situation is ominous . " The council rejected a Uruguayan resolution , which was supported by France , calling on all states to refrain from giving military help to either side in the civil war . The Questions The week 's events raised a number of questions . These were among the major ones , and some tentative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion in U.S. policy ? The U.S. intervened in the Dominican Republic out of deep preoccupation with the danger of " another Cuba " in the Western Hemisphere . But the situation in the Dominican Republic , after the Marines landed , proved difficult to fit into the Cuban pattern . A. rebel movement that President Johnson had indicated was Communist - dominated and beyond the pale was subsequently reassessed , approached , and drawn warily into negotiations . From this change in the context of intervention , many observers felt , flowed many of the contradictions in word and action . As to the specific factors involved , one had to do with the kind of information President Johnson received on the Communist role in the crisis before he decided to intervene . On that score a New York Times correspondent reported from Washington last week : " Much of the information has been supplied by the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureal of Investigation , and there is considerable dispute in the Administration about the weight that ought to be attached to some of it . The C.I.A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action from the start of the revolt - . . " As to incidents in Santo Domingo in which U.S. troops seemed to side , directly or indirectly , with the Imbed junta , these were attributed to two factors . One was the apparent failure by some U.S. officers and men to take their " neutrality " directive literally in all cases . The other was the provocation supplied by continued firing ' on the U.S. forces from the , rebel side . ( 2 ) What can the U.S. do now ? The essential problem appears to be how to bring about negotiations toward some form of compromise regime among the contending Dominican factions . But there are a number of difficulties . The Lmmediate ones are , first , General L-nbert 's seeming unwilliness to deal with the rebels , possibly in hopes of achieving an outright military victory ; and , second , Colonel Caamaiio 's insistence on rebel eontrot of key military commands ? in any future government . The U.S. appeared to be pinning hopes now on the development of a military stalemate which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that the United States intended to show both the junta and the rebels thatneither could defeat the other . How the U.S. would use its preponderant power in Santo Domingo to that end was not immediately clear . ( 3 ) What rote can the U.N . and the O.A.R. play ? Most observers doubted that there was very much more the U.N . could do , other than send missions , pass resolutions , or serve as a forum for further East-West propaganda contests . The strong resentment shown by the O.A.S . last week over U.N . " interference " in a problem regarded by the interAmerican body as being within its own jurisdiction seems likely to place further restrictions on a U.N . role . Yet the prospects for O.A.S . action  --  apart from the contribution of an inter-American truce force ? were also regarded as uncertain , in view of a basic cleavage in Latin-American opinion on how to deal with Communist subversion in the hemisphere . The cleavage was described by a New York Times correspondent in Caracas last week as follows : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States policy in the Dominican Republic is an example of how militarism is fostered in the name of anti-Communism . In Brazil , Paraguay and Bolivia , and in some Central American countries , where there is a high degree of military influence in government , support for the Dominican military junta is regarded as a practical necessity to meet the threat of a ' new Cuba . " ( 4 ) What is the longer-range outlook in the Dominican Republic and in the hemisphere ? Even if the fighting in Santo Domingo can be brought to a halt and a coalition regime established , U.S. troops ? in all likelihood as part of an O.A.S . peace unit -- are expected to remain for some time , perhaps for years . The 31-year Trujillo era left a country divided by bitter hatreds , with few responsible and moderate leaders , and virtually no institutions of selfgovernment . The situation is thus likely to remain unstable ? at best  - -  for the foreseeable future . As for the rest of the hemisphere , there is likely to be con , tinned search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wide divergence of viewpoints on the issue . Failure to seek a common approach for deciding when  --  subversion has occurred , and what should be done about it , would leave the U.S. in the position ? of having to do both itself in case of future crises like the Dominican one . That is a role that - many Latin countries are reluctant to grant the U.S.  --  and that the. - Ade ministration itself is believed hesitant to adopt as an established policy .                     