@@722659

txt Washington , Sept. 14 ? The telegraphers ' strike against the Chicago and North Western railway rolled toward a possible week-end settlement here tonight . ' We are pretty far along , " Francis A. O'Neill of the National mediation board told reporters after a day-long session . O'Neill said the North Western 's trains could be running again by Monday morning . O'Neill was in his most optimistic mood of the week . Management and union negotiators shared his attitude . Roth Sides Giving " It could still spring a leak , " said O'Neill . " But both sides are conciliatory . " O'Neill scheduled another meeting for 9:30 a. m. tomorrow . Intensive negotiations have been conducted for five days here . All appeared happy after a four hour afternoon session . O'Neill was more optimistic than when he met with reporters after a morning session in which he first voiced a hope that a settlement could be reached over the week-end . Mayor Points at Issue The mediator said that agreement has not been reached on some major points , but he indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The turn toward a possible week-end settlement came as Republican congressmen in the nine state area served by the North Western took the floor of Congress to criticize President Kennedy 's role in the I strike . Rep. Clark R. , Minn. , charged that Kennedy applies a double standard to disputes between management and labor . The President " acted in a very violent way " against steel executives who announced a price increase which Kennedy 's advisers opposed , said , and the violence of the chief executive 's reaction sent the prices rolling back . The C. &; N. W. accepted the recommendation of Kennedy 's emergency fact-fin5ling board , noted , while the union would not . Takes No Action " " But he takes no comparable action , only urges that both sides compromise , " said . The strike is in its 16th day . O'Neill said the biggest issue remaining unsolved is the question of the rate at which telegraphers whose jobs are no longer required can be eliminated . The strike was called by the Order of Railroad Telegraphers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Heineman , chairman of the North Western , and Clyde J. Fitzpatrick , president , continued to head the management team . George Leighty , head of the telegraphers , had charge of the union group . Altho he called the job elimination issue the biggest problem , O'Neill said that other issues remain . The mediator said that he and the disputants were going thru the recommendations of a Presidential fact finding board item by item . O'Neill said the telegraphers appeared willing to consider the board 's ? findings . Some ' points have been settled . President Kennedy told a news conference yesterday that he hopes for a settlement over the week-end . The President said , as have other high administration officials , that the public interest demands that the strike come to an end . All legal remedies open to the President to end the strike have been exhausted .                     