@@726346

txt Sudan 's young outgoing Premier is optimistic about his country 's future despite the current political crisis . Saddik el Mandi , who resigned his nine-month premiership May 15 , says , " Partisan politics are secondary . Our main task is to draft the new constitution . This should be kept out of partisan politics , and it will be . " A multiparty commission is working on it now . This huge republic sprawls over the squall line between the political storms of black Africa to the south and the Arab world to the north . It is almost the last functioning Western-style parliamentary democracy in an African continent dotted with military governments . The Sudan experienced its own period of military rule from 1958 through 1964 , before many other African lands , But the military men in power then lacked political and administrative experience . A popular revolution returned civilian rule in October , 1964 . A constituent assembly and a provisional constitution have carried it along since . This has involved much improvization . There has been a loud clamor from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Moslem Brotherhood of the far Right . But unlike other African lands , most political business has been transacted in the assembly , caucus rooms , and law courts instead of in the street or in military barracks . The single exception since 1964 was an abortive military coup by junior officers last December . Mr. Saddik split with his uncle , the Imam Hadi al Mandi , over the type of the new constitution . Mr. Hadi wants a purely religious Islamic charter . Premier Saddik prefers a secular state . Priority identified In a news conference held here on the eve of the election as the new Premier , Mohammed Mahgoub , Mr. Saddik stressed what he called a need to separate religion from politics . Mr. Saddik is an Oxford University graduate and the grandson of the Great Mandi , whose religious crusade inflamed northeastern Africa in the 1880 's and 1890 's . At political gatherings he wears the traditional white gellabiya , or gown and turban . But he is equally at home with the most urbane foreign diplomats and businessmen of East or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , " he told this correspondent after the news conference , " is to work out a new national government together . Once it is formed , we can talk about the Umma Party 's role in it . " The Umma is the Sudan 's strongest party , but Mr. Saddik now contests its leadership with his uncle . In the current Arab-Israel crisis , he said , " the Sudan will of course follow an Arab policy . " Vote tallied Did that mean going to war with Israel if Syria and Egypt did ? He shrugged , " We will go along with the majority of Arab states , according to circumstances , " he said . Mr. Saddik fell from office after asking for a confidence vote on his plans for overcoming political and economic problems before the present constituent assembly 's mandate runs out June 10 . One hundred and twelve members voted against the government , 86 for it , and 5 abstained . Cabinet ministers of the National Union , a centrist party , and President and cider statesman Ismail el Azhari had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's May 2 announcement of his candidacy for the presidential elections next year aroused the ire of some opponents . They think him overly ambitious for such a young man .                     