@@723674

txt Record-breaking cold kept the middle west and most of the east in a frigid grip yesterday and spread winter misery thru the south to the usually balmy gulf coast . Snow squalls continued in Great Lakes snowbelt communities  --  blocking roads and forcing schools to close . Fresh snow hit New England . Heavy snow storms closed a 66-mile stretch of the New York thruway . It was as cold in Atlanta , Ga. , and Birmingham , Ala. - 11 degrees  --  as it was in Billings , Mont . Atlanta 's 11 degrees was the Georgia capital 's lowest for a Dec. 19 since 1884. 7 Below Zero The mercury plunged to 7 below zero in London , Ky. , and 4 below in Crossville , Tenn . Freezing weather hit Tampa , Fla. , and New Orleans , La . Rome , Ga. , had 8 above . The cold wave settled over Florida . Tourists scurried for extra blankets . Truck crop growers prepared to light smoke fires and flood irrigation ditches if necessary to save frost-threatened tomatoes , peppers , beans , celery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lake Michigan into western Michigan , where rural roads were impassable and many main highways were reduced to one-line traffic . Record 7 Deaths Muskegon , Mich. , the nation 's leader in snow accumulation with 34 inches on the ground , braced for at least 3 more inches . Many schools were closed in western Michigan , northern Indiana and Somerset county , Pennsylvania . Schools closed Wednesday in 16 Kentucky counties . Kentucky counted at least seven cold-weather fire deaths and three deaths on icy highways since Sunday . Greensburg , Ind. , recorded 18 ' below , Indiana 's coldest reading of the season . Coldest Since 1924 The 11-below in Peoria , Ill. , was that city 's lowest for the date in 62 years and the 12 below in Rockford , Ill. , was the coldest there since 1924 . Every reporting station in Wisconsin had a temperature of zero or below at mid-morning . The nation 's low was 24 below in Bemidji , Minn . International Falls , Minn. , had 22 below . The Pittsburgh Automobile club said it received 150 calls from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two new hourly records in electricity demand in its vast power system . Heavy floating ice choked the Mississippi river at Cape Girardeau , Mo . Ice jammed behind the lock gates slowed barge traffic on the Illinois waterway . THE WHY AND WHERE OF WINTER WEATHER In Saturday 's Tribune , in a full color page , you can find out all about winter weather . You may think Chicago 's the coldest spot in the world right now , but that 's not so . Find out what is , and many other interesting things , on the back page of the first section of Saturday 's Tribune .                     