@@723326

txt BY RONALD KOTULAK At exactly 3:26 p. m. today , nature will roll the shadow of the moon across the light of the sun . Chicagoans will see 77 per cent of the sun blocked out barring cloudy weather , when the solar eclipse is at its maximum here at 4:39 p. m . The show will end at 5:45 p. m. when the moon 's shadow slips away and disappears in the sun 's brilliant glow . At the maximum point of obscuration , the sun will be 39 degrees above the western horizon . No appreciable darkening of the sky is expected . More than 1,700 M. P. H. The moon will race across the direct path of vision be tween the sun and the earth at more than 1,700 miles an hour . The moon will not be visible until it takes its first bite out of the sun 's rays . Starting on the island of Hokkaido after sunrise July 21 , Japanese time , a circular shadow of total eclipse will race across the earth , swiftly outdistancing several jets that ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the Pacific and across the international date line to arrive in North America on July 20 . The total eclipse then will flash across Alaska , Canada , central Maine , and disappear in the Atlantic . Because cases of blindness have occurred after almost every recorded eclipse over a populated area , the Illinois Society for the Prevention of Blindness and the American Medical association have issued warnings for viewers : I. Do not look directly at the sun . It can permanently burn your eyes . 2 . Do not look thru welding goggles , smoked glass , colored glass , negatives of photoSketch illustrates safe way to watch eclipse of sun . graphs , or any other filters that have not been recommended by authorities . 3 .. Do not look thru ' telescopes , binoculars , or camera view finders since these only intensify the burning power . Can Burn Painlessly The danger in viewing an eclipse arises because the partially covered sun is easy to look at without giving an observer an uncomfortable feeling that would make him turn away immediately from the full sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still has immense power that can burn painlessly . The safest way to view the eclipse is by projecting the image of the sun thru a pin hole in a piece of cardboard onto a white surface . Chicagoans will be able to see a live broadcast between 4:42 and 4:44 p. m. on channel 2 TV as the total eclipse passes over the province of Quebec . The last eclipse visible here occurred at dawn in 1954 . Chicagoans will not get another chance until March 7 , 1970.                     