@@723373

txt New York For Wall Street , although it did not escape unscathed in the latest critique by the Securities and Exchange Commission , at least the waiting is over . The third and last installment of the SEC 's massive report dropped with a 10-pound thud Thursday on the desk of security industry leaders . it caused no great alarm . Stock ? market prices remained virtually unchanged , with only modest trading activity . SEC chairman William L. Cary , in his letter of transmittal , stated : " Although serious problems do exist and additional controls and imimprovements are much needed , the regulatory pattern of the securities acts does not require dramatic reconstruction . " . Praise ... Criticism In all , the staff 's three-installment report total some 5 , - - 100 pages . They represent " the most thorough examination of the securites market since the early 1930 's , " as Mr. Cary put it . Because of this thoroughness and the careful reasoning which characterize most of the report , there has been relatively little argument from the industry so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report . What 's more , the report will not be implemented until after discussions between the SEC and industry leaders . Where legislation is required , the industry has a chance of modifying those proposals it considers most objectionable . Brokers Wary The very size of the reports has delayed reaction . Industry leaders say they need time to study it , Many on vacation are not likely to find it light reading . F'o ? instance , the-New York Stock Exchange noted that the report " contains many new proposals , including some which concern the organization and structure of the exchange . It added : " Until the exchange has finished a careful review of the entire report , we feel it still would not be appropriate to make any comment . " Brokers were reluctant to characterize it as " tough , " " reasonable , " or " mild . " Said one partner of a brokerage house , " Some recommen dations make sense , some do n't . ' ' In the last four chapters , there are at least two areas that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with " self-regulation and the commission , " the study urges Congress and the SEC to undertake expansion of " government power and participation " in the affairs of the various stock exchanges and the over-the-counter securities market . ' Passive ' Kole Hit To prevent a recurrence of the kind of self-regulatory breakdown that took place on the American Stock Exchange in recent years , the special study group recommends that the SEC reexamine and strengthen its program for surveillance and oversight of self-regulatory discipline . It urged the commission to drop its " passive " role , to enlarge and strengthen its permanent staff . The idea of more government interference doesn't. please many in the securities industry . They already regard themselves as one of the most closely regulated industries in the country . Another area of conflict promises to be the report 's criticism of the fast-growing mutual fund business . Investors Victims It suggests that the commission consider outlawing the contractual mutual fund plan , In this plan the investor signs up to buy shares over a period of years , but pays the bulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , the study finds , victimizes many small investors . They are sold the plans by high-pressure salesmen but must later stop making payments and lose much of their investment . If Congress does not abolish the " front-end load structure , " as the plan is called , " legislation should both substantially limit the amount and method of application of any such load and prohibit the offering of front-end load contractual plans by any mutual fund sales organization without the simultaneous offering of a level-load voluntary plan for shares of the same fund , " the study group concludes . The second type of plan spreads the sales charges over a longer period .                     