@@722881

txt Two years in the White House have taught President Kennedy many things . As he looked over the audience of senators , representatives , Supreme Court Justices , and diplomats to give his third State of the Union message , he had found that the center of power in Washington is not exactly where he supposed it was in 1960 . This year Mr. Kennedy seeks from Congress a tax program that dominates other requests much as did the Trade Expansion Act last year . Abroad the American posture has improved , and in some directions the United States has the initiative . But at home the same old problem dogs the administration : how to get the laggard economy moving again . Now the President has decided what the country needs is tax reduction and reform , When Mr. Kennedy ran for office in 1960 a theme occurred again and again in his speeches : the dominant power of the American President . Put a dynamic imaginative man in the White House , he asserted  --  and undoubtedly believed  --  and most of problems would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not given that leadership ; he would . View Subtly Altered " The presidency is the wellspring of action in the American constitutional sy stem , " he declared in the Pocatello High School auditorium , and he repeated it across the country . Mr. Kennedy has been President now two years and comes back to Congress with a wider experience . The center of power in the American governmental structure is somewhere between the White House and Congress , and , save in great emergencies , the decentralized , amorphous American legislature is one of the hardest political institutions to move in the free world . That Mr. Kennedy has subtly altered his view of his office is indicated in recent remarks at Palm Beach , Fla . Mr. Kennedy referred to Congress fatalistically : He expected to win victories and suffer defeats in the new Congress , he indicated , in about the same proportion that he had in the past . Mr. Kennedy analyzed a president 's difficulties with Congress : Its seniority system , its emphasis on regionalism , its rural bias , its rules of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy did not criticize , but accepted , these facts . Reporters noted that Mr. Kennedy did not indicate that he would change tactics , or embark on any massive new drive to make his influence felt in Congress . Wily Old Chairmen President Kennedy 's greatest success in two years is in foreign affairs , where Congress is less powerful . At home an only mildly interested Congress defeated or curbed him on medicare , schools , mass transportation , youth employment , farm , wilderness , urban affairs , foreign aid , and the like ; it gave him limited victories elsewhere . Once more Mr. Kennedy goes to Congress and outlines the state of the Union in stirring phrases polished by his executive assistant , Theodore C. Sorenson . In 1961 he was applauded 39 times , in 1962 , 38 times . Then Mr. Kennedy goes back to the White House , and wily old chairmen of semiautonomous committes take over ; they have seen presidents come and go before . They may not be able to initiate legislation but they know how to drag their feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states " show a change of approach and cause some questions among the chief executive 's unofficial advisers . Presidential power to lead Congress under the American constitutional system varies inversely to the degree of emergency they admit ; nevertheless they urge Mr. Kennedy to take a more determined stand or to shift tactics . James MacGregor Bums of Williams College , the President 's biographer , told a TV panel the other day that Mr. Kennedy should press Congress harder . Columnist Walter Lippmann argues the need of repetition  --  endless repetition , even to the point of boring the public .                     