@@726268

txt New York City 's ability to ' borrow money remained relatively good yesterday with the sale of $105-million worth of bonds at 3.975 per cent interest . Three days after the Mayor had submitted the highest executive budget in the city 's history , the Chase Manhattan Bank made the successful bid . The interest rate was six points higher than the rate the city obtained at its last bond sale on Jan. 19 . But in relation to the bond market index , yesterday 's rate was actually better . Once again there was competitive bidding for the bonds , as there was in January . The First National City Bank offered an interest rate of 3.9998 . Buyers ' Interest Revived At the January sale big bond buyers , for the first time in more than a year , had been interested enough in city issues to compete for them . During the earlier period , when the city was forced to borrow money to cover day-to-day expenses , the banks had gone in together with one bid . The interest rate set yesterday was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the rates for city bonds reached the highest point in 34 years . Last summer the Standard &; Poor 's Corporation lowered its ratings for New York City 's bonds from " good " to " better medium grade . " Dun &; Bradstreet 's Inc. , and Moody 's Investor 's Service , the other major investment advisory services had downgraded the city in 1965 . Tight Money a Factor The combination of lower ratings plus a shortage of money for borrowing forced the interest cost to its peak last October . Yesterday 's bond issue will finance a wide range of city programs , from improvements to the rapid-transit system to the construction of schools . The interest rate will cost the taxpayers $32.5-million while the bonds are outstanding . As the chimes in the clock on City Hall struck 11 , Controller Mario A. Procaccino opened the olive-colored tin box in which bond bids are received and withdrew the two offers . Mr. Procaccino smiled and said the interest costs showed again that bond buyers realized that the city 's economy was healthy and that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sale results " a very healthy showing . " " It 's more evidence of the confidence of the business community in New York City , " Mr. Lindsay said . " This is particularly gratifying in view of the general decline in credit ratings other cities have shown recently . " The Mayor was referring to the recent downgrading of the bond ratings of Newark , Cleveland , Detroit and Fort Worth , among others . Moody 's rates New York City bonds with the designation Baa , fourth highest grading on a nine-rating scale . Standard &; Poor 's rates the city 's bonds BBB , fourth ? highest on an eight-rung scale . The city 's comparatively strong credit standing yesterday was reflected in the fact that its interest cost is now only 43 basic points above the index for this week compiled by The Weekly Bond Buyer , a Wall Street publication . The index is compiled from the average rates on 20 issues of taxexempt , 20-year maturity bonds . When the city 's issue was sold on Jan. 19 , its interest costs were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bonds sold yesterday were offered at a time when the total of municipal bonds for sale throughout the country was at the highest level in 15 months . John W. deMilhau , senior vice-president of Chase Manhattan , said the bank had been eager to get the city 's latest issue because the city 's credit remained good and the bank " had continuing confidence " in its economy . " We were aware that the Mayor is planning to spend more than ever and that the city win be borrowing more next year than ever , " he said . " But we expect to resell these bonds quickly . In fact about half of them will soon be gone . " A. bond-market source , who asked not to be identified , said the downgrading of several cities in the last two months was an indication of the financial problems so many of them now faced in clearing their slums and rebuilding their schools .                     