@@727508

txt An Episcopal priest and a lay reader have been barred from the Cook county jail , it was learned yesterday as a controversy developed . Warden Winston Moore said the two men violated jail rules . An Episcopal spokesman said the men " knew too much " about the jail . The two are the Rev. Thomas R. Goforth , 26 , of 1847 Cleveland ay. , and Charles Campbell , 41 , of 5428 Dorchester ay. , an ex-convict employed by the Episcopal diocese as a lay reader . Both had been working with county jail inmates . Looked Like a Hippie Moore said that Father Goforth seldom appeared dressed in priest 's clothing and more often looked like a hippie . He said he ordered the priest to leave the jail in August after being told that Father Goforth violated jail regulations by passing notes and other items between men and women inmates . Moore charged that Campbell was abusive to guards and came to the jail drunk . He also said Campbell smuggled contraband , including liquor and marijuana , to inmates . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide religious counsel , " said James Houtsma , the assistant warden . Wants Confrontation Moore said other chaplains at the jail supported his action and that the Episcopal diocese has refused to assign a new chaplain because " it apparently wants a confrontation . " Father Goforth and Campbell work for St. Leonard 's House , a half-way house for former prisoners , at 2100 Warren blvd . The Rev. Robert Taylor , director of St. Leonard 's , charged that Campbell , who served time in federal and state prisons on 11 criminal convictions , was barred for protesting to Moore that a guard beat an inmate . He said Moore told Campbell , " I 'm running this jail . " Father Taylor said that Father Goforth was barred from the jail for not having control over a meeting of inmates on Aug. 16 . Father Taylor said jail officials contended that some inmates were planning crimes while Father Goforth was conducting the meeting . Much Violence Charged " We might be called upon by events to completely withdraw our chaplains , " said Father Taylor . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The level of violence is high , perhaps higher than under former warden Jack Johnson . " He charged a goon squad of 15 inmates periodically beat up inmates who make trouble for Moors An effort will be made to resolve the differences at a meeting Dec. 19 between Moore , Sheriff Joseph I. Woods , Campbell , and Fathers Taylor and Goforth.                     