@@725030

txt Hong Kong With cessation of the Indo-Pakistani war , Communist China 's aims in Asia appear to have been dealt , a sudden blow . For Peking the cease-fire is seen here as a backfire . Indications are that the Chinese Communist leadership is surprised and dismayed by the war 's halting . While most capitals are expressing satisfaction , Peking 's reaction is a bitter blast at the United Nations Security Council for " conspiring " with the United States and the Soviet Union to " pressure " Pakistan into the cease-fire . Apparently Peking would like the fighting to continue . And the reasons are not difficult to understand . For Peking the Indo-Pakistani crisis had many advantages . It embarrassed all of Communist China 's enemies . And served nobody better than China itself . Border dispute To their credit , the Soviets were among the first to perceive this . And for their part in halting the fighting the Soviets now must expect to bear the brunt of Peking 's ire . Though the Chinese Communist Government continues to rumble and grumble about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; s si ... - Hrmsly like a regime whose bluff has been called . The official Peking People 's Daily commentator " Observer " writes Thursday that the Sikkim border affair is not yet closed . " Observer " says India has evacuated troops which the Chinese declare were on their side of the border . But India " has yet to return the Chinese border inhabitants abducted and the cattle seized . You India are occupying large areas of Chinese territory in the eastern , middle , and western sectors of the Sino-Indian border . This is a question still to be solved . All these accounts must be settled . " Apparently China intends hammering away with its propaganda machine at the whole border question . Question of face But many experts believe the danger of a major clash between China and India is fast receding . In Peking the emphasis of the propaganda machine for home consumption is that India has backed down by demolishing its border fortifications and withdrawing its troops . This is denied by the Indians but looks like a good face-saving maneuver for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many Western experts on China believe events are confirming their earlier predic ton that China would not launch large-scale invasion of India . And that the ostentatious Chinese maneuvering on the Sikkim border was more part of a political and psychological offensive rather than military . While the Indo-Pakistani fighting continued it must have been a good gambit for China to exert additional pressure- , on India perhaps in the hope that that country might be cracked by internal explosion .                     