@@722640

txt Washington , Sept. 9 ? President Kennedy tonight warned both Russia and Cuba that the United States will take the necessary measures to prevent communist aggression or threat of force in the western hemisphere . The President said in a spe cial statement that the Rus ? sians have sent the Fidel Castro regime anti-aircraft missiles , missile-carrying torpedo boats , and about 3,500 Soviet Union technicians to help man this equipment . However , Kennedy said , this Russian military aid to communist Cuba does not add up to a significant military capability . Text of Statement This is the text of Kennedy 's statement : " All Americans as well as all of our friends in this hemisphere have been concerned over the recent moves of the Soviet Union to bolster the military power of the Castro regime in Cuba . " Information has reached this government in the last four days from a variety of sources which establishes without doubt that the soviets have provided the Cuban government with a number of anti-aircraft defense missiles with slant range of 25 miles which are similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these missiles the soviets are apparently providing the extensive radar and other electronic equipment which is required for their operation . We can also confirm the presence of several soviet made torpedo boats carrying ship-to-ship guided missiles having a range of 15 miles . The number of soviet military technicians now known to be in Cuba or en route  --  approximately 3,500 ? is consistent with assistance in setting up and learning to use this equipment . No Evidence of Bases " As I stated last week we shall continue to make information available as fast as it is obtained and properly verified . " There is no evidence of any organized combat force in Cuba from any soviet-bloc country ; of military bases provided to Russia ; of a violation of the 1934 treaty relating to Guantanamo the United States naval base in Cuba ; of the presence of offensive groundto-ground missiles ; or other significant capability either in Cuban hands or under soviet direction and guidance . " Were it to be otherwise the gravest issues would arise . The Cuban question must be considered as a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It must be dealt with as a part of the larger issue as well as the context of the special relationships which have characterized the inter-American system . Warns U. S. Will Act " It continues to be the policy of the United States that the Castro regime will not be allowed to export its aggressive purposes by force or the threat of force . It will be prevented by whatever means may be necessary from taking action against any part of the western hemisphere . The United States in conjunction with other hemisphere countries will make sure that while increased Cuban armaments will be a heavy burden to the unhappy people of Cuba they will be nothing more . " The President 's statement was released by the White House after he held an hourlong meeting with Senate and House leaders of both parties on the Russian buildup in Cuba , the Red outpost only 90 miles from Florida . With the President at this session were Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Secretary of Defense Robert . Senate Republican leader Dirksen Ill. generally agreed with Kennedy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that from a hemispheric standpoint , t h e situations " is a serious matter and is being very carefully watched by all agencies that have particular interest in the matter . " Asked about recent G. 0 . P. criticism that the nation had not been alerted by the administration to the Cuban threat , Dirksen said : " Certainly our intelligence authorities are constantly aware of what is going on , but until this afternoon it was not officially disclosed to the joint leadership of both parties . " Backs Kennedy Approach Another who attended the meeting , Sen. John J. Sparkman D. , Ala. , of the Senate foreign relations committee warned against the United States letting the Cuban situation divert its attention from other world trouble spots . " I rather think that the administration has the right approach to it , " Sparkman said , " watch and be careful . We 've got situations in other parts of the world . Russia turns them off and on as she pleases . " Earlier , Sen. Kenneth Keating R. , N. Y. told the Senate he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in Cuba and that at least 10 more shiploads of Red materials and men are en route there .                     