@@723225

txt Prime Minister Macrmllan began his first counterattack today in the fierce political battle over the security aspects of the scandal surrounding John Profumo . Mr. Profumo resigned as Secretary of State for War last Wednesday . Mr. Macmillan let it be known that he ordered an investigation 10 days ago of whether security had been imperiled by Mr. Profumo 's association with a young model while she was also having an affair with the former Soviet deputy naval attach ? in London . The Prime Minister was represented as being personally satisfied that there had been no security breach . He initiated the investigation , it was said , to try to satisfy Harold Wilson , leader of the Opposition Labor party . Mr. Wilson had previously given the Prime Minister information concerning the relationships of Miss Christine Keeler , 21 years old , with Mr. Profumo and Capt . Yevgeni Ivanov , the attache , who presumably was a Soviet military intelligence agent . He was stationed in London until last December . Reporters Told of Inquiry The reporters who cover Parliament regularly were called in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inquiry . It is being conducted by Lord Dilhorne , the Lord Chancellor , who is head of the judiciary . As Sir Reginald Manningh am-Buller , Lord Dilhorne was Solicitor General from 1951 to 1954 and Attorney General from October , 1954 , until 1962 . He has already interviewed Mr. Profumo , and there was speculation that the interview hastened the minister 's decision to resign . In his letter of resignation , Mr. Profumo , who is 48 and a ; member of a wealthy family ' that owns a leading insurance company , admitted having lied when he told the House of Commons on March 22 that there ' had been " no impropriety whatever " in his relations with Miss Keeler . Poole , joint Dr. Stephen Ward , ( 50 , a so- Conservative ciety osteopath who introduced deleted 11 lines party , and Mr. charges " might be entered against Dr. Ward and that the police feared he would interfgre with prosecution witnesses if freed . The court was told that Dr. Ward said when he was arrested on Saturday : " Oh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nobody will come forward to say it is true . " Tall and slim with a receding hairline , the doctor appeared in court in a brown tweed sports jacket , an opennecked shirt and cotton trousers . The case that Mr. Macmillan will make in a parliamentary debate next Monday became clear from the articles written by the parliamentary reporters . Martin Redmayne , the Government 's chief parliamentary whip , was said in the articles to have confronted Mr. Profumo with the rumors about his relations With Miss Keeler early in February . Mr. Profumo made " forthright and categoric " denials of the rumors up to his statement in Parliament on March 22 , the accounts said . Mr. Macmillan was said to have asked the security services to examine documents about the case given him by Mr. Wilson after Mr. Profumo 's statement . The security chiefs were said to have found nothing in the documents that added to their information or called for further action . Nevertheless , when Mr. Wilson expressed dissatisfaction , Mr. Macmillan ordered the inquiry by Lord Dilhorne , the reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return today from a 10-day golfing holiday in Scotland . He consulted separately with R. A. Butler , the First Secretary of State ; Lord British intervention between ' the Soviet Union and the United ) States during the Cuban crisis . ' , The Foreign Office confirmed that the Earl of Home , the Foreign Secretary , b exchancred correspondence about Captain Ivanov with the Earl of Arran at that time , The letters were published today by The Daily Mail , Lord Arran is a columnist for The Evening News , which has the same ownership as The Daily ? Mail . Captain Ivanov was taken to see Lord Arran by Dr. Ward , the letters disclosed . In his let- , ter to Lord Home , Lord Arran said the Russian 's mission was j " to get , a message to the British Government by indirect means ' asking them to call a summit ' conference in London forthwith . " He quoted the Russian as having said Premier Khrushchev would accept such an invitation . Soviet Called ' On the Spot ' According to Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spot " in . Cuba , could not " give in " to ' United States demands and ; would attack United States missile sites in Turkey if the . United States invaded Cuba . A British call for a summit ' conference , Lord Arran quoted ! Captain Ivanov as having said , ! " would add greatly to her Britain 's I prestige and enable ; the British Government rightly ' to claim credit for having saved the world . " In his reply , do ted Nov. 7 . Lord Home told Lord Arran that he thought the Soviet Union 's purpose was to " drive a wedge between ourselves and our American friends , " and " to test our resolve and to lay a ' bait to our vanity . "                     