@@724993

txt on Washington What 's ahead ... Congress is n't the only one eager to see itself adjourn . So is President Johnson . He has travel on his mind . He is charting trips around the country to report to the people . But he wo n't begin until after Congress wraps up this year 's business and goes home until next session . The President hopes to visit the few states he failed to touch during his 1964 campaign swings . He puts highest priority on jaunts to Hawaii and Alaska . And he intends to make at least one trip into New York City . Washington is about to send a team of businessmen to help stitch up the rip in . relations with Singapore . Last week Singapore 's Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew loosed a salvo of bribery charges against the State Department . One Washington response is to answer with a top-level Commerce Department trade mission . It will set down in Singapore Oct. 21 for a month of visits both there and in Malaysia . Roy Gootenberg , director of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will talk business , mostly how to step up trade in construction equipment , packaging machinery , food processing , and metal equipment . American officials think that is just the sort of talk Singapore wants to hear from the United States . They will watch the mission with high interest and welcome any patching up of political relations it may produce . Trends .. . The White House is , spraying out press releases at a faster-than-usual clip . Over the Labor Day weekend in Austin , Texas , presidential press secretary Bill D. Moyers plied reporters with 38 releases . Some dealt with minor matters the White House ordinarily would n't touch . It is part of a new policy . Mr. Moyers wants to funnel as much as he can through the White House . Each administrative department or agency now must let the White House see all press notices first . Mr. Moyers shortstops those he would like the White House to release instead . He reasons that this gives heightened prestige to department announcements . Besides , it builds the image of a President busily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steals the fire from the lower echelons . It is nice to be mentioned by the President . But often something a department hopes especially will catch the eye of the press gets packed in with 6 or 10 other White House releases , and gets overlooked . Financial problems are picking up speed along the nation 's huge unfinished network of interstate highways . Some states are calling it the great highway crisis . The Interstate system is being built on a matching-funds basis . The federal government puts up 90 percent of the cash and the states 10 percent . Washington and the states launched the joint project in 1956 and hoped to finish it by 1972 . But it is lagging , beset by a lack of federal funds . Funds are trickling in so slowly that some states say they doubt the system . now can be finished on schedule . ( Washington depends on federal gasoline and users taxes for its 90 percent share . ) Some states are spending federal money promised for two years hence . And some are pushing ahead on their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when federal funds finally catch up . How and why ... The kaleidoscope of world events spins so fast , Washington ca n't even keep it properly labeled . Last week steel and Vietnam monopolized attention . This week everybody 's gaze swung toward India and Pakistan , with a sidelong glance at Peking . Events of the week came on with a rush . ' he State Department hurriedly reopened is Operation Center on the seventh floor . ' here , top officials monitor news around he clock and observe strict security . It akes a badge to get in , and a blue-garbed ; ward opens the door with a buzzer . When the first officials arrived at the cener early in the Indian-Pakistani crisis , the . ign on the door still read " Dominican That must have been a dozen crises ago !                     