@@722514

txt New York , June 24 -A . Flight Engineers union strike shut down Eastern Air Lines tight today , halting United States flag air service  --  between such points as New York , Montreal , and Mexico City , and inconveniencing an estimated 30 , - 000 air travelers . Meanwhile , Arthur .1 . Goldberg , secretary of labor , announced in Washington that federal mediators will open bargaining sessions here and in Washington tomorrow . Goldberg , who personally worked out a settlement last week in a related dispute with Trans World Airlines , said representatives of the engineers ' , and Pan American World Air- ' ways would meet in his office in Washington at 9 a. m . IChicago time tomorrow . Lose Million a Day Eastern and representatives of flight engineers on strike at that line will meet at 10 a. m . Chicago time ' tomorrow at the Commodore hotel here . Both meetings will he attended by officials from the national mediation board . As the federal mediation ma ? ' chinery was put into motion , Eastern Air Lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike whist : is costing it a minimum of a million dollars a day in lost revenues . The air line , which carries more than 30,000 travelers a day , also furloughed 17,500 of its 17,906 employes . The payroll for the furloughed employes adds up to some 5400,000 a day . An estimated 30 to 50 per cent of current air travel was disrupted in such major communities as Miami , Washington , Boston , Atlanta , Charlotte , Louisville , Jacksonville , New Orleans , and San , Juan , Puerto Rico . Service to and from Bermuda was cut by 50 per cent . Malcolm A. Mac Intyre , president of Eastern , denounced the strike as one " no air line can resolve . " At issue is a reduction by the air lines of the cockpit crew of jet liners from four to three men . Under the old system , there were three pilots and a flight engineer . The air lines wish to replace the third pilot with a pilot-trained engineer . The Flight Engineers union has fought this move on grounds their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A spokesman for Eastern said the strike was " purely a jurisdictional battle " between two unions . Pan American also was struck by the union yesterday , but the airline went immediately into Brooklyn federal court and two hours later Judge George Rosling halted the walkout with a temporary restraining order . The order is valid until 3 p. m . Tuesday ( Chicago time Judge Rosling said he would hear arguments by the air line and the union at I p. m . Eastern did not move for an injunction and a spokesman said the air line was " sitting tight " after a request last night by President Kennedy that the engineers end their " unnecessary " strike . President Asks Termination In a statement issued in Washington the President said : " Good judgment and even a minimum concern for the public interest require prompt termination of the strikes so that sensible effective mediation can result in an equitable solution . " The flight engineers so far ignored his request , however , and this morning there were pickets outside Eastern facilities at La Guardia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ticket agents on duty at the airports to aid stranded passengers in booking flights on other lines . They were the only Eastern employes working , since the line suspended all operations after the strike began . Pan American . meanwhile . reported all operations returned to normal after the court order was signed .                     