@@724146

txt New York " We can not hope to solve this problem locally any more than Grand Coulee Dam could have been built by the people who live in that area . " This was the comment of Mayor Thomas J. Whelan of Jersey City , N.J. , as he surveyed the damage of two nights of race riots in this north Jersey city across the Hudson from New York City . The toll of the two nights of rioting Aug. 3 and 4 had been about 40 persons injured , including two policemen , two Negroes shot and about 50 stores vandalized or looted . Immediate Problem The plea of the Mayor for long-range antipoverty aid from the federal government came as Mayor Robert F. Wagner of New York reached a general agreement with federal officials in Washington for a broad plan to combat poverty in New York City . The conferences were spurred by Harlem and Brooklyn rioting . The immediate problem in Jersey City as Mayor Whelan described it was " not to let 1 percent of this city rule 99 percent . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope to renew and redevelop itself without federal aid . The city 's ability to match federal grants , he said , is impaired because it now has a statutory borrowing capacity of only S9 million . Police BorrOwed Once the terminal of railroads serving New York , Jersey City has grown poorer in recent yearb-s this service has been curtailed . Railroad service has been replaced by buses , with the result that revenue from the railroads has been cut in half . As a result , Mayor ' Whelan contends the city can not hope to renew and redevelop itself without federal aid . The rioting was touched off the first night when two white patrolmen arrested two Negroes on disorderly conduct charges outside the almost completely ? Negro Lafayette housing development . The second night the trouble began when a group of about 40 Negro youths began hurling stones at autos . driven  --  by white persons . About 300 police participated in the effort to maintain law and order . Policemen were borrowed . from neighboring cornmdnities , but there was no re- quest made for state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.Y . New Jersey GoV . Richard J. Hughes was reported keeping in close touch with the situation . Jersey City has a population of 280,000 , of which about 17 percent is Negro . While Jersey City Negroes were insisting that city officials would determine the future course of race relations in their city by their acceptance or rejection of Negro demands to hire more Negro police and clean-up the areas where they live , the whites were recounting the concessions to the city 's Negro citizens in recent months as anxiety over race trouble lurked in the background . Just last week when Mayor Whelan attended a national municipal convention in Miami , the city 's health and welfare director , Julian K. Robinson , served as the city 's first Negro Mayor . When he was appointed six months ago , Mr. Robinson became the city 's highest Negro appointed official . Minister Fined Most important city boards have one Negro member , including one on the City Council . Prodded by the Congress of Racial Equality ( CORE ) Jersey City recently adopted a drastic policy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ housing authority 's action calls for the moving in of two white families into ev- ery Negro project as vacancies occur . A reverse ratio has been ordered for predominantly white projects . When the CORE demands for more equality in housing were met , officials of the Negro action group said they were hopeful it would go a long way to " cool off the long , hot summer in Jersey City . " But last week the same CORE leader  --  the Rev. Robert Castle , a white minister  --  was fined $25 for dumping trash on the steps of the City Hall . Mr. Castle and his fellow workers said the trash came from the yards and hallways of slum dwellings . City official said it came from a block of slum dwellings that the city already has begin to tear down .                     