@@721641

txt President-elect John F. Kennedy was briefed today by Vice President-elect Lyndon B. Johnson on a missile believed to have been shot into the Pacific by the Soviet Union last night . No details on the briefing were given , Mr. Johnson was at the principal United States testing center , Cape Canaveral , when the shot was discovered by a tracking station in Alaska . The Kennedy-Johnson conference was scheduled without any advance knowledge of the Soviet shot and presumably dealt with broader phases of the space exploration effort . Among them was the assumption of a Kennedy task force that this nation would not be first to send a man into orbit around the world . One of the President-elect 's first assignments for Mr. Johnson was personal over-all supervision of the national space effort . While the ftennedy-Johnson talks were in progress , Mr. Kennedy announced four appointments in the new Administration . As forecast , Elvis S. Stahr , Jr. , president of the University of West Virginia , was designated as Secretary of the Army . Mr. Stahr , 44 years old , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhodes Scholarship , served as an infantryman in World War II , and served as special assistant to Secretary of the Army Frank Pace in 1951 and 1952 . Robert J. Burkhardt Jr . of Titusville , N. J. , was selected as Assistant Postmaster General for Facilities . Mr. Burk- , hardt , a former executive sec-1 retary to Gov . Robert B. Mey-1 ner of New Jersey , has been active in politics since 1948 . He is ' now executive director ' , . of the committee preparing the Kennedy inauguration ceremonies for Jan. 20 . He is 44 years old . The two other appointments were former Democratic Governors who figured in VicePresidential speculation before last year 's convention . George Docking of Kansas was named a director of the ExportImport Bank , and Herschel Loveless of Iowa was named to the Federal Renegotiation Board . Mr. Docking succeeds Hawthorne Arey on the bank , which makes foreign loans to encourage international trade . He has a background in the banking field . Other Calls The Renegotiation Board , on which Mr. Loveless will succeed Donald Ross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business . Mr. Loveless has had business as well as political experience . The President-elect had two other callers today  --  Represent.tives Frank W. Boykin Jr. , of Alabama and L. Mendel Rivers of South Carolina . They joined the luncheon discussion with the President-elect and the Vice President-elect . Mr. Johnson , Mr. Kennedy and the President-elect 's father , Joseph P. Kennedy , later played golf in bright sunshine at the Palm Beach Country Club . It was the first day of good weather Mr. Kennedy had enjoyed since he arrived here on his last visit Tuesday night . Preparing for the inauguration , Mr. Kennedy will leave Palm Beach about noon Tuesday . He will fly to Washington for a pre-inaugural party given by his sister and brother-in-law , Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Smith . Later that night he will fly to New York for a conference Wednesday with Gov . Luis Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico . He will return to Washington late Wednesday . On Thursday , he will have a final conference with President Eisenhower at the White House . Pierre Salinger , Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canaveral from Washington yesterday , toured the installation and was briefed on its activities by Lieut . Gen. Bernard A. Schriever , director of the Air Force Research and Development Command . This morning he was briefed on the Pacific ? missile shot . Mr. Salinger said that intent ? gence officers had given Mr. Johnson all the information available on the shot , but that it was " somewhat mysterious . "                     