@@723134

txt Washington Once more Congress has a scandal about big campaign contributions , this time the disclosure that a lobbyist for Philippine claimants spread tens of thousands of dollars among congressmen in siretooir rinnatinns This week Washington sees the continued desperate effort of political parties to raise adequate funds ; the Republicans are following the earlier example of Democrats of allocating banquet tickets to anyone who contributes $1,000 . No single organizational development would probably change American politics more than the proposal to finance political parties by small , modest contributions , through the encouragement of income-tax exemption . Message to Congress President Kennedy has just sent up another message to Congress urging the step with a proposed model law , and it has widsprcad backing in the academic world . The proposal would vastly strengthen central party organizations because the repository and distributor of the proposed funds would be the Republican or Democratic committee ' at the national and state level . Almost alone among great democracies American political parties have little central discipline and the reason traces back to fund-raising procedure . Most congressmen depend principally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to big business , Democrats not infrequently depending on big unions . Nonpartisan Concern Congressmen come to Washington activated by invisible strings , and many feel free to bolt the national party because they are , in effect , independent agents . " The means by which they ( political parties ) are financed , " said President Ken nedy in his April 30 message , " have troubled thoughtful observers of the political scene for generations , and the concern has been nonpartisan . " It was Theodore Roosevelt , he recalled , who bluntly questioned the propriety of obligating public officeholders to rich contributors . In 1961 Mr. Kennedy nal-red a bipartisan commission of inquiry and it came back with a unanimous report . Now once again Mr. Kennedy asks a sluggish Congress to act on its recommendations  --  a Congress whose reputation , ? observers feel , is beginning to tarnish through a variety of questionable habits . Here is how the proposed program might work : TWO million contributors in the 1964 presidential race might put up S10 each , or a total of $20,000,000 . Exemption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax exemption of $5 each ; in other words , the government would absorb half the cost . Put in another way the Treasury would add $1 ( in tax refunds ) for each $1 donated by the taxpayer . The limit would be S10 . The voter would be utterly free to give to the party selected . The Treasury would need to have confirmation , and the donor would forward the sum either to the national committee of a political party , or to a local committee designated by 1 he national committee to receive such contributions in each state .                     