@@726230

txt the editorial " Dr. King 's Error " ( April 7 ) The Times has , in my ? estimation , committed an error it will want later to rectify and done an unfortunate disservice to a great American and a great . Christian . Perhaps you allowed Dr. King 's harsh charges ( " recklessly comparing American military methods to those of the Nazis " ) to distract you from the main thrust of his action . The objection , however , to his " fusing of two public problems that are quite distinct and separate " has an odd ring to it , coming as it does from a newspaper which has always stressed integrity and the indivisibility of freedom . The two issues are fused in Dr. King because he is a man of peace who said on April 2 : " It would be very inconsistent of me to teach and preach nonviolence . . . and then applaud violence when thousands of thousands of people , both adults and children , are being maimed and mutilated and many killed in this war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society has been shot down on the battlefields of Vietnam " is not because he contests your assertion that " the nation could afford to make more funds available to combat poverty even while the war in , Vietnam continues . " It is rather because he knows that Congress . Will not make more funds available so long as this war continues . Dr. King uses the old Biblical saying : " where ? your treasure is , there will your heart be also , " and maintains that the heart of Congress and of the Administration is in this war . Speaks as Individual The fact that our then new Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare had to spend several weeks of his valuable time in Saigon last spring getting to know the problems of that country when he should have been concentrating on getting to know the vast problems of H.E.W . and the Great Society programs back in Washington is but one case in point . The Times says Dr. King has every right and obligation to explore the ethical implications of the war " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual " that he has spoken out . He has not committed the Southern Christian Leadership Conference as an organization to participate in any action . Moreover , his reasons for speaking out go far beyond his feeling that " the two issues are inextricably bound together " and his insight into " the interrelatedness of racism and militarism . " It is because , as he says , " I love America " and " want to see our great nation really stand up as the moral example of the world . " It is because he wants " to arouse the conscience of the nation . . . so that at least we can move more and more toward a negotiated settlement of that terrible conflict . . . and it is out of this moral commitment to . dignity and . the worth of human personality that I feel it is necessary to stand up against the war in Vietnam . " ? Quite rightly Dr. King insists " the United States must take the first steps , I mean the initiative , to create an atmosphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so lacking in self-confidence , courage and faith that we , in all our might , can not bring ourselves to launch such a crucial initiative ? JOHN P. C. MATTHEWS Princeton , N. J. , April 8 , 1967 ? Civil Rights and War To the Editor : I disagree with your editorial ( April 7 ) which declared that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . ' s linking of the civil rights struggle and the war in Vietnam is an error which will lead to deeper confusion . Our mistreatment of Negroes and our lawlessness in Vietnam are both manifestations of the same self-deceptive kinds of thinking . And they require similar solutions . For three hundred years white Americans have abused Negroes , scorned them for the characteristics which resulted from the abuse , accused them of aggression when they protested and used the protest as an excuse for further oppression . For thirteen years the United States Government has been trying to impose its domination on South Vietnam , increasing the fury of its attack after each failure and blaming the aggression on its Communist opponents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Our children must be raised with a horror instead of a delight in raw violence , and with much more respect for ? laws and for other people 's feelings . Adults and children must learn to do without the dangerous comfort of blaming their own hostility on others . More people and more leaders who recognize injustice must find the courage to speak out against it . I believe that the civil rights and peace movements should cooperate closely in their educational and organization work . Their common aim is to save the world  --  literally  --  by fostering the brotherhood of man . In the long run their greatest gains will come , I think , from patient political organization beginning at the grass roots , within or outside the existing parties . BENTAMIN SPOCK Cleveland , April 10 , 1967 The writer is co-chairman of the National , Committee for a Bane Nuclear Policy . ? Dissent From Charges To the Editor : The Rev. James Bevel tin his letter to The Times April 12 and Dr. Martin Luther King have seriously weakened the potential impact of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which movement Mr. Bevel is national director and Dr. King a major spokesman . By resorting to ill-founded charges that Washington is engaged in " systematic genocide in Vietnam , " and to ill-considered analogies between President Johnson 's actions and those of Hitler , Mr. Bevel and Dr. King have provided the supporters of our present policy in Vietnam with an excellent excuse for turning a deaf ear to the opponents of that policy . Such emotionalism and namecalling as James Bevel and Martin Luther King are resorting to have no more place in a serious national debate than does the unreasoning adherence of the Administration to a policy the bankruptcy of which has long since been demonstrated . Sober Approach Vietnam is an immensely complicated problem which can be solved only through a sober and realistic approach , free from moral crusading against either the bogy of a monolithic world Communist conspiracy or the bogy of a racist murderer in the White House . Many of us who are participating in the Spring Mobilization on April 15 are doing so in the hope that a massive public demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help to bring closer just such a sober and realistic approach to the problem of that country , beginning with the abandonment of the self-defeating attempt to reach a negotiated settlement by bombing North Vietnam . The Rev. James Bevel and Dr. King do not speak for everyone who will be marching on April 15 . Nor are they helping the American public to view the Vietnam war in the light of sober reality , and to compel the Administration to do likewise . SEYMOUR BECKER Assistant Professor of History Rutgers  --  The State University New Brunswick , N. J. April 12 , 1967                     