@@724582

txt It is heartbreaking to realize the degree to which AmeriCans and their government have failed to make their intentions and character clear to peoples throughout the world who ought to be their friends . The evidence does not rest on the bombings and burnings and stonings of American embassies and libraries . Most of these are fomented by a Communist hard core . But not all . In most cases , the Communists are only the core . They are usually able to surround themselves with a great many people who ' . should have gone the other way . The evidence is apparent in the world 's press , and especially in the small publications of local journalists and students . It is nowhere more expressive than in Africa . Many an African returns from his sojourn in the United States  --  whether as a student or traveler  --  with a poignant record of his disappointment , his dislike , his misunderstanding . It would be hard to find widespread genuine sympathy anywhere overseas for the American position and plight in Vietnam . Most goy - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even friendly people , feel the United States has seriously mishandled its problem in Vietnam . They feel that after so many years of involvement , the United States should either have worked out a tolerable solution or withdrawn . It is difficult to persuade anybody of the disinterestedness of American motives . The United States Government is accused either of colonialism or of clumsiness . And the position grows steadily worse . It is. of course , the President of the United States who sets the tone for the American posture and image in the world . President Johnson has been under great pressure in the Vietnam crisis . He could not he expected to explain American policy when that policy was in the very throes of development and execution . Moreover , since his election . Mr. Johnson has seemed mainly to be interested in his domestic program . Now foreign policy has caught up with him . The sequence of events in Cuba , under President Kennedy , is thought-provoking . First came the Bay of Pigs , a tragic blunder . frankly admitted . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The world thundered or sneered its disapproval . Time went on . Came the missile crisis . The President resolutely announced American willingness to face the dangers of global war , unthinkable as they are , unless the missiles were withdrawn . But he was willing to negotiate the withdrawal , through forthright diplomacy . The fortitude and the negotiations worked . Many nations of the free world rallied to the American side . The unaligned nations tended to understand . Communist propaganda made little headway . Fortunately , events in Vietnam may not be at the Cuban missile crisis stage . Unfortunately , the problem is much more complex . Infinitely so . If President Johnson were to issue ultimatums to Peking , he could scarcely hope for the results in Moscow in 1962 . But it has been shown in this decade that mistakes can be retrieved . Let us hope that the time for hold diplomacy in Southeast Asia is near . The American position there must somehow be broadened . The United States alone can not create and support a nation . It must not be drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And it must not abandon the cause of freedom , no matter how misleading the appearances . It must find a better solution .                     