@@722359

txt Denver , March 24 - John M. Bailey . Democratic national chairman , charged today the American Medical association was becoming an ally of the John Birch society in its fight to dedefeat the administration 's medical care . for the aged legislation . Bailey , in a blistering attack at a regional Democratic meeting here , accused the A. M. A. of " selfish , parochial , reactionary tirades against progress . " He said it was spending vast sums of money which would better go toward advancing , medical science . Senate majority leader Mike Mansfield ID. , Mont. attending the same meeting , took a more tempered view in a news conference . Mansfield said the A. M. A. had as much right to express itself as anyone else . He said spending money for lobbying and spending it for improving medical services were both legitimate . But he denied he had any disagreement with Bailey . A. M. A. in Sharp Retort Dr. F. J. L. Blasingame , executive vice president of the A. M. A. , said in Chicago that " those trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country apparently are panicky because there is a growing sentiment against the drastic and unfounded legislation . " They have'resorted to a deliberate campaign to scare the A. M. A. in an attempt to divert attention faun the real issues . We are confident that neither Congress nor the people will be swayed by such tactics . The charge in-itself is too ridiculous to merit comment . " Uses the Birch Brand " The self-perpetuating , bureaucratic dynasty that controls the A. M. A. has stood for years against the social and economic advances that the Birch society stands against today , " Bailey said . " The American people are starting to regard the A. M. A. , the spokesman for a noble profession , as an ally of the John Birch society in a surgical mask . " ' Bailey predicted the administration bill would pass despite the A. M. A. opposition . He said the doctors should give up the fight and start fighting for more and better medical and nursing staffs . A. M. A. Well Financed " The A. M. A. has fought social security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross blood banks , " - Bailey said . " Now they fight a plan Which for a nickel a day out of the pay of working people would provide security against the costliest outlays that impoverish senior citizens . " They are fighting with vast sums of money . They use doctors ' waiting rooms as propaganda forums . They use paid newspaper advertising to misrepresent the facts of the administration 's health proposals . They finance the most expensive lobby on Washington 's Capitol hill . They are building up financial war chests in what will be a vain and wasteful attempt to defeat adequate health care for aged . "                     