@@722094

txt President Ngo Dinh Diem placed South Vietnam in a " state of emergency " today . He took this action a few hours before holding the first of a series of conferences with Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , the head of a United States mission studying ways in which Washington can assist the South Vietnamese Government in meeting the increasingly serious Communist threat . General Taylor arrived here this morning With an eleven-man team of military , economic and diplomatic specialists . They will remain six or seven days for what President Kennedy 's military adviser described as an " across the board " examination of South Vietnam 's critical problems . The South Vietnamese Government announced today that Col. Hoang Thuy Nam , its chief liaison officer with the Internation Control Commission , had been murdered by Viet Cong ( Vietnamese Communist ) guerrillas . disclosure shocked Ithe capital . Colonel Nam was kidnapped by a Viet Cong band Oct. 1 while he was driving near his farm about twelve miles north of Saigon . His body , which a coroner 's report said showed evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about two miles outside the city . Physicians said he had been dead for a week . The decree establishing a state of emergency was signed ' by President Ngo Monday but was not announced until today . The measure , which gives the President power to suspend constitutional processes in any matter affecting security , was ratified by the National Assembly in a special session this afternoon . There is no time limit set in the decree . The increasing gravity of the military situation and the severe problems raised by devastating floods in the southern rice-growing provinces were given as . the reasons for the President 's emergency action . More than 1,000,000 people are In acute distress because of the overflow from the Mekong River . The waters have almost completely inundated three provinces . General Taylor spent two and a half hours with President Ngo this afternoon following a morning-long conference with the United States Ambassador , Frederick E. Nolting Jr. , and other key embassy officials . The meeting with the President was described : as a " preliminary discussion " in which no conclusions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in French . Ambassador Nolting and a few other high-ranking American and Vietnamese representatives were present at the meeting . President Kennedy 's special representative declared on his arrival today that no " assumption " should be made that his discussions here would produce a decision to send United States combat forces to Vietnam . A United States Embassy spokesman indicated that the subject of American troops had not been mentioned in the conference with the President . The spokesman stressed that ' any decisions resulting from the Taylor mission 's talks here , would be made in Washington after the general reports to President Kennedy . He said this included decisions on United States aid for any economic and ' social measures to bolster the Saigon regime against3the Communist menace . General Taylor and President Ngo , who are both 60 years old , talked over a wide range of matters concerning security problems and the economic situation in South Vietnam . " It was a cordial and interesting conversation , " the embassy spokesman said . General Taylor 's party at the meeting consisted of Mr. Noltling , Lieut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Military Assistance Advisory Group here ; Arthur Z. Gardiner , chief of the United States aid mission ; Walt W. Rostow , President Kennedy 's deputy special assistant for national security affairs , Sterling J. CottreU , head of the State Department 's Vietnam task force , and Joseph A. Mendenhall , the embassy political officer . The Taylor group will have a briefing session with the United States military advisory officers tomorrow morning . In the afternoon the General will have meetings with Vice President Nguyen Ngoc Tho , Defense Secretary Nguyen Dinh Thuan and a group of top Vietnamese Army commanders . On Friday , according to a revised schedule , General Taylor and a small group will begin a two-day air tour of South Vietnam that will take them from the flooded Mekong Delta in the south to the cease-fire line separating this republic from Communist North Vietnam .                     