@@728056

txt San Clemente , Cal. , Sept. ** Nixon today ordered an immediate 75 per cent cut in new federal government construction contracts to increase private home building . He notified state and local governments that if they did not follow suit I he would reduce federal construction grants to obtain their compliance . The President said the cutback of new federal construction will continue in effect " until condtions ease " ? that is , until the heavy and inflationary demand for building labor and materials levels off . He said his action " will cause some hardships , " but also will release resources to increase lagging private home building needed to meet demands from the expanding population . He said the cutback " will still permit projects of the highest social priority to be carried forward . " Preview By Agnew Vice President Agnew disclosed the administration 's plans for a sharp cut in government construction earlier this week at the national governors conference in Colorado Springs . Nixon said today in San Clemente , where he is nearing the end of a one-month vacation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become exhorbitant and low and middle income Americans are being priced out of the housing market . He said there is no prospect of meeting the 1968 housing act goal of 26 million dwelling units in the next 10 years if immediate action is not taken to stop steadily rising building costs . 4 Other Actions The President accompanied his 75 per cent cutback directive covering new federal construction contracts , which will affect a wide range of projects from postoff ices to highways , with four other actions : 1 . He appealed to state and local governments to follow voluntarily the federal example with temporary reductions of their own planned public construction . He emphasized that the degree and promptness of state and local response to this request will be watched closely . If the response is inadequate , he warned , he then will cut federal funds allotted to states and cities to help finance this construction . 2 . He called on private business and industry to reappraise building plans and postpone construction not immediately essential . 3 . He directed the labor and health , education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs to produce a substantial increase in skilled construction labor . 4 . He established a cabinet committee on construction to examine federal construction activities " in order to assure that government is not , in its own programs and policies , a major source of problems for the industry . " The new committee will have its first meeting in Washington next week . The President said in a statement that the administration 's objective is to " lay the foundation for orderly market conditions and ample productive resources in the construction industry . " He said that in the next 10 years , demand for new construction could amount to as much as one trillion dollars .                     