@@721029

txt The most extraordinary thing about President Eisenhower 's June trip to the Soviet Union is that it will occur at all . Roosevelt went to Yalta because vital wartime decisions needed to be taken and Stalin claimed he could n't travel . But Eisenhower 's is a peacetime propaganda and negotiating tour , not to an allied land but to our principal adversary . This sets the seal on the century 's outstanding fact : that the United States and the Soviet Union have become the two paramount powers of the world and must deal as equals . We are accustomed to our own vast increase in power and prestige , but it is fascinating to regard the pace of Russia 's advance . Thirtysix years ago , on Jan. 21 , 1924 , Lenin died after a series of strokes that had virtually limited his vocabulary to the muttered words " Lloyd George , " " conference " and 1 " impossibility . " Since then there have been only two effective neoczars  --  Stalin and Khrushchev . Less than four decades since Lenin 's death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' rope and Asia . In 1924 it was a weak nation surrounded by strong enemies . Today it is militarily almost unassailable , politically on the offensive everywhere , allied to a burgeoning China and buffer states both to the west and east . The Soviet Union had a military establishment of 562,967 when Lenin died . Now it has 3,623,000 equipped with the most terrifying modern arms . In 1924 steel production was about 400,000 metric tons . Last year it was over 60,000,000 . When Lenin died , his country had a population of 132,000,413 and a territory of 7,041,120 square miles . The population is now well above 200,000,000 and , thanks to post-war aggrandizement , Moscow rules 7,596,957 square miles . Electric power has risen from less than five billion to over 275 billion kilowatthours . Automobile production was only eight hundred in 1924 . It was 122,000 in 1958 . Oil output rose during that period from 6,954,305 to 113,500,000 metric tons . These striking comparisons show how Russia became a super power and inferentially explain the projected Eisenhower journey . Lenin used to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely there even if socialism lags . Less Vivid Growth Of course , the United States itself has vastly , increased its own productivity and strength during the same period . But the contrast is less vivid . We were already mighty , rich and productive when Russia was still an isolated weakling . Lenin installed his revolution with a tiny minority of agitators but a brilliantly effective , ruthless set of techniques and rules . Stalin , even more ruthlessly , set about making an impregnable base from which to spread this revolution . And Khrushchev uses that base in novel and effective moves for world mastery . It is this contrast between what Lenin 's Russia was and what Khrushchev 's Russia is that so fascinates under-developed lands in Africa and Asia . When they regard the speed of the Soviet Union 's rise they wonder if the suffering and hardships that went with it might not , historically speaking , have been worth while . There are many non-Communists in newly independent countries who are not yet certain the economic programs we offer them promise speedy enough progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them is by accelerating the amount of help offered and increasing our own production to insure that enough can be given fast enough . The challenge is both economic and diplomatic . And we have clearly accepted it . Even on his most limited Russian tour , Eisenhower will see glaring weaknesses in the , Soviet system : transportation , housing , consumer goods shortages and inefficiencies in everyday life . But this is only part of the picture , a part that gradually diminishes in importance . The real strength of the Soviet Union is evidenced in missiles , satellites and a tough , unyielding foreign policy . Eisenhower knows what Russia was in his youth and what Russia is today . By visiting that dynamic land as President he formally recognizes Soviet power and its threat to our own way of life as well as that of other weaker nations which need our help . Those nations have little chance in the coming era of competitive coexistence unless we remain strong enough both to protect and atd them , in concert with our friends .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       