@@721322

txt Former President Truman 's ' denunciation of " fixed conventions " was welcomed today by supporters of Senator Lyndon B. Johnson for President as a possible obstacle in the way+ of the Kennedy campaign . They expressed hope that it would jolt some delegates to the Democratic National Convention into realizing " what 's been going on " and help to ward off an early-ballot rush to Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts . Kennedy forces , on the other hand , asserted that the effect on the convention would be negligible . They said the beneficiaries , if any , would be the Repub-1 lican party and its probable Presidential candidate , Vice President Nixon . Senator Johnson issued al statement implying agreement ) with Mr. Truman 's contention that the convention , opening on July 11 at Los Angeles , was taking on " the aspects of a prearranged affair . " Senator Kennedy , whose candidacy for President was the target of Mr. Truman 's critical remarks , withheld comment . However , he requested equal broadcasting time to reply . Agrees With Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , I agree with President Truman that delegates at the convention should have an opportunity to make a democratic choice of their candidate . Any effort to control the convention and to predetermine the candidate will leave the delegates with a feeling of bitter resentment and will weaken the Democratic party at a moment when it is being called upon to face historic tasks . " I appreciate very much President Truman 's generous words about me and I agree with his estimate that all of the candidates should be carefully considered so that the choice will represent the collective judgment of the whole Democratic party rather than an effort to exclude some part of our country or some group within our population . " Otherwise , the reaction of Johnson and Kennedy partisans here consisted of personal views , expressed privately in the main with the understanding that they did not necessarily coincide with the candidates ' views . A feeling shared by all factions was that Mr. Truman had written off his fellow Missourian , Senator Stuart Symington , as a serious contender for the nomination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Johnson and Adlai E. Stevenson and had conceded the nomination to Senator Kennedy . They based this conclusion partly on the assumption that the former President would not have resigned as a delegate to the convention if he thought Mr. Kennedy could be stopped . Otherwise , they argued , Mr. Truman would have gone to Los Angeles to help hold Symington delegates together in the early balloting as part of a stop-Kennedy movement that must succeed if Senator Johnson or others were to have a chance . Senator Symington issued a brief statement expressing gratification over Mr. Truman 's avowal of continued support of his candidacy . " I am still confident , " the Senator said , " that we will have an open convention and will do everything I can to see that we come out of Los Angeles with a united party for this allimportant election . " Kennedy Aides Report Gains Kennedy backers also said they had made new inroads among delegates favoring Senator Symington since Mr. Truman 's resignation on Wednesday from Missouri 's delegation to the convention . They predicted that Senator Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirtynine-vote delegation after the first ballot . Senator Symington 's strength has been estimated at from 76 to more than 100 votes of the 761 required for nomination . Whether his strength has deteriorated in the last few days is a matter of much speculation in Washington . Some Johnson supporters contended that Mr. Truman 's statement today would have a greater impact on uncommitted convention delegates than the former President might have been able to produce by personal contacts on the convention floor . They expressed belief that Mr. Truman 's remarks would mstimulate discussion and awareess of what they call the " blitz " and " pressure " tactics of the Kennedy campaign . This should help immeasurably , they contended , in warding off an early-ballot rush to the Kennedy ticket . Many Republicans Happy While Vice President Nixon had no comment on Mr. Truman 's statement , other Republicans at the Capitol were frankly gleeful over the implications . Some saw it as an effective rebuttal against allegations that the Republican National Convention had been rigged in favor of the Nixon candidacy , thus leading Governor Rocke- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination . Representative William E. Miller of upstate New York , Republican Congressional campaign cchairman , was among those who promptly endorsed Mr. Truman 's position . " If there ever was a rigged deal , " Mr. Miller said , " the 1960 Democratic National Convention will be one . I would suggest that the television networks bill the Democratic convention , which Harry Truman so charitably termed ' a prearranged affair , " as ' the big pay-off ' and send the bill for sponsorship to Jack Kennedy . " Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , Republican , leader of the House , remarked : " For once I find myself in agreement with Harry Truman . " Republicans generally agreed that Mr. Truman , by stirring an open and potentially bitter conflict in his party , had helped Mr. Nixon more than he had hurt Senator Kennedy . A typical reaction of avowedly neutral Democrats went like this : " The Republicans have their Rockefeller and we have our Truman . ' We 'll just have to live with them . " One widely held impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out Senator Johnson as his choice for the nomination after Senator Symington . It was noted with some interest here that he had put Mr. Johnson at the top of his list of men worthy of the convention 's consideration . Among the others named , Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota remarked that " the podium seems to be a bit crowded . " He said he was nevertheless " pleased " to have been mentioned by the former President . Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee thanked Mr. Truman in a telegram for " your generous reference to me . " He called it " a high compliment . " Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington said he was " flattered " but " obviously not a candidate . " Senator Joseph S. Clark of Pennsylvania said that he , too , was flattered but was not now a candidate for President and did not intend to become one .                     