@@722259

txt Letters to The Times CARLOS PEREZ DE LA COVA , BEATRICE H. HILL , ROBERT MOSES , PAUL L. HARDESTY.PEARL Letters to The Times Venezuela 's Vote in 0 . A. S. Action on Cuba Declared Backed by Various Sectors of Nation r0 THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Reference is made to the letter of Ramon Eduardo Ruiz , Associate Professor of Latin American History , Smith College , published Feb. 6 . I do not wish to enter into any argument about the political status of the countries which voted in favor of the exclusion of Cuba from the Organization of American States at the meeting of foreign ministers at Punta del Este . However , I take issue , in so far as Venezuela is concerned , with his statement that of the Lawn-American countries supporting the United States position on Cuba , ten are controlled either by dictators or traditional oligarchies . I am afraid that Professor Ruiz is a little behind the times on his knowledge of recent history , as he should know by this time that Venezuela held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four parties involved in this election for the President , members of Congress , State Assemblies and City Councils : Ace'en Democratica , the party of President Betancourt ; Union Republicana Democratica , which supported Admiral Larrazabal , former President of the Provisional Junta which ruled the country after the overthrow of Perez Jimenez ; the Christian Democratic party ( COPEI ) , which supported Dr. Rafael Caldera , and the Communist party , which also backed Admiral Larrazibal . The final tabulation gave Betancourt 49.18 per cent of the total votes ; Larrazttbal 34.61 per cent and Caldera 16.21 per cent . Coalition Government The present Government is made up of a coalition of Accidn Democratica and COPEI parties . Ever since the Government took office , all the institutions which characterize a democratic system have functioned freely in Venezuela -- namely , the Congress , State Assemblies , the judiciary , political parties , labor unions , etc . This can hardly be called an oligarchy or a dictatorship . As to the position of the fourteen countries which voted in favor of the exclusion of Cuba from the interAmerican system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of Venezuela the Government had the backing of the two political parties ' of the coalition , the Venezuelan Confederation of Workers and the Fourth Congress of Workers , the press , the industrialists and numerous economic and civic organizations throughout the country . Therefore , the voice of Venezuela in the conference at Punta del Este was the voice of a free nation . I do not believe that the conference of Punta del Este could be called a failure , inasmuch as twenty nations voted unanimously a declaration of incompatibility of Marxism-Leninism with the inter-American system . It is to be regretted that Professor Ruiz recommends patience , understanding and time as a sound policy ; in the meanwhile Communist infiltration would continue making progress in Latin America and carrying out acts of subversion and terrorism , while the nations of the Western Hemisphere would be endeavoring , patiently and understandingly , to find a legalistic interpretation to the way Communist aggression should be fought . CARLOS PEREZ DE LA COVA , Charge d'Affaires ad interim , Embassy of Venezuela . Washington , Feb. 7 , 1962 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ YORK TIMES : Comeback , Inc. , is deeply concerned with the problems presented in Topics on Jan. 22 , and in particular with the fact that child 's play is offered as recreation for aging persons . We share Prof. Abraham Heschel 's conviction that programs for the aged which are derived from programs for children and youth can not contribute to inner strength . We are acting on the recommendation of the 1961 White House conference on aging to develop " * ? activities which , in the psychological sense , do for the person what productive activities ? ? ? do for the person at earlier stages of life . " As part of a project for the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation , Department of Health , Education and Welfare , Comeback is currently exploring new kinds of activity for the aging . A retired folks club in a typical small city is taking part in the project . The club , with a minimum of help from Comeback project staff , is doing an inventory of some of the city 's resources which may provide recreative opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its findings , formulate plans for action , and participate in demonstrating new methods of bringing recreative activity into the lives of their peers in nursing homes and homes for the aged . Comeback believes that with a small amount of the right kind of professional leadership , other groups of retired people can move out of the " back seat " into the " spotlight , " where their experience , skills and intellectual and creative abilities can be exercised and appreciated . BEATRICE H. HILL , President , Comeback , Inc . New York , Jan. 31 , 1962 . Moses Explains Tree Plans World 's Fair President Discusses Parkway Landscaping Problems TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES t On Feb. 5 you carried a letter signed by William J. Fitzgerald . This letter says the Board of Estimate is spending a quarter of a million dollars to buy trees for the World 's Fair while less than ten miles away hundreds of trees are being destroyed to provide space for the widening of Grand Central Parkway . The writer seems to believe that the trees from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park and that this might have resulted in considerable saving to the city in addition to preserving the trees . The facts are that a careful study was made , that everything possible was done to preserve trees both on the fair site and along the parkway . The Grand Central Parkway rightof-way is so narrow that it was not possible to save the trees , and the cost of moving them to the fair would have been greater than the cost of purchasing new ones . The problem of widening Grand Central Parkway would have been much simpler if our advice had been heeded when the parkway was first constructed over thirty years ago . When we urged the then Controller of the city to approve a wider rightof-way , even though it involved the removal of a comparatively small number of houses , he flatly refused . Today we pay the penalty . Restoration Planned The only way to widen this artery is to remove some trees and replace them with additional lanes of concrete . Restoration of landscaping will , however , be assured under a special plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are particularly attractive in the spring and fall , to make up in density , quality and color what can not be fully replaced in quantity . We regard the planting along our parkways as one of our most important tasks . We retain the most competent advice , and exhaustive studies are made so that the appearance of our expressways as well as parkways mill be the best possible . The conditions are not always ideal . The right-of-way of Grand Central Parkway is extremely narrow and can at this late date be made to provide sufficient pavement to carry the traffic only by cantilevering the service roads . This makes the problem of proper landscaping a most difficult one . You may be sure that those who operate in the treetops really know what goes on around the roots . ROBERT MOSES , President , New York World 's Fair 1964-65 Corporation . New York , Feb. 8 , 1962 . Milk Dating Approved To T1 ( 5 EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I disagree completely with your editorial of Feb. 6 and your continued stand against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dating " is a needed protection of retail consumers against unscrupulous and careless retail dealers . Definitely soured milk may be comparatively rare in terms of the volume sold at retail ; but deteriorated and " aged " milk from days of careless , inept or ignorant handling along the line over days is not rare ? quite the contrary . I am all for dating , as I am convinced that it decreases the sale of old and stale milk and fosters the right kind of attention to the handling of milk , even if it costs fractionally more . I am not associated with the labor organizations you mentioned . PAUL L. HARDESTY . New York , Feb. 6 , 1962 , New Animal Hospital Protested TO THE EDITOR OF Tli E NEW Yokx TIMES : I read with horror and dismay the caption in your edition of Feb. 1 announcing the " $4,000,000 Animal Medical Center . " With so many thousands of people in need right here in our city , and so many millions of people all over the world merely subsisting , how can any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling a personal sense of guilt and anger at such a thing ? Have we come to this as a society ? Is it true that we care more for our dogs than for our brothers ? PEARL DAVID . New York , Feb. 1 , 1962.                     