@@723766

txt Governor Rockefeller endorsed in full today the recommendations of the Moreland Act Commission for reform of the liquor laws . The recommendations include the elimination of retail price fixing , which is said to cost consumers $150 million a year . They also call for the elimination of the food requirement for taverns and for ending , over a three-year period , the moratorium on new package-store licenses . In a special message to the Legislature , the Governor said I the recommendations , which followed an investigation , " call for forthright decisions and action . " " The system which has developed under the law during the past 30 years , " Mr. Rockefeller said , " has necessitated individual and subjective judgments 1 ? In too many cases arbitrary , discriminatory and capricious ? thus opening the door to repeated instances of corruption and loss of public confidence . ' Must Act Responsibly ' " Together , we must act responsibly to rectify these errors of the past . The major recommendations of the Moreland Commission are in effect in other states . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control laws , honest enforcement , fairness to those in the liquor business , justice to the consuming public  --  and at the same time an atmosphere of temperance and respect for law . " Governor Rockefeller released the message at a news conference , which was attended by former Federal Judge Lawrence E. Walsh , chairman of the commission . Before the conference was over , Mr. Rockefeller returned to his office for lunch with the Republican legislative leaders . Mr. Walsh said that if the Legislature were willing , the commission would continue for another year to go into enforcement problems , including arbitrary conduct on the part of the State Liquor Authority or others concerned with the liquor laws . Governor Rockefeller appointed the commission last Feb. 15 after corruption in the S.L.A. had been uncovered in a grand jury investigation in New York // County . Besides Mr. Walsh , the commission includes Manly Fleischmann , Buffalo lawyer , and William C. Warren , dean of the Columbia University Law School . Legislation implementing the recommendations is being drafted by the commission and is expected to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation was uncertain today , Most legislators declined to comment on the proposals until they had had a chance to read the bills . Some resentment was voiced because the Governor , by appointing his own investigators , had in effect superceded a similar inquiry into the liquor laws by a joint legislative committee headed by Senator John J. Marchi , Republican of Staten Island . Senator Marchi said his committee would study the proposed legislation and make its own recommendations . ' Free Enterprise ' Asked In recommending the end of fixed minimum retail liquor prices , the Moreland Commission said the system was " at war with the American system of free enterprise . " Prices are now established by the distillers under a 1945 statute intended to prevent favoritism by distillers and wholesalers . The commission found that , as a result , consumers in New York were paying $1 a fifth more for liquor on an average than consumers paid where no price-fixing existed . The least controversial of the commission 's recommendations is one that would eliminate the present requirement that bars maintain a kitchen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present single restaurant license , it is proposed that two types of licenses be issued : one for taverns , where kitchen facilities would not be required , and a second for restaurants . The proposal to end the moratorium on liquor-store licenses is expected to generate strong opposition . Since 1948 the number of package stores has remained at 4,300 . As a result , and because the license now attaches to the premises , liquor stores have been sold for as high as $100,000 and up . The commission proposes that after three years package store ; licenses be issued to any appli-1 cant who can meet the require- , ments for good character and , financial responsibility . Other changes proposed for ; package stores are that they be permitted to sell items other . than wine or liquor , such as soda and other mixers , and that , license renewals be automatic . ' The price of licenses eventually would be related to gross sales . Under the package store proposal , it would be possible for food markets or other merchandising outlets to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would also be possible for a licensee to maintain any number of stores . Now , only one license may be issued to a person . Store Owners Fight Change Lester Bandell , chairman of the Save Our Stores Committee , which represents 863 small liquor retailers in this city , said yesterday that Governor Rockefeller 's recommendations " can prove useful only to the bigmoney interests . " " It is time , " Mr. Bandell said , " that all small businessmen speak up or face , extinction at the hands of economic giants . Can anyone win at a game of table-stakes poker even with $10,000 in his pocket , when the other fellow has $1 million ? "                     