@@725393

txt Jakarta , Indonesia The Indonesian crisis appears to be rush-Lie toward a climax . Amid scenes of sweeping disorder  --  including the seizure by students of the Indonesian Foreign Ministry and a vicious new assault on the American Embassy  --  President Sukarno has issued a rare order of the day warning of subversion and counterrevolution and appealing for loyalty . This came in the midst of a dramatic day March 8 in which thousands of protesting students seized , sacked , and held for more than five hours the Indonesian Foreign Ministry in the heart of the capital . Building ransacked Meanwhile , in another incident , leftist demonstrators stormed the American Embassy , hurled rocks through windows , flung flaming gasoline bombs , destroyed four embassy cars and damaged 16 others , and ripped down the American flag , replacing it with the Indonesian . Reuters reports another crowd attacked the office of Peking 's New China News Agency and ransacked the building , partially burning the roof . The seizure by thousands of students of the Foreign Ministry was the most dramatic event yet in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Invading the ministry at an early hour , the students , both- high school and university , ransacked the offices , throwing papers and files out of windows , smashing furniture , and rendering the ministry unusable . Tear gas used They covered the outside of the ministry with painted slogans and drawings depicting Foreign Minister Subandrio hanging from a gallows . In huge letters painted atop the frontal fa  --  ade of the building was " Headquarters of the Suffering of the People . " Another painted slogan read " Subandrio : Murderer of the Generals . " The students held the ministry more than five hours despite efforts by police and troops to dislodge them . These efforts included use for the first time against the students of tear gas which rendered some of the younger ones unconscious . When finally evicted , the students left the building a shambles with documents , some of them secret , strewn about the surrounding lawns . There was a further melee when other , leftist-student groups rushed to the scene and clashed in a series of fist fights and free-for-alls with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent days . Meanwhile some 200 Indonesians staged a lightning and apparently well-planned raid on the American Embassy not far from the Foreign Ministry . Among them were believed members of Germindo , the youth wing of the extreme left-wing Partindo political party . The raiders swarmed over the embassy 's exterior fence and hurled rocks at the windows , smashing some in both the . main embassy building and an annex next door . Three rocks smashed through the windows of Ambassador Marshall Green 's office , sending a shower of plate - glass across his desk and chair . Mr. Green was not in the embassy but out at lunch at the time . At least one Molotov cocktail was thrown at the main embassy building but did no damage . Slipping around the side , the attackers attempted to fire an embassy store building with gasoline-soaked rags but failed to set it ablaze . Diplomatic car stopped Meanwhile , not far from the embassy , anti-American demonstrators stopped a dip . lomatic car driven by Mrs. Faye Lynch , wife of Cultural Affairs Attach ? Sam Lynch who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her car was set ablaze and gutted . Although the embassy had requested additional police protection , the Indonesian guard proved ineffective . The police fired shots over the raiders ' heads but failed to halt them . Campaign suspected From the flagpole in front of the Embassy the attackers tore down the American flag , raised the Indonesian , and cut the halyards . After the raid an Indonesian employee of the Embassy shinnied up the pole to remove the Indonesian flag . Upon dropping to the ground , he was immediately seized by Indonesian police in military attire carrying automatic weapons . An angry scene followed as the police forcibly removed the employee from the Embassy grounds over the protests of Franz Misch , assistant security officer . " I want that man back here , " and " You can not seize an American Embassy employee , " protested Mr. Misch . But the police drove off with the Indonesian . Ambassador Green , who termed the whole raid " outrageous , " is lodging a " strong protest " with the Indonesian Government . The embassy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story : Page 12                     