@@725789

txt Washington , Sept. 14 ? Sen. Dirksen R. , something of a savior of the four civil rights bills passed by Congress since 1957 , today refused to rescue the 1966 version . The result was that the Senate refused to impose debate limitation of the motion to take up the bill and southern senators , with assists from some Republicans , remain free to talk at length against the measure . Supporters of the bill needed a two-thirds majority of those present and voting to clamp a gag on the opponents . They mustered only 54 votes , 42 from the Democratic side and 12 from the G.O.P. Voting against cloture were 21 Democrats and 21 Republicans . Need Votes He Can Swing Long before today 's voting , civil rights advocates conceded that if they could not win the support of Dirksen , the Republican minority leader , they had little or no chance of imposing cloture . It was not just Dirksen 's own vote that they needed , but those of Republicans they were confident he could swing for . cloture if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the administration 's bill was sent to Congress Dirksen had insisted that its highly controversial fair housing section was unconstitutional , and he said he could not support it . He had taken much the same position with other civil rights legislation , only to end up doing an extensive job of redrafting until a compromise measure was put together that he could support and recommend to his G. 0 . P. Tells President " No " Supporters of the legislation hoped he could be brought around on this year 's bill . He remained adamant , however , and one of the last would-be persuaders to whom he said " no " was President Johnson , who called him to the White House last night in a last-ditch effort . What the Senate voted on this evening was not the bill itself but a motion to limit debate on a motion to take up the bill . The outcome left those opposed free to continue their filibuster against the motion . The filibuster started a week ago Tuesday , but it has been a strange one , with few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call was ended Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield Mont. told the Senate it will stick with the same business it has been on ? civil rights . Later he told reporters that he will decide overnight what to do about withdrawing the bill or taking a second cloture vote . " We 'll think it over and arrive at a decision pretty early tomorrow , " Mansfield said . " I 've got to do a little cogitating and weigh a few pros and cons . " The Democratic leader said that if he does decide to try gain the vote will come Monday . If cloture is tried again and fails it is expected the bill will be laid aside so the Senate can get on with other important business and try for adjournment by the middle of October . That would , in all probability , mean the death of civil rights legislation for this year . The House passed the bill by a vote of 259 to 157 on Aug. 9 . Today 's voting came a few hours after Dirksen made a 70-minute epee &; in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't scare under pressure , and recounted his session with the President last night . " Resonant , Stentorian " He said his reply to the Presidential request for support was " a loud , resonant , stentorian and resounding no . " Dirksen , moving about with ' the support of a crutch , neared ' the end of his 70-minute attack with the assertion that the bill should be shelved for good . He added that he is sure that it will be back next year , but meanwhile there will be the elections and " if the country thinks what I think it thinks there will be some surprise in high places . " ' Dirksen said he is glad that he was in the forefront of the civil rights battles of 1957 , ' 60 , ' 64 , and ' 65 . Refused to Retreat " But this bill is not for me , and last night at the White House I reaffirmed that , and ii there are any Doubting Thomases who thought I would beat a miserable retreat , let them ' get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said there are some people in an undue hurry , " but maybe there are a lot more who are not in a hurry and want to see where we are going . " Among those in a hurry , he said , are ministers , priests , and rabbis who have besieged his office asking him , " How can you do this after what you did for civil rights legislation in the past . " They may say , he went on , " that Dirksen wants to be wooed , coaxed , or is expecting something . " " Would n't Take Anything " " Well , Dirksen is n't expecting anything , and he would n't take anything if it were offered , not even if it were a federal judgeship , " he said . " I am going to carry out my responsibilities . " The senator said there is a movement afoot to disqualify Illinois as a site for the 395 million dollar proton accelerator because Illinois does n't have a fair housing law . " That 's a tubful of money , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozen accelerators if I thought it was going to be a disservice to my country , " he said . Dirksen said he had been urged not to oppose the fair housing title because it would hurt the Republican party . No Time to Explore Bill " Suppose they had said that to Abraham Lincoln , do you think there would be a monument here to him ? " he asked . " What comes first , principle or duty to party ? I do n't want to hurt my party , but I do n't want to commit my party to a miserable surrender for political expediency . " Dlrksen said Sen. Douglas D. , Ill. had testified in committee that the area surrounding the University of Chicago has been successfully integrated and he then put into the record testimony by Dwight Ingle , head of a department at the University of Chicago . Conduct , Not Color " Read what Ingle has to say , and see that there is another question , " Dirksen said . " It is not color but conduct . He said it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the university . Whisky bottles in the streets and alleys , prostitution , rape . We ought to talk about conduct as well as color , " The senator asked his colleagues how they could justify a vote for cloture when there has been no time to explore the bill and note its " hidden gimmicks . " Dirksen wondered if demon-1 strations have become a way of life in the United States , and suggested that the order of the day has become , " If you want something organize , and scare the hell out of them  --  say you will take them to the cleaners at the polls . " Sen. Philip A. Hart D. , Mich. , floor manager of the bill , said he had hoped " up to this moment that the minority leader would see his way clear to let the Senate consider the legislation . " He said Congress should not legislate because of riots , but in spite of them .                     