@@723573

txt Staff Correspondent 0f The Christian Science Monitor Washington No civil-rights law this year . No tax cut this year . That is the present prospect in what has been one of the most unproductive sessions of Congress in the century ; an unproductiveness that could in itself be a big political issue . The , House is likely to pass a civil-rights bill on or around Dec. 1 when it will start all over again in the Senate without the least present likelihood , as Washington sees it , of getting over a prospective filibuster in 1963 . So , for this year , civil rights seems out . The tax-cut , bill has got through the House where it paused for months in the Ways and Means Committee , but now it faces go-slow tactics in the Senate Finance Committee under the benevolent Sen. Harry Flood Byrd ( D ) of Virginia . He is considering it in slow motion . Senator Byrd does n't like the tax bill and feels it should have " full " consideration . Some 170 witnesses want to be heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byrd is putting them through leisurely at about five a day . Hurry ? ? he would n't think of it . Do n't Care ' Mood There is another reason for the tax-cut delay ; Southerners may be able to use it against the civil-rights bill . If a filibuster develops over civil rights before the tax bill is finished , those who want a tax cut will urge that civil rights be dropped . That will please rights-bill opponents fine . All in all , Washington has seen a frustrating 10 months for . the administration . There is a " do n't care " mood in Congress . The single big bill most people think of as passing was the partial-nuclear-test-ban treaty , finally approved by the Senate . Congress is expected to pass a pay boost for senators and representatives , the Cabinet , and the rest of the government except the President . Many observers feel the pay increase is justified , but complain that Congress ought to do more if it gets more . In Britain , a tax-cut bill passed three weeks after it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Kennedy urged the tax cut back in January , with the present prospect that it wo n't pass till 1964 . Much of its effect was stripped off in the House , and it will lose more in the Senate . Indeed , Congress seems poorly equipped as a quick , flexible instrument to deal with economic changes .. Of the 12 regular appropriation bills , Congress has so far passed only four . The delay is making it difficult for many departments and bureaus to budget ahead . President Truman got reelected by denouncing a " do-nothing " Congress , Voters generally seem to weary of a negative ' Congress and to take sides with the executive . But Mr. Truman 's target was a Republican Congress ; President Kenendy 's tacit opponent is a Congress which Democrats control almost two to one . Brak lug Aei ion Mr. Kennedy still accepts the dogma that all is well in his Congress , and that its ultimate record will be good . This hope is wearing thin , however , particularly with the two " must " bills , civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't govern " ; it could have some weight with voters . Aside from politics , however , the larger question is whether the institution of Congress itself is adequate to the modern age . Emphasis on Congress is on brakes , not acceleration . Defenders of Congress say it is not efficient but that this does n't matter because it was created to keep watch on the executive . Conservatives arc not unhappy over a sluggish Congress . " We have plenty of laws already , " they say . President Kennedy has n't tried very hard to rouse the public for most of his bills , but negotiated within Congress itself . Unless the public ' really shows Congress it wants new measures the legislature is not likely to move very fast .                     