@@724846

txt WASHINGTON , June 14 ? Nonfarm employment rose above 60 million last month for the first time , the Labor Department reported today . The number of employes on nonfarm payrolls moved up in May by about 470,000 , to 60,014 , - 000 . This was 150,000 more than the seasonal expectation . The figure was about 2.1 million higher than a year earlier . Most of the month 's increase was accounted for by greater than seasonal gains in all the service-producing industries , except Federal employment . Employment developments in the goods-producing industries ? manufacturing and construction , primarily  --  were close to the normal seasonal pattern , the Bureau of Labor Statistics said . ' The factory work-week rose in May by half an hour to 41.2 hours , the highest level for any May in the period following World War II . The figure represented a rebound from April , when hours were surveyed during the week before Easter . Not much overtime was worked on Saturday of that week . After adjusting for seasonal factors , the bureau said , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 40.9 hours posted in April , it was below the 41.4 level of March , 41.3 of February and 41.4 Of January . Hours were unusually high during the first three months of this year because the automobile industry was still producing at an exceptional level to meet demand that backed up during the strikes in the fall . The steel industry was also producing to meet the demands of users stockpiling as a hedge against a possible strike . Weekly Earnings Up Thus , bureau experts said , it is too early to attribute any significance to the fact that factory hours in May did not get back to the March level . If the work-week goes down in succeeding months , however , it might be significant . Factory hours are a " leading " indicator . They ordinarily move up or down in advance of other major indicators of economic activity . The rebound in hours and an increase of 1 cent in hourly earnings to $2.61 caused average weekly earnings to increase to a record $107.50 . This was $4.50 more than a year earlier . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had dropped in May to 4.6 per cent ? the lowest level since October , 1957 . Most of the reduction in unemployment oc- , curred among the long-term jobless ? those who had been looking for work for 15 or more weeks . The number of long-term jobless moved down during May to 800,000 , a reduction of 300 , - 000 over the year . In its monthly report on the labor force today , the bureau included a special analysis of this reduction aimed at ascertainingwhether it was be-1 cause men and women were finding jobs or simply getting discouraged and giving , up the ! ' hunt . Its conclusion was thatil they were finding jobs , not ' leaving the labor force . This was indicated by the fact that the reduction in longterm unemployment was heavily concentrated in certain " crucial adult worker groups " ? men in manual occupations , for example ? where employment was increasing rapidly , the bureau study said .                     