@@722765

txt Action on a proposal to provide state support for a birth control program was postponed by the Illinois Public Aid commission yesterday after a stormy two-hour meeting . The commission voted to hold public hearings on the issue , an unprecedented action in the history of the IPAC . Members took the action after an unsuccessful effort by Arnold II . Maremont , commission chairman , to force the members to a vole on whether to supply birth control medications and devices to women on relief . Lorenz Cites Expense " I do n't understand the rush to push dint this proposal which deeply affects the whole society and which will cost a lot of money , " said Francis S. Lorenz , state treasurer and commission member . This is not a planned parenthood problem , " he said . " It is a moral problem and I do n't see why we should pay for subsidizing the illegal activities of women on relief . " Outside the meeting , several other members who asked not to be named voiced the same objections to Maremont 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . William L. Rutherford , who led the fight to postpone the issue and hold hearings , cited the great public interest which , he said , has been shown in the proposal . " Short Notice " Hit " We can not pass upon a thing of this magnitude on such short notice , " he said . Members had not received copies of Maremont 's resolution until just before the meeting . Rutherford said he is in favor of some form of policy on birth control , but wanted time to study the proposal for possible changes . Other members publicly in favor of a birth control policy are Daniel Walker and Samuel A. Goldsmith , vice chairman . Members who ehressed opposition to any birth control policy are Michael J. Howlett , state auditor , James Cleary , and Lorenz . Three members are uncommitted . Set Time for Hearing Voting against postponement were Maremont , Walker , and Gen. Richard Jones . All three recently were appointed to the commission by Gov . Kerner after the commission had defeated Kerner 's attempts to cut relief payments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the termination of the special legislative session called for Monday by Kerner to appropriate enough money for IPAC expenses thru June , 19 ( 13 . The first hearing will he held in Springfield and the second in Chicago . The commission approved the allocation of 24.6 million dollars for welfare expenditures during November . What Proposal Contains Under Maremont 's proposal the commission would pay for birth control devices when they are requested by the mother . The proposal also contains two other clauses : 1 . No caseworker shall be required to implement this policy by referring mothers requesting family planning help to a physician if doing so violates the caseworker 's conscience . 2 . Directing or urging any recipient to seek family planning advice or assistance is a violation of commission policy and shall be grounds for dismissal . In asking for an immediate vote on the proposal , Walker charged that the decision to hold public hearings was a " delaying action to bury the issue . " The commission also failed to pass a resolution by Cleary to ask the state 's attorney to prosecute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolls who are under 18 years of age . The vote was 5 to 5 . Officials from the state 's attorney 's office said they would investigate any such cases reported to them by the IPAC where there is sufficient evidence to insure conviction . Roswell T. Spencer , chief investigator for time state 's attorney 's office , yesterday assigned an investigator to determine if any criminal action can be brought against the father of a boy born Oct. 16 to an 11-yearold girl . The father reportedly is 16 years old .                     