@@724511

txt Washington President Johnson 's defense message to Congress promises powerful new weaponry coupled with a budget in which over-all costs dip slightly . The defense-spending cutback is more than expected . It will run about $49 billion for fiscal 1966 , and about 549.3 billion for fiscal ' 65 instead of $49.8 billion as had been expected . These figures compare with $51 billion for fiscal ' 64 which ended last June . He also reported work on a more powerful and accurate ballistic missile , the Poseidon , that will have eight times the destructive capacity of the most advanced Polaris rockets . It will ultimately cost about $2 billion but provide a new weapons system for the underwater fleet . Lower Costs The message also disclosed : ? That defense expenditures will represent a declining portion of the gross national product . With arms costs declining and the GNP going up about 5 percent a year , that leaves an increasing amount of the GNP for domestic projects , education , housing , welfare , etc . ? Development of a new air-launched SRAM ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 2 's and other planes if needed . Its 150-mile range is 10 times or more that of the Bull-Pup air-to-surface missile now being used by the Air Force and Navy . ? In guarded reference , work on a . series of ' ' remarkable new payloads for strategic missiles " to increase their effectiveness " manyfold . " One missile , it was indicated , would have the capacity to report back whether a war head had landed on target or not . References to what was happening in Laos and Vietnam were slight . The situation was explained much as it has been for months in official repurts . Pledges Repeated " The problem in Laos is the refusal of the Communist forces to honor the Geneva accords .... The problem of Vietnam is the refusal of Communist forces to honor their agreements . " But the President repeated previous pledges : " We shall continue to honor our commitments to Vietnam . " Much of the message dwelt on what one can call old news , impressive enough , but still not " fresh " news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military power , its " indisputable margin of superiority " over any enemy  --  with specifics on ballistic missiles available , bombers on hand , airlift capacity , special forces , etc . Funds Refused For the first time in four years , the defense budget included no sum for a fall-out shelter program , something that the White House holds is absolutely essential for any defense against intercontinental ballistic attack . The apparent reason it was not in this year 's budget was that Congress for three years has refused to vote funds for such a program , and the administration decided not to ask again . Incidentally , leaving out such a program helped trim the defense figure down to the $49 billion low . Further details on the defense program will show up in the budget . message , and even more so when Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara goes before Congress to explain and justify the full program .                     