@@721337

txt Senator John F. Kennedy reaped a rich harvest of delegate votes today and- virtually nailed down the Democratic Presidential nomination . With the formal opening of the national convention twenty hours away , the prospects of a first-ballot victory for the young Massachusetts Senator mounted on the strength of these developments : CGovs . Edmund G. Brown of California , Herschel C. Loveless of Iowa and George Docking of Kansas , favorite-son candidates for the Presidency , formally endorsed Senator Kennedy and promised him the overwhelming majority of the 128 votes pledged to them . Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago delivered fifty-nine and a half votes from Illinois ' dele ? gation of sixty-nine votes t4 the Kennedy camp . ( Wormer President Harry S. Truman virtually conceded defeat of the " stop-Kennedy " forces . He reinstated an earlier decision to boycott the Los Angeles convention . His explanation was that he could not " lend his name " to the expected outcome of the Presidential contest . 2 Rivals Still in Fight The camps of Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas and Stuart Symington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it was obvious that the " stop-Kennedy " movement , suffering from early and pronounced political fatigue , was running out of steam . And the clincher could come tomorrow morning from Pennsylvania 's eighty-one-vote uncommitted delegation , led by Gov . David L. Lawrence . That state may give front ' forty-five to sixty of its votes to Senator Kennedy if Gover-j nor Lawrence , as now indicated , attempts to give the rolling Kennedy bandwagon the final : And decisive shove . At . first , the California Gov- ; // 3 GOVERNORS AID SENATORS DRIVE Docking and Loveless Also Drop Favorite-Son Roles to Support Bostonian // governor declared that the 81-vote delegation pledged to vote for hint mita released now was free to exercise " independent judgment . " But later he said this , did not mean necessarily that he would not be placed in nomination for at least a complimentary vote on the first rollcall of states . A poll of the California delegation to show the strength of various major candidates was put off until Tuesday afternoon over the objections of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the Kennedy strength to the greatest possible total before an official count was made . The big break of the day was Governor Brown 's long-forecast endorsement of Senator Kennedy . However , its exeact meaning in terms of first-ballot ' strength was not clear . Gov . Herschel C. Loveless of Iowa told his twenty-six vote delegation that he was for Senator Kennedy and the other delegates would be free to switch immediately after the initial roll-call . Voting in public , Governor Loveless then led the Iowa delegation in a poll that gave Senator Kennedy 161/ ? ! votes , Senator Symington 4 , Senator John ' son 2 , Mr , Stevenson 2 , with 1 ; ; , , votes absent . Loveless Explains Stand Governor Loveless , who carefully had avoided any public commitment before today announced his hacking of Senator Kennedy with these words : " I do n't propose that you or I spend our time and effort to be on the side of a loser . " Among the Northern favorite sons whose candidacy might have stood in Senator Kennedy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued as a hold out . The " stopKennedy " group had tried vigorously to persuade all the favorite sons to remain in the competition not alone for one ballot but also for several , if possible . But Governor Meyner 's position in his own forty-one-vote New Jersey delegation was shaky , and it seemed probable that the overwhelming majority Would jump to Senator Kennedy at the first opportunity . With Governor Docking 's forplat withdrawal , Kansas with twenty-one votes was claimed in its entirety for Senator Kennedy under the unit rule . Governor Docking said the Massachusetts Senator now looked to him like a " shoo in . " To the surprise of sonic , the thirty-three-vote Georgia delegation withheld at its caucus today an expected endorsement of Senator Johnson . But Gov . S. Vrnest Vandiver insisted that . the state was not deserting the Texan , but simply had delayed action . The betting tonight was that Governor Lawrence would wind up backing Senator Kennedy , and bring with him perhaps as many as sixty Pennsylvania votes . Even if Governor Lawrence does not come out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty to fifty votes in Pennsylvania . Despite these obvious gains , Senator Johnson continued to insist that Senator Kennedy was certain of only about 600 votes on the first ballot , and " is real desperate about the other 160 . " Seven hundred and sixty-one votes are needed for victory at the convention . Asked if he still thought a coalition could be formed to stop Senator Kennedy , the Texan said Senator Kennedy had been stopped since his primary victory in West Vir-ginia , But many Southerners , although favorable to Senator Johnson 's cause , were beginning to concede that he could not make it .                     