@@725594

txt Chief Justice Warren For the majority : ' incommunicado interrogation is at odds with one of our nation 's most cherished principles ... ' By Robert Calm Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington The Supreme Court of the United States has cut another wide swath in the tangled growth of criminal court procedure with a controversial landmark decision on admissibility of confessions . To the civil libertarians , the 5-4 decision on what has been called the second round of Escobedo cases marks a needed breakthrough to give criminal suspects more safeguards and to insure their rights against self-incrimination . Abuses cited To most of the law-enforcement profession and to the court minority led by Associate Justice John M. Harlan , the ruling indicates added roadblocks in efforts to prosecute the guilty and cut down on crime . Before a chamber full of vacationing Washington visitors unaware they had happened in on one of the most significant cases of the 1965-66 term , Chief Justice Earl Warren set forth the majority view . He spoke with unaccustomed vigor , reading and explaining parts of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to emphasize a point . As a basis for guidelines to apply to all courts and to all defendants , rich and poor , the Chief Justice cited instance after in* // By a staff photographer Associate Justice Harlan For the minority : ' a hazardous experiment at a time when the crime rate ... is a problem of growing concern . ' *Police confession decision : safeguard or handicap ? // stance of police abuses and coercion in obtaining " voluntary " confessions .. The new court rules provide that each suspect must be warned , prior to any questioning , and during continued questioning , that : ? He has the right to remain silent . ' ? Anything he says can be used against him in a court of law . ? He has the right , if held for interrogation , to the presence of an attorney . And if he can not afford it , one will be appointed for him prior to any questioning . ? After these warnings have been given and opportunity of counsel offered , the individual may " knowingly and intelligently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a statement . But the burden rests on the government , when it submits a confession in a trial , to demonstrate that the defendant knowingly and intelligently waived these rights . The Chief Justice admitted that the Escobedo case had produced " spirited legal debate " and varying conclusions in state and federal courts over the last two years . On a June day two years ago , in another 5-4 decision , the court had reversed the Illinois murder conviction of Danny Escobedo because police prevented him from seeing his lawyer before confessing . Sustained interrogation Whereas the Escobedo case had been decided mostly on Sixth Amendment constittitional grounds ( the right to have the assistance of counsel ) , the majority now based its decision on Fifth Amendment grounds ( no person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself ) . The four cases included in the decision had in common the fact that the defendants made confessions preceded by one or more periods of sustained interrogation while held incommunicado at a police station . None of the defendants had yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to the confession , none had yet appeared 13-fore a magistrate or other judicial officer . The record did not show that overt physical coercion or patented psychological ploys had been used in these cases , as had been present in other " horror " police interrogation situations related by the Chief Justice . " The fact remains that in none of these cases did the officers undertake to afford appropriate safeguards at the outset of the interrogation to insure that the statements were truly the produce of free choice , " he said . " New findings not present in the Escobedo ruling are the requirement for a court-appointed counsel if questioning is to take place , and the determination of the point where the accusatory process begins . This is when the individual is first subjected to police interrogation while in custody at the station or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any way . " The Chief Justice added that general onthe-scene questioning as to facts is not affected by the holding . And truly volunteered statements are likewise not changed . The new rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation , he said . Mr. Justice Harlan spoke for all four dissenters , due to a shortage of time . He was both eloquent and scathing in attacking the majority for its lack of constitutional basis and the unfortunate timing of " this hazardous experiment . " The cases of coercion by police that had been presented by the Chief Justice were corrected by the courts under the due process clauses of the Constitution , Mr. Justice Harlan said . The Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination precedents does not sustain the present rules . The decision means a gradual disappearance of confessions as a legitimate tool to enforcement , he said . It paints a black picture of police brutality , whereas the cases which reach the Supreme Court are exceptions . He said the new confession rules had ironic untimeliness , coming while a massive reexamination of criminal law-enforcement procedures is being undertaken by the American Bar Association , the American Law Institute , and the President 's Crime Commission . New vercion ' " Nothing in the letter or the spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one-sided action that is so precipitously taken by the court in the name of fulfilling its constitutional responsibilities , " he said . A written dissent by Associate Justice Byron R. White , joined by Mr. Justice Harlan and Associate Justice Potter Stewart , was equally sharp . " There is every reason to believe that a good many criminal defendants , who otherwise would have been convicted on what this court has previously thought to be the most satisfactory kind of evidence , will now , under this new version of the Fifth Amendment , either not be tried at all or acquitted if the state 's evidence , minus the confession , is put to the test of litigation , " said Mr. Justice White , former United States Attorney General . " I haVe no desire whatsoever to share the responsibility for any such impact on the present criminal process , " he added . Associate Justice Tom Clark 's dissent in the three main cases said the majority " goes too far on too little , while my dissent . ing brethren do not go quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his opinion by Associate Justices Hugo L. Black , William 0 . Douglas , William S. Brennan , and Abe Fortas . This is the same lineup as in the Escobedo case , except for Mr. Justice Fortas , a newcomer to the court . The fifth member of the majority in the 1964 case was Arthur J. Goldberg , who delivered the opinion . The immediate reaction to the decision from expert observers here is that it will be less decisive than assumed by the majority and less harmful than predicted by the dissenters . It is pointed out that the Supreme Court did not specify how lawyers were to be made available to those who requested them . Nor is the request for counsel compulsory except when a suspect is to be questioned . Ouestion of credibility The practical effect will be to eliminate interrogation if a suspect says he wants a lawyer . This could have a large effect in housebreaking and robbery crimes , the hardest on which to get convictions without confessions . A key area for litigation now may be whether or not a suspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confessions are introduced as evidence , it may still rest , as it often does now , on the credibility of the confession . " What the court has done , ' 1 says one expert , " is to move the battleground from the issue of self-incrimination to the issue of whether or not the defendant waived his rights . " The actual effect on law enforcement can not be determined until the new rules have been tried out . A major secondary effect of the decision may he confusion and demoralization in the ranks of law-enforcement officials who feel they have been degraded as a group for the activities of a few of their members . Still to be decided are two additional confession cases dealing with the retroactive effects of the Escobedo case and also possibly of the guidelines set forth in the new decisions . These cases are expected to be decided next Monday , the final day of the current term .                     