@@727785

txt Alexander Dubcek , the Communist party chief , was reported today to be going to Moscow for talks on changes expected this week in the Czechoslovak leadership . There was no official announcement of the trip , with some sources saying that he left today and others reporting that he will go tomorrow . They agreed that he would return to Prague in time for what is looming as a crucial Central Committee meeting on Thursday . The leadership is expected to yield to Moscow 's demands that some progressives be removed from the ruling Presidium . Among those who appear certain of demotion , sources said , is Josef Smrkovsky , deputy chairman of the National Assembly . The expectation today among progressive forces is that Mr. Smrkovsky , and some others , would be eased out of positions of power by a reorganization of the ruling Presidium . As described by these sources , the plan under consideration is to abolish the Presidium 's inner Executive Committee of eight , including Mr. Smrkovsky , and then reduce the number of members of the Presidium itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this succeeds , the smaller Presidium would consist essentially of " realists " who recognize the need for concessions to the occupying Russians . It was also understood that party officials were drafting a resolution that would indirectly acknowledge that " counterrevolutionary forces " existed in Czechoslovakia at the time of the Soviet-led invasion in August . a charge made by Moscow to justify the invasion . The leadership has balked in the past at endorsing the allegation . But now , sources reported , the . resolution under study would  --  state that such " counterrevolutionaries " were in evidence at the time of the antiSoviet outbursts on March 28 , when the latest crisis began , and the resolution is reported to say that the situation last month was developing the same way as before Aug. 21 , the day the five Warsaw Pact countries invaded . Attack on Leadership The adoption of such a resolution could lay the groundwork for an attack on the leadership for alleged weakness , if not for not countering antisocial ? st forces . Just how far the progressive leadership crumbles at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dubcek . He could be flying to Moscow-to save what he can , or , in the view of observers , he could be merely told what to do . There clearly remains a large element of doubt in trying to predict the outcome of the Central Committee meeting , despite the conviction among the progressives that major changes seem inevitable . The committee has 180 new members , with : perhaps an equal number of extreme progressives and extreme pro-Moscow conservatives . The uncertainty stems from the number of members in the middle who could lean in either direction . But the disheartened progressives were openly predicting the worst . They feel the centrists in the committee are more likely to agree to some changes in the leadership to appease Moscow . Progressives Gloomy Deepening the gloom of the progressives has been the way the Soviet press recently has handled the crisis . First came implied praise for the speech last week by Gustav Husak , the Slovak party chief and a Presidium member , who criticized the leadership for giving too much scope to antiSocialist forces . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Dubcek leadership by . Janos Kadar , the Hungarian party chief . As the reports circulated of Mr. - Dubcek 's trip , it was officially announced that Marshal Andrei A. Grechko , the Soviet Defense Minister who arrived here three days after the antiSoviet rioting had departed for home . The marshal had helped in applying pressure on the leadership by arranging two Warsaw Pact exercises involving troops of Czechoslovakia and some of her invaders . The first maneuvers took place March 30 to April 4 and the second series began today . Most Czechoslovaks are now convinced that more Soviet troops are arriving as part of the cost of their demonstrations . One source estimated that the additional troops would total about 30,000 , bringing Soviet forces to close to 100,000.                     