@@723029

txt Singapore Peking and Moscow have launched a propaganda attack on the proposed creation of a " Greater Malayasia " in Southeast Asia . Long silent about this controversial issue , Communist China and ' the Soviet Union have suddenly started blaming the United States for promoting formation of this new state . Thus Peking on Tuesday featured a speech in Jakarta by the Chairman of the Indonesian Communist Party , D. N. Aidit , charging that the United States is behind the creation of Greater Malaysia as a " quarantine station " against the socialist , countries of Southeast Asia . The Chinese broadcast cited Mr. Aidit as saying : " The plan for the formation of Malaysia is not only aimed at countering Communist China , North Korea . and North Vietnam , but it is also aimed at encircling the Indonesian Republic , which abides by a policy of independence and of opposing aggressive military blocs . " " Greater Malaysia , " which would be named more formally the " Federation of Malaysia , " would link independent Malaya with four British dependencies  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Speculation Stirred Its formation is being bitterly opposed by Indonesia and the Philippines , each of which declares its security would be menaced by such a development . ? The Chinese radio attack comes at a time when a statement by Sen. Mike Mansfield and other American declarations have raised speculation concerning the United States ' future policies in Southeast Asia . The British have a military commitment to aid Malaysia should the need arise , but all the United States has vouchsafed so far is President Kennedy 's blessing on the development , which he rates as potentially beneficial . The Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravada has been saying : " The struggle against Malaysia , this creature of neocolonialism , became particularly tense after this cunning invention of London got unqualified support from the United States imperialists and then the ruling quarters of Australia . " To radio broadcasts in this part of the world there now is added the extremely fierce " Voice of the Freedom Fighters " of British North Borneo , Sarawak , and Brunei . In Brunei there was an uprising last December by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Greater Malaysia . " The British quickly suppressed it with troops flown in from Singapore , and the position today is that only a few insurgents are still at large in the , jungle . Claim Rejected The Philippines Republic , which lays claim to being the rightful owner of British North Borneo ? a claim rejected by the British  --  has been pressing for a " Southeast Asian summit conference " between Philippines President Macapagal , Indonesian President Sukarno , and the Prime Minister of Malaya , Tunku ( Prince ) Abdul Rahman . President Sukarno has made it known he is willing to attend such a meeting , and efforts are being made at an official level to bring it about . Meanwhile , preparations are proceeding for the amalgamation that would bring Greater Malaysia into being . The target date for its inauguration is Aug. 31.                     