@@726581

txt Christians of nearly all communions in the Chicago area prayed and sang together last night in an unprecedented service of Christian unity . Approximately 7,000 persons gathered in the International amphitheater to proclaim that the faith which unites them is stronger than the factors which divide them . Dr. Arthur Michael Ramsey , archbishop of Canterbury , the principal speaker , told the congregation that the world must hear anew Christ 's plea for peace . Must Ask Forgiveness " Man must start on the path to reconciliation by asking first for the forgiveness of God , " he said . There is no greater cause to which Christians can dedicate themselves , the archbishop asserted , than to the cause of peace thruout the world and justice and mercy for all men . Dr. Ramsey was welcomed to Chicago by John Cardinal Cody , Roman Catholic archbishop of Chicago ; Bishop Gerald Francis Burrill , of the Chicago Episcopal diocese ; Archbishop Iakovos , head of the Standing Committee of Orthodox Bishops in the United States and primate of the Greek Orthodox church in North and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , executive director of the Church Federation of Greater Chicago . Mayor Expresses Hope Mayor Daley also welcomed Dr. Ramsey and expressed ' the hope that the spirit evidenced in the service could grow in the years ahead . The service was sponsored by the Church federation , the Chicago Roman Catholic arch ? diocese , the Chicago Episcopal diocese , and the Chicago area Orthodox churches . The Rev. W. Barnett Blake more , president of the federation and dean of Disciples Divinity house at the University of Chicago , headed the arrangements committee . Leaving City Today Dr. Ramsey will leave Chicago today for Little Rock and then go to Seattle to address the general convention of the Protestant Episcopal church Sunday night . Today he will attend a service at 9:30 a. m. in St. James Episcopal cathedral , 649 N. Wabash ay. , and speak to clergymen of the Chicago Episcopal diocese and their wives at a breakfast in the cafeteria of Holy Name cathedral . Cardinal Cody , in his greeting to the primate of the Church of England , spoke of the contributions Dr. Ramsey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among all Christians . Speaking of the re ligious atmosphere in Chicago Cardinal Cody said , " Certainly here a bridge is being built between the Anglican and Roman Catholic communions . We have prayed together , we are planning together , and we are working together . "                     