@@723470

txt Barry Goldwater FR. , Ariz. told the Senate today that he had been warned that he was committing political suicide by opposing the treaty of Moscow . " If so , I commit it gladly , " he said . " It is not my future that concerns me . I will vote against this treaty because in my heart , mind . soul and conscience , I feel it detrimental to the strength of my country . " Goldwater , a leading tho undeclared candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination next year , lined up with Sen. Frank J. Lausche ID. , 0.1. who earlier had joined the small band of opponents of the nuclear test ban pact . " A Political Ambush " Opponents dominated the ninth day of debate of the treaty which binds the United States , Russia , and Great Britain not to conduct nuclear explosions above ground or under water . Goldwater called the treaty " a political ambush , baited by the necessity of the soviet to ease the many pressures upon its tyranny . " " I share the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom to salve the wotinds of tyranny , " he asserted . The treaty , he charged , will erode the military strength of the United States , which has been " the shield of peace " in the world . " It will preserve the enemy 's advances in high-yield weaponry while freeing them to overtake our lead in lowyield research , " he said . " We pay a price ; they do not . " Time Bomb Ticks Closer Goldwater derided the " promises and assurances " given to the Senate that , American security will not be weakened . He put into the record a scientific study revealing the " catastrophic effects " of multi-megaton nuclear blasts on the electronic circuits of missile systems , noting that Russia alone has tested such huge bombs and that the treaty prevents this country from testing them in the future . " The door is closed by this treaty on our testing of devices with a yield of 80 to 100 megatons which have been tested by We soviets . " he said . " The treaty will close the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capability . " Every day that the time bomb of communist treachery ticks closer to detonation , remember that the joint chiefs of staff only finally supported the treaty because of safeguards and promises and that they spoke clearly of the military disadvantages of this treaty . Lausche Stand Surprises " Pray God that we do not have to remember that under attack , weakened and unpre-pared ! " Lausehe 's earlier speech surprised . disappointed and disturbed Senate leaders who had counted upon his vote . As a member of the Senate foreign relations committee , he bad voted to report the treaty to the Senate floor and had been listed in polls as among those committed to or inclined to vote ler ratification . " It would have been more comfortable for me to have followed the crowd , " he told the Senate , referring to the announced commitment of more than 80 senators to vote for ratification of the pact . But , after agonizing weeks of study of conflict* testimony by diplomatic , military , and scientific witnesses , and listening to Senate debate , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited ban on nuclear weapon testing imposed military disadvantages upon the United States while conferring upon Russia gains to which it was not entitled . Supporters of the treaty , Lausche suggested , were moved by the same motives which led to B.itish Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's 1938 agreement at Munich with Hitler and Mussolini . " Chamberlain thought he was securing peace for the world , " he recalled . " But the result was genocide , tortuous , and devastating war . The American people want peace with honor but they do not want a compact with Russia that will endanger the future security of the United States . 2 Republicans Go for It The same comparison to the Munich pact was made by Sen. Robert C. Byrd D. , W. Va. in another speech , opposing ratification . Sen. Harry F. Byrd Va. was the third Democrat in the day 's debate to oppose President Kennedy 's request for overwhelming indorsement of the treaty . He said he was fearful that it would weaken , if not undermine . the national defense . He predicted it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia remained in possession of vast nuclear power . Two Republicans , Sen. Roman L. Hruska Neb. and Sen. Frank Carlson FKas.1 said they would vote reluctantl for the treaty . Both confessed grave misgivings but , expressed hope that the treaty ' would lessen the possibility of nuclear war . They emphasized their trust in pledges by the joint chiefs of staff that safeguards would be erected against the admitted military risks of the pact .                     