@@722667

txt Former Vice President Richard M. Nixon called today for a quarantine of Cuba to halt the flow of Soviet arms . He urged President Kennedy to take " stronger action " MI ; mediately and pledged his personal " unqualified support " to the Administration in such a course . Mr. Nixon suggested that such a program could involve a naval blockade of the island , which is only 90 miles south of the United States , and obtaining a commitment from the United States ' allies that their ships would net be used by the Soviet Union for shipments to Cuba . Mr. Nixon said that " there is always danger of war " in intervening , but he added that " there is a certainty of war " in delaying . " This action may have to be taken unilaterally , " the former Republican Vice President said . He implied Ur:A it should be if other members of the Organization of American States did not // join in a quarantine movement . He did not spell out what measures he would like taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He expressed the hope that " our ' allies in Latin America would join with us . " He declined to endorse a military blockade outright , but said he would back President Kennedy if the latter . deemed en ' circlement of Cuba necessary . Mr. Nixon said he was recommitting himself to the support he pledged the President after the failure of the April , 1961 , invasion of Cuba by opponents of Premier Fidel Castro . Mr. Nixon made his remarks at a news conference called ostensibly to further his campaign for Governor of California . He said he was not making his statement on behalf of the Republican party , or as its titular leader , but merely as a concerned citizen . Immediate action by the Democratic Administration Is needed to " revitalize " the Monroe Doctrine . he said . This doctrine , promulgated by President Monroe in 1823 , warned that the United States would regard any move by a European power against the freedom of a nation in the Western Hemisphere as an unfriendly act toward this country . Kennedy Statement Cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on April 21 , 1961 , after the Bay of Pigs fiasco , it would be very reassuring , " Mr. Nixon asserted . His reference was to the - abortive invasion at the Bahia. de Cochinos on Cuba 's southern coast . In effect , the President then said the United States would aid freedom - seeking people against Communist encroachment in the Western Hemisphere . Russian arms in Cuba can not be " brushed off " as defensive in mature , Mr. Nixon said . He added that there was great danger that Communism would spread to other Latin-American areas . President Kennedy said last week that the Soviet military shipments and technicians appeared to be part of a Cuban defensive build-up . " Cuba is a cancer " in the hemisphere , Mr. Nixon declared . He said Soviet Communists were interested in infiltrating all Latin America and " Cuba is the beachhead . " He stressed these points : " I believe the time has come for stronger action in Cuba . " " The flow of arms into Cuba must be stopped . " " The Castro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pledge unqualified support to whatever action President Kennedy takes to stop " the flow of materiel to Cuba . Asked about the risks of nuclear war involved in a blockade , Mr. Nixon replied : " The risks of inaction are far greater . " Later he said : " I believe war is risked if Communism is not stopped and is allowed to spread now . " affair to permit the approval of a number of immediate decisions . These decisions may range from an inter-American investigation of the threat created by the presefrce of Soviet military technicians and materiel in Cuba to the study of a ban on travel to Cuba by the citizens of Latin-American countries . The official announcement by the department said : " The meeting will be informal . It will provide the opportunity to exchange views . The sessions will be closed . There will be no formal agenda , o- votin , official minutes or resolutions . We expect that the situation in Cuba and other subjects of mutual interest will discussed . " The procedure for formalizing the " informal " conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ministers sit as members of the Council , of the Organization of American States at the end of their planned two gays of sessions in Washington . One resolution of the ministers ' conference at Punta del Este , Uruguay , last January requested the O.A.S . Council " to maintain all necessary vigilance " for warning against aggression or subversion resulting from " the continued intervention of Sino-Soviet powers in this hemisphere . " The United States and some of the Latin-American governments believe that this resolution provides the basis for immediate action by the Council ' on a series of measures now ' being discussed in diplomatic consultations . It is felt , therefore , that as soon as the foreign ministers agree on any- of these steps , or on additional ones , in their closed sessions , they could then constitute themselves as the 0 . A. S. Council to issue recommendations for specific action . A variant in this technique would be for the Council to convene here with its permanent delegates as soon as possible after the ministers ' talks . There are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Cuba , such as the Punta del Este meeting , and the United States feels that at this juncture more can be accomplished through the " informal-formal " procedure . The immediate aim of the United States is to generate a further political crystalization of hemispheric opinion against Cuba and her military entangle ment with the Soviet bloc and to increase her isolation rather than to seek support for any drastic actions . Thus , the Administration is not presently interested in the type of action proposed in the Senate today by Senator George A. Smathers , Florida Democrat , calling for an inter-American military alliance and the creation of a Cuban government-inexile . It does not think that the first idea is practical and it fears that with nearly 200 Cuban refugee groups in this country a government-in-exile would only result in political strife among them . 3 Cuban Officials Killed KEY WEST , Fla. , Sept. 18 ( AP ) ? Anti-Castro forces struck last Saturday in Cuba 's Las Villas Province , slaying three minor Government officials , the Havana radio said today . New Naval Base @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AP ) ? Sources in contact with the Cuban underground say that information they have received may indicate a move by the Castro Government to build a naval base on Cuba 's north coast . These sources said that for the last several weeks the Cuban Government had been removing families from an area near the town of Banes , an area said to include a protected bay . The Banes area is about 20 miles northwest of Guantanamo Bay . The town of Banes is at the northwest end of the Bahia de Nipe.                     