@@727742

txt Washington , March 24 ? The United States Supreme court ordered new lower court hearings today for teamster chief James Hoffa and ex-heavyweight champion Cassius Clay . In the process , the court clarified its controversial wiretap decision of March 10 . Clay , convicted of refusing to be drafted , is appealing his 57 year sentence . He is free on bond . Hoffa is serving an eight-year sentence for jury tampering . Today 's order involved that case and also a five-year term for mail fraud . Hoffa 's attorneys say both convictions were obtained with evidence resulting from illegal eavesdropping . U. S. Attorneys Chided The court chided the justice department  --  and in particular the solicitor general  --  for possibly misreading the wiretap decision , on which it had sought a rehearing . That decision had said that government evidence based upon eavesdropping must be turned over to the defense attorneys in its entirety if the direct conversations of the defendant were overheard or his premises were bugged . In today 's unsigned opinion , the court said flatly that " the requirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defense counsel was expressly limited to situations where the surveillance had violated the 4th amendment . " Search , Seizure Involved The 4th amendment forbids unreasonable search and seizure . The court said it leaves the question of whether any surveillance violates that amendment to the District court . In both the Hoffa and Clay cases , and 13 others named in the March 10 ruling , the rehearing will be limited to the eavesdropping issue . A major criticism of the decision was that it seemed to allow a criminal suspect to examine any transcript obtained by illegal electronic surveillance in which he teak part or which occurred on his premises . But the court made it clear that it did not specify the procedure that District courts are to follow in determining if bugging is unconstitutional . Nothing in its wiretap ruling , the court said , " requires an adversary proceeding and full disclosure for every issue . raised by an electronic surveillance . " On the touchy issue of the constitutionality of bugging for foreign intelligence purposes , the court seessed that Justice Byron White  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has elsewhere made clear his view that such surveillance does not violate the 4th amendment ' if the President . . . or attorney general has considered the requirements of national security and authorized electronic surveillance as reasonable . ' " Raps Its Critics " The court concluded that this issue " remains open " and censured critics for not reading the wiretap decision closely : " One might suppose that all of this should be entirely clear to any careful reader of the couiVs opinion - .. perhaps so , and perhaps , therefore , what I have said is quite unnecessary . But 10 years of experience here have taught me that the most carefully written opinions are not always carefully read . - even by those most directly con &rned."; In another , decision the court granted immunity to electronic eavesdropping not involving physical trespass as long as it took place before the Katz decision on Dec. 18 , 1967 . At that time the court ruled that wiretapping  --  without court approval ? was unconstitutional . Rule . in Heroin Case The court also affirmed convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heroin . Justice Potter Stewart said in the majority opinions that determining whether constitutional rights bad been violated by wiretapping " long after the event " would impose a " weighty burden on any court . " Justice Abe Fortas dissented in the 5-3 , 7-2 decisions . Justice William 0 . Douglas dissented in the first opinion . Justice Thurgood Marshall did not take part in that decision . In a case involving Richard E. Gorman , a Chicago lawyer convicted of income tax evasion , the court asked the justice department to file a response to Gorman 's allegation in a rehearing petition that a district court ruled a record of a bugged conversation was unrelated to German 's case without taking evidence or hearing argument .                     