@@725682

txt Four Throw Food , Tip Tables , Set Fires Four intoxicated inmates of the Indiana state prison at Michigan City caused , more than four hours of uproar there last night and early this morning . It started with food throwing , table-tipping and window breaking in the mess hall and led to a toe-totoe fist fight with the warden and deputy warden and a fire which demolished a large warehouse on the grounds . Rushed by Officials One prisoner was subdued after he cut his arm punching out a window in the mess hall , but the others were not quieted until after midnight when they were rushed by a large number of policemen and prison officials in a fenced passageway which prisoners ordinarily use to pass from one building to another . Warden Lane identified the drunken inmates as Laverne Nelson serving 5 to 10 years for burglary ; David DuBois , 10 to 20 years for robbery ; Charles Sallee , 2 to 15 for burglary ; and Charles Lamb , 2 to 21 years for manslaughter . The inmates had shards of glass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solitary confinement by Warden Lane , who then ordered an investigation into the incident . Start Throwing Food Sometime after 8 p. m. the four started throwing food and large bowls of gravy in the mess hall . About 35 other ? inr mates with them joined in . The 40 had , been working a late shift and having their dinner . Lane said the four had some-how obtained some " hard liquor - possibly applejack or something similar " and were very drunk . When they began yelling and tossing food , others joined in . He said the floor was slippery with gravy . Lane said that he and Moore went to the mess hadd and tried to quell the disturbance . All the prisoners but the four " calmed down . " The drunken ones began fighting with the warden and his deputy . Both Lane and Moore were punched . Other prison authorities notified off-duty guards to come in . Indiana state police , Porter county sheriff 's deputies and squads from Michigan City also were summoned Sallee cut his am on a window and was taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broke out in the warehouse . The structure has two stories and is about 300 feet long and 150 feet wide . The inside , with thousands of dollars in supplies , was destroyed before the fire was extinguished by Michigan City firemen .                     