@@724009

txt Blue Cross , which last year paid some of the hospital bills of 8.5 million Americans , is fighting a losing battle to retain its share of the hospital insurance market . Though the system of non-profit community Blue Cross plans remains the largest single method of pre-paying hospital costs , its position of dominance is slipping fast . Blue Cross covers 59 million Americans and paid about $2.4 billion in claims last year , or about onethird of total personal spending on hospitals . But last year it accounted for only 41 , : - of people with hospital insurance of any kind , down from a high of 59 , - , in 1945 . Blue Cross ' net membership gain in 1962 of 3 ' , lagged well behind the 5r gain posted by commercial insurers . The commercial insurers ' menibership figures for 1963 are n't available yet , but Blue Cross ' gain slipped to The roots of Blue Cross ' troubles are many . Insurance buyers , including unions and employers , are reacting to the steady rise in Blue Cross @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are turning to commercial insurers who lure low-risk employe groups with favorable rates and aggressive salesmanship . Some big companies , such as Monsanto Co. , recently have begun to finance their own employe health insurance . Unions increasingly are driving for more comprehensive independent medical plans that stress complete care , including outpatient treatment and preventive medicine , often using special clinics and salaried doctors . Blue Cross Outpaces Blue Shield Much the same problems beset Blue Shield , the counterpart of Blue Cross which pays doctor bills . However , doctors ' fees , especially surgical , have not risen as fast as hospital costs . Thus , Blue Shield rates increased less than half as much as Blue Cross rates in a recent nine-year period . The decline of the Blue plans , and the financial problems that underlie their sagging fortunes , have significance for the whole system of financing medical care in the U.S. Blue Cross and Blue Shield have flourished in the past partly because their non-profit status entitles them to exemption from the average 2 , - , tax on premiums that commercial insurers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from medical and public groups because it protected nearly everyone , bad risk as well as good , at a single community rate and paid the full hospital bill in many cases . Younger and healthier people , in effect , thus subsidized insurance for those more prone to illness . But now the Blue plans not only are raising rates sharply but also are restricting coverage and seeking to model their insurance more along lines of profit-oriented commercial firms . If such trends continue , many observers worry that Blue Cross and Blue Shield no longer will meet the health insurance needs of vast numbers of people with modest incomes . This might encourage the Government to undertake payment for medical care , they suggest . Says Walter J. , president of the National Blue Cross Association here : " Either Blue Cross is strengthened or take the problem to the Government . " One proposal by Blue Cross is that the Government pay Blue Cross premiums for those 65 years and older , as an alternative to a Federally administered medicare plan . Labor Turns Unfriendly The nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross , is among those now becoming highly critical of it . " Labor is drifting away from Blue Cross and the movement is going to accelerate , " says Nelson Cruikshank , director of the social security department of the AFL-CIO . Though labor often is represented on Blue Cross boards , its " strong preference " now is for comprehensive group medical plans that cover most , if not all , health care costs , says Mr. Cruikshank . The United Auto Workers and the United Steelworkers of America are among unions urging such group plans in more areas , arguing that such plans stress preventive medical care and thus keep hospital use down . The UAW backs the growing Community Health Association in Detroit , a plan with 62,000 members and 60 full-time physicians who operate Metropolitan Hospital . UAW members there can choose between the association and Blue Cross-Blue Shield membership . The UAW is drawing up contract demands that would let its members in other cities choose such a plan instead of Blue Cross . Commercial insurers have scored their biggest gains against Blue Cross and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are able to base their rates on the health record of a company , rather than the relatively riskier record of the community . They also offer single national plans and package deals with other insurance , advantages that Blue Cross can not match . Insurance companies ' group health insurance payments soared in 1960 to 38 cents of every $1 paid out by all health insurers , including Blue Cross , up from 26 cents a decade earlier , one study showed . The experience of a Midwest natural gas company indicates the possible advantages of package plans offered by commercial insurers . The company switched its hospitalization coverage for 2,000 employes from Blue Cross to Mutual of Omaha last year . Mutual of Omaha combined the hospital cpverage in a package with group life insurance , major medical expense insurance and loss-of-time insurance . The gas company 's premium for the hospital portion of the plan was slightly less than under Blue Cross , largely because administrative costs for each type of coverage were reduced by the package concept , claims a Mutual of Omaha spokesman . The chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to keep up with climbing hospital costs . Such costs have jumped a year for the past 10 years . far faster than most elements in the cost of living . The cost rise is due largely to rising labor charges and more intensive hospital care , say hospital officials . But when Blue Cross seeks to boost its rates to cover growing costs . it often encounters fierce public opposition and strict regulation by state authorities . The Associated Hospital Service of New York , a Blue Cross plan with 7.4 million members , asked recently for rate =creases averaging as high as 40r1 . The plan has paid out $5 million a month more than its income thus far this year and , without a substantial rate increase and a basic operating change , would have to curtail benefits sharply , according to J. Douglas Colman . president . The plan was granted a pared-down increase of 32 , - , in May and Gov . Nelson Rockefeller immediately launched a broad inquiry into hospital costs and Blue Cross rates . In New Jersey , Blue Cross is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner Charles R Howell cut a. rate increase request of =.6% to 18.5. - , conceding that " any further cut would almost certainly Jeopardize the financial solvency of the plan . " Mr. Howell nevertheless said that even the increase approved " will place costs of Blue Cross beyond the ability to pay of a very large number of persons with low , limited incomes . " One of the major changes being made by many Blue Cross plans to put them on more equal footing with commercial insurers is the adoption of " experience rating . " This involves charging rates based roughly on each policyholder 's risk of illness , rather than charging a single community rate . Typically , Blue Cross experience ratings break down into three categories : Employe groups , individual policies for those under 65. and individual over-65 policies . In employe group plans , each company 's rate is determined separately according to its illness record . Of its total of 76 plans , Blue Cross now uses experience rating in 69 , adding about 251 , to premiums on all policies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a monopoly in the hospital field , we 'd stick to community rating . " says a National Blue Cross staff member . " To keep from losing customers to the commercials , we 've gone to experience rating as a concession . " But in New York and New Jersey , proposals to extend use of experience rating recently met official opposition . The plan covering the New York Metropolitan area , which has some two million members on experience rates , wanted to drop all rates based on community-wide costs . The state insurance commissioner rejected the proposal . In New Jersey , the legislature approved a Blue Cross plan to begin using experience ratings , but limited them to employe group plans of national organizations . BlueCross is adopting other commercial insurance techniques . Though the plans say they 'd prefer to pay all the costs of hospital treatment , they 're increasingly offering deductibles and sierffine devices aimed at keeping rates down by sharing costs with the patient . Some 33 Blue Cross plans now offer deductibles under which , for example , a patient may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross the ' Rismen up to a specified limit . Blue Cross also is trying to streamline its rather loose federation system to offer uniform group benefits to national employers . It encourages employers to draw up master hospital plans and then negotiate with each local Blue Cross unit to obtain the same benefits . American Telephone &; Telegraph Co. , for example , upgraded a good many of its local plans this year when new contracts were signed to cover its 733,000 employes . Some plans that had offered as little as 21 days of hospital payments were brought into line with the company standard of 120 days . Blue Cross ' woes are n't limited to pressure from subscribers to lower rates and tailor benefits to special needs . It 's also under attack from hospitals who claim Blue Cross does n't pay them enough to cover costs of charity treatment , losses on bad debts and other expenses . This complaint reflects the feeling among many hospital officials that Blue Cross has a special obligation to keep the nation 's hospital system solvent . Indeed , until a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were hospital officials , a fact often cited as a potential conflict of interest . But a 1962 survey showed that hospital officials had dropped to under one-rourth of Blue Cross board membership . Perhaps the most serious attack on Blue Cross by the hospitals came in /daeeaelnieerts last month . Led by prestigious Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston . the state 's hospital association urged its 150 members associated with Blue Cross to cancel contracts liniese payment levels were increased . Such cancellation would mean the state 's three million Blue Cross subscribers would find their policies useless in paying for care at the hospitals . This drastic step seems highly unlikely , but the threat of it is a factor in negotiations now between Blue Cress and the hospitals for a new contract to take effect Oct. 1 . The hospitals , besides prodding Blue Cross for more support , also want the state to increase welfare payments . Current criticism of Blue Cross obscures somewhat its achievements in cutting costs and working for better hospital care . Overall operating expenses of Blue Cross plans dropped last sear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cross has pressed for " utilization committees- in hospitals to watch length of stays and to prevent unnecessary use , despite some opposition from doctors and hospitals . In areas where hospital facilities equal needs , Blue Cross has applied pressure to prevent over-building . The Michigan Supreme Court recently upheld the right of Blue Cross to refuse recogmnon to an allegedly unnecessary hospital . Blue Cross refused to deal with a proposed hospital that the Samaritan Hospital A sendeenon wanted to build in a Detroit suburb , arguing that the area had enough hospital beds . The building plans were dropped .                     