@@723360

txt A photograph of an ornate , canopied bed in the Governor 's Mansion here bears this label in political ads appearing all over the Magnolia State in behalf of Lieutenant Governor Paul B. Johnson . who would like very much to he the next Governor The ails are aimed at one of his chief stumbling blocks , J P. Coleman , ex-Governor. who is running against Mr. Johnson and two others in tomorrow 's gubernatorial primary here The message the ad seeks to get over is made explicit by the following text Make Sure That Kennedy Never Sleeps Here Again  --  Nor J P. Coleman Either . The Johnson ad tells a lot about the current issues in Mississippi politics and the hazards likely to face the Democratic Party in next year 's Presidential race -- not only in Mississippi but throughout the Deep South . Particularly since Federal troops Were brought into Mississippi 11 months ago , when rioting broke out at the University of Mississippi over the admittance of Negro James Meredith to the formerly all-white school , the Kennedy name has been political poison in Mississippi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they believed victory will go to him who convinces the voters that he 's most anti-Kennedy . A Helicopter Campaign Besides Messrs . Coleman and Johnson , the candidates are Charles Sullivan , a 38-year  --  olci lawyer from Clarksdale making his second bid for the job by stumping the state in a helicopter he pilots himself , and Robert " Blowtorch " Mason , 65. a welder from Magee who habitually runs for Governor on a platform stressing the U.S. Constitution and the King James version of the Bible Until the votes are counted , about the only sure thing , it 's held here , is that Mr. Mason has little chance . It 's very probable there 'll be a run-off election three weeks later but it 's considered a toss-up as to which two of the three leading contenders will make it . The preservation of segregation is still the burning political issue in this diehard state . And President Kennedy is clearly counted as being on the wrong side . Thus , the attempt of all the would-be governors to disassociate themselves from their party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front runner , is under the heaviest attack as a former Kennedy supporter . While Mr. Johnson tries to extract political gain out of a onenight visit Mr. Kennedy paid Mr. Coleman at the governor 's mansion in 1956 , Mr. Sullivan tries to embarrass the former governor for his support of the Democratic national ticket in 1960 . Mr Sullivan 's television appeals feature a photo of Mr. Coleman which is alternated with one of the President . As the two pictures are rapidly flashed on the screen , the voice of Mr. Coleman  --  taken from a 1960 tape ? is heard urging Mississippians to support the national Democratic slate A " Phony " Issue ? Mr. Coleman responds by calling this a " phony " issue . He tells political rallies that he was n't alone in endorsing the national Democratic ticket in 1960 , that 108,000 other Mississippians did the same thing , along with Senator Russell of Georgia , Senators Eastland and Stennis of Mississippi and other politicians held to be " loyal " to the South . Also he says he backed the national Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onto choice committee assignments . But Mr. Coleman goes beyond this in disassociating himself from Mr. Kennedy . He tells voters . " I 've made it perfectly plain I 'm not running for governor to help the Kennedys . They 're beyond help in the State of Mississippi . The problem Is : Are you looking for somebody to cuss the Kennedys or to fight the Kennedys ? " He tells his audiences he 's better equipped to deal with John F. Kennedy than any of the other gubernatorial aspirants : . The pro-Kennedy charges against Mr. Coleman are hurting him , according to some Mississippians . " The Kennedys could be the kiss of death for Coleman , " says a Carthage drugstore owner . In arch-segregationist Amite County . a timberland owner says Mr. Coleman could win handily if it were not for the Kennedy label being hung on him . And in Jackson , a Coleman supporter , county Judge Carl E. Guernsey , says . " There would n't even be a run-off if Coleman had not endorsed the ( national ) Democratic ticket " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the question of just what type of segregation supporter a majority of Mississippians favors in the governor 's chair . " The cleareut is , ue , " says a Jackson politician who suppot ts Mr. Coleman , " is how do you like your segregation in a real turmoil like now , or like it was during Coleman 's administration when there was n't a lot of ballyhoo " It Is difficult to analyze , however , precisely how the rank and file voters feel shout this issue Mr. Johnson is betting they still favor the Ross Harnett approach . Over and over , he reminds his audience that on one occasion last fall , when Gov Barnett could n't make it In the Pnit et sity of Mississippi , that as lientenant got governor he " stood in the dote A a y ' to block James Meredith 's admission to the cam pus Although the 07-year-old Mr Johnson has been beaten in three previous tries for govetnor , he 's considered a strong candidate this time . He has the full hacking of the Citizens Connell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi . In addl. lion , the Johnson name is attractive in a state where his father was once governor . Mr Sullivan gets mighty worked up *wet the race issue too He Vows that as governor he 'd see to it that no Mississippi public school would be integrated until the Federal Government sent paratroopers to enforce a court order . When he ran for governor four years ago . Mr. Sullivan was a political unknown who surprised nearly everyone by running a strong third He then proceeded to lead a movement In Mississippi in 1980 to keep Mr. Kennedy out of the White House by electing " independent " electors . A slate of unpledged electors was elected , and Mississippi 's eight electoral votes ultimately went to Sen. Harry Byrd ID , Va 1 . The threat of independent electors in several Southern states confronts the Democrats in the 1964 Presidential election And in Mississippi , Mr Sullivan professes he 's ready once again to work against Mr. Kennedy . He even talks of taking Mississippi into the Republican camp in 1904 Actually , Mississippi Republicans have t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative races . And now they are mounting their first serious bid to elect a Governor . All of which suggests they could be a factor in Mississippi in next year 's Presidential election . Republicans are making impressive gains in other Dixie states , too , and the internal strife caused by the anti-Kennedy sentiment among Democrats offers them aid and comfort . Already the Kennedy label is being used as an accusation in Louisiana where the Demociats have begun campaigning for the pawl - natorial primary in December Both deLesseps Morrison . former New Orleans mayor , and Rep. Gillis Long are being called " Kennedy lovers " by their leading opponent in the governor 's contest , former Gov . Kennon , a staunch segregationist.                     