@@721349

txt Cuba denounced the United States bitterly today for " economic aggression " and demanded that the Security Council take " the necessary measures . " Dr. Raul Roa , Cuban Foreign Minister , centered his attack on President Eisenhower 's recent order reducing by 700,000 tons Cuba 's quota this year for sugar exports to the United States . " Is it necessary , " Dr. Roa said in his hour-and-a-half address , " in order to preserve hemispheric unity , democratic principles and continued security , to lower one 's head like a submissive bull to the butcher in the abattoir ? " " Better honor without quota than quota without honor , " said Dr. Roa . The Council of the Organization of American States agreed unanimously Monday to hold a foreign ministers ' meeting on the United States-Cuban dispute . Soviet Threat Noted Dr. Roa said Cuba 's purchase of oil from the Soviet Union had " saved Cuba on this occasion from the Anglo-American petroleum blockade . " He added , that " exasperation " over this failure had caused the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monroe Doctrine and to take such a bellicose tone in its attitude that it provoked the paralyzing warning of the Soviet Union . " Henry Cabot Lodge of the United States replied in an address deploring the use of such language as " butcher " and " aggressor " about the United States . The United States delegate served notice that the United States would continue in accordance with the Monroe Doctrine and treaties with the American republics , to oppose " alien domination " of any part of the Western Hemisphere . ' We Are Not Frightened ' " We are not frightened by Chairman Khrushchev 's threat of rockets and we will live up to these treaties just as we will live up to our obligations in the , United Nations , " Mr. Lodge emphasized . Mr. Lodge , who insisted that the dispute should be settled in the Organization of American States , concluded with the statement that the United States wanted to be friends with Cuba and " some day , somehow , " the two nations would be friends again . The Security Council , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban complaint , adjourned at 11:30 P. M. It will // ? meet tomorrow at 10 A. M. to hear a Soviet statement . It is then expected to vote . In accordance with a formula worked out last week by the two Latin-American members of the Security Council , Ecuador and Argentina , Cuba 's complaint against the United States was inscribed on the agenda without objection . Ecuador and Argentina later introduced a resolution under which the Security Council would " adjourn the consideration of the question pending the receipt of a report from the Organization of American States . " The resolution would ask the members of the 0 . A. S. , which took up the Cuban-United States dispute at a meeting in Washington today , to help achieve a solution in accordance With the purposes and principles of the United Nations . The resolution provides that In the meantime , the Security Council would urge all other states " to refrain from any action which might increase the existing tensions " between Cuba and the United States . The United States , which had held from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 . A. S. , was assured , if the issue had been contested , of the five votes necessary to prevent the Security Council from inscribing the Cuban complaint on the agenda . The votes of seven of the eleven members are necessary for such a decision , and Cuba would have been able to get only six votes . However , the United States decided to accept the LatinAmerican formula rather than have a procedural debate in which the two Latin-American members would take Cuba 's side . Sponsors of the resolution had understood that Cuba , in exchange fur getting the com plaint on the agenda , would accept the arrangement to postpone Security Council action pending a report from the 0 . A. S. However , Dr. Roa 's speech reaffirmed Cuba 's request for Security Council action . A Cuban spokesman said tonight that Dr. Roa had not made any deal but would accept any resolution adopted by the Security Council . Cuba 's noncommittal position raised the possibility that the Soviet Union would veto the Ecuador - Argentina resolution when the Security Council meets tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Security Council tonight , presumably to gain time to consider the matter . A decision to suspend debate is a procedural question , not subject to the veto . However , other provisions in the resolution , including the injunction against any action that might increase tension , make it subject to the veto . Although Dr. Roa concentrated on the reduction in the sugar quota , he protested also against the refusal of two American-owned refineries in Cuba belonging to Texaco Inc. , and the Standard Oil Company ( New Jersey ) , to refine petroleum obtained from the Soviet Union . In addition , he gave a long list of flights by United Statesowned aircraft over Cuba . He charged that the United States had taken ineffective action to prevent them from taking off from airports in Florida . Dr. Roa complained with great vehemence against official United States statements terming Cuba " a Soviet satellite or a lackey of international communism . " He charged that United States actions were responsible for Premier Khrushchev 's recent warning that the Soviet Union would attack with rockets if the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in no threats , harassments , intrigues , reprisals , or revolutionary Government of Cuba " wanta to " reduce " its differences with the United States by normal diplomatic channels . However , he charged that the United States wanted to negotiate from " positions of strength , " and had in fact repulsed Cuba 's offers of negotiation . He ended  --  his speech with the statement that " the destiny of my country is today the destiny of all the under-developed peoples of Latin America , Asia and Africa . " " Cuba is not alone , " ? he declared . The United States delegate said that the law invoked by Cuba to compel the Texaco and Standard Oil refineries to process Soviet oil had never been interpreted to apply to any crude oil produced outside Cuba . Mr. Lodge declared that the reduction of the Cuban sugar ' quota took place because the Cuban Government " is now following a course which raises serious questions as to whether the United States can in the long run , continue to rely upon that country for such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mention the arrangement under which Cuba is selling 1,000,000 tons of sugar a year to the Soviet . Union . Mr. Lodge insisted that when Dr. Roa spoke of the United States as an " aggressor " and as a " butcher " he was talking of a United States that did not exist . He said that the true United States was the country that had helped Cuba achieve independence , the country of Patrick Henry , Thomas Jefferson , Abraham Lincoln , Franklin D. Roosevelt and President Eisenhower . Dr. ? Jose A. Correa of Ecuador , President of the Security Council for July , . appealed for acceptance of the " conciliatory " resolution introduced by Ecuador and Argentina . He declared that Ecuador felt " brotherly feeling " toward both Cuba and the ? United States , and hoped for the reconciliation on the basis of friendly negotiation , mutual respect , justice , toleration and moderation . Dr. Mario Amadeo of Argentina expressed the hope that no further action by the Security Council would be necessary after consideration of CubanUnited States differences by the Organization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after its dinner recess , the Ecuador-Argentina resolution was endorsed by the representatives of Britain , France , Italy , Tunisia , Ceylon and Nationalist China . Bohean Lewandowskt of Poland did not state his position on the resolution , thus adding to the uncertainty about the position Arkady A. Sobolev , the Soviet delegate , will take tomorrow .                     