@@725643

txt Raymond M. Hilliard , Cook county public aid director since 1954 and one of the nation 's best known welfare administrators , died early yesterday of a heart attack . He was 58 . He awoke in his home at 1508 Estes ay . about 5 a. m. with chest pains and phoned his physician . He was taken to Illinois Masonic hospital , where he died . A veteran of 32 years in welfare work , Hilliard was known as an able , articulate ? and often outspoken ? administrator of programs for the poor . When he became director of the county public aid department 12 years ago , 122,000 in the county were on relief . Automation and the movement of industry to the suburbs swelled the figure to 289,000 in 1962 . Then Hilliard initiated a mass program of adult literaczy classes and job-retraining programs which has sent the relief roles down to 250,000  --  a decrease of more than 13 per cent - and has served as a model for other cities . Hilliard was born in Washington . He studied at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's degree in philosophy from the University of Chicago in 1931 , and was graduated from De Paul university law school in 1933 . As an assistant Illinois attorney general from 1934 to 1941 , he investigated fraud and headed the legal division of the Illinois emergency relief fund . Heads New York Welfare As a result of his work as executive secretary of the Illinois Public Aid commission from 1942 to 1948 , he was appointed New York City 's welfare commissioner . He was credited with cleaning up the scandal-ridden department and purging it of communist influences . He served in that post for three years , was executive director of New York 's welfare and health council from 1951 to 1953 , and returned to Chicago . He was assistant county public aid director for a year before moving up to head the department . In that job , Hilliard saw his force of employes burgeon from 2,000 to 4,600 . The department has spent nearly a billion dollars since 1954 . It distributed 15.3 million dollars last month ? nearly 2 million a month less than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a continuous battler for more state and federal funds for relief . Once , in the midst of a fight for more money from the Illinois legislature , he told an interviewer : " They appropriate less , hope for a miracle , and scream loudly about waste And chiselers on the rolls when the day of reckoning comes . " He was a strong advocate of medicare in testimony before Congress two years ago , and just last week he won a fight for a change in the department of health , education , and welfare 's rent payment standards for the medically indigent . He Advocates " Make-Work " In 1958 he gave a speech calling for reestablishment of the civilian conservation corps to create jobs for relief recipients . And he said again last October that the government must create " make-work " projects to cut relief costs among the " new poor " who lost their jobs because of automation . Hilliard was proudest of the education and job training programs provided by the public aid department , but he was also responsible for many campaigns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused job offers were cut from the lists , there were many crackdowns on fathers who deserted their families , and rent payments for welfare recipients were withheld from slum landlords . In ? 962 , Hilliard successfully fought off a campaign by the IPAC to strip him of authority , and he subsequently saw the commission disbanded . Billiard 's last public appearance was June 5 in the University of Chicago 's Rockefeller Memorial chapel at the 63d annual commencement of the Chicago College of Osteopathy , where he said of relief recipients : " No longer can we respond to their needs with a check . Rather , society must respond with an understanding that recognizes human dignity . " Aided Urban League Hilliard served on the board of directors of the National Council of Christians and ' Jews from 1954 to 1958 , was a director of the Chicago Urban league , and was past president of the Illinois Welfare association . Surviving are his widow , the former Mary Catherine Reardon , whom he married in 1935 ; two sons , Raymond M. Jr . of Lamarque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nine grandchildren . Mass will be said at 11 a. m . Thursday in St. Jerome Catholic church , 1709 Lunt ay . Burial will be in Calvary cemetery . Visitation will begin at 4 p. m. today in the chapel at 5501 N. Ashland ay .                     