@@723235

txt Left photo shows former President Truman greeting David J. McDonald , president of the United Steelworkers of America , on the White House grounds Thursday . Each W.as leaving after a conference with President Kennedy on jobs for Negroes . Right photo shows C. Wrede Petersmeyer of New York , chairman of the Citizen 's 1Vorkshop of the Republican Citizens Committee of the United States , talking with former President Eisenhower and Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce , former Ambassador to Italy , prior to the opening of the workshop in Hershey , Pa. , Thursday . The workshop was held to discuss critical party issues . The committee , composed of prominent GOP citizens , hopes to spark similar workshops throughout the country . GOP Units Bugled To Action By William H. Stringer Chief of the Washington Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Hershey , Pa . The Republican Citizens Committee , eyed askance by old-line Republican regulars and some congressional Republicans , has gained added res  --  ectability. an infusion of new ideas , and some very , highlevel Republican endorsement here . An obviously enthused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans  --  many his former Cabinet members and intimate associates  --  which hammered out Republican positions on a dozen key issues and discussed how to " communicate " modern Republican philosophy attractively and effectively to the nation 's voters . Aware that citizens ' campaign groups have been labeled " idealist and amateur , " General Eisenhower defended amateurs in politics , expressing the hope that the Hershey " town meeting " would be the forerunner of many more across the nation and declaring : Idealism Pushed " At this point in history , when cynicism , mistrust of the people , and contrived political imagery are the vogue in the nation 's capital ? our body politick could stand a hefty dose of idealism . " While the workshop on " critical issues ' would announce no official positions until further consultations , participants made clear that the former President and his associates took these stands on current issues : ? Civil Rights . The Kennedy administration is watching " political impacts " overmuch here , for the civil-rights issue is primarily moral , and not subject to political manipulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at their White House meeting , that he favored stronger voting-rights legislation , but not a " whole bundle " of new laws . ? Space Program : The United States should reduce its space program to a saner pace , and a smaller budget . ? Foreign Aid : This is a necessary adjunct of foreign policy , but requires more realistic management . ? Cuba : The Kennedy administration has bungled this badly and is without a full-bodied policy for ridding Cuba of Soviet influence . In his banquet speech General Eisenhower referred with emphasis to " a lone record of glowing promises and anemic deliveries " as characterizing the present administration 's record and said this record would include " such campaigning catch phrases as ' missile gap , ' ' strong presidency , ' and ' get the country moving again . ' "                     