@@727622

txt New Yorkers , displaying their customary combination of grumbling and esprit in the face of calamity , began yesterday to dig out of a snowstorm that stranded thousands , crippled transportation , disrupted business and forced schools and colleges to close . The northeaster dumped 15 inches of soggy snow on the city and up to 20 inches on the suburbs as it laid a broad blanket along the Eastern Seaboard from Virginia to New England . The police reported that at least 14 persons had died and 68 had been injured in New York City as a result of the storm . Six persons were reported to have died of stormrelated causes in New England . It was the worst snowstorm in New York since 1961 , when 17.4 inches of snow fell on Feb. 3 and 4 . But as the city and the surrounding area began to dig out , the prospects seemed to brighten somewhat for today . Subways and mast buses were expected to return to near-normal operations , along with airports and most major highways . The New Haven Railroad said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the Long Island Rail Road said it would provide only " token " service during the early morning and " intermittent and sporadic service " for the rest of the day . Exchanges Plan to Open The New York and American Stock Exchanges and all commodity exchanges , which were closed yesterday , were expected to reopen today . Public and parochial elementary schools are to reopen today , except on Staten Island , where they will stay shut . Roman Catholic High Schools throughout the city will be closed , as will many suburban schools . Columbia University , the New School for Social Science Research , and all schools of New York University except the University Heights campus in the Bronx , will be open today . The City University and Fordham University will be closed . Mayor Lindsay urged motorists to leave their cars at home this morning to make snow removal easier . Tens of thousands of city dwellers and suburbanites , deciding not to brave the hazardous roads or the disrupted transportation systems , stayed home yesterday . At Rockefeller Center , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had shown up . There was virtually no Long // Island Rail Road service most of yesterday and only token service on the Penn Central lines . Buses ran sporadically , if at all , and subway service was uncertain or , in some outlying ' areas , nonexistent . No planes flew into or out of the city . Kennedy International Airport , which closed Sunday , was expected to resume some flights at 8 A.M. today , but passengers were warned to check with individual airlines before starting for the airport . And they were advised too se only public transportation , since 110 parking lots will be open during the day . The airport had been virtually sealed from the outside world , with 6,000 people trapped there . The access roads were impassable . Foodk was carried to the airport by helicopter . Long-distance railroad trains encountered long delays , including the New Haven Merchant 's Limited , which left Boston at 5 P.M. Sunday and arrived here at 7:25 A.M. yesterday-10 hours 15 minutes late . One of the exceptions was the Penn Central 's Metroliner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service a few weeks ago . The railroad put its second Metroliner into operation yesterday , despite the weather , and the train was only 26 minutes late . Many Roads Closed Many highways to and ' within the city were closed . Those that remained open were clogged with thousands of stalled and abandoned cars , which hampered snow removal . " The worst problem we have is abandoned cars , " Mayor Lindsay said after meeting with his Emergency Control Board . " We are hiring private tow trucks to augment our fleet to pull abandoned cars away . " Francis X. Smith , the President of the City Council and a political adversary of Mayor Lindsay , accused the Lindsay administration of ' ' failure to free the city of its snowbound conditions . " He predicted that " in the next two or three days there will be slush , uncollected garbage , stalled automobiles blocking streets . " The Mayor said the snow emergency declared on Sunday evening would remain in effect through today . This means that no cars are permitted on designated snow - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced the cancellation of dozens of official and private functions . The Legislatures of New York and New Jersey canceled their meetings scheduled for yesterday . The United Nations Security Council meeting , called for yesterday by Jordan , was postponed . The city 's Sanitation Department canceled days off , permitting it to marshal 5,200 men for snow removal . The department said it had 1,700 pieces of equipment , mostly garbage trucks equipped with plows , on the streets yesterday . " Everything we can get a plow on today is being used to get the city moving and keep it moving , " a Sanitation Department spokesman said . For a time , Sanitation Department employes threatened to refuse to work overtime Sunday night . Their union leaders contended they were being turnd away when they reported to installations near their homes rather than to their regularly assigned posts . Hospitals Hit Hospitals , like most institutions and businesses , were hit hard by absenteeism . Some curtailed clinic and other services . Ambulances were slowed by manpower shortages and bad road conditions . With streets often blocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One police helicopter landed near 240 66th Avenue in Douglaston , Queens , picked up a pregnant woman , Mrs. Phyllis Mazel , 39 years old , and took her to Mount Sinai Hospital , land. ; ing in Central Park to get her there . Later the police - helicopter flew 14-year-old Kevin Arthurs of Great Neck , L. I. , who was suffering from carbonmonoxide poisoning and exposure , to Mount Sinai . At 6 P.M. , the same helicopter picked up a man who was suffering from a heart attack while stranded on the Hutchinson River Parkway and took him to Pelham Bay Hospital in the Bronx . Coast Guard helicopter crews also pitched in . One took a woman from a restaurant in the Bronx to St. Albans Naval Hospital after she had suffered a heart attack . The storm , which swept in from the South early Sunday , drifted out over the Atlantic to die at dawn . Before it dissipated , however , it hit the freighter Exmirister , which reported to the Coast Guard at 3:58 A.M. yesterday that she was being battered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southeast of Nantucket . By sunrise , a Coast Guard amphibious plane was circling the 473-foot American Export Isbrandtsen Line freighter , and another Coast Guard plane soon dropped portable pumps to the ship . A tugboat was expected to haul the vessel and her 46-man crew into New York today . Crowds on the streets were thin . With virtually no taxicabs and with other transportation uncertain , many pedestrians trudged ? some for miles ? usually avoiding sidewalks in favor of plowed roadways that were almost bereft of traffic . Joseph L. Forstadt , the city 's Acting Consumer Affairs Cornmissioner , warned merchants yesterday against taking advantage of the snow emergency by raising prices on items ternporarily in short supply . He said charges of price gouging should be reported by consumers to Mayor Lindsay 's Special Consumer Service number , 964-7777 . The Commissioner said a spot check had revealed that deliveries of bread and milk were in short supply throughout the city . Deliveries were expected to pick up last night and this morning . Even telephone service was affected . Because of the heavy load @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach work , by friends and relatives checking on each other 's safety ? telephone use was up 75 per cent . In some instances , dial tones were slow . One woman reported it took her five minutes to get a dial tone on a Manhattan exchange . The Post Office said firstclass mail went through yesterday and would be delivered again today . Deliveries of parcel post and other mail were being delayed to reduce the number of vehicles on the city 's streets . Most theaters were open last night , but a preview of " An Evening with Max Morath at the Turn of the Century " at the Jan Hus Playhouse , 341 East 74th Street , was canceled . A concert by the Cleveland Orchestra , scheduled for Carnegie Hall last night , was canceled . Victims of Storm Aided Small acts of charity were played out around the city by people aiding storm victims . In Co-op City in the Bronx , for example , 25 tenants provided food and lodging Sunday night and yesterday morning for 100 people who were stranded on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenants also carried soup three miles along the roads to people unwilling to abandon their cars . In New Rochelle , two busloads of West Point cadets85 members of the Military Academy Glee Club ? were stranded by the storm and spent Sunday night and ' yesterday morning at the New Rochelle Hospital . The cadets , who were on their way home from a concert in West Hempstead , L. I. , repaid the hospital yesterday by serving meals , working behind food counters and otherwise filling in for absent employes . . Things did not work out as well for 70 people trapped in a Rockaway IND subway train from 1 P.M. Sun'day to 9:30 A.M. yesterday . They spent the long hours with little heat and no food , but they remained good humored on the whole until repair crews got the train , which was stalled by frozen switches and a glazed third rail , back into operation . About 225 people were trapped overnight in the Jamaica station of the Long Island Rail Road . The line provided them with heated railroad cars , then ran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home . The flight surgeon at the Naval Air Station at Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn was called on to deliver an expectant mother who could not reach St. Albans Hospital because of the snow . Mrs. Frederick W. George , rushed to the field 's dispensary by a police car , gave birth there to Rod Thomas George , her fifth child . The surgeon measured 19-inch Rod Thomas with a yardstick and placed him in a file drawer converted to a makeshift crib.                     