@@723358

txt It 's an ill wind indeed that blows a baby bird from its nest , and Raymond Foley , 8 , is an enemy of ill winds . Whenever storm winds blow in the a'ighborhood of his family 's apartment at 2205 Roscoe st. , Raymond goes looking for feathered waifs . He takes them home and cares for them until they can fend for themselves . Brother Finds Bird Saturday , four baby sparrows rode an ill wind into a good home , thanks to Raymond . His younger brother , David , 5 , found the first one After the early thunderstorm . He carried it , wet and cheeping , in his cupped hands , to Raymond . Raymond went out and found three others . By- yesterday , all four were healthy and comfortable , sunning themselves in a parakeet cage on the Foleys ' window sill . Adult Sparrows Wait Outside the open window , three adult sparrows hovered nervously , with bread and seeds in their beaks , to feed the infants whenever the Foleys left them alone . But just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of strained meat and vegetables from a medicine dropper . They perched on Raymond 's arm when he fed them . Between meals , they hopped about and swung on a swing in the open cage . " Raymond has a wonderful way with animals , " said his father , Eddie , a truck driver . Always Had Pets " I was brought up on a farm , and always had pets like squirrels and possums , so I 've encouraged my children to get to know wild creatures . But Raymond is special . " Every time we go on a picnic he has a , chipmunk eating out of his hand within an hour . Near our house , there are squirrels that come when he calls them . Last week he brought home a baby pigeon , all white , that had been handled too much by children . Raymond took care Of it for a few days until it flow off , good as new . " He always goes out looking I after a storm , and not ' too long ago he brought home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long enough so they can fly and find their own food , then lets them go . They seem to be at home with him ? I do n't know how he does it . " Foley , who also has a daughter , Sandra , 2 ; pointed out an interesting coincidenc e . Raymond , who will be a 3d grader in the fall , is enrolled in the John J. Audubon-school , named for America 's famous ornithologist . ( TRIBUNE Staff Photo ) Raymond Foley , 8 , feeding one of four feathered friends in his home , 2205 Roscoe st . He and brother , David , 5 , found baby sparrows after Saturday 's thunderstorm . Whenever a storm strilres , Raymond goes looking for feathered waifs . He cares for them until they are strong enough to fly . away . ( Story on page 1 )                     