@@726159

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 28 Letters to the Editor of The Times Containment Policy in Asia To the Editor : In your Feb. 25 editorial " Soviet Bridge Building " you state that " the ' Iranian development ? in common with similar trends in Western Europe , Turkey , Pakistan and Japan  --  testifies to the success of the containment policy this country began roughly two decades ago . In these countries the threat of Soviet expansion  --  either by outright armed aggression or by internal subversion  --  was checked , while time was won in which . each of these countries could and did build up the internal political and economic prerequisites for full independence . " In view of your statement it is difficult to understand your negative attitude toward , and your constant criticism of , our Government 's policy in Vietnam . Surely now in South Vietnam , as then In the case of Western Europe and other countries , our policy is to resist expansion ? this time by China and North Vietnam  --  either by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both . The argument that it is just a civil war in which we ought not interfere flies in the face of the fact that it is North Vietnam that is shown to be the key factor in peace negotiations and not the so-called National Liberation Front . And what sort of peace conditions do you advocate that will not jeopardize the freedom of the South Vietnamese to build up " the political and economic prerequisites for full independence " ? Surely the war must go on until these objectives are won for South Vietnam as well . WALTER BERNARD Brookville , L. I. , Feb. 27 , 1967 ? World Trade Center To the Editor : A recent letter from Philomene A. Gates calling for further study of the World Trade Center is typical of the attacks on this project . These attacks , as evidenced from this letter , are becoming shrill and irresponsible . After congratulating The Times for agreeing with some of the views of a pressure group opposing the trade center , the writer chides The Times for not using its news columns to publicize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not adapting its news judgment to support its editorial policy . To expect such services and to call for them in writing is to preclude any serious attention to the judgment of the writer . Cost Revised This judgment on the integrity of The Times and the intelligence of its readers is sustained in the rest of the letter . The reader learns that the center " has been labeled " such things as a " Manhattan Tower of Babel , " but the reader does not learn who did the labeling . Then he is told 400 retailers are to be faced with displacement  --  even though the pressure group allegedly being slighted by The Times never contended there were that many retailers there in the first place . The editorial for which the writer congratulates The Times discussed the increase in the programed cost of the trade center from $525 million to $575 million . Nevertheless , the writer states : " The cost originally was estimated at $525 million . It now has a projected cost  --  probably low ? of $700 million . " This is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade center and to the readers of The Times , who are led to assume that The Times is the source of the $700-million figure . I do not question the sincerity of the writer in her opposition to the trade center any more than one should question the sincerity of the bold and desperate men who 150 years ago penned proclamations in the English Midlands signed " Ned Ludd , Sherwood Forest " calling on workers to smash stocking frames and burn textile mills . However , the trade center has been the victim of costly delay , and the modern Luddites who contribute to such costs at least should be accountable for the accuracy of their arguments . JAMES W. DANAHY Secretary Business and Labor Committee for Immediate Construction of the World Trade Center New York , Feb. 28 , 1967 ? Germany 's Fiscal Problems To the Editor : Tom Wicker 's excellent Feb. 21 analysis of the budgetary and economic problems of the Federal German Republic is marred by a minor misunderstanding of the situation . Mr. Wicker , in common with several other observers , blames @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This overlooks the fact that German budgetary practice permits the proceeds from borrowing to be counted as ' regular budgetary income . The prohibition has in fact been completely meaningless . In German usage , a budget deficit is the difference between what the Minister of Finance has to borrow and what the Minister of Finance thought he would have to borrow . If he guesses right , there can never be any deficit . This , however , lends even more point to the remaining comments of Mr. Wicker . While no one , even inside the German Government , is in a position to say whether the German budgetary system , when put on a consolidated basis , had or did not have a deficit or surplus in any economically meaningful sense , this itself indicates that for one reason or another Germany has neglected to develop the policy instruments required for an effective monetary and fiscal policy . Unforeseen Spending It in no way belittles Prof. Ludwig Erhard 's very genuine merits as the architect of postwar German prosperity , nor the competence of the German civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than adequate in the early postwar period increasingly had to be changed , and , indeed , were felt to be in need of change and improvement . The size of the German budgetary problem is clearly not a major affair . What must have happened is that somehow , somewhere , government spending and commitments got out of hand in the sense that they were not foreseen . If they had been foreseen , it would have been legally quite easy for the Federal Ministry of Finance to borrow . In the modern analysis of monetary and fiscal problems , which Mr. Wicker refers to as " Keynesian , " but which is generally accepted by Keynesians and anti - Keynesians alike , it would have been possible to analyze clearly whether the proposed expenditures , taxation and borrowing were consistent with the over-all availability and uses of resources . The German problem is in nature not too different from our own difficulties in 1966 of not foreseeing the whole cost of the Vietnamese war . In the German case , however , the more normal nature of the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economic policy had been developed . There is little doubt that the problem , which is really quite manageable , will be managed now that decisive leadership and new men have overcome past ideological inhibitions . It is perhaps also time in Germany to point out that economic analysis has a distinct contribution to make to policy formulation , which it becomes increasingly unsafe to leave exclusively in the hands of lawyers . WOLFGANG F. STOLPER Washington , Feb. 27 , 1967 The writer is Professor of Eye : ) ? nomics at the University of Michigan . ? Powell 's Case To the Editor : The March 2 editorial " Powell Ousted " asserted that " The House acted hastily and unwisely in expelling him at this time . " The editorial concluded with " He Powell could well use the period of that test to satisfy the judgments of other courts that have made him a fugitive unable to enter his home district without going to jail . " Evidently The Times chooses to appear to be naive with regard to the nuances involved in this case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Powell , for all his foibles , is the direct object of racist destructiveness . His fiery and indisputable autocratic way of dealing with- civil rights in the Congress was a threat to the Congressional hacks who were overshadowed by Mr. Powell 's propensity for shedding light on the political machinations of his colleagues . Mr. Powell , in his unique way of expressing himself , championed the cause of freedom for his long-suffering people . History has proved that a champion for human rights who champions his own cause is open to revilement and opposition . Rights Cause Strengthened The flagrant act by the House to exclude Powell only reveals how this session of the House is so blinded by that . element in the Congress that surreptitiously rebels against the embetterment of all Americans , of all births . The New York Times 's cold ? intellectual approach to this blight on our social system could never effectively corn- ? pensate for the tremendous . injustice that has now been hurled at the Negro Americans of this nation . No editorial of the type of March 2 contributes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is now clear that Adam . Clayton Powell has become heightened in the eyes of Negro Americans , thus giving impetus to the cause of human freedom . Inadvertently , the Congress haa ? created an aura of greatness for Mr. Powell  --  and the ironic factor is that this actiOn strengthens the cause for civil ? rights which is now needed more than ever before . H. H. AARONOFF Brooklyn , March 2 , 1967 ? Live Educational TV To the Editor : On Feb. 15 you carried a , story from Albany which quotedGovernor Rockefeller as saying , " This will be another New Yorkfirst  --  the first statewide interconnection of live broadcasts hy noncommercial stations with programs for the general audience . " Our admiration of Governor Rockefeller is great . But Governor Rockefeller should perhaps be told that this sort of interconnection has been going on in Minnesota for two-and-a-half years , and in numerous other states for comparable periods of time . As nearly as I can determine , New York State in. this respect will not be first , but about twelfth . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come late into the full use of educational television than not at all . JOHN C. SCHWARZWALDER Executive Vice President Twin City Area Educational Television Corporation St. Paul , Minn. , March 1 , 1967 ? Consumer 's Advocate To the Editor : Surely the consumer has a right to question the dedication to its interests of an official whose reputation and income have been the results of an ability to convince the public of the quality of industry 's products . Esther Peterson may not have opened refrigerator doors as deftly , but she was convincingly critical of what went inside . ? The increasing pressure by advertising and industry against reform will need to be challenged by a vigorous spokesman for the consumer . LEONARD MIRIN New York , March 6 , 1967                     