@@722720

txt VATICAN CITY , Oct. 14 ? The 2,700 prelates of the Roman Catholic church attening the ecumenical council heald informal talks within national groups today choosing candidates for the 160 places on the Vatican council 's 10 commissions . The composition of the commissions will determine to a considerable extent the content of final resolutions on subjects to be discussed by the council thruout the winter . Two members of the liberal group which seeks to make I many changes , Cardinal Achille Leinart , bishop of Lille , France , and Cardinal Joseph Frings , archbishop of Cologne , West Germany , interrupted the opening session of the council yesterday and were able to postpone voting on commission members . Voting Begins Tuesday The informal talks will continue on Monday . The voting is now scheduled to begin ' at a. m . Tuesday and be completed by Friday , but may take longer . Chinese bishops tonight became the first to announce their nominations . They said in an announcement from the Chinese embassy to the Holy See that they had designated nine candidates for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The council is the 21st worldwide meeting of Roman ' Catholic church leaders and is the second held at the Vatican . It was called by the pope to consider and make suggestions for changes in church policies and practice . Italy Has Largest Group Among the national groups of voting prelates , Italy 's is the largest with 430 . The United States comes next with 241 . Other large delegations are Brazil 204 , France 159 , Canada 97 , Spain 95 , India 84 , Germany 68 , Argentina 66 , Mexico 65 , Poland 64 , and Congo 51 . The elected members of ' each commission will be able to dominate the behind-the-scene work , altho the pope has chosen the chairman for each group and will add eight more after the election . As October sunshine returned to Rome after a day of rain , the pope appeared at the window of his apartment in Vatican palace at noon to give his Sunday blessings . A crowd twice as big as usual waited below and applauded him with loud clapping and blasts of automobile horns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unannounced trip in bis limousine across - the Tiber river to the Church of St. Augustin , where he prayed and delivered a brief talk to 600 persons . He said he lived near the church when he was a seminary student . His last public appearance came after dark , when he appeared on the balcony overlooking St. Peter 's square in response to cheers from persons gathered below . The prelates attended mass in many churches thruout the city . Chicago 's Cardinal Albert G. Meyer said mass at Chicago house , the residence used by student priests . With him were Chicago Bishops Aloysius J. Wycislo and Cletus F. O'Donnell ; his secretary , Msgr . Clifford E. Bergin , and three Chicago students , the Rev. Edward Sturges and the Rev. John Heat in g , postgraduates in canon law , and the Rev. Robert , postgraduate in music . Three other American cardinals , Richard Cushing of Boston , James F. of Los Angeles , and Joseph E. Ritter of St. Louis , said mass at North American college , where they are staying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome , which begins the college year tomorrqw with 283 students from all American states . Pope Follows Tradition The pope , in completing arrangements for the council , is following some ancient traditions as temporal ruler of the world 's smallest state , which covers 180 acres . Ile named two members of the papal nobility , Prince Colonna and Prince Torten 's , as custodians and charged them with guarding the sessions against outside interruption , a duty that has lost its one-time importance . Torlonia is a substitute for another papal prince , Orsini , who has lost his papal privileges for being involved in a scandal with a British movie actress , Belinda Lee . Centuries ago the Orsinis and Colonnas feuded . In an effort In bring them together in peace , the pope made each family head , in perpetuity , an assistant to the papal throne .                     