@@723210

txt Wednesday - Police and troops furiously battled antigovernment rioters across Tehran today , and a government official said " many " - persons had been killed and at least 1,000 injured . There was no accurate count of the casualties . Many of the Moslem demonstrators were armed and police were using a machine gun and tear gas . Troops Pour into City The fighting spread in all directions as troops poured into the city . Police fired into the air for an hour , then began shooting in the crowds which were trying to attack government buildings , smashing shop windows and hurling stones at the police and at passing cars . It was the second day of antigovernment demonstrations stemming from a three-day mourning period of the Shiite Moslems for the founder of the sect . Arrest Sect Leader When the religious observance turned into an anti-government rally yesterday , the government arrested the leader of the sect , Ayatullah Khomaini , and banned all unauthorized demonstrations . Approximately 700 demonstrators were arrested after the demonstrations yesterday . At least 200 more were picked up during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today when several hundred barefoot men , most of them wearing black shirts and carrying clubs and stones , marched on the government radio buildings . They smashed display windows and damaged cars parked outside the building . Begin Firing in Air Police armed with tear gas , machine guns and clubs arrived immediately , began firing into the air and pushed the crowd away from the radio building . Pursued by police , the agitators rushed toward the downtown bazaar , smashing car and shop windows , on the way . Police beat several demonstrators with clubs . A bus and several other vehicles , including a police jeep , were set , ablaze . The demonstrators shouted protests against the arrest of Khomaini and 17 other top religious leaders at Qum , south of Tehran . Their main grievance , the official said , was the enforcement of the Shah 's land program which deprives religious leaders of income from shrine lands .                     