@@725827

txt Actor Robert Young , 59 , and his wife , Betty , were taken to Illinois Masonic hospital in an ambulance last night after they were found unconscious in their Drake hotel apartment . Young , who was born in Chicago and who won nation-wide fame in the lead role of the award-winning television series , Father Knows Best , is appearing in a road company cast of " Generation , " a comedy by William Goodhart , at the Studebaker theater . Seek to Find Cause Doctors at the hospital were attempting to determine what caused the attack . The Youngs , both reported in serious condition , were being treated for exhaustion . Their daughter , Mrs. Betty Lou Gleason , called the touring company manager , Albert H. Rosen , at the theater to report that her father was sick and would not be able to perform last night . " He 's suffering from nervous exhaustion , " Rosen told THE TRIBUNE . " He has n't done a show in 14 years and he 's not used to the discipline of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he 's also made a number of public appearances . About a month ago in Detroit , something similar happened . He got sick and did n't come back to the cast for several days . " William Poore , the Studebaker 's stage manager , went on stage and told 700 theater-goers : " Mr. Young is ill . We are bringing in Mr. Barnard Hughes , who replaced Henry Fonda in the New York production . " Hughes , who was called in from New York City , got to the theater at 8:25 p. m . The curtain went up at 8:35 p. m. , 5 minutes late . Physician Called In Dr. Eduardo Riguarte. of Southfield , Mich. , the touring company 's physician , flew here from his home and told police that the Youngs are suffering from mental and physical fatigue . " He described their condition as " fair to poor . " Both remained in a coma . Mrs. Gleason , who lives in Carlsdale , Cal. , was staying in the Drake hotel while visiting Chicago . She discovered her parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner . Won Emmy in 1958 " Generation " is a comedy about a father who visits his daughter in Manhattan , finds her married two days to a semibeatnik , nine months pregnant , and preparing to have her baby with . no help from anyone except the bridegroom . Young won an'Emmy in 1958 when Father Knows Best won out over western and other comedies to score top honors as the best continuing performance on television . The same year , the series was voted one of two top programs by the American Council for Better Broadcasts . Father Knows Best was a radio program before Young took it to television in 1957 . It ran six years . Later , Young appeared in another television series , Window on Main Street . He has appeared in more than 109 motion pictures . Mrs. Young is the former Betty Henderson . The Youngs have four daughters .                     