@@722937

txt Adlai E. Stevenson criticized President de Gaulle of France tonight for " divisive nationalism . " " The fact that General de Gaulle seems to want to retreat to older ideas of national supremacy and grandeur , " Mr. Stevenson said , must not deter the United States from strengthening the Atlantic partnership . Mr. Stevenson was obviously referring to General de Gaulle 's recent veto of Britain 's entry into the Common Market and to his insistence on an independent nuclear-weapon capability for France . " We can re-examine the terms of our alliance , " the United States Ambassador to the United Nations told a convocation at Notre Dame University , " but surely the world is not yet so safe that anyone can afford to break it up . " He warned that the presence of Russian forces in Cuba , " endangers the peace , " and termed the Communist bloc " aggressive and powerful and determined to grow more so . " Split Seen as Little Help " We face in Communist hostility and expansionism a formidable force , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together or apart . " Their disagreement so far only turns on the point whether capitalism should be peacefully or violently buried . They are both for the funeral . " Mr. Stevenson said it was essential that " our separate sovereignties and nationalisms " in the Western alliance " be transcended in a common , overwhelming union of deterrent . strength . " He stressed the West 's economic as well as military interdependence , and said that the Atlantic community had become " an interwoven international economy . " " Without joint policies here , " he added , " we could easily slip back to the debacle of the period between the great civil wars of Europe of 1914 and 1939 . " Award for Patriotism Mr. Stevenson , who received a Notre Dame senior class award for patriotism today , observed that " separate , divisive nationalism is not patriotism . " " It ' can not be patriotism to enlarge a country 's illusory sense of potency and influence and reduce its security and economic viability , " he asserted . " True patriotism demands that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the interest of the nation itself . " The Notre Dame citation praised Mr. Stevenson " as the very embodiment in contempoary society of the ideals of freedom and justice which our founding fathers treasured . " " Daily you forge on the international forum a true conscience and firm reason among leaders that could bring about the rescue of humanity in this perilous passage of its history , " , it stated . Mr. Stevenson said it was the West 's effort to transcend nationalism that " could mark the ' building of an Atlantic partnership as a secure nucleus ofl world order . " Mr. Stevenson also spoke ' critically of American " superpatriots , " and the " Misguided patriots who feel we pay too much attention to other nations , that we are somehow enfeebled by respecting world opinion . " " On this shrunken globe , " he said , " Men can no longer live as strangers . Men can war against each other as hostile neighbors , as we are determined not to do ; or they can co-exist in frigid isolation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that men everywhere will learn , finally to live as brothers , to respect each other 's differences , to heal each other ' wounds , to promote each other 's progress , and to benefit from each other 's knowledge . " Unless peace is established , he continued , " the democratic enterprise , ? one might even say the human enterprise ? will be utterly , fatally doomed . " Mr. Stevenson said that " we shall survive John Birchism and all the rest of the superpatriots but only at the price of perpetual and truly patriotic vigilance " that rejects " a simple , direct , inward-looking nationalism . " " Our basic reason for being a state , he asserted , " is our attempt to build a dynamic and equal society of free men . " But if the world 's first experiment . in the open society uses patriotism as a cloak for inaction or reaction , then it will cease to open and then , as a social organism , it will lose its fundamental reason for existence ... " It is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reality and see the shadow ? the shadow of self-righteousness , the shadows of slums and poverty , the shadow of delinquent children , the shadow of suburban sprawls , the shadow of racial discrimination , the shadow of interminable strikes ? it is only then that the shadows can be dispelled and the unique brightness of our national experiment can be seen and loved . "                     