@@727610

txt More than at any time in recent years , the climate is considered ripe for NATO reform . The Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia spotlighted NATO 's flabbiness and complacency . Now President Nixon has placed this and other key issues high on his agenda as he puts together plans to visit NATO leaders late this month or early in March . Basically , the trip is being designed to underline the new administration 's basic determination to repair the NATO alliance which has deteriorated markedly in recent years . Other than this symbolic gesture , however , President Nixon intends , to use personal diplomacy to help clear substantively the way for the April meeting of the NATO foreign ministers in Washington . That meet ing will mark the 20th anniversary of the alliance . According to State Department sources , Mr. Nixon is likely to use this occasion to discuss strengthening NATO and exploring areas where its members can play wider roles in sharing the burdens of its maintenance . The realities of Soviet military strength are fresh in the minds of the alliance partners . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would be the time to press for an increase in allied troop strength and a greater role in sharing the financial costs . In this connection , Mr. Nixon is consid- ered in a good position to get discussions moving more swiftly with the Federal Republic of ( West ) Germany on the renewal of the " offset agreements . ' ? Simply speaking , these agreements required West Germany to spend a certain amount of its defense budget in the U.S. to offset the $850 million the U.S. spends annually in West Germany maintaining American troops there . In recent years , this agreement has come " unstuck , " according to State Department officials . Germany has alternatively purchased bonds to offset the foreign-exchange imbalance resulting from heavy American overseas spending . But neither side has been satisfied with the arrangement . One current suggestion being considered is that Germany increase private investment in this country . The problem with this , however , is the difficulty in measuring how much private investment would have been made in the U.S. anyway , and how // *Czech affair prods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other subjects considered high on the Nixon agenda are these : ? Ratification of the nuclear nonproliferation treaty . Mr. Nixon is giving the go-ahead for the Senate to ratify the treaty . It may have been completed by the time Mr. Nixon reaches European capitals . The treaty has raised some questions among some of the NATO members , particularly with France which refuses to support it . If Mr. Nixon meets with President de Gaulle the subject is expected to be approached delicately  --  perhaps merely as an ? effort to apprise France of American thinking on the signing . Mr. Nixon is not expected to make a strong play to get France to support it at this time . ? Missile talks with the Soviets . President Nixon considers the time good for starting preliminary , technical discussions with the Soviets on limiting missile development . Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird has taken a tough line on this , suggesting that it would be months before any talks could get started and insisting that the U.S. must maintain a defense superiority . But Mr. Nixon has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the minds of European allies of the U.S. Clarification expected Mr. Nixon is expected to clarify these conflicting viewpoints in discussions with NATO allies . He is expected to emphasize the profound U.S. interest in reaching agreement with the Soviets . He is likely to seek allied support in the months ahead during these complicated negotiations . ? Middle East and relations with Eastern Europe . Mr. Nixon is expected to underline his desire to see a greater UN role in getting Arab and Israeli leaders to come to some long-term settlement in the Middle East . And the President is looking to a warming of relations with Arab countries which broke U.S. ties , as well as better relations with Communist countries of Eastern Europe . ? Paris peace talks . The President is known to feel satisfied with the start of the peace talks , and he probably will convey his hopes and plans for ultimate Asian settlement to the NATO leadership . ? International monetary questions . The new administration would like to explore problems raised by the current deficiencies in the international monetary setup . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . He may discuss the questions . of gold pricing and special drawing rights . , Monetary issues In this connection , Mr. Nixon may wish to reemphasize United States support of the admission of the United Kingdom to the Common Market . But this would probably come in an overall discussion of American support for the Common Market . State Department officials hope that the Common Market members will consider entering into a commercial arrangement with Britain , thereby giving the British many of the advantages of Common Market membership . It would open the way later for possible British membership . But , again , Mr. Nixon may wish to retain a - hands off " stance with regard to internal Common Market matters and make his views known only if asked . President de Gaulle , for example , is not expected to ask . ? Renewal of U.S. bases in Portugal and Spain . ? The United States is currently deep in negotiating the renewal of agreements on military bases in these countries . While Spain is not a member of NATO , Portugal is , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together . The Spanish agreement expires March 26 . Currently the United States is paying $100 million a year for the bases in Spain . Spain is demanding roughly 10 times that figure in any renewal . The U.S. counterproposal is $140 ' million . " The clock is running out , " explains one State Department official . The Portuguese agreement presents similar problems . U.S. officials are attempting to deemphasize the disagreement over cost and stressing the continuing need for seeking a wider view of the defense of the whole area .                     