@@727472

txt It is n't official yet . But it 's likely that Key Biscayne will be the site of the winter-spring-and-fall White House while Mr. Nixon is in charge . An island , whose residential area is bordered by a state park on one end and by a county park on the other , the key has certain security advantages . It 's reached by a single four-lane causeway , for instance , and can be shut off from the mainland in minutes . The " borrowed " house ( it belongs to retiring Sen. George Smothers ) which President-Elect Nixon used for his post-election hiatus , is on a dead-end street on a little peninsula sticking out into Biscayne Bay . The neighbors  --  one of whom has his own helicopter landing port  --  do n't seem to mind the activity . Well-off to rich , they expect fewer visits now from Miami 's burglars and jewel thieves . One matron is positively thankful that the protective offshore Coast Guard boat has stopped speedboaters and water-skiers from frothing up her part of the bay . 0 For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina each will seat a Negro member when their Legislatures convene next year . Last week Joe Kershar was elected to the House in Florida . Henry Frye was elected to the North Carolina House of Representatives . Election Day chalked up another first : Two Negro members will join the Tennessee Senate ? J. 0 . Patterson of Memphis and Avon Williams of Nashville . The Tennessee House already had six Negro members and will continue to have that number this session . Most legislatures in the South now are de-segregated . Only Alabama and South Caro-lina remain all white . 0 Richmond , Va. , for one is expecting considerably less federal funds in future for its antipoverty program . City Manager Alan F. Kiepper was saying so even before the election . Now it 's the prevailing view of other cities around the nation . And Mr. Kiepper is recommending action which may well set the trend elsewhere : ? That city funds be used to restore the major portion of a $58,000 federal cut in the Richmond Community Action Program  --  with expectations that such local aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission be set up with its director a city employee paid with city funds . George C. Wallace ran third in Virginia . But his vote was big enough to convince his American Independent Party contingent there to hold a state convention Nov. 23 . And it may well convince his Virginia chairman , T. Coleman Andrews Jr. , to run for governor in 1969 . Trends .. . Virginians surprised themselves with the margin by which they overthrew their long-cherished policy of " pay as you go . " By a 2-to-1 vote Nov. 5 , they ratified an $81 million state bond issue to build colleges arid mental hospital units . The Virginia , constitution limits general-spending obligation bonds to 1 percent of total assessed real estate values ? or about $70 million . But a commission is revising the constitution . And it is now expected to advocate expanding the bond limit considerably beyond that 1 percent figure . 0 When South Carolinians went to the polls , they may have set a precedent . They approved an amendment to their constitution that " all or a part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be applied to the treatment and rehabilitation of alcohol and drug addicts , and for the prevention of alcohol and drug addiction . " At present the state has no tax-supported facilities for treating such cases . 0 Republicans , making an all-out effort to give South Carolina a two-party system , sustained a tremendous setback Nov. 5 . Instead of strengthening their minority hold on the General Assembly as they had vowed to do , their delegation was weakened by a drop from 25 to 8 members . The Negro bloc vote undeniably went to the Democrats . But results also show that while many Democrats voted Republican or Independent nationally , on local and statewide issues they are still Democrats at heart .                     