@@726196

txt A. qualified United Nations source said today that there had been a new development in the quest for a negotiated settlement of the war in Vietnam . This was reported after a 90-minute talk between Arthur J. Goldberg , United States representative , and Secretary General Thant . Their meeting was followed by talks between the Secretary General and representatives of the Soviet Union , Canada and Poland , all of which have direct interests in the situation . Premier Nguyen Cao Ky of South Vietnam , sipping a cup of iced tea , disclosed almost off-handedly Wednesday that he would fly to Guam this weekend to attend a conference with President . Johnson . Page 53 Goldberg Silent on Talk The United Nations source , who is ? close to the Secretary General , said that , for " obvious reasons , " details of the new element in the negotiations picture could not be disclosed . The outlook for peace was the subject of Mr. Goldberg 's talk with the Secretary General . The United States Ambassador said that it would not serve the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As he was leaving the Secretary General 's office , Mr. Goldberg exchanged greetings with Nikolai T. Fedorenko , thei Soviet representative , who was calling at Mr. Thant 's request . One explanation given for Mr. Fedcirenko 's visit to the 38th floor of the United Nations Secretariat was that Mr. Thant wanted to see him about charges of bias the Soviet Union recently leveled at the Office of Public Information . Later in the day George Ignatieff , representative of Canada , called on the Secretary General at the latter 's request . At the request of Poland 's delegate , Bohdan Tomorowicz , Mr. Thant also saw him . Poland and Canada are members of the International Control Commission , established by the 1954 Geneva conference to supervise the truce ending the war in French Indochina . The commission . cf which India is chairman , has been viewed by Mr. Thant as a useful mechanism for communication with both North and South Vietnam . The Soviet Union and Britain were co-chairmen of the Geneva conference . Thus far the Russians have rejected British appeals for reconvening the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On leaving United Nations headquarters . Mr. Goldberg said in . reply to correspondents questions : " The Secretary General and I continued our exchange of views on Vietnam . which is a matter of vital and continuing concern to both of us . The substance of the discussion is private , and it does not serve the cause of peace to discuss the matter publicly : " The meeting with Mr. Thant was arranged by Mr. Goldberg immediately after his return from Washington , where he had testified at Congressional hearings on the Soviet-American 1 reaty on the peaceful uses of space , which he helped to negotiate and to win approval for it from the General Assembly . Two Views of Outlook While he was in Washington he gave President Johnson a report on his observations during a recent 10-day visit to five Asian countries sympathetic to United States policy . On his return he stopped over in New York for a hastily arranged private meeting with Mr. Thant at the Secretary General 's Riverdale home . Mr. Thant had returned the day before from a visit to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnamese Government . The Secretary General came home convinced that if the United States would halt the bombing of the North unconditionally , peace talks could start " in 10 days . " Mr. Geldberg returned equally convinced that the only way to end the fighting was for both sides to reduce the conflict on the ground as well as in the air . Another development regarded : 7y oelegates as significant wa. - ; the warm response from Mr. Goldberg to a speech by the Senate majority leader , Mike Mansfield , Democrat of Montana , at the University of North Carolina last , night . The Senator urged that the United Nations invite all belligerents to enter open discussions on ending the war . Commenting on Mr. Mansfield 's proposal , Mr. Goldberg said : " We shall , ofcourse , study carefully Senator Mansfield 's thoughtful and constructive address . The United States is constantly seeking ways in which the United Nations can play a constructive role in helping to bring about a peaceful settlement in Vietnam . While it has thus far regrettably proved impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine sympathetically every opportunity which may be presented for a useful United Nations contribution . "                     