@@725608

txt New York , June 19 111 ' ) ? Sen. Robert F. Kennedy D. , N.Y. said today " I support President Johnson in 1968 . " He said his own political plans were to run for reelection to the Senate in 1970 . Kennedy , who has been pictured in some quarters as seeking to challenge President Johnson , gave his views on arrival at Kennedy airport . He returned from a two-week overseas tour which included a visit to South Africa . Told Morse Remark The question came up when a newsman told Kennedy that Sen. Wayne Morse D. , Ore. had announced he would consider supporting Kennedy in the 1968 Presidential race if his views on Viet Nam remained the same . Kennedy replied : " I have no plans to run for anything but the Senate in 1970 and I support President Johnson in 1968 . " Of his South African trip , Kennedy said , " For knowledge and feeling , this was a far more productive trip than I ever anticipated . " He said treatment of Negroes in racially segregated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stopping Trade " When you see discrimination on such a massive scale , it ca n't help but make a deep impression , " he said . Kennedy said he opposes halting United States trade with South Africa . He asserted that such a step would hurt Negroes there the most and would be detrimental to the South African " economic boom which is the greatest force in breaking clown apartheid . " In his audience with Pope Paul VI yesterday , Kennedy said he discussed conditions in South Africa and East Africa and the Viet Nam war . He said many Anglican and Roman Catholic church leaders are making " major efforts " on behalf of gaining racial equality in Africa . Many clergymen , however , are - less stalwart and courageous , " he said . and some support apartheid . Kennedy said he expects to return to South Africa next year . stating : " I 'm going back next year unless I 'm refused a visa . I am going to take a continuing interest in South Africa . " He was critical of the effectiveness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think they could do a better job . " He said he was told by peace corps volunteers in Africa that they listen to broadcasts from Communist China because they are " far more interesting " than Voice of America programs . which he called deficient in " make up of programs " and factual news programs . "                     