@@726366

txt BOSTON , Saturday , June 3-A mob of Negroes raged through the Grove Hall section of the Roxbury district last night , stoning policemen , looting stores and setting fires . It was the first serious riot Boston has experienced since racial tensions began developing here . The riot started as a demonstration over city welfare procedures . By midnight , as some semblance of calm had settled over the area , a Negro ghetto , upwards of 30 persons had been arrested and scores , including at least 30 policemen , had been treated for injuries at the Boston City Hospital . Most of those injured were treated for cuts , bruises and bites . But one white girl , Eileen Klein , 15 years old , of the Mattapan district , suffered a skull fracture when a stone struck her on the head as she was riding through the area in a car . Mayor John F. Collins , who had gone to Cape Cod for the weekend , kept in touch by telephone . He issued a statement asserting that the riot was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others this city has ever seen . " Later , Police Commissioner Edmund L. appeared on television and said the situation was under control . But he could give no reason why the disorder had started except that lie understood there was apparent dissatisfaction with the way the Welfare Department dealt with persons in the Negro district . The trouble was touched off by a disturbance at a city Welfare Department building in the Grove Hall section at about 5 P.M. The custodian preparing to close up the building for the weekend found that a group of Roxbury women had chained and padlocked the front door from the inside . The maneuver locked in about a dozen demonstrators , about 20 social workers and 10 policemen . The Roxbury women had been conducting a sit-in in the building . When police reinforcements arrived and attempted to gain entry by placing a ladder against the building , a group of young Negro men gathered outside and began to chant , " Block that ladder ! Block that ladder ! " At that point , some of the demonstrators , who called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the building and shouted , " They 're beating our people on the head with sticks ! " Almost immediately , a group of policemen who had formed a flying wedge inside burst through the door after breaking the chains . They were met by a volley of stones , bottles and other missiles . In the confusion about half the social workers left the building but the others remained until they had received assurance they would not be molested on their way out of the area . 2 Ministers Arrive Some order was restored with the arrival on the scene of the Rev. Virgil E. Wood and the Rev. James P. Breeden , both Negro clergymen who are active in b NenTo affairs , and Mrs. Ellen Jackson of Operation Exodus , a neighborhood volunteer busing service for schoolchildren . Mr. Wood was given a loudspeaker to address the crowd , . which then gradually moved away from the welfare building to an area in front of St. Hugh 's Roman Catholic Church . At one point , before the police burst into the building . demonstrators inside sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Welfare Commissioner Daniel Cronin . They stipulated that Mr. Cronin speak to them by loudspeaker so that reporters in the area might listen in . Mr. Cronin refused . After the police entered the building , some of the women demonstrators asserted that policemen had grabbed two of the women by the hair to drag them away from the locked doors and clear a path for the wedge . Merchants in the area began closing drugstores and corner groceries with the coming of darkness . Streets were deep in broken glass , fragments of bottles thrown by the rioters and shards from the shattered windows of police cruisers and newsmen 's radio cars . What began as a melee between the police and a group of civil rights activists in the early I evening , escalated by 11 P.M. into wild mob scenes illuminated ) by flames from burning stores . Two firemen responding to a blaze in a block on Blue Hill Avenue were injured by stones . A detail of policemen , for the first time showing their riot guns and wearing hard helmets , cleared a path @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abreast to clear side streets of rioters only to be summoned to other trouble spots where young men had regrouped with fresh supplies of stones and bottles . Reporters at the scene saw numerous incidents of looting , particularly of liquor stores and mostly by young men . The police set up a command post in a football stadium for the distribution of riot guns , bayonets and riot clubs to men called in from other divisions . By midnight 100 policemen had passed through the assembly point and were taken into the trouble area in groups of 10 or 12 by patrol wagon . Shortly after midnight , a group of Negro community leaders and civil rights representatives met with police officials in Commissioner 's office to assess the situation . Also present was Sanford Kowal , secretary of Gov . John A. Volpe 's Committee on Interracial Relations .                     