@@723866

txt Washington , March 24 - Sen. Dirksen R. , Ill. predicted today that the Senate will vote Thursday on the motion to take up the civil rights bill . The Republican minority leader told reporters he based this prediction on talks he has had with Sen. Mike Mansfield Mont. , the Democratic leader , and Sen. Richard B. Russell D. , Ga. , leader of the southern senators fighting the bill . The Senate in theory has been debating the motion for 14 days . Actually , most of the talk has been on the substance of the bill itself . Will Debate Morse Motion Dirksen said that after the vote on the motion , which is expected to carry overwhelmingly , the Senate later in the day will begin debating a motion by Sen. Wayne Morse D. , Ore. to send the bill to the judiciary committee for 10 days of hearings . Dirksen said he will support the Morse motion . The Democratic leaders , however , believe they have the votes to defeat it . If they do , and the issue is disposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pending business when it returns to work Monday and the debate starts all over again . It has been agreed that no session will be held Good Friday or Easter Saturday . Dirksen said he has been receiving about 1,000 letters a day on the rights bill with the count 9 to 1 against the bill . Senators in Sharp Exchanges Morse exchange some caustic remarks with his colleagues today when he said he intends to object to all committee hearings while the Senate is in session on the civil rights bill . A single objection is enough to block the hearings . Morse asserted the only way to get cloture limitation of debate ) is to bring all business of the Senate , other than civil rights , to a dead halt . He said he believes the invocation of cloture is the only way to get the bill enacted . He was immediately charged by Sen. Gordon Allott R. , Col. with doing the country a disservice , and others said such action would hurt the national economy . Russell Backs Clay Sen. Mansfield said he hoped some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by committees . Otherwise , he said , the Senate 's business will stop for weeks or months . The session also saw Sen. Russell come to the defense of Cassius Clay with a denunciation of a proposal to strip Clay of his heavyweight boxing title . Russell said he was shocked by the proposal made by Ed Lassman , president of the World Boxing association , and by the lack of protests from the " great liberals " at this effort to take from Clay a very valuable property right because of his religion . Long Is Encouraged Sen. Russell B. Long D. , La. told the Senate he and his southern colleagues have been greatly heartened to note that tens of thousands of citizens outside the south are beginning to get an understanding of the legislation and are making their opposition to the bill known to their senators . Sen. Olin Johnson D. , S. C. predicted organized labor will reap a harvest of trouble if the equal employment opportunities section becomes law , In general , he asserted the bill contains the tools , the temptation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for policing and controling the people and businesses of every community in the nation . " Sen. Strom Thurmond D .. S. C. asserted the entire bill proposes a further accumulation of powers for the central government at the expense not only of states rights , but " primarily at the expense of individual rights . "                     