@@721094

txt Leaders of four major Protestant denominations demanded , here yesterday that Represent-1 ative Francis E. ? Walter " retract his untrue statement " charging Communist infiltration of the churches and " apologize to the 60,000,000 members of Protestant churches in America . " The demand came In identical telegrams sent to the Pennsylvania Democrat and to 1Dudley C. Sharp , Secretary of the ? Air Force , by officials of the United Presbyterian ' Church , the Protestant Episco ! pal Church , the United Church of ? Christ and the Methodist Church . Mr. Walter , in Washington , ' responded by inviting the six Protestant leaders to testify before his committee . Sharp Called ' Uncertain ' The telegrams noted that Mr. Sharp , in testimony Thursday before the House Committe on Un-American Activities headed by Mr. Walter , had been " uncertain " about the truth of charges of Communist influence contained in a disputed Air Force training manual . The Secretary was quoted after the Washington hearing as saying : " I have been asked whether I testified that all charges were true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without any determination as to whether charges were false or true . " The House committee then released a transcript of the hearing in which Mr. Sharp , asked whether he was " in accord " with statements in the manual that Communists had infiltrated churches , replied , " I am , yes . " Mr. Walter , also after the healing , indicated he thought the charges were true , and reported that the Air Force intended to reissue the training ' manual , deleting only specific references to persons and organizations , including the NaItional Council of ? Churches . The churchmen in their tele-gram endorsed a resolution by the council calling the manual " a patent violation of , the free exercise of religion as guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution . " They demanded that Mr. Sharp " repudiate and forbid reissuance in any form of the false and slanderous charges contained in the manual . " They called on Mr. Walter to retract his charges and offer an apology to the National Council of Churches , which represents 38,000,000 church members in thirty-three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the six religious leaders are affiliated have a total of about 18,000,000 members and are all affiliates of the National Council of Churches . However , the leaders in their ? telegrams were speaking only for themselves and not as members of the national council . Repudiated By Gates The manual . prepared at Lackland Air Force Base , Tex. , was repudiated by Secretary of Defense Thomas S. Gates Jr . on Feb. 17 after a protest by the national council . Mr. Gates apologized to the council , and the Air Force withdrew the manual . Yesterday the Union of American Hebrew Congregations , the federation of Reform ' . temples in this country , made public a protest against the inclusion of " discredited and absurd attacks upon American religious institutions and specifically the National Council of Churches " in the Air Force manual . In a telegram to the Rev. Dr. Edwin T. Dahlberg , president of the council , Rabbi Maurice N. Eisendrath , president of the Reform organization , said : " The National Council of Churches needs no defense from us . Your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has served as an . inspiration to Americans of all faiths who cherish the religious heritage which sustains our national life . " The text of the telegram from the denominational leaders to Mr. Walter and Mr. Sharp follows : " The undersigned agree that the following resolution is necessary in view of your statements regarding the Protestant churches of America and the National Council of Churches . We hereby cail upon you to comply with its provisions . " Whereas , the General Board of the National Council of Churches of Christ in. the U. S. A. , meeting in Oklahoma City , passed a resolution on Feb . Z4 condemning the Air Force for issuing a training manual containing untrue and ridiculous charges against educational institutions , the churches of America and the National Council of Churches , and " Whereas , the Secretary of the Air Force has testified that , he is uncertain as to whether the charges are true or false , . " Whereas . the chairman of the House Committee on Un-Ameri2an Activities has stated that ; the charges contained in the manual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reservation the Feb. 24 resolution of the General Board of the National Council of Churches and " Call upon the Secretary of the Air Force to repudiate and forbid reissuance in any form of the false and - slanderous charges contained in the manual and " Call upon the chairman of the House Committee on UnAmerican - Activities to retract his untrue statement of charges against the churches and to apologize to the National Council of Churches and to - the 60,000,000 members of Protestant churches in America ; and " We- further call to the attention of all churches and their members the never-ending necessity to protect freedom of religion and to exercise the duty ' of all Christians to judge the acts of the State in the light of the teaching , example and sacrifice of Jesus Christ . " Rev. Dr. Eugene Carson Blake , State Clerk , the United ' Presbyterian Church in the U. S. A. " Rev. Dr. Fred Hoskins , coPresident , the United Church of Christ . " Right Rev. Arthur C. Lich-1 tenberger , Presiding Bishop , the Protestant Episcopal Church . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterian Church . " Rev. Dr. James E. Wagner , 1 co-President , the United Church of Christ . . " Bishop Frederick Buckley Newell , New York Area , the Methodist Church . " i                     