@@722626

txt Senate hearings this week will give Charles S. Murphy , Under Secretary of Agriculture , a chance to state his role in the Department of Agriculture 's handling of the Billie Sol Estes case . It will he the tenth week of . hearings of Mr. Estes ' cotton and fertilizer dealings before the Senate 's Permanent Investigations subcommittee . Mr. Murphy . a former special counsel to President Harry S. ' Truman , is the top official the Department of Agriculture under Secretary Orville L. Freeman . In a statement issued through the department last week , he said that " no pressures or improper influences " had played a part in his decisions in the Estes case . ' Strictly on the Merits ' " All of the matters which I dealt with concerning Estes came to me in the normal course of my duties as Under Secretary of Agriculture , " he said . " I dealt with them . strictly on the merits as I saw them . " Mr. Murphy also noted that he had asked for an opportunity to appear before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principles of fairness and justice will preclude any conclusions or judgments until I have had that opportunity . " It has become increasingly clear during the hearings that Senator John L. McClellan , the Arkansas Democrat who heads the subcommittee , has been pointing toward Mr. Murphy like a setter toward a quail . Called Key Man The Senator seized repeatedly last week on testimony that identified Mr. ' Murphy as the key man in Agriculture Department decisions on the Estes case . Questioning John C. Bagwell , the department 's general counsel , on Tuesday , Mr. McClellan asked : " You are saying here that it was his Mr. Murphy 's responsibility all the way ? " " Yes , sir , " Mr. Bagwell re-. plied . " That is where the real responsibility was lodged ? " the chairman asked i.gain . " Yes , sir , that is right , ' was the response . Later in the week , Mr. McClellan sought to establish who , at a meeting last Jan. 6 , had made the final decision to rescind cancellation of disputed cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Firm Answer , After scveral minutes of persistent questioning , he got a firm answer from Emery Jacobs , a former Agriculture Department official who resigned under fire in the Estes case . " It was Mr. Murphy who ' made the decision , " Mr. Jacobs said . The Senator also showed distinct interest in statements by Mr. Jacobs contending that Mr. Murphy had shared his opinion that Mr. Estes should not be penalized for his cotton allotment dealings , which the department now contends were ilegal . Mr. Murphy said yesterday that Mr. Jacobs had given the inquiry an inaccurate description of his position on the cotton dealings . On Wednesaay , Mr. McClellan said flatly that " there could n't be but two people " in the Agriculture Department who were responsible for having helped Mr. Estes last January . Names Freeman and Murphy When asked later who the two were , he said , " I had in mind Mr. Freeman and Mr. Murphy . " Secretary Freeman has generally won praise for his role in the Estes case . It has been testified that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given the details until April 11 . On April 171he ordered Mr. Estes ' cotton allotments for 3,123 acres canceled . Senator McClellan has suggested that Mr. Freeman 's subordinates deliberately withheld information on the case from the Secretary . Senators have said Mr. Freeman acted promptly when he knew the facts . The first suggestion that he might have known these facts earlier than March came in Mr. Jacobs ' testimony Friday , when he said Mr. Freeman 's ' executive assistant had attended departmental meetings on the subject as early as January . The executive assistant later denied having attended any such meetings . Despite Mr. Jacobs ' testimony , Mr. Murphy still appears to be the highest department official who had any close knowledge of the case . The cotton acreage allotments in question were those that Mr , Estes had acquired by leasing back land he had " sold " to West Texas farmers . The farmers had been permitted by the department to transfer their cotton allotments to his land from other land that had been taken for public-works projects . The Government contends that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuable cotton-planting allotments , which permitted Mr. Estes to plant more cotton than he was entitled to plant . The Agriculture Department ordered an investigation of Mr. Estes ' deals in July , 1961 . The subcommittee 's inquiry has been directed chiefly toward finding out who , if anybody , in the department was responsible for letting him get away with , the scheme as long as he did .                     