@@723775

txt Washington There is growing government concern over the " grave " decline in the quality of English teaching in American public schools . While the federal government has been spending millions to speed up and expand the teaching of foreign languages , English instruction has been floundering in apparent neglect . Situation ' Grave ' Millions have been spent under the National Defense Education Act to upgrade and expand foreign-language instruction , but little of this money is available for the improvement of English teaching and teachers . United States Commissioner of Education Francis Koppel strongly urges that more federal aid be provided for the teaching of the humanities , especially for English . The situation in the teaching of English at all levels of education is " grave , " he reports . He says that " the shortage of adequately prepared teachers in English may undermine the quality of American education for a generation to come unless immediate measures are taken to remedy the situation . " Education Majors In the country as a whole , only about 800 of the 90,000 secondary-school English teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet , in 1962 , the federal government alone assisted more than 51,000 leathers in other subjects , according to the commissioner . " In elementary English , the need for further education is even more desperate , " he states . " Of 3.030 teachers making up a good cross section of every region and every kind of school , more than 40 percent began teaching without a baccalaureate degree . Fewer than 10 percent had a major in English . More than half majored in education , rather than in an academic subject . " The public schools have been given a bad name as a result , says Dr. Susan Brett , specialist in ' English of the United States Office of Education . " The public has a tendency to gauge the success of its public schools by the ability of pupils to read and write and spell , " she pointed out in an interview . Overloading Blamed " People rarely know whether a student is good in chemistry , but everyone knows whether he can speak and write English correctly . " Dr. Brett says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of English classes as yell as on the weak academic background of many teachers . Like Commissioner Keppel , she sees the need of government support for the teaching of English to provide institutes or fellowships so that teachers may have an opportunity to improve their teaching ability . This possibility is the subject of a forthcoming conference of supervisors of English at the Office of Education Feb. 26 to 28 . " We want to reach our English teachers , " she said , " and that is the function of supervisors . The supervisor is in a position to detect the weaknesses in the educational system and take steps to remedy them . " til Million in Research The Office of Education seeks to bring together college staffs and English teachers to develop curriculum and teaching methods from kindergarten to post-high-school levels . It now is spending about $1 , - 000,000 on 60 research projects , a small amount , however . in comparison to other education programs . The purpose of the forthcoming conference of supervisors is to draw up guide lines for state departments of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is very little supervision of English , says Dr. Brett , compared with the number of supervisors provided for natural science , mathematics , and modern foreign languages . IConcern Evident Fortunately , there is widespread evidence that the poor quality of English teaching is arousing increasing concern . Typical of this concern is the article entitled " Why Nobody Ca n't Write Good " which appeared in " The Editor 's Easy Chair " column in Earner 's magazine for February , 1964 . This entire article was devoted to deploring the present low standards of English instruction and to suggesting means for its improvement .                     