@@724441

txt Archbishop James Peter Davis announced today that the Santa Fe Archdiocese of the Roman Catholic Church would become a member of the New Mexico Council of Churches . The Catholic Church will join seven Protestant denominations that now make up the membership of the council . Archbishop Davis and the Rev. Harry Summers of Albuquerque , executive secretary of the New Mexico Council , made the announcement in a joint statement from the Archbishop 's office in Santa Fe . The council is made up of laymen and clergy from each of the churches represented . Archbishop Davis said he had designated Msgr. 0 . A. CoggiolaMower , pastor of the Annunciation Catholic Church in Albuquerque , as his representative on the council . He will make other appointments in the future , he said . The Archbishop 's secretary said the action had been taken on a diocesan level and approval from higher church offices was not needed . He said Archbishop Davis had the authority to name a representative to the council . " This first in ecumenicity is a source of deep satisfaction and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities of the state , but also for every man of goodwill , because it is a definite step in mutual understanding and true charity , " Archbishop Davis and Mr. Summers said in a statement released with the announcement . They said they wished to emphasize that several basic principles guided them in reaching the decision of the Catholic Church in becoming a member of the council . These principles are : q " The peace of our Lord Jesus Christ will be evidenced in one more witness by this action . 6 " The essential fact of ' unity , but not uniformity ' will be recognized , in a noble effort toward the ideal of Pope John XXIII and other ecumenical leaders : ' unity in essentials , difference in everything else . ' q'Strength will be given to , certain fundamental doctrines and principles Which the church must communicate to the contemporary world . ( 1 " Present unwarranted duplications , mainly in social pol-1 ides , charitable endeavors and , so on , will be made unneces- sary . " The Protestant denominations ' represented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church of the U.S.A. , the Lutheran Church of America , the Methodist Church , the Disciples of Christ ( Christian Church ) , the United Church of Christ ( Congregationalist ) , the Episcopal Church and the Evangelical United Brethren . Archbishop Davis said as far as he knew , this was the first time that a Catholic diocese had joined wth Protestant groups in such an organization . Mr. Summers said there were one or two instances where an individual Catholic church had become a member of a city council of churches . This has occurred in Tulsa , he said . Controversy and innovation are not new to Archbishop Davis . As Archbishop of San Juan , P. R. , he , and others , signed pastoral letters in 1960 calling a vote for Gov . Luis Munoz Marin a sin . Archbishop Davis and Roman Catholic Bishops on the island urged ' Catholics in Puerto Rico to vote against the popular Democratic party of Mr. Munoz Marin , which the church contended advocated birth.control . But in August , 1963 , it was reported that Archbishop Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to establish rhythm-meth'od birth control clinics. with the idea of giving advice to those seeking aid . He created a mild controversy in New Mexico shortly after he became Archbishop of Santa Fe when he decided to establish a second office and home in Albuquerque , the state 's largest city . Santa Fe has been the seat of the archdiocese since 1875 , and there were rumors he would transfer the seat to Albuquerque . His decision early this year to close a number of small parochial schools in northern New Mexico also created mixed feelings among Catholics in the area . Archbishop Davis was born in Houghton , Mich. , on June 9 , 1904 , but spent much of his boyhood in Flagstaff , Ariz . He was educated at St. Joseph 's College , Mountain View , Calif. , and St. Patrick 's Seminary , Menlo Park , Calif . He was ordained May 18 , 1929 , and began his service in the church at St. Augustine 's Cathedral in Tucson , Ariz. 1 Bishop of San Juan on Nov. 25,1 1943 , and was elevated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an archdiocese by Pope John XXIII . He was installed as the ninths Archbishop of Santa Fe on ' Feb. 25 . Santa Fe Action Bailed A spokesman for the National Council of Churches here hailed last night the action of the Santa Fe Archdiocese as a " significant and specific sign of the closer working relationship between Protestants and Roman Catholics in this country . " The National Council is a federation of most of the major Protestant and Eastern Orthodox church bodies in the United States . State councils are related to the national organization , but may act independently . The spokesman said that nothing in the council 's constitution would prevent the National Catholic Welfare Conference from joining the Protestant and Orthodox body , but he viewed this as unlikely at the present time . Nor did the spokesman anticipate a similar relationship between the New York Archdiocese of the Roman Catholic Church and the New York State Council of Churches , a Protestant body . He emphasized that any future developments of this nature would originate in the more " progressive " dioceses of the Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vatican Council in Rome . The Catholic Welfare Conference is the administrative body for the Roman Catholic Church in the United States . He was installed as the 57th                     