@@721528

txt The news that a $2 , - A New 000,000 drama center Drama has been opened at Center Harvard must have caused considerable ? head-shaking on Broadway , ' where years have passed since the last new building was erected . And while the new center is the result of a ; gift by John L. Loeb , class of ' 24 , and other Harvard and Radcliffe alumni , it does reflect the healthy state of the university theatre . Today it is rare to find a junior college , college or university without some provision for theatre . A recent survey estimated that 1,859 academic institutions in the United States produce annually between 5,500 and 6,500 plays , running to a total of more than 60,000 performances . This partnership beEducation tween education and and drama is by no means Drama a new one . " My lord , you played once in the university , you say ? " Hamlet asks Polonius . And the answer is a hearty , " That I did , my lord , and was accounted a good actor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romans was more closely allied to religion than to education , and the academic theatre has roots that go back to the fourteenth century . By the end of the sixteenth , , drama was flourishing so energetically at Oxford and- Cambridge that , in the words of at least one commentator , " the English theatre awoke in the universities . " It was a brief awakening , though , for Puritanism followed , and a taste for playgoing , either within or outside the schools , was held to mean certain damnation . Soon the drama was banished from both English and European curricula . College theatricals State of had never really died College out , of course : But Theatricals . their quality sank to a rather low level back in Victorian days , with- men playing serious women 's roles in a manner reminiscent of " Charley 's Aunt . " The earliest stirrings toward something better should perhaps be credited to the ladies . In 1906 Theater magazine surveyed amateur dramatics at Barnard , Smith , Vassar , Wellesley and Radcliffe , and found that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of football for college men . At any rate , HarHarvard yard has to share with and Radcliffe the honor Radcliffe usually accorded it of having instigated the revival of the educational theater . Prof. George Pierce Baker was quietly teaching playwriting in Cambridge as far back as 1905 , but it was co-ed Agnes Morgan of " Grand Street Follies " fame who was his first pupil in the now famous English 47 . For a time the courses that Professor Baker offered for academic credit had to be supplemented by the extracurricular program of the Harvard Dramatic Club , founded in 1908 . Eventually the 47 Workshop emerged , a full-fledged school of the drama where an extraordinary number of brilliant contributors to our professional theatre  --  Philip Barry , Eugene O'Neill , Sidney Howard , S. N. Behrman , George Abbott , Theresa Helburn and others  --  got their start . Yet the workshop was permitted by Harvard to struggle along with inadequate stage and facilities until the inevitable happened . More alluring quarters were offered on a rival campus , and Professor Baker and all his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Changes the modern university in the theatre has not all been Theatre due to the pioneering of Baker and his contemporaries . Changes in the scope of our professional theatre not only coincided with but must have been in part responsible for the expanding role assumed by the nonprofessional stage . At the turn of the century we had 5,000 professional theatres across the country . By 1920 the resident companies had all but vanished and the touring companies , unable to recover their pre-World War I popularity , were seriously declining . All that were left were the handful of playhouses that still survive in New York , plus ever-dwindling activity by scattered road companies . If people were to see theatre at all , they had to look to local community organizations to supply it . Among these , the newly established college and university players have been filling an outstanding place . The Loeb center at Harvard is a great step forward for that movement .                     