@@722394

txt Pentagon officials have recommended to President Kennedy that the United States ease present restrictions and turn over to France important information and materials for nuclear weapons . The defense leaders , ' both civilian and military , began making these recommendations several months ago in anticipation of a victory by President de Gaulle in his efforts to settle the Algerian problem . In the past , military leaders have been reluctant to help the French in the nuclear weapons field . They have maintained that security might be endangered because of Communists and Left-wingers said to be in French Government ranks . Formerly , Pentagon leaders have favored the closest possible restrictions on United States military information and materials as a matter of principle . Arrangements with Britain have been an exception . Bar in Existing Law Authoritative sources made it clear that there was no indication yet whether President Kennedy would reverse United States policy and assist President de Gaulle in his ambition to achieve an independent nuclear weapons capability . Existing ' United States laws prohibit the , transfer of nuclear weapons information except to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in effect . Britain . France has exploded four nuclear devices , but these are believed to be relatively rudimentary . The Pentagon recommendation is said to have been reinforced by a report by Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , the President 's military representative , who recently returned from a twoweek tour of Europe . He is said to have suggested that France had gone far enough in weapons development to permit Mr. Kennedy to offer United States help . The idea behind the new recommendation has two aspects : on the one hand , it would // strengthen General de Gaulle 's position , Pentagon sources said ; on the other hand , it would win the French leader over to closer cooperation With Atlantic Pact forces . President de Gaulle has ordered that two divisions he withdrew from the Western defense system to service in Algeria be restored to the Atlantic Pact line-up . Howevel , he has not relented in his refusal to permit United States forces , as part of the Atlantic defense system , to stockpile nuclear weapons in France . He also has refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense needs although they are officially " available . " United States military officials believe that General de Gaulle would cooperate more willingly if his nuclear weapons ambitions could be satisfied . , Precisely what information and weapons materials would be made available to him , under the Pentagon proposals , could not be ascertained . The State Department and the Atomic Energy Commission , as well as some influential members of Congress , are said to be opposed to the move . They have been saying that if the United States helps France in this regard it will make it almost inevitable for the West Germans to get nuclear weapons in the future , with consequent complications for the international situation . The question of United States support of France on nuclear weapons has been revived in view of the pending meeting of the foreign ministers of NATO members in Athens in May . The NATO allies have been working on a series of proposals involving the deployment of United States nuclear weapons in Europe , including a plan that would create a nuclear force . At present the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pact forces and has an arrangement with Britain for joint decisions of their use .                     