@@725391

txt A replay of Tennessee 's famed Scopes " monkey trial " may unravel now in Arkansas . A test of the Arkansas antievolution law is moving toward the courts . The trial date is April 1 . Arkansas , Tennessee , and Mississippi are the only states left that still have laws prohibiting the teaching of Charles Darwin 's theory of evolution . The Arkansas law was passed after the celebrated Scopes trial in 1925 . For years nobody paid it any heed  --  until an outspoken Arkansas Education Association official , Forrest Rozzell , attacked it as a freedom-abridging law . A group of fundamentalists attacked Mr. Rozzell . Now the whole issue is reopened and a test case is heading into court . An attractive Little Rock biology teacher , Mrs. Susan Epperson , has filed suit asking for a declaratory judgment against the law . Mrs. Epperson had hoped for just a simple hearing . But the matter has boiled up and spilled over even into politics . Both major candidates for governor have sided on the issue  --  one for , the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States Senate , is under siege from his own party at home . Moderate State Sen. William B. Spong is challenging him in this year 's party primary . And now the Byrd organization is trying to unseat him . It appears intent on pushing Rep. Thomas ' N. Downing into the race . Behind all this stirring to scuttle the venerable , conservative Mr. Robertson is party edginess over the prospects of Sen. Harry Byrd Jr. , who was elevated to his father 's seat only last year . Mr. Byrd must run this year , too . But he enjoys no great national reputation . And he faces a tough primary battle . Many Democrats think he needs a young moderate running with him for the Robertson seat . They think Mr. Robertson 's conservatism would tarnish the more moderate image Mr. Byrd seeks . Undaunted , Senator Robertson is rallying for a fight . 0 When the Supreme Court of the United States overturned Florida 's reapportionment plans , it scrambled the state 's entire political picture . What looked like a shoo-in reelection for Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a tight race . The high court invalidated the state 's plans only a week before the filing deadline for all seats . Now both opponents of Governor Burns are blaming it all on his lack of leadership . Miami Mayor Robert King High 's stock has soared . Two former Kennedy workers , Bill Haddad and Bob Clampitt , are both backing his bid to unseat the Governor . And that has opened speculation over any High ties with the Kennedys nationally . Furthermore , the development has moved Governor Burns closer to the Johnson camp , which once would have welcomed his defeat . The third candidate , state Sen. Scott Kelly , now stands to pick up votes spinning off from the High-Burns duel . Trends ... Negro teachers in Dixie are lashing out against unequal pay . Negro teacher associations in at least three Deep South states are taking aim at what they consider discriminatory pay scales . Negro teachers in Arkansas have already petitioned the United States Office of Education to " consider withholding all federal funds " from school districts paying whites and Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association is threatening similar action . And South Carolina Negro teachers are mapping legal moves . How and why , A major migration of the jobless is under way in North Carolina . The North Carolina Fund , a private nonprofit antipoverty group , propped by a million-dollar Labor Department contract , is relocating over 2,000 unemployed farm laborers . It is moving them out of the state 's poverty-ridden eastern end to the worker-shy central Piedmont region . Project workers go from door to door looking for jobless workers or for families living on incomes under $1,200 a year . After intensive counseling , such workers are retrained , then personally escorted to the Piedmont , where the furniture industry especially is shorthanded and running at peak capacity . Fund personnel put the family in housing and put the breadwinner to work .                     