@@725895

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Over-the-Counter Stock Charges To the Editor : It was a refreshing change to find the innuendoes in your Oct. 28 editorial opinion " Reforming Over-the-Counter 's on the editorial pages of The Times rather than in the financial news col : umns , where these insidious digs at the securities markets and the National Association of Securities Dealers have appeared regularly in the past . By repeatedly using in a short , three-paragraph editorial such terms and phrases as " dubious practices , " " inflated quotations " ( twice ) , ' ' hidden subsidy , " " unjustified markups " and " the decision to publish honest quotations , " you are toiling overtime to implant the idea with your readers that the securities industry and its self-regulatory and Government supervised arm , the N.A.S.D. , have been working in devious ways against the public interest . Specifically , your editorial opinion points out that the evidence against Government-imposed profit rules , offered in the recently completed Boos Alien report on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Profit Regulations This evidence that you are so quick to condemn was meticulously and systematically documented by a team of management and statistical experts working on these securities industry problems for the past eighteen months . This documentation draws the clear and pungent conclusion that if these profit regulations are put into effect many investor services are likely to be curtailed and trading activity as well as investment banking support for the stocks of small , struggling corporations will be cut . Your editorial assumes that the securities business is not entitled to a reasonable return on its investment and selling efforts . Moreover , you imply that the public should not be asked to pay a " hidden subsidy " in the form of " unjustified markups " when , in fact , the securities business through its own initiation and organizations such as the N.A.S.D. have closely supervised and regulated mark-ups for many years to insure that they are not unjustified . The basis underpinning of a free enterprise economy , to which the securities business is an intricately important contributor , is the right and promise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods and services ; supply and demand serving as the supreme regulator of the amount and kind of such return on investment . ELIOT H. SHARP Publisher Investment Dealers ' Digest New York , Nov. 2 , 1966 ? Setback for City To the Editor : I am disturbed o'er the implication of the vote on the Police Review Board . It seems incredible . I still find it difficult to believe that New York , touted as a " liberal city , " could have voted the way it did . New York City has been set back . Undoubtedly many factors contributed to the defeat ? a huge money campaign by the opposition to the Police Review Board , appeals to prejudice and fear , the white backlash , misleading advertising , the sleeper clause , voting " yes " against the Review Board and " no " for it . In my opinion , supporters of the Police Review Board did a good job  --  but their campaign was too short , too little and too late to overcome the relentless opposition . The defeat points a lesson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active and not permit our forces to be diffused . Our inactivity and disinterest only breeds reaction . Let us begin a new campaign for a Police Review Board now . Let us educate the electorate on the real issues involved , Only in this way can we change the damaging image to our city by the unusual vote . BENJAMIN M. ZELMAN New York , Nov. 9 , 1966 ? Papandreou Sees Greek Democracy Imperiled To the Editor : In his Oct. 5 column C. L. Sulzberger casually suggests that the King " might suspend some of the Constitution should he consider it necessary . " Now , in a later column Oct. 26 , he wonders how this " mild conjecture " could have touched off such a storm in Greece ! Would he care to make this " mild conjecture " about the American Constitution ? If President Johnson , in the present emergency , were to suspend the November elections out of fear of a Republican victory and contemplate further suspension of some parts of the Constitution , I am sure there would be an uproar across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what tortured logic and by what easy grace does Mr. Sulzberger condone in Greece what he surely would not accept for his own country ? Dictatorship Threat The Greek people are determined to uphold the Constitution and fight any attempt to impose a dictatorship . A constitution is a precious document in a democracy , guaranteeing as it does the civil liberties of the people and their protection from the potential tyranny of the state . In Greece 's case it also guarantees the rights of the King . A tampering with it in any fashion can only succeed in undermining the very foundation of his throne . Mr. Sulzberger has taken a fanatic pro-royal position , and in view of the recent letter by Frederick E. Nolting Jr . on the influence of The New York Times on the State Department , this has serious implications . Mr. Sulzberger 's wife is Greek ; her aunt is an intimate friend of the Queen Mother Frederika , and he maintains the closest personal relations with the King . Does n't this raise some doubt about his impartiality as an objective analyst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affiliation may explain his slanderous attack on me . In the past year I have , without a doubt , been the most frequently and consistently maligned individual on your editorial page . He has pelted me with epithets ( " arrogant , " " loudest mouth , " " unrestrainedly vain and ambitious , " " hatchet man , " etc. ) as if calling names were the most effective form , of argument . This and other things raise the all-important question of Mr. Sulzberger 's ethics as a journalist . When he said on Oct. 5 that I had " skipped off " to Sweden to ' contemplate the effect of the Aspida Report on my future , he knew full well that I had been honored many months before with an invitation to deliver the Wicksell Lectures on political economy . He says the charges placed against me are " serious , " but he neglects to say that the report was prepared by a one-man investigating committee ( Lieut . Col. Loganis ) ; 28 officers were kept in jail for more than a year without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are two civilians placed in jail with the officers who " overheard " conversations : one the owner of the Lucky Bar and a convicted procurer of women , the other an irresponsible journalist who writes for the rightwing press . But all of this beclouds deeper issues . The Aspida case will be tried in court , and we welcome it . What is of graver import is that King Constantine has become a partisan king , instead of king of all the people . In July of 1965 he literally threw out the one man , George Papandreou , who represented the majority of the people ( an unprecedented 53 per cent of the popular vote of 1964 ) . He has come down , as we say , to the political arena . He can go back up by carrying out one of his highest duties , seeing that Parliament truly represents the will of the people . There is only one way to find out  --  elections . ANDREAS G. PAPANDREOU Deputy , Greek Parliament Athens , Nov. 4 , 1966 ? King 's Role Defended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history I venture to express some astonishment at John Henry Merryman 's letter in your issue of Oct. 17 International Edition Oct. 22 . C. L. Sulzberger 's appreciation of Greek politics is absolutely accurate , He is a worldreputed columnist and has had long experience with Greece , with which J. H. Merryman is hardly familiar . Andreas Papandreou may be an excellent professor of economics , but obviously he is far from being a good politician . It was Konstantin Karamanlis , Premier in 1960 , who on hearing about the economic capacities of Andreas , appointed him a member of the Center of Economic Research in Athens . It was only after the accession to power of his father , George Papandreou , in 1964 that Andreas ventured into the hazards of politics . In an interview with Eric Rouleau of Le Monde in October 1964 Andreas emphasized that Greece should withdraw from NATO , liberate herself from American " domination " and trade principally with the Communist bloc . He confirmed these views in statements to the same paper in September 1965 , after his father 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government revealed the existence of a secret military conspiracy called Aspida  --  of South American pattern  --  which aimed to overthrow the Constitution and proclaim a crypto-Communist dictatorship . It was rumored that the political head of the conspiracy was Andreas . His father ignored this and ordered a criminal investigation ( the trial is due on Nov. 14 ) . But on learning of his son 's alleged implication he asked the King to approve his appointment as Minister of Defense , in order  --  as his former colleagues assert ? to befog the inquiry . Coup Frustrated The King in conformity with his constitutional right requested George Papandreou to await the end of the Aspida inquiry before taking up this ministry . George Papandreou resigned on July 15 , 1965 . The King called on a prominent member of the Center Union party , Athanasiadis-Novas , to form a new government . The elite of the Center Union joined Mr. Novas and frustrated all attempts at a coup d'etat and Communist street riots under the false pretense of " restoration of democracy . " If there is any " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek royalty has infringed upon the Greek democratic Constitution . It is King Constantine who saved democracy on July 15 , 1965 . S. P. P. COSMETATOS Paris , Oct. 24 , 1966 The writer was until recently press counselor of the Greek Embassy in Paris . ? Social Workers To the Editor : I wish to suggest a solution to the demoralizing shortage of hospital workers , particularly in the social service departments . It is to create a new sub-category under a new name  --  for example , assistant social worker ? recruited from people with recent graduate training in psychology and in the social sciences . They would , of course , be supervised by social workers with a Master of Social Work degree . While I heartily favor the goal of social work schools to maintain the highest possible standards , I know it may take many years before they can supply the increasing demand for graduates . Meanwhile there are hundreds of women who have finished raising their families , who are still blessed with health , energy and a gift of empathy for people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but now , because of recent training , wish to become dedicated , committed professional workers . The rigidity of the current requirements for an M.S.W. degree is an injustice not only to the sick of our state but to hundreds of well-trained persons by depriving them of an opportunity to give of their talents and services . Would it not better serve public welfare if the authorities relaxed some of the rules and admitted trained people to the social service departments ? ESTHER P. SPITZER New York , Nov. 9 , 1966                     