@@727636

txt Democratic and Republican primary fights for the mayoral nominations appeared assured last night with disclosures that Democratic City Councilman Robert A. Low and Republican State Senator John J. Marchi were ready to run . In the Democratic primary , Mr. Low , who has represented Manhattan 's East Side on the Council since 1961 , would face Representative James H. Scheuer , a Bronx Reform Democrat , who is the only announced Democratic candidate so far . Another potential candidate , Mario A. Procaccino , the City Controller , said last night that he would announce at a news conference at 10:30 A.M. Tuesday " whether I will run for Controller , for Mayor or retire from public office . " While declining to be more specific , the Democratic officeholder said that he had re ? ceived over 12,000 letters and telegrams in the last few weeks urging him to run for Mayor . Others cited by party leaders as possible Democratic candidates include Representatives Hugh L. Carey of Brooklyn and John M. Murphy of Staten Island , Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo and Theodore W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Marchi 's opponents would be Assemblyman Vito Battista of Brooklyn and , presumably , Mayor Lindsay , who has not yet announced his candidacy for re-election , although it is widely assumed he will . Mr. Marchi , a Staten Island Republican-Conservative , said in an interview in Albany yesterday that he expected to announce his candidacy formally within the next 10 days , barring an unexpected change of mind . Mr. Low , according to political associates , will announce his candidacy at 9 A.M. on Thursday from the steps of City The announcement will be followed by a motorcade of taxicabs carrying political aides and newsmen through Queens , Brooklyn , East Harlem , the Bronx and Staten Island on a series of street-corner talks . Democratic sources said Mr. Low had already assembled his campaign talent , which will include Jerry Tarnoff , a Reform district leader , as campaign manager ; Edward N. Costikyan , former Manhattan Democratic leader , as chairman . of a policies and issues committee , and William Holzman , a former aide to Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held in June . However , legislative leaders have said that Mayor Lindsay has asked them to seek a delay until September . The Mayor has denied making the suggestion , but there is not doubt that September primaries would be to his advantage . The winning Democrat woud , in that case , have far less time before the general election to campaign ? or to coalesce his party following the primary battle . Mr. Low , a 49-year-old lawyer and a former cab driver , is the author of the city 's airpollution control bill , a chief sponsor of the city 's new Building Code and a frequent critic of the Lindsay administration on housing . He is the chairman of the Council 's Buildings Committee . Aide to Lehman A graduate of Stanford University and the George Washington University Law School , Mr. Low served as legislative assistant to Senator Herbert H. Lehman of New York in 1950 and Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington in 1951 . He later became a State Department legal assistant and Congressional liaison . In 1959 , Mr. Low became a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liaison with the city Health , Hospitals and Correction Departments . He and his wife , the former Frances Levison , live with two sons on Manhattan 's East Side . Senator Marchi , a 47-yearold lawyer , was first elected to the Senate in 1956 and has been unbeaten since . In the last four legislative elections-1964 , 1965 , 1966 and- 1968 , he has had Conservative party , as well as Republican , endorsement . Some politicians say that Mr. Mayoral Aspirants United Press International John J. Marchi The New York Times Robert A- Low Marchi could give Mr. Lindsay , a Republican who also had the Liberal party nomination when he won , a tough fight in the primary . These politicians cite the apparent swing to the right in last November 's election , the apparent anti-Negro reaction growing out of the city 's school decentralization dispute and other conservative trends . But some of the Mayor 's aides contend privately that Mr. Marchi is little known around the city outside his own district , which consists of all of Staten Island and a ' sliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to comment on Mr. Marchi 's announced intention to run . Malcolm May Back Him Some high legislative sources ( report that Lieut . Gov . Malcolm Wilson , also a Republican-Conservative , is quietly backing Senator Marchi . These sources contend also that if Governor Rockefeller wanted to stop Mr. Marchi from running , he could talk him out of it . The relationship between the Governor and the Mayor , though both are liberal Republicans , continues to be strained . The Governor 's press office in Albany said he would have no comment on ' the Marchi situation . And Mr. Wilson denied yesterday that he was pushing Mr. Marchi . Mr. Marchi has a reputation in the Legislature for integrity and extreme hard work . He is also considered articulate , with a tendency toward moderate conservatism , as distinguished from extreme conservatism . Mr. Lindsay , who has been sharply criticized from many quarters this week on the city 's snow removal , received some good news yesterday in the form of support from the Correction Officers Union . The group announced that its members had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should decide to run .                     