@@724861

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , June 24 ( UP )  --  South Viet Nam 's new military rulers broke relations with France today and announced sweeping " state of war " measures that included price controls , a curfew , and the banning of all newspapers for a month . " The de Gaulle government has always directly or indirectly aided our enemies , " said Foreign Minister Tran Van Do . In the war against the Communists , American forces were in action in the air and on the ground . Paratroops in Action Army paratroopers were ferried into action against the Viet Cong in a daylong search-anddestroy operation in the Saigon area . It was.believed to be the first offensive action by the American paratroopers against the guerrillas . The ruling junta promised that the diplomatic break with Paris would not harm South Viet Nam 's important trade ties with France . The foreign minister also pledged that the 7,000 French citizens in South Viet Nam would be safe from any " extremist action such as those witnessed in some former colonies that severed ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and neighboring Indochina states as colonies for more than 75 years until they received independence in 1954 . Climax to Discord The diplomatic break climaxed steadily worsening relations . Most of the trouble was caused by President Charles de Gaulle 's attempts to neutralize former French Indochina as a means of ending the war . The new military leaders , Chief of State Nguyen Van Thieu , a major general , and Premier Nguyen Cao Ky , who was air vice marshal , announced a tough new series of political and economic policies to stifle opposition and stiffen the fight against the Communists . They included : Suspension of every newspaper in the country for a month . A curfew from 10 p. m. until 2 a. m. in Saigon . Price-fixing to stop inflation , with a warning that violatiors would be " heavily punished . " Shoot Cowards " I will shoot all corrupt officials , cowardly soldiers , and speculators , " Ky said . " My government and I have accepted responsibility before history . Opposition means nothing to us . Our only object is to restore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists . " The newspaper blackout stirred the greatest commotion at a junta press conference anmincing the measures : Vietnamese newsmen roared their protest and about half of them walked out . Information Minister Dinh Trinh Chinh said that during the month of suspension , the government would publish two newspapers  --  one for soldiers and one for civilians  --  and would induce the private publishers to pool their resources to produce fewer but better papers . Saigon presently has 36 daily newspapers , few of them with circulations larger than a few thousand .                     