@@728129

txt American servicemen 's clubs in South Vietnam have spent millions of dollars for slot machines and other devices supplied by a group of busnessmen linked with a number of illicit operations . The United States command 's own records show that American civilians associated with Sari Electronics , Ltd. , have engaged in smuggling activities and black market currency dealings while serving military installations here . The records also show that a man identified as a leading figure in the company , William J. Crum , was investigated in the Republic of Korea in the nineteen-fifties and as late as 1965 . ( Mr .. Crum has been iden ' tified in Congressional testimony in Washington as a close friend of an Army general whose job gave him influence over enlisted men 's clubs hi South Vietnam , United Press International reported . Page 26 . Despite its history , Sari Electronics has dealt extensively with servicemen 's clubs here . alone , 85 per cent of the more than 3,000 slot machines were produced by a manufacturer that the concern represents . Moreover , the post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide the pinball machines and jukeboxes for military restaurants and snack bars throughout the country . Efforts were made both here and in Hong Kong to reach Mr. Crum for comment , but he could not be found . Although all club and PX funds are generated by the outlays of individual servicemen rather than by Congressional appropriation , the sums handled in these separate accounts are substantial . The Joint Army and Air Force Exchange Service , for example , reports sales of more than $2-billion annually , and the Army 's club system takes in more than $275-million year . Audit Attempts Resisted The defense establishment has successfully resisted several outside attempts to audit the money , but public and Congressional interest , particularly in respect to the clubs , is currently running high . In Washington , the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation has embarked on an extended inquiry that has so far produced testimony alleging widespread thefts and other abuses by officers and enlisted men . Records available here disclose that since last May more than half a dozen concerns have been barred from doing business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salesmen or other activities . A Sarl Electronics subsidiary , Vietnam Electronics , is among the concerns thus penalized . While the parent company has encountered difficulties with some of its contracts , it apparently remains in good standing , over all . Sarl and its officials have . ade evident efforts to mask many of their activities in the Far East , and one measure o ' their success is the apparent ignorance of most military leaders about the concern 's background . Laxity Is Conceded Military officers frquently conceded that the American command 's surveillance of business operations during the hectic build-up here was occasionally lax and that the laxity was inevitable . There was no specific reaction to the questionable activities attributed to Sarl in the records here . One spokesman observed that no single officer in the scattered military administration " has the whole picture . " Interviews and records obtained by The New York Times from several sources here and in Hong Kong provide an uneven outline of the company and its principal executives , firmly drawn in some places and indistinct in others . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with several companies engaged over more than a decade in sales to the American military in this part of the world . Korean Role Recalled Mr. Crum 's activities in Korea are indistinct , but he is remembered by several men who represented leading American companies there in the late nineteen-fifties . One of them , who asked not to be identified , recalled : " Business was big in Korea in those days . They the military authorities would go out and start up 500 new clubs in no time . This was Crum 's heyday . " Several sources remembered that Mr. Crum had trouble with military investigators in Korea , but none could furnish the de . tails , The background report available from military sources in Saigon said : " The U.S. Army Investigative Records Repository has records indicating that Mr. William J. Crum and his brother , Whitney 3 . Crum of the Tradeship and Tradewell companies , have both been the subjects of positive investigations in the Republic of Korea during the nineteenfifties and as late as 1965 . " There was no elaboration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ment officials in Washington were unsuccessful . The Army 's " positive investigations " were no bar to William Crum in Vietnam . But Sarl Electronics was established without a single indication on the record that he was in any way involved . The concern was incorporated as a limited company in Hong I Kong on April 1 . 1965 , as the American involvement here intensified , and only the colony 's leading solicitors were named as solicitors or directors . One of them , George Egbert Sinclair Stevenson , said that he represented the concern but added , " I ca n't tell you anything at all . " The Sarl offices reported that no one was available to discuss the company . While Mr. Crum is not listed as a principal in Sarl , the Army report available here said , " Based on copious information I amassed during the past two years , it is evident that he is the main operative for both Sarl and Price &; Company ' another concern engaged in sales to clubs . " Customs-Free Operation A file at the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in by the companies themselves , makes substantially the same connection . Mr. Crum is listed as a " principal officer " of Sarl . In order to deal on a customs-free basis with the military here , Sarl undertook to do " no business on the Vietnamese economy . " But the files here report : " Sari 's disposition of used slot machines has been the subject of numerous investigations by RVN the Republic of Vietnam customs . " The report said that an official of the Fraud Repression Service of the Vietnamese customs gave an account in July , 1968 , of one investigation . The military quoted the official as follows : " It appears that Sarl has formed a front firm known as Vietnam Electronics , through which Sarl is disposing of or leasing amusement machines to bars and hotels on the local ? conomv . Devices Are Confiscated " They the customs authorities had located several coinoperated phonographs ( jukeboxes ) and slot machines in civilian establishments . Those machines had been sold or leased by Vietnam Electronics using documents with Sari letterheads . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all have been identified as having originally been consigned to United States Army clubs in RVN , after having been imported by Sarl . " The report added that a number of Sarl officials had been fined 4 million Vietnamese piasters about $34,000 . Files in American possession also reported the following : July , 1967 , the Vietnamese authorities found " small denominations " of military payment certificates and American currency at the Sarl headquarters . As a result , " the firm was fined and it paid . " 90n an unspecified date , Vietnamese officials charged that Sarl had " falsified certain entries to undervalue the price of jukeboxes , " and again " the firm was fined and it paid . " CAmerican Investigators listed " four positive conclusions " against a Sarl official , Herbert R. Hayden , in less than two months in 1967 . Specifically , a report found that he had violated a military directive " by importing merchandise and/or , equipment through Army postal channels into RVN for commercial business . " A Sari executive promised the military that Mr. Hayden would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retained on the pay'roll until early this year . ( 11Another Sarl official , Anthony Renieri , was sentenced in June , 1967 , to pay a substantial fine and serve three days to a month in prison for " illegal transactions , " a euphemism for black market currency dealings . Later , Mr. Renieri was fined more heavily and was sentenced to serve a month to five years for " exchange violations . " The report on this affair noted that Mr. Renieri has remained a Sarl official . Records Ordered Destroyed In the midst of these investigations , Sarl dispatched orders to destroy some company records and to ship others to Hong Kong . The notice , a copy of which was obtained in Washington , concluded as follows : " You will treat this memorandum as highly confidential , you will carry out these instructions today , and on your completion of these instructions you will cable me in Saigon the one word Okay . " I hope that these instructions are clearly understood and there will be no element of doubt in anybody 's mind that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will destroy this memorandum . " The military authorities also obtained a copy of the memorandum , and a report in the files here noted , " It is quite a coincidence that it was published during the period of time that both the C.I.D . the Army Criminal Intelligence Division and RVN customs were investigating Sarl activities . " Bribery Attempt Charged The same report charged that an official of Price &; Co. , another concern with which , Mr. Crum was identified , tried ' to bribe an Army investigator in December , 1966 . The report said : " The Price official implied to a criminal investigator who was checking on Sarl and Price &; Co. that he the investigator was in a good position to benefit both companies by passing advance information on anything which might have an adverse effect on the companies.1 " In addition , the investigator 's assistance might be needed to free , from the Saigon port , some of the things which had been impounded by RVN customs . It was implied that the investigator would be compensated by being placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation but there is no record that the matter was ever pursued beyond that point , nor is there anything to indicate that the investigator engaged in any illegal activities . " Based on an average price of $750 for each slot machine sold to the Army clubs , the Sarl company is estimated to have taken in nearly $2-million from that source alone . Contracts to service and maintain the gambling devices are worth additional sums . The post exchange concession , involving 150 pinball machines and jukeboxes , returns $9,000 a month . It has been in effect since June , 1966 . Many of the 1,700 pinball machines and jukeboxes in the Army clubs , like all those in the post exchanges , were leased from Sarl . Under the usual arrangement , the company took half the total revenue . Over the last six weeks , as interest in the nonappropriated fund activities has mounted , the Army has produced a curious series of directives on the club-leased machines . On Aug. 30 , the service ordered that devices leased by Sarl , Vietnam Electronics and two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " new contracts for goods or services with the four concerns will not be negotiated . " Then , on Sept. 16. the Army softened its stand by saying that Sarl " could continue to solicit ... for business other than that having to do specifically with coin-operated amusement machines . " In full retreat by last Tuesday , the service said in a third order that Sarl , as a company still authorized to deal with the Army , would be eligible to sell to any clubs that wanted them the pinball machines and jukeboxes it previously leased .                     