@@727849

txt Mayor Lindsay urged city school officials yesterday to withdraw immediately a school rezoning plan that would send 2,200 students  --  most of them Negroes and Puerto Ricans ? from North Brooklyn into largely white and integrated high schools in the southern part of the borough . In a sharply worded statement criticizing the actions of the Board of Education 's professional ' staff , the Mayor said that " whatever the merits of this program , the procedure by which it was adopted is most damaging . " Mr. Lindsay charged that the plan , which is scheduled to take effect in September , was developed by the school staff without consultation with the Mayor 's office , without the detailed knowledge of the Board of Education and , " more importantly , " without adequate consultation with the " black and white residents of the affected communities . " Officials Surprised School officials appeared surprised by the Mayor 's attack , but gave no indication that the rezoning plan would be . rescinded . Dr , Bernard E. Donovan , the Superintendent of Schools , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the school board. , He described the zoning ' changes as " minor adjustment:BP saying they affected only a little more than 2 per cent of the 84,500 academic high school students in " I do liqt think we deserve any condemnation from the Mayor if , he is as devoted to integration in the schools as we are , " the Superintendent said . " If the Mayor does n't share our goal , then he should say so publicly . " Doar Plans . Response John Doar , the president of the Board of Education , which will be replaced by Tuesday under the ' new school decentralization lett , said he would delay a full , response to the Mayor 's statement until he had conferred with Dr. Donovan . But he added that the board had approved the policy of making minor zoning adjustments next fall , and " I knew that Dr. Donovan and his staff were implementing this policy , although 1 was not aware of the details . " A staff official , who did not want to be identified , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a borough to another , and sometimes across borough lines , had been going on for several years . This official angrily charged that the Mayor was engaged ' in election-year politics and seeking white votes in southern Brooklyn . He also asserted that it was " incredible " that the Mayor felt he had to , be consulted about school administrative matters . The zoning changes , which would affect only incoming ninth-grade students and not those already attending high school , involves 14 schools . The incoming students would be rezoned out of Franklin K. Lane , Bushwick and Eastern District in North Brooklyn and Grover Cleveland in Queens , which takes students from nearby sections of Brooklyn . South Brooklyn schools that would gain from 97 and 328 students from North Brooklyn are Sheepshead Bay , New Utrecht , Franklin D. Roosevelt , Samuel J. Tilden , Midwood , Lafayette , Abraham Lincoln , Fort Hamilton , John Jay and Erasmus Hall . The zoning changes were also criticized yesterday by Edward R. Kolevzon , presidetn of the High School Principals Association . Mr. Kolevzon , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the school staff , said : Mayor Scores Procedure " Once again the Board of Education has embarked on a meaningless numbers game without any evidence that educational benefits will accrue when children are moved long distances to attend school . " Mayor Lindsay , in his statement issued at City Hall , said that " like every New Yorker , I awoke this morning to read about " the rezoning plan . The zoning changes were disclosed in yesterday 's issue of The New York Times . " This kind of large-scale student transfer , " he continued , " is a matter of basic educational policy for the communities of New York . It was probabIrdeveloped with good intentions ? to further integration and relieve overcrowding . " But such a significant policy is the responsibility of the members of the lay Board of Education and not the profes-1 sional staff . This will also be true six days from now when a new board takes over under the recently enacted state decentralization law . " The Mayor criticized the school staff for not consulting first with the communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure , which fails to allow the . residents of Brooklyn and Queens a voice in school policy , is another shocking demonstration of why so many New Yorkers view our educational system with feelings of alienation and cynicism . " School officials have said that the zoning changes were discussed with local school boards , district superintendents , principals and others .                     