@@724500

txt The Republican minority in the Senate asked the State Investigation Commission today to examine Mayor Wagner 's charge that the Democratic state chairman tried to bribe two Democratic Senators . Jacob Grumet , the commission 's chairman , said in New York that it would " seriously consider " the request at a meeting at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning in its Manhattan offices . " We have the power to look into this , " Mr. Grumet declared . Mr. Wagner made his accusations against the party official , William H. , on Saturday . Early this morning , he said that the " bribes " had been offered to J. Raymond Jones , the Manhattan Democratic leader , for transmission to the legislators . Hughes Asks Investigation The appeal for an investigation was first made by Senator John H. Hughes of Syracuse during a spirited debate on a motion to recess . He urged that balloting for majority leader be halted until what he called " this cloud of suspicion " had passed . His proposal was approved by the minority conference at a subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans asked it to " submit any evidence of a criminal nature which comes to your attention in this connection to the District Attorney of the appropriate county or counties . " Welcomes Inquiry With the Democratic party racked by open warfare , Governor Rockefeller said this eve-ning : " The public is entitled to full information on a matter in which such serious allegations have been made . " Mr. Mcgeon 's office issued a statement later in which the chairman said : " I welcome the proposed investigation by the State Investigation Commission ? or any other appropriate agency ? as will others who have nothing to hide . The commission should receive the full and complete co ' operation of all right-minded persons . " The struggle over the legislative leadership , which precipitated the Mayor 's charges , remained deadlocked . It was the deep cleft in the party that pre'occupied most of the Senators and Assemblymen as they returned to the Capitol today . Nevertheless , there were some indications of progress , particularly in the Senate , where an eight-man committee representing all factions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise possibilities . The Mayor 's charges , which were denied again today by Mr. , were the harshest blows yet struck in the long and complicated struggle for legislative supremacy . On one side is a faction friendly to Mr. Wagner ; on the other is a faction headed by anti-Wagner county leaders and by the chairman . For 12 days  --  through a dozen ballots in the Senate and half a dozen in the Assembly  --  the Democrats have struggled to organize the Legislature . As a result of their failure , neither house has been able to debate a single bill . Today , in the Senate , it became evident that the Mayor 's candidate for majority leader , Thomas J. Mackell of Queens , would lose strength on the next roll-call . All last week he drew 14 votes to 19 for Jack E. Bronston , also of Queens , who is choice of the other faction . When the Senate convened at 2 P.M. , Senator Julian P. Erway of Albany County announced that he was ready to switch from Mr. Mackell to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a sheet of onionskin paper , Mr. Erway denounced Mr. Wagner for " a dictatorial attitude which not only injures our party , but also the high regard in which this body has been held over the years by the public . " Mr. Erway did not mention the Mayor by name . He described him as " a certain individual " who espoused the theory of " rule or ruin . " Daniel P. O'Connell , the Albany County leader , had said early this morning that both Mr. Erway and Senator F. Warren Travers of neighboring Rensselaer County would vote for Mr. Bronston . But Mr. Travers said nothing on the floor and refused to disclose his plans later . Mr. O'Connell was reportedly enraged by the Mayor 's attacks on Mr. and decided to withdraw his support from Mr. Mackell as a result . For years , the Albany leader has been Mr. Wagner 's closest upstate ally . When Mr. Erway had finished , Senator Jerome L. Wilson of Manhattan began a long and impassioned attack on the Mayor 's opponents . He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and assailed Mr. Bronston as " the cosmetic on the face " of an earlier attempt to elect Mr. Erway as majority leader . The Manhattan legislator , who represents the district in which Gracie Mansion is situated , had been supporting Mr. Mackell . He said today , however , that he would vote for Senator Owen Begley of Schenectady , Senator Samuel Greenberg of Brooklyn or Senator Manfred Ohrenstein of Manhattan  --  all Bronston men . It was understood that Mr. Wilson had made it clear to his ' associates that he would not vote for Mr. Mackell again . Mr. Wilson 's speech was followed by a Democratic motion for a recess , but the ensuing debate became a time-consuming partisan free-for-all that ranged from complaints of inadequate office space to Sena tor Hughes 's call for an inves-tigation , Finally , , after 35 minutes oe rhetoric , the recess was agreed to , and the Democrats went into a conference . All 33 members attended , which was something of a triumph in itself , since they have not been together in one room for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken , was officially described as " friendly . " Participants said that there seemed to be a new realization that some solution must be found , even ' though no one put forward specific suggestions . Although some Democrats had promised to sit in continuous session Starting today , there was no balleting.in the Senate . Thirty votes are needed for election with all members present . In the Assembly , a single roll-call was taken . Stanley Steingut , the anti-Wagner candidate for Speaker , drew 51 votes to 35 for Anthony J. Travia , the Mayor 's nominee , with 76 needed for election . The only change from last week was the absence of two Assemblymen favoring Mr. Steingut . After the vote , six-man delegations from each side went into -a closed conference that was later termed " fruitful . "                     