@@727547

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 6 ? Ever since World War II , a mysterious force called the " winds of change " has been blowing through Africa , Asia , Europe , the American South , the Middle East and all points west ; but only just now has this hardiest of clich  --  s been ? able to penetrate the Congress of the United States . Last week , several decades behind schedule , the winds of change finally arrived on Capitol Hill ; and when the storm had passed there stood Edward M. Kennedy as the Senate 's Democratic whip , Hugh D. Scott as its Republican whip , John McCormack as a virtual lame-duck Speaker of the House , and Adam Clayton Powell as a freshman Congressman who had to pay Uncle Sam $25,000 for his seat . The winds of change did not do much for Powell , although they at least gave Harlem back its Congressional representation , after keeping its seat in the House empty for two years . As its price for doing so , however , the House deprived Powell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stiff money fine on him . The negation of Powell 's seniority was voted although a pending court decision may yet rule that he originally was deprived of his seat unconstitutonally , and although the Democratic caucus resolutely refused to take similar action against Representative John Rarick of Louisiana , who is white and Southern and was an open supporter of George Wallace for the Presidency . Nevertheless , the House no doubt can get away with this punitive action , since the concept of " seniority " is an internal one that probably has no standing in the courts or elsewhere . Is It Constitutional ? The $25,000 fine ? levied against Powell for a transgression for which he has never been convicted , and for which the Justice Department has not even instigated criminal proceeding  --  is something else . It may well amount to depriving a citizen of due process of law , to say nothing of adding a $25,000 cash payment to the constitutional requirements for membership in the House . As a practical matter , Powell was right to accept his seat , even under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other way ; but he should lose no time in legally challenging the House 's right to impose the fine  --  even on a black man who makes most whites grind their teeth . The winds blew a little more favorably for House liberals , in the challenge of Representative Morris Udall to Speaker McCormack . Udall did n't come close numerically , and it might be too much to call the outcome even a moral victory for him . Still , McCormack felt forced to make concessions that ought to give liberals somewhat more voice in House affairs , and he almost certainly forfeited another election as Speaker in 1971 . McCormack is now denying his campaign tactic of pledging only " one more term , " but the mere fact of Udall 's challenge has opened the gates to other contenders . Members of the House will not again be as willing as they were this time to commit themselves to McCormack long in advance ; men like Wilbur Mills of Arkansas or Hale Boggs of Louisiana may themselves start early to seek the Speakership ; and McCormack inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Scott 's victory over the conservative Nebraskan , Roman Hruska , was notable as the first triumph in many a moon for a Republican moderate over a member of ' the party 's old guard . With a Republican President in office , and since Scott is a little past the age for real national leadership , his election might not have much practical effect , but it is bound to provide a real boost In moderate Republican morale and confidence . As for Ted Kennedy , everything necessary probably was said by Senator Ed Muskie , who observed that the youngest Kennedy " is obviously leadership material . " In Maine that kind of thing is regarded as lavish praise . Bold but Not Decisive In defeating Russell Long of Louisiana on his home grounds  --  the Senate , after all , is supposed to be the natural habitat of the Southern politician-1 Kennedy projected himself as the bold leader he had not previously seemed . He grabbed an office Muskie had wanted but could n't win , gave himself a base other than his family renown for asserting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and created a situation that caused Eugene McCarthy to vote with the Southerners . Not bad for a week 's work . But did it really give Ted Kennedy much advantage . for the 1972 Presidential race ? A fellow named Nixon may see in this new humiliation for the South another opportunity Up consolidate his own party : in that hyper-sensitive region . This would not guarantee his re-s election , but it would make.defeating him a big order even for a Kennedy .                     