@@728208

txt Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . lost another conservative Republican vote and came under strong fire for his judicial record on civil rights today as Senate debate on his nomination to the Supreme Court moved into its second day . Senator Len B. Jordan of Idaho came out against the judge with the declaration : " I would be doing my country a disservice if I concurred in this nomination , against the dictates of my conscience , simply on the grounds of party loyalty . " Mr. Jordan , who had been listed as uncommitted , took the floor to make his stand in the face of heavy Administration pressure to the contrary . He said that " few issues have generated more pressure on my office " than the Haynsworth case . " Support of the President is urged on me as if it were a personal matter rather than an issue of grave constitutional importance , " he declared . Earlier , Senator Jacob K. Javits said the elevation of Judge Haynsworth to the Court would be " a staggering blow to the cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contention a detailed examination of the South Carolinian 's opinions in civil rights cases . Mr. Javits said that in all but three of 14 civil rights opinions the judge has written on the United States Court of Appeals he has been " consistently in error , systematically and relentlessly opposed to implementation of the Supreme Court 's 1954 desegregation decision and consistently sympathetic to every new device for delay for desegregation . " The New York Republican declared : " It is not my duty to send to the United States Supreme Court a judge who will try to bring that Court back to a time that history has passed by . " Senator Javits conceded that his analysis of Judge Haynsworth 's civil rights record violated the theory that the Senate had no right to inquire into the philosophy of a Court nominee but could only consider his competence , qualifications and ethics . " It seems to me , " he said , " that the Senate has the right , Associated Press Senator Lc:a B. Jordan and indeed the obligation , to satisfy itself that the views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical qualifications , merit confirmation . " The Javits speech prompted Senator Mark 0 . Hatfield of Oregon to praise the New Yorker for " clarifying " the Haynsworth record and dispeling the argument that when the judge ruled against the civil rights position , he had merely been following Supreme Court precedent . Senator Hatfield lists himself as undecided on confirmation but is generally regarded as leaning against it . His floor comments reinforced the view that he would oppose Judge Haynsworth on the final vote , next Tuesday or Wednesday . Mr. Javits said that Senators who agreed with his philosophical case against the nominee could vote against confirmation " without finding him im ; moral or unethical , " without reference to the conflict-of-interest charges that have been raised by his critics . Senator Jordan said he was voting against President Nixon 's nominee because " Judge Haynsworth has failed to appreciate how easily this confidence in the judiciary can be undermined by even the appearance of impropriety on the part of our judges . " The Idaho Republican said he had made up his mind on Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . He said he had delayed public announcement because he had no intention of trying to influence other Senators . Since Oct. 20 , he said , " Administration calls to my state have been legion . " Senator Marlow W. Cook , Kentucky Republican who is leading the pro-Haynsworth campaign , said that a return to the 19th century practice of weighing Supreme Court candidates politically " would degrade the Court and certainly not distinguish the Senate . " Senator Howard H. Baker , a Haynsworth supporter , made public the results of a national poll that showed 44 per cent of the 1,063 people interviewed favoring Judge Haynsworth 's nomination , 24 per cent opposing and 32 per cent undecided . Mr. Baker said the poll had been taken last week by the Chilton Research Service of Philadelphia and " commissioned by a group of private citizens . " As asked , the question about favoring or opposing confirmation was preceded by the sentence : " President Nixon has strongly defended this nomination . " A New York Times count of Haynsworth votes was unaffected by the day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shift of Senator Ralph T. Smith of Illinois from leaning against the nomination to undecided . The Times tally now shows 39 Senators for confirmation or leaning in that direction , 51 opposed or leaning toward opposition and 10 undecided .                     