@@721706

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 22 ? A principal argument for the necessity of larger and b-oader subsidy of public education by the Federal Government is that the states can not be relied on to meet its current deficiencies . Both those who make and reject this argument can cite sup4:luting statistics . But much more ' easily demonstrable than either position is that , even if most states wanted to provide all or much of President Kennedy 's new program , they have been deprived of the taxable sources required to finance it . Progressively these sources , by acts of Congress and rulings of the Federal judiciary , have been siphoned dry by the Federal Government . There is small reason to hope , especially while this Administration remains in power , that any substantial restoration of these revenues to the states will be proposed by the Treasury in its forthcoming , very gradual reforms of the inequities in the general tax structure . The result is that the states are Mee open to the growth of the ' central Government 's rich-uncle role in local education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states want to make this use of Federal subsidies . Yer . it is a matter of record that natIonalized public school systems in other countries have been successfully employed by the dominant political party to influence the thinking of pupils through teachers who : oolc to the capital for promotion and ' pay . If therefore Congress , which ' after all is derived from the citizens'tip of the several states , accepts this part of the President 's proposed s'ib3idy for education , then in , that . pat titular the United States will ra ve become federalized beyond the concept of the founders of the party of that name . ' It was a very important particular to Jefferson and those who subscribed to his fear of the consequences to individual freedom of an ever-enlarging central government , pervading more and more the daily lives of the citizens , and encroaching more and more on the sovereignty of the states . But those which are tax-starved became so with the consent of their own representatives in Congress . And some states which have ample resources appropriated less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to support efficient public educational systems . To this extent they invited the expansion of Federal influence in these systems that is both definite and implicit in the program President Kennedy sent to Congress . r Shrinking States ' Rights Moreover , states whose Congres- ' sional delegations have been loudest ) in bemoaning the steady shrinkage of states ' rights by Executive , legislative and especially judicial ac-1 tions , for years have been eager applicants and happy recipients of Federal appropriations for local projects . With few exceptions , the leading politicians in the South have been as indifferent to the fact that this nation is an established republic , not a " majority democracy , " as those politicians in other sections who steadily propose nu-1 merous devices by which the fact can be evaded . If it is now too late for the Southerners to check the expansion of federalism into the area of permissive subsidies for local teachers ' pay , their share in its origins is clear . Though this reversal of long-1 standing national policy is the center of Congressional resistance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college scholarships has evoked another dispute . Is it a violation of the Constitution in that these scholarship funds may be spent at institutions under sectarian control ? On this point , however , there would appear to be legal sanction , as there is for expending public funds to transport and feed pupils attending primary and secondary religious schools . In dissenting to a five-to-four decision that the constitutional separation of church and state was not infringed by a New Jersey law providing transportation to all children , including those who attended private and parochial schools unless operated for profit , Justice Jackson found this a violation only because , in his opinion , Catholic schools benefited and those conducted by other sects did not . In no respect is this true of the proposed college scholarships . When extolling George Washington today no Congressional orator Ilbrought him into the controversy , though that may come . But his fellow-Southerners would find it as difficult to represent him as a consistent States ' Righter as to prove that of themselves . The states ' lethargy , profiteering and continuous trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revolution .                     