@@724272

txt New Delhi The patient work of a group of private citizens has led to arrangements for a first meeting between Pakistani President Ayub Khan and Indian Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri . Returning from Cairo Oct. 12 , Mr. Shastri 's special air force plane is scheduled to refuel at Karachi . Seizing this opportunity , President Ayub has invited Mr. Shastri to lunch on that day . The invitation , announced Thursday , has been gladly accepted . It was received with cheers by members of Parliament here . Not MI Cheers However , while the work of the recent nonofficial Indian mission to Pakistan , led by Jayaprakash Narain , was in progress , many of these same MPs were not cheering . In fact , Mr. Narain and his colleagues have been called agents of Pakistan and traitors . Some Delhi citizens tried in vain to prevent Mr. Narain from addressing a recent public meeting . The first informal meeting between the two leaders will be one of mutual familiarization . Their views on Kashmir and other Indo-Pakistani disputes have only been known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to confirm and explain to each other their still widely divergent views and pick up , as a new starting point , areas of mutual agreement . It is understood , for instance , that India wants a Kashmir settlement to be part of a larger package deal which emphasizes immediate normalization of trade , press , and visa relations . Pakistan , on the other hand , wants first at least an agreement in principle on Kashmir before moving to eliminate other sources of tensions , which include clashes along the cease-fire line and the ? refugee influx . Intents Coincide The crux for both is the future status of the Vale of Kashmir . If this is settled , it is felt , other Kashmir regions will fall more naturally into contiguous areas of India and Pakistan . The question posed here is : since both claim the valley and an equitable settlement must necessarily involve a compromise , can a formula be evolved that gives this strip some kind of autonomous status ? It is the declared intent of both disputants ultimately to give the Kashmiri people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds that Kashmir has already made this choice through three general elections . Pakistan says these are not enough . There are reliable indications that President Ayub is sympathetically aware of the task facing Mr. Shastri . This is to swing a whole nation from a preconceived notion of what is taken to be a settled fact  --  the accession of the whole of Kashmir to India . It is also held here at certain high levels that , at a time when he faces his own electoral test , it may be doubly difficult for President Ayub to convince his voters they can not have the whole of Kashmir . Associated Press Prime Minister Shastri India                     