@@727758

txt Gov . Ogilvie is not " frozen " to his demand for a 4 per cent ; state income tax with deductions more limited than those of the federal income tax , THE TRIBUNE was informed yesterday . A close associate of Gov . Ogilvie gave this reaction to the statement Thursday by House Speaker Ralph T. Smith IR .. Alton that 4 per cent is too high . " Up to Legislature " In taping a television show yesterday , Gov . Ogilvie denied that he set the 4 per cent rate as a point to bargain from . have described the needs and prescribed the solution , " be said . " Now it 's up to the legislature . " He predicted that be may do various things that are out of line with practices of previous Illinois governors . He dismissed as impracticable the suggestion of Lt. Gov . Paul Simon , Democrat , that there be a 3 per cent income tax on individuals and 8 per cent on corporations . Ogilvie Campaign Aid The Ogilvie camp was " not surprised " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith 's office issued a statement supporting the Ogilvie budget message when it was delivered Tuesday . Speaker Smith , who was Ogilvie 's downstate campaign manager in the 1968 primary and final elections , said that a 2 per cent income tax or " at the most 3 per cent " will be enough . The Republican governor was pictured yesterday as recommending spending and taxes he believes best , but with clear recognition that it is up to the Legislature to make the final decisions . Understands the Politics In fact , ' Ogilvie understands that state senators and representatives have an election next year , which he does not face , and that they might need credit Eor having trimmed down his requests , the associate said . The associate denied reports that Gov . Ogilvie had failed to fully inform such important leaders as the House presiding officer and Senate Majority Leader W. Russell Arrington . He said that Smith was kept closer to developments concerning the income tax than was Arrington . Information from normally reliable sources to Tun TUBtm-E was that both Smith and Arrington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the income tax until Ogilvie 's briefing sessions for the press on the eve of the public unveiling . Quizzed by Reporter Sen. Arrington attended the press briefing in the executive mansion , starting at 9:30 p. ra . Monday . At its conclusion , a reporter for THE TRLB UNE asked Arrington : " When did you get the bad news ? " " At 6 p. m. , " Arrington replied . Tun TRIBUNE reporter then asked him to comment on the Ogilvie package and Arrington refused . Since then he has said he is not ready to declare his position on the 4 per cent income tax plan , or 3 per cent , or 2 per cent . Sen. Arrington is expected to hold off his important decision until after a second caucus of the Republican senators in Springfield ? probably next Thursday . He said there was no consensus at the first cau cus Tuesday . Both Smith and Arrington have long accepted a state income tax as inevitable , bat without defining its rate and other features . Mrs. Raymond E. Robertson , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support yesterday for a state income tax but made no reference to the amount . Urge School Aid Changes However , her statement recommended state policies which would be most responsible for the record-breaking increases , in state appropriations in the Ogilvie budget . She said the league wants a vastly increased foundation level of state aid for common schools ; an improved system of distribution , using average daily enrollment instead of average daily attendance as the basis for state aid ; and realigning school districts .                     