@@723384

txt United Nations , N.Y . African leaders here are accepting Portuguese Premier Antonio de Oliveira Salazar 's African-policy speech as a fatalistic declaration that only prolonged war can remove Lisbon 's control of its African territories . They do not like this prospect . They are in an inferior position for modern warfare . But their momentum continues to be in the direction of accepting the challenge laid down by Dr. Salazar Monday night : They are backing guerrilla forces in Angola , Mozambique , and Portuguese Guinea . Meanwhile , their energy here at the UN will continue to be expended on building their case before world opinion . In this pursuit , they are not the least worried about having the active support of the Soviet Union and the tacit support of the United States . Thesis Scorned Even those African leaders who complain of Western " neocolonialism " or inept Soviet " intrusion " in ' Africa are scornful of Dr. Salazar 's thesis that the two superpowers are trying to hasten the exit cf Europe from Africa in order to add to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to free ourselves from rule by Brussels , Paris , and London only to hand power to Moscow and Washington , " says one influential African diplomat here . " Dr. Salazar is wrong  --  wrong about big-power intrusion , wrong about the need for Portugal 's civilizing influence in Africa , wrong about the instability he says free Africa is causing in the orderly life of nations . He may be right about improved living standards in Angola . But that is the only point he is right about . And that is irrelevant to what we are debating about : self-determination for the Portuguese territories . " Case Built Carefully In his major speech Monday , Dr. Salazar carefully built up the case for Lisbon 's claim that the territories are an integral part of Portugal . " Angola is a Portuguese creation and does not exist without Portugal . The only national conscience rooted in the province is not Angolan : It is Portuguese , just as there are no Angolans but only Portuguese of Angola . " In direct contradiction to this assertion , the foreign ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before agreed to back an independence movement of Angolans led by Holden Roberto . To rebut the Africans ' cry for " self - determination , " Portuguese Foreign Minister Franco Nogueira expended considerable rhetoric before the UN Security Council earlier this month . He asserted that Lisbon 's program of increased local autonomy ? the ability of qualified voters to chobse representatives within the Portuguese system  --  was equivalent to " self-determination . " The Africans scoff at this argument . Free Vote Barred Such a collision of viewpoints points up what some thoughtful diplomats here say is the real core of the Portuguese African problem . This is that the Salazar government can not agree to free , multiparty elections or to a national plebiscite in Angola or Mozambique as long as it denies real multiparty government at home . Therefore , these diplomats say , Lisbon is committed to the kind of " total resistance of the nation " threatened by Premier Salazar . As time goes by , with each African leader obliged to be more activist than the last one to speak , black Africa is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule by force . ' Portuguese Margin It is believed more than coincidental here that the next date for the Portuguese African subject to be raised at the UN  --  Oct. 31 ? falls after the end of the rainy season in Angola . If this theory is correct , it is possible that the newly backed Holden Roberto forces may be creating enough warfare to justify the Africans ' so far rather unconvincing case that world peace is threatened and UN intervention therefore called for , At present , Portugal holds a considerable margin in military power over the fledgling forces of its African neighbors . But the kind of guerrilla warfare that has sporadically broken out in Angola can be a harrassing drain on military power . Furthermore , it is likely to prove difficult to halt the flow of guerrilla planners and demolition experts if the Africans choose to send them through the Bakongo tribal territory which extends from the Congo into Angola .                     