@@723137

txt The legislature 's failure to solve Illinois ' public aid crisis before adjourning for the week-end , amid angry exchanges between Democrats and Republicans in an effort to fix the blame , brought dismay to welfare officials last night . They termed the legislative deadlock " unfortunate " and said it now was certain that some needy families will suffer before the crisis can be resolved . Plan to Picket Office While Democrats and Republicans debated over where to place the blame , the Woodlawn organization led by the Rev. A. M. Brazier placed the onus on the Republicans . The Rev. Mr. Brazier said 1,000 persons in 15 buses will leave the organization 's headquarters at 1129 E. 63d st. this morning to picket the Republican party headquarters at 211 W. Wacker dr . " It is very unfortunate that the legislature has been unable to reach agreement , " said William J. Scott , state treasurer and ex-officio member of the Illinois Public Aid commission . " This is the most important problem facing the state of Illinois and the finest efforts of the executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to solve this . It is not a time for either side to think of politics . " Expects Early Impact Scott said the impact of the legislature 's failure to vote a deficiency appropriation to meet the May and June costs of the aid to dependent children and general assistance programs will be felt next week . If funds were available , his office would send out 45,000 checks to welfare recipients next week . It already is 6,000 checks behind , and by next Wednesday will be 45,000 checks in arrears . " I was saddened to have it made apparent to me that many Democrats do n't really want to solve this crisis , " Scott said . Daniel Walker , IPAC secretary and acting chairman , said he could not even conceive of the legislature going home without resolving the welfare emergency . Fears Same May Suffer " No matter what we do now , some needy families will suffer from this inaction , " Walker said . Scott and Walker said the IPAC , when it meets Monday in Springfield , undoubtedly will seek methods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major attention Monday is the use of federal surIplus foods to relieve the plight of families on ADC and general assistance rolls . Harold 0 . Swank , IPAC executive secretary , said the b i g question is where the IPAC can get sufficient funds to pay for deliveries , storage , a n d repackaging of surplus foods so they can be made available to public aid families . Scott said he thought the money would be available to begin this project . Federal surplus foods that can be made available are butter , cheese , dried milk , rice , dried beans , rolled wheat , flour , chopped meat , corn meal , and peanut butter . Opposes Ceiling Proposal John Bellew , director of assistance for the Cook county public aid department , said 193,000 persons on the ADC rolls in Cook county , including 150,000 children , are affected by the , legislature 's failure to act . " Frankly , I would rather see the legislature recess than put a ceiling on grants in the delifiency appropriation , because a ceiling would mean a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be mailed out , " Ballew said . Mayor Daley conferred in his City hall office with the city 's welfare workers . He said later he had telephoned all utility companies to urge them to maintain service to families who will be unable to pay their bills . City officials said up to 7 million dollars of city funds could be made available to ADC recipients by selling tax anticipations warrants against the city 's relief tax levy . Daley said city funds could be advanced when it is shown they are needed .                     