@@726056

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam , Jan. 14 ? United States fighterbombers flew a record total of 549 single-plane attacks in South Vietnam yesterday , an American military spokesman said . He said the total was seven more than the previous record set in July . United States pilots have come near the mark on several occasions in the past few months , he said , but generally they have flown 400 to 450 sorties a day . The spokesman indicated that the record came as a result of especially heavy demands for support from ground commanders and because bad weather over North Vietnam had made more strike planes available for use in the South . A factor in the high rate of air activity in the south was the request for 82 strikes by commanders in Operation Cedar Falls , a sweep through an area known as the Iron Triangle , 20 to 30 miles north of Saigon . This region has long been regarded as a Vietcong stronghold . One officer noted : " General De Puy likes to use a lot of air power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Puy , commander of the First Infantry Division , the principal American unit in the sweep , has requested and received more than 660 tactical air strikes in support of his troops . ? During the record-setting day , an Air Force F-100 Supersabre crashed on a bombing run 38 miles east of Saigon , bringing to 147 the number of American planes lost in South Vietnam since Jan. 1 , 1961 . The pilot was // listed as missing in action and the cause of the crash was not immediately known . While participating in the 73 American rnultiplane missions over North Vietnam yesterday , the pilot of a Navy A-4 Skyhawk was shot down and listed as missing in action . This brought to 457 the number of American planes lost in the North since Aug. 5 , 1964 . During their raids yesterday , American pilots concentrated on highways , railroads and storage areas in the panhandle region and along the coast east of the major port of Haiphong , the spokesman said . The spokesman also said that a helicopter stationed on the aircraft carrier Bennington crashed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday , injuring three crewmen . Two other ? . rew members were unaccounted for as rescue operations continued , the spokesman said . Shortly before dawn today , Air Force B-52 Stratofortresses hammered what was suspected to be an enemy troop concentration midway between the South China Sea and the Laotian border , about half a mile south of the demilitarized zone separating North Vietnam and South Vietnam . In scattered action in the northern provinces , United States Marines reported killing 84 enemy soldiers , 27 of whom attempted to overrun an artillery position . Air strikes in the area were reported to have killed 27 others . Delta Operation Continues As operation Cedar Falls moved through its seventh day , 10 more enemy soldiers were reported killed , bringing to 286 the number of enemy dead since the operation began . The more than 4,000 United States and South Vietnamese marines operating in the Mekong Delta reported an enemy death toll of 20 since Jan. 6 . A South Vietnamese military spokesman reported that two battalions of Vietcong attacked a Government outpost 325 miles northeast of Saigon early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently had fled , but it was not possible to determine if the post had been overrun . As dawn broke today a Noravegian merchant ship , the Mui#nh , plowed into United States Vavy minesweeper patrolling ? ' ; ; he main channel into the Satr.gon port . The minesweeper sank and three members of her crew are listed as missing , the spokesman said . He said an investigation was in progress . Marines Sill 61 Vietcong SAIGON , Sundfay , Jan. 15 ( AP ) ? A United States Marine company battled for six and one-half hours against Vietcong defending a hamlet 15 miles south of Danang and killed 61 of the enemy , a United States spokesman announced today . He said the 235 Marines took moderate casualties in the fierce engagement yesterday . Such casualties permit a unit to carry out its task , but perhaps with reduced effectiveness . The spokesman said the helicopter-borne company of Marines came under mortar and small-arms fire while approaching a landing zone outside the hamlet . The company then moved into the hamlet , United States headquarters said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy . " The Marine raid was supported by mortar and artillery fire . Meanwhile , a United States Special Forces camp at Locninh , 70 miles north of Saigon and 12 miles from the Cambodian border , was reported to have come under heavy enemy attack late last night . An American command spokesman in Saigon said there was no information on the reported attack , but said that field reports told of wounded Vietnamese being taken into Laikhe about 30 miles north of Saigon . There were no other details . Such a camp would normally have a detachment of 12 American advisers and three or four companies of South Vietnamese irregulars . A company generally consists of about 200 men .                     