@@725690

txt Britain 's highest court , the House of Lords , overthrew today the doctrine that it may never change one of its own decisions . This unexpected action was announced by the Lord Chancellor , Lord Gardiner . From now on , he said , the court will feel free to " depart from a previous decision when it appears right to do so . " The new rule has the most profound philosophical implications for the law in Britain . It goes to the heart of the debate , so familiar to Americans , about whether change in the law should be made only by elected legislators or whether courts may be instruments of reform . Judges Are Life Peers What is called " the House of Lords " for judicial purposes is actually a court with nine judges , who are life peers , called the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary . The present Lord Chancellor and his predecessor , Lord Dilhome , may and often do join the nine judges in judicial panels . The established British view has been that change must come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its judicial capacity , formally expressed that rule in 1898 : " A decision of the House of Lords upon a question of law s conclusive and binds the Rouse in subsequent cases . An erroneous decision can be set right only by an act of Parliament . " American doctrine is , of ! ourse , radically different . The supreme Court has long exer- cised the power to overrule precedent . Its freedom to do so has helped to make it a vital agency of reform , as when it held school segregation unconstitutional in 1954 . Noone . expects the House of Lora ' to follow the path of the Supreme Court ... since judges and the whole legal profession here are much more conservative in outlook . ? Nevertheless , the action is almost bound to have what one expert called " a liberating ef'feet . " It will make the judges think more about the social values at stake in cases and less about past decisions . ' The Law of the Land ' The startling nature of today 's move was indicated in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Bar Council . He said the 1898 decision of the House of Lords requiring it to follow past c , rulins was " the law of the land . " rulings last phrase was one often used by Southern and other critics of the 1954 Supreme Court decision on school segregation . " It is a little difficult , " Mr. Fisher said , " to , see how the House of Lords can now depart from the law of the land as so stated . It might be thought that only an act of Parliament can give them the power to reverse their own previous decisions . " However , the bar would welcome the introduction of a new rule provided that full weight is given to the importance of certainty in the law . Barristers have to advise clients on matters of law and , without the Doctrine of Precedent , this would be made much more difficult . " The announcement by Lord Gardiner , a Laborite , made it clear that there was no idea of generally abandoning the doctrine that courts should follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of precedent , " the announcement said . " as an indispensable foundation upon which to decide what is the law and its application to individual cases . It provides at least some degree of certainty upon which individuals can rely in the conduct of their affairs . " Their lordships nevertheless recognize that too rigid adherence to precedent may lead to injustice in a particular case and also unduly restrict the development of the law . They propose , therefore , to modify their present practice . " A Major Influence Seen A spokesman for the Lord Chancellor explained that the new freedom to overrule precedents might be used , as an example , in cases where the judges think " the earlier decision was influenced by the existence of conditions which no longer prevail . " The spokesman said one re- sult " of major importance " would be to let the House of Lords pay greater attention to decisions of Commonwealth high courts . These courts are generally not bound ' by precedent so rigidly , and reference to the modern trend of their decisions could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bar Council , a spokesman for the Law Society welcomed the new approach . This group is made up of solicitors , who in Britain 's divided legal profession deal with the client while barristers appear in court . The Law Society urged that the intermediate appellate court  - -  -  the Court of Appeal ? also have freedom to overrule its own precedents . The Lord Chancellor said that this step was not now being taken .                     