@@721395

txt DOMINICAN POLL URGED BY HERTER // Castro 's Foreign Minister , Dr. Raul Roa . Dr. Roa demanded that the conference condemn not only the Dominican Republic but also the United States , saying : " It is not just to condemn Trujillo and not condemn the father of the child . " " The Dominican Republic 's Government is a legitimate child of the United States in , tervention there thirty years ago , " the Cuban added . When Mr. Herter obtained the floor , he said in a calm voice : " I have attended a good many meetings of international bodies and I can only remark that the relevance and the accuracy and the method of presentation that we have just heard from the representative of Cuba reminds me of a direct parallel of the speeches I have heard from representatives of the Soviet Union . " When Dr. Roa tried later to regain the floor , the chairman , Foreign Minister Horacio Lafer of Brazil , gavelled the meeting to an end . Leaving the conference building , Mr. Herter was applauded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the debate as it came over loudspeakers . Response to Herter Plea Mr. Herter 's proposal for 0 . A. S.-supervised election in the Dominican Republic had at first a negative response from a number of Latin-American foreign ministers , because of their insistence that strong sanctions against the Dominican dictatorship be applied at once . However , a move by Colombia 's Foreign Minister , Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala , to wed the two proposals suggested that a compromise was not excluded . Senor Turbay said that , in the view of most Latin Americans , sanctions against the Dominican Republic for having attempted to overthrow the Government of Venezuela should have precedence over measures to bring democracy to the Dominican Republic . Tonight , quarters close to they United States delegation indi ? ? cated that an agreement along ; the lines of giving priority to the Latin-American idea of im ? ? mediate sanctions would be ac ? ? ceptable provided the Latin .. Americans would also ' accept : the proposal that a special com ? ? mittee with far-reaching powers to oversee elections in the Dominican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1947 Inter-American Rio de Janeiro Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance , the votes of two-thirds of the ministers are required to approve a resolution , meaning that fourteen votes will be required to endorse any resolution here . According to diplomats , this appeared feasible so long as the United States would defer to the emotion-charged Latin-American desire to deal strictly with the Dominican Republic . The Latin-American proposal for dealing with the Dominican Republic was drafted at a closed meeting of fourteen of the ministers early in the , day . Mr. Herter , in presenting his plan , said that , if the Dominican Government did not agree to a supervised election , the 0 . A. S. should " consider what measures might be most effectively applied to bring about acceptance of this proposal . " Venezuela 's Foreign Minister , Ignacio Luiz Arcaya , told newsmen late in the day that his Government could not accept the compromise formula outlined by Mr. Herter and insisted that strong sanctions be taken at once against the Trujillo regime . Colombian Plays Role Foreign Minister Turbay of Colombia , who played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Latin-American ministers on ordering economic sanctions and then seeking to assist the Dominicans toward a transition to democracy , at first opposed Mr. Herter 's proposal . Senor Turbay Ayala suggested to the conference that the process proposed by Mr. Herter should be reversed . " First the sanctions , then time for a democratic recuperation , " he said . It was believed that the United States would not , in the end , refuse to go along with the majority Latin-American sentiment on the sanctions , despite its efforts to encourage what it considered a constructive solution . An informant regarding the United States policy said that as a " fall-back position " the United States would probably agree to the sanctions provided a committee with considerable powers were created to oi'ersee subsequent political events in the Dominican Republic . Mr. Herter 's call for the free elections was an actual invitation to General Trujillo , or the persons - now representing him in running the country , to step down or face the punitive action of the inter-American system . The fourteen Latin-American foreign ministers who met for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Theatre had also agreed in principle that a special committee should be formed to encourage a process of democratization in the Dominican Republic . While Mr , Herter agreed that " there is a firm basis for the finding " that the Dominican regime acted against Venezuela and that " these acts merit the condemnation or this meeting , " his emphasis was on a.constructive approach , to the problems of the Trujillo dir ; atorship that plagued the hemisphere for three decades . " This meeting of consultation should clearly and unequivocably express condemnation of such conduct and take decisions which will give adequate expression to this opinion , " he said . But , he went on , " the ques-. tion now arises as to how best the ministers here present can formulate and adopt a constructive plan of action . " The Secretary of State said that , If the conference requested the Dominican Republic to accept the supervisory committee , his proposal would undoubtedly be a positive approach to the Caribbean problem . " It is our duty to our peoples and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " to try to assure that what we do here now will in the future turn out to be a constructive contribution to the peace , liberty and well-being of the peoples of the Americas . " Diplomatic Isolation Asked The Latin-American ministers in the morning agreed among themselves that there should be an immediate breaking of diplomatic relations with the'Dominican Republic . Eight of the Latin-American republics have already done so . There is no plan , however , to discontinue consular relations , on the theory that consuls could lobserve and assist the process of democratization that the ministers hope to see in the Dominican Republic . Also , it was pointed out , the consulates would offer havens for anti-regime persons who might wish to seek asylum . Actually , the rupture of diplomatic relations will create a serious practical problem inasmuch as there are more than 100 refugees in a number of Latin-American embassies in Ciudad Trujillo . It was not , made completely clear what was meant by " partial ' economic sanctions , but a spokesman for the group said that it would principally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as special fuels and materials to the Dominican Republic . The flow of food and medicine would not be affbcted . The Latin-American ministers also envisaged the creation of a special technical committee to formalize and supervise the application of these economic sanctions . This would be the first time that economic sanctions of any nature were applied within the . Western Hemisphere . The Latin-American group will meet again tomorrow morning to work out in detail the powers and the frame of reference of the two special committees it proposes to establish . Venezuela and the Dominican Republic as the parties to the dispute did not participate in the day 's Latin-American meeting . Four of the foreign ministers , who could not participate for different reasons , were understood to have endorsed the stand taken by the group of fourteen .                     