@@724886

txt The board of education voted 8 to 3 yesterday for immediate appointment of an assistant superintendent of schools for integration . Supt. Benjamin C. Willis . who has opposed the move , set the next board meeting Aug. 11 as a " target date " to recommend an appointee , describe the job , and say how it will fit into the school administration . Willis said notice of the vacancy would be distributed thru the school system immediately but that the appointee could come from outside the system . " We will look internally and externally , " he said . Trade School Policy Set The board also established a policy of requiring unions wishing to use public trade or vocational schools to attest in writing that their employment practices adhere to the 1964 civil rights act and that they do not discriminate in their apprenticeship programs . This action was aimed at Washburne trade school , where civil rights groups have charged , discrimination is rampant . Willis said yesterday that as of June 9 , only 52 of 1,884 apprentices at the school were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Coordinating Council of Community Organizations and a leader in the campaign to oust Willis before his scheduled retirement at the end of next year . Urges Outsider Choice The integration aid must bej " of national prominence in race relations , " Raby said . lie reiterated an earlier C. C. C. 0 . statement that anyone within the school system would be " subservient to Willis ' domineeringpersonality , " He called the Washburne action " a fine , pious statement " in which the board " finally ad- ' milted they had a segregated school . " Daily mar c he s and other demonstrations will continue until Willis leaves , Raby said . The new assistant superintendency had received prelim-1 inary approval at a special board meeting last week called to consider nine C. C. C. 0 . demands . It was opposed by Mrs. Wendell Green , Thomas Murray , and Edward S. Schaller , who contended that more discussion and a description of the job had to come first . But Frank Whiston , board president , urged immediate approval because " a postpone-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we are progressing in an orderly manner. ; ' Earlier , Ald. John J. Buchanan 110th1 made a surprise ap- ' pearance to protest the board 's recent establishment of a freshman branch of Bowen II i g h school in the Chicago Vocational school building . Demands a Change The branch would enroll about 250 freshmen from Bow en and , under the south side cluster plan . also take in some 200 freshmen from Hirsch High school . Bowen is 00 per cent white and Hirsch is virtually all-Negro . Buchanan said the Bowen area was in " a state of shock , " and he asked that the action he rescinded and that Bowen he removed from the two - school cluster . The hoard took no action on the Bowen situation . In other action , however , it : 1 . Approved acquisition , for 1.5 million dollars , of St. MelHoly Ghost High school , t h e South Side Hebrew school , the Decalcomania company building , and the Bunte Candy company building . Start Shifting College 2 . Heard that the process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as approved in spring in a 9 million dollar deal , will begin tomorrow . 3 . Approved spending a million dollars for 100 new mobile units to be used starting in fall . 4 . Heard that 20,332 children have enrolled in Project Head Start , the federally - financed summer program aimed primarily at deprived children who will enter kindergarten in September .                     