@@722484

txt Boy Scouts and Gov . Otto Kerner begin hike from New Salem to Springfield , Ill. , on Abraham Lincoln trail . Scouts ( from left ) are Tilmon Kreiling , 16 , of Peoria , and David Winter , 18 , of Towanda . Kerner 's son , Tony , 14 , is at his right . Other men are reporters . LAP Wirephotol Kerner Slogs Muddy Trail with 65 Scouts BY ROBERT HOWARD Springfield , Ill. , June 9-Gov . Kerner , clad . in a Boy Scout leader 's uniform , hiked most of the way today over the Abraham Lincoln trail from New Salem state park to the Springfield city limits . Altho bothered by a stiff knee , the 53-year-old governor strode thru mud and rain for 18.9 miles of the 21.5 mile long route in the company of 65 Boy Scouts who were qualifying for medals . The endurance contest was staged as a preliminary to Kerner 's 1964 reelection campaign . Trots Last Few Yards He was not bothered by the muddy roads , the result of heavy rains in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gait and broke into a trot over the last few yards . The last hour was walked in a slow rain . The governor , determined to show his physical fitness , refused to accept a raincoat from the driver of one of the state cars that accompanied him . " Too many people ride to the corner drugstore in a car , " he commented . Two Eagle Scouts who accompanied the governor finished the march into downtown Springfield . They are Tilmon Kreiling , 16 , of Peoria , and Dave Winter , 18 , ' of Towanda . There were three rest periods , one of three and one-half hours as the governor left the trail to drive Lord Peter Baden-Powell , son of the British founder of the Boy Scout movement , to the restored village of Salem where Lincoln began his career as a young lawyer and legislator . Son Completes Distance Kerner 's son , T o n y , 14 , finished the full distance of the trail to downtown Springfield . The governor climbed into his limousine at dusk when ' sidewalks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever attempted long distance walking while in office . Kerner was dedicating the relocation of the . Boy Scout trail which approximates the route Lincoln used between New Salem and Springfield . Lincoln walked when he could not borrow a horse . At a lunch stop at the edge of Salisbury , a Menard county village , the governor refused to autograph a 1960 highway map that bore a photograph of his ' Republican predecessor , William G. Stratton . " Let the man who gave it to you sign it , " Kerner said . At his command , a state trooper produced a new map which had been issued by the Democratic state administration . Kerner autographed it . Campaigning for 1964 State photographers recorded the hike , and movie film was flown to Chicago for quick distribution to news media . The walk in Lincoln 's approximate footsteps had been planned as a major achievement of the Kerner administration . The governor , whose desk has been piled with unfinished business , announced his 1964 plans for a second term in advance of the April primary and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that provide exposure to the public . The emphasis on physical fitness was a means of diverting attention from pressure for new taxes , counter - demands f o r state house economy , and the delay in announcing decisions on such questions as the convening of a special legislative session and appointments to vacant offices . Kerner , who has a few gray hairs above his temples , showed up at New Salem wearing army trousers he had when on duty as an artillery officer at Fort Sill in 1993 . He changed to a Boy Scout leaders uniform presented by scouts from the Marquette district council on Chicago 's west side . It was there that Kerner began his career as a Scout official . He is a member of the regional board of , directors and of the Abraham Lincoln council here . The uniform was presented by Gerald Majeski , 12 , of 2706 S. Keeler ay. , Chicago , a member of troop 227.                     