@@728194

txt The Nixon Administration stepped up its attack on antiwar protesters today , while two leading Senate critics of the war in Vietnam announced that ' they would speak at the mass rally here Saturday . Vice President Agnew , in a speech in Philadelphia , called the demonstrations a " carnival in the streets , " performed by a " strident minority " who raise " intolerant clamor and cacophony . " And Transportation Secretary John A. Volpe , at a news conference in New York , said that the demonstrations were being organized by people who were " Communist or Communist-inspired . " Senators Charles E. Goodell and George S. said in a joint statement that they would address the rally at the Washington Monument . The demonstration is being coordinated by the New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam . It was learned tonight from Government sources that the Government , in a retreat from its previous position , had agreed privately to grant the demonstrators a permit to // march on at least part of Pennsylvania Avenue . Meanwhile , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cope with any violence that might develop during the demonstration . In a speech to the National Municipal League , which was made public here , Mr. Agnew referred to President Nixon 's inaugural plea to " lower our voices " and said : " I , for one , will not lower my voice until the restoration of sanity and civil order allow a quiet voice to be heard once again . " " The mob , the Mobilization , the Moratorium have become somewhat fashionable forms of citizen expression , " Mr. Agnew said , adding that they were " negative in content , disruptive in effect . " He called on the " silent young majority who go to school and to work and to war , if necessary , " to " make itself heard , to come to its own defense . " Mr. Volpe said a " great many of these people who support the demonstrations do so conscientiously . " But he declared that majority of the organizers were " Communist or Communist-inspired " who did " nothing but break down our democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day before thousands of persons across the , country were planning Veterans Day rallies to support the Administration 's Vietnam nniimr Planners of a rally . at the Washington Monument said that-they expected 10,000 per sons to attend . The sponsors said that eight Senators , 47 Representatives and eight Governors were supporting the rally . The unqualified endorsement of Saturday 's antiwar protest by Senators Goodell and was considered important by the leaders of the demonstration because relatively few members of Congress had supported this week 's activities , compared to the scores who participated in last month 's Vietnam Moratorium . Senator , Democrat of South Dakota , said at a news conference that he began to consider participating in the rally after he was discouraged by President Nixon 's speech on Vietnam last Monday night . An Act of Conscience ' He said that he made his final decision last night after talking on the telephone with Senator Goodell and after being onvinced that " the Mobilization leaders are making a sincere effort to have a peaceful rally . " He described his decision to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Goodell , Republican of New York , was in New York today . His office here said that he would not elaborate immediately on his statement that he would address the rally . Senator denounced Mr. Agnew and the Justice Department for what he called " provocative , inflammatory statements that tend to polarize public opinion . " Representative Benjamin A. Rosenthal , Democrat of Queens , added his name today to the growing list of House members supporting the planned antiwar activities . Among the others in the New York State delegation who have announced plans to participate in the demonstrations are Allard K. Lowenstein , 1Democrat of Nassau , and Shirley Chisholm , Democrat of Brooklyn . Earlier today , Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , said he was receiving " the most venomous and threatening letters since the days of Joseph McCarthy " because of his stand against the war in Vietnam . He attributed the mail to Mr. Agnew 's statements that " stirred up the emotions of the American people . " At the Pentagon , a spokes'man said that several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington in the event there was violence during the weekend 's demonstration . The spokesman , Jerry Friedheim , a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for public affairs , refused to identify the units involved or to say how many men were concerned . The units , he said , were more than 100 miles from Washington . There are 28,000 servicemen stationed in the Washington area , and they had already been alerted . In addition , the 2,700-man District of Columbia National Guard has training activities scheduled for this weekend and will be available if needed during the demonstrations . The New York Post published a Louis Harris poll today that showed that 45 per cent of the people surveyed disagreed with the goals of antiwar protesters . The poll showed that 39 per cent sympathized with the goals , and 16 per cent were not sure . The Harris poll said that it had asked 1,771 persons across the country between Oct. 16 and Oct. 22 the following question : " In general , just as far as their objectives are concerned , do you sympathize with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marching and protesting against the war in Vietnam or do you disagree ? " In another development , it was announced that . President Nixon would tour a veterans hospital here tomorrow as part of his program to encourage such visits by others on Veterans Day . His younger daughter , Mrs. David Eisenhower , will visit the veterans hospital in Northampton , Mass.                     