@@725764

txt President de Gaulle called on world powers today to join in a pledge of nonintervention in the internal affairs of Vietnam . In a joint communiqu ? signed with Prince Norodom Sihanouk , Chief of State of Cambodia , the French President also asked the cessation of all acts of war on the territory of Vietnam . The communiqu ? stated that this " implies that all foreign powers that have introduced troops should first of all take the commitment to withdraw within a set period of time and cease all intervention . " The President , in a speech here yesterday , addressed a plea in similar terms directly to the United States . Period for Pullout Suggested It was reported authoritatively that the French Government believes that North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam , the parent body of the Vietcong , would be amenable to the opening of peace negotiations if the United States issued a unilateral declaration of its intention to withdraw its troops by a given date . French diplomats are suggesting that a period of two years from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front as well as to the United States . In the French view , such a declaration is essential because the Vietnamese Communists remain convinced that the United States does not plan to leave South Vietnam and that therefore there no point in opening peace talks . Talks Not Expected Soon President de Gaulle discussed the Vietnam situation on Wednesday with Nguyen Thuong , chief of . the North Vietnamese diplomatic mission in Pnompenh while a member of his mission met with Nguyen Van Hieu , a foreign affairs specialist of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam . General de Gaulle and his closest advisers are opposed to any formal French mediation in the Vietnamese conflict until the United States declares its readiness to withdraw its troops within a fixed time . They believe that the opening of negotiations on such a basis is unlikely in the near future . President Johnson and other United States officials have stated that the United States does not want permanent bases in South Vietnam . They have pledged to pull out United States troops once North Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its independence . President de Gaulle in his speech yesterday and in the communiqu ? signed tonight did not mention the problem of North Vietnamese infiltration of the South . General de Gaulle and his advisers feel that the principal problem in Vietnam stems from United States intervention . The communiqu ? stated : " Despite the disputes that have divided and still divide Vietnamese , it is essentially foreign intervention that , by turning a civil war into an international war , has given the hostilities their present dimensions . " The communiqu ? added : " In order to end them , it is above all necessary for the powers whose interests and ideologies are confronting one another in Indochina to take or to renew , in conjunction with all the countries concerned , the commitment to observe strrictly the clauses of the 1954 Geneva agreements , namely respect for the independence and the sovereignty of Vietnam and noninterference in its internal affairs . " The communiqu ? said that subject to the agreement of all Vietnamese , " a status of guaranteed controlled neutrality should be conferred on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord should also be applied to the entire Indochinese peninsula . President de Gaulle and Prince Sihanouk signed the communiqu ? in a ceremony at the royal palace , formally ending the three-day state visit to Cambodia . The President and his party , left Pnompenh at 8 P.M. to fly ' to Noumea , New Caledonia . The President used his visit to Cambodia as an occasion to make his strongest statements thus far on the Vietnam issue . However , his tour has also been of considerable significance to Cambodia and has improved French political , cultural and economic positions in the kingdom . At the moment , Cambodia deems France to be her best friend , a status that , up to the end of last year , had been accorded Communist China . In the final communiqu ? , General de Gaulle pledged that France would do everything possible to arrange further international guarantees of Cambodian neutrality and territorial integrity . An increase in French economic and financial aid was also foreshadowed in the communiqu ? . Hanoi Asks Withdrawal First TOKYO , Sept. 2 ( AP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said yesterday his , country would not sit down at the conference table until the United States- withdrew its troops from South Vietnam , recognized the Vietcong 's National Liberation Front and , halted " the war of aggression . " ? The declaration in effect rejected President de Gaulle 's suggestion yesterday that peace talks might begin if the United States agreed to a timetable for pulling out its forces . The Premier repeated North Vietnam 's terms in a speech in Hanoi yesterday on the 21st anniversary of the founding of the Communist state . The text was broadcast today by the North , Vietnamese press agency .                     