@@722663

txt The Communist party of Iraq , with the tacit approval of the Kremlin , is seeking a " national front " with the Kurdish rebels against the Government of Premier Abdul'Karim Kassim . ' Calling for the overthrow of the KaSSim Government , the party has proposed that the Kurds be granted self-government within what is described as . a " parliamentary democratic republic " for all Iraq . The decisions of the Iraqi Communist party , taken at a meeting of the Central Committee in March , were reported in . an article in the August issue of Problems of Peace and . Secialismi an international Communist:periodical . The Jour-. published ' in Prague , reflectsAie : views of the Soviet Communist party. , , , , The article ' demanded that an end be put to the military operations by the Kassim Gov- , ernment against : the Kurdish ' rebels in northern Iraq who are led by Mullah Mustafa al-Barzani . It said that the Communists were conducting a mass movement in Baghdad and other Arab cities to obtain recognition of Kurdish rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communists asked for a joint struggle against the presence of the Central Treaty Organization , the Western defense organization for the Middle East . In an interview with a correspondent of The New York Times on Aug. 26 , Mullah Mustafa appealed for United States aid and offered in ' re- turn to overthrow the Kassim Government and transform Iraq into the West 's strongest ally in the Middle East . Mullah Mustafa warned that his forces would be compelled to accept aid from the Communists if such aid was not forthcoming . Teh general is mentioned in a footnote of the article in Problems of Peace and - Socialism as thes , head of the Democratic party of Kurdistan . The article describes it as : " A party of the national bourgeoisie and the small liberal landowners . /It also includes part of the petty urban bourgeoisie and intelligentsia . It pursues an anti - imperialist policy . " In the Communist lexicon an " anti-imperialist policy " would be an anti-Western one . Mullah Mustafa spent twelve years in the Soviet Union after he and some of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kurdish republic . He left the Soviet Union for Baghdad in 1958 after General Kassim took power . In his interview with The Times ' correspondent , Mullah Mustafa said his group had sought refuge in the Soviet Union after it had been denied haven by the United States . He denied having become a Comwhile in the Soviet Union . The article in Problems of Peace and Socialism indicated that to Communists had experienced difficulties in trying to weld some of the Kurdish rebels into a pro-Communist fromt . It complained : " As for roe Kurdish bourgeois nationalists , they have placed their narrow nationalist conceptions above the interests of the common struggle . This has frequently led them to adopt a course that weakens the common struggle and to advocate the liquidation of Communist organization in ' Kurdistan . " The article continued : " Thus Kurdish bourgeois nationalism , despite its general democratic content , tends to result in erroneous sectarian methods of struggle at a time When unity should he enhanced and the national front strengthened . " The appearance of the article in Problems of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union toward the Kassim Government . On the party level , Premier Kassim has been under attack for two years . On the state level , Moscow has continued to try to woo his Government away from its neutralist stand in foreign policy .                     