@@725372

txt The proposal to draft college students on the basis a grades is unacceptable on at least three important grounds . First , it contradicts our historic principle that all men Should be treated equally and have equal opportunity and responsibility , irrespective of accidents of birth such as innate ability . If the armed services wish , for the sake of community welfare , to preserve our more talented young men , they can effect the goal by assigning them to appropriate noncombat tasks . Second , it will require either superhuman wisdom or demonic indifference for a professor to decide whether a borderline student should pass or fail if , in failing , he is subject to the draft . Since we can attribute neither of these abilities to most professors , the integrity of the grading system and the university itself would be seriously jeopardized . Third , in actual effect the proper responsibilities and decisions of the draft boards are being surreptitiously shifted to the college professors , who should , in my opinion , unequivocally refuse to be used as the political instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Religious Studies Pennsylvania State University University Park , Pa . March 7 , 1966 ? A Unified Vietnam To the Editor : The current policy debates on Vietnam are pivoting on the wrong questions . The crux of the situation in Vietnam is the necessity to organize a politi'cally stable government that can function as the government of all South Vietnam . This is the question that nobody asks in the debate , probably because it is so difficult to conceive of any reasonable anewer being found . The people in Vietnam are so split politically that the organization of any central government satisfactory to all of them will be an incomparably difficult task . Newspaper reports indicate that perhaps four or five million Vietnamese are with the Vietcong , or at least are so extremely anti-Saigon they would never work with Saigon except through coercion . Newspaper reports also seem to indicate that four or five million Vietnamese are working with Saigon , or at least do not identify themselves with the Communists . Another five or six million are reported to be neutral . Coalition Rejected ? Because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has found many supporters . The few who suggest Vietnam should be turned over to the Communists are retninded that tens of thousands Wight be purged as a result . Those who advocate a coalition of Communists and non-Communists in the Government are damned as dreamers . Those who promote the course of eventual total victory over the Communists are reminded that the Saigon Government 's popular support is so slim that to govern the entire country it would have to purge tens of thousands of Communists and lock hundreds of thousands mbre in concentration camps . Nonetheless , the long-term objective in South Vietnam is the establishment of a politically stable , unified central government . Questions of blame , commitment and honor add poignancy tp the debate . But Americans , from President Johnson on down , have yet to formulate a Position on the central problem of unifying an absolutely split country . STEVEN H. JOHNSON Cambridge , Mass. , Feb. 28 , 1966 Rules Waived No further illumination was provided by the two committees that had been hastily convened to sponsor the resolution . Their report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary rules of procedure for consideration of reports , simply added that professors of international law of some 31 law schools supported our Government 's position . At the oral introduction of the resolution on the floor , it was conceded that other American authorities on international law held a contrary view . Yet not a single delegate asked a question or suggested the serious deliberation that this complex and important issue deserved . Although I agree with the resolution 's conclusion , I nevertheless deplore the unseemly lack of consideration preceding its adoption . It Is essential that this nation 's principal body of lawyers avoid both the appearance and the reality of serving as the obedient tool of Government . JEROME A. COHEN Professor , Law School of Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Feb.28,1966 ? Home Rule for Capital To the Editor : The Feb. 27 letter from Robert N. Miller of Washington opposing home rule for the District of Columbia is so full of specious reasoning that I would not be surprised to find him writing next to oppose selfgovernment for New York and a host @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign consulates , and " visitors . " These and other arguments against self-government are convincing only to those who do not share the deep American dedication to freedom and democracy . It is surprising how many white citizens of the District of Columbia do not feel they are ready for self-government . I am sure that when home rule comes , their many fellow-Washingtonians who are ready will be willing to make available to these citizens special remedial education in the principles and processes of democratic selfgovernment ? in order to assure that self-government in Washington is nowhere surpassed in its excellence and that no citizen is denied the opportunity to participate to the fullest extent Of his potentiality . PHILIP A. HOLMAN Takoma Park , Md . Feb. 27 , 1966 ? For Admission of East Germany in U.N . To the Editor : I am pleased to note that Poland has presented to Secretary General U Thant an application from the German Democratic Republic for membership in the United Nations . I note with deep regret that the State Department will " oppose the move at every step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which I was a member ) of the Sixth World Order Study Conference recommended to the General Board of the National Council of Churches that it take the following position : " That the United States support a policy in the United Nations providing for the representation in the world organization of both parts of such divided nations as Germany , Vietnam and Korea without prejudice to the possible unification of those countries . " Surely if the inconspicuous Maldive Islands with a population of less than 100,000 , people can be admitted without anyone making objections , how much more should two powerful nations in ? the heart of Europe with seventy million people be brought into membership ! One hopes that the United States attitude toward East Germany is not the beginning of the same sad policy which our Government has pursued with regard to the People 's Republic of China . East Germany has existed as a self-governing state for a number of years and will continue as such as long as the arms issue is not settled and Russia feels insecure in the face of West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Oder-Neisse Boundary In some ways the foreign policy of the Democratic Republic is more peaceful and in harmony with the Charter than that of the Federal Republic , for it accepts the Oder-Neisse line as a permanent boundary and favors the Repack , . plan for the denuclearization of Central Europe . With each passing - year it becomes more and more evident that universality of membership would make the United Nations stronger , would help cool the passions of the cold war , assist in disarmament negotiations , and be no block to future unifications of divided nations . CARL SOULS ! New York , March 4 , 1966 The writer is executive seerstary , Division of Peace and World Order , Board of Christian Social Concerns of the Methodist Office for the U. N. ? Mozambique Rebellion To the Editor : Surely , if the Portuguese Government can consider aiding and comforting the rebels in Rhodesia , the British Government can equally offer to supply similar assistance to the Mozambique resistance movement led by Dr. Eduardo Mondlane . It seeks to obtain the independence of Mozambique under an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , March 8,1966 ? To Recruit New Voters in South To the Editor : Recently Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach reiterated his position that it is not the business of the Federal Government actively to recruit new voters in the South . It is up to private civil rights groups to use the great new tool of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to register Negroes in large numbers , said Mr. Katzenbach . Mr. Katzenbach 's laissez-faire attitude toward voting may be contrasted with the efforts of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare to get all citizens over 65 enrolled in the voluntary part of the Medicare program . In 1965 the Federal Government made a revolutionary new guarantee to every American of the right to participate in his government  --  local , state and national . The spirit of the new voting law calls for an affirmative effort to admit Negroes to full citizenship . The Attorney General 's statements are a far cry from President Johnson 's " We shall overcome . " When people can not provide themselves with medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help . And then the Government should make sure that the intended beneficiaries of welfare programs actually benefit . But a precondition of all efforts by the Government to serve its people through welfare programs and otherwise is effective self-government . Mr. Katzenbach should follow H.E.W . ' s lead ' and adhere to the voting law 's mandate to bring real self-government to all the people of the South . BARRY SATLOW Yale Law School New Haven , March 5 , 1966 ? U.S. Grants for Biological Research To the Editor : Biological research in America today faces a crisis . Enlightened Government policy over the past fifteen years brought about an - atmosphere of creative inquiry by supplying research funds to persons of proved ability and , more importantly , supporting graduate students . Biologists from all over the world recognize this and many have made America their home . If the elucidation of the genetic code were the only advancement made the investment would have been well justified . We know we have gained much more than this . Recently , Government policy has taken a completely new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical problems is receiving the money that formerly went to independent investigators . Lacking funds , the investigators will be forced to leave our Universities , presumably to work in the newly created institutes . The goals of the institutes are commendable : curing heart disease , cancer and studies on toxic substances . However , this type of research should not be done at the expense of fundamental studies designed to elucidate the patterns in nature and provide us with the means to solve practical problems . It is time for a study of this situation and its debilitating effect on our universities and medical schools . The future of creative biology in America is at stake . ROY L. KISLIUS Associate Professor Tufts University School of Medicine Boston , March 9 , 1966 ? Toward Freer World Trade To the Editor : In your March 5 editorial . " Kennedy Round Timetable " you called attention to the difficult problem created for our negotiators by the prolonged de Gaulle boycott . But you may have added to their problems by setting them a task they can not , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economic Community and the European Free Trade Association " have stepped up their discrimination against outsiders " and you appear to suggest that this discrimination must be removed before the Kennedy Round can succeed . ' The increase in discrimination to which you refer must be the actions taken by both the Community and the E.F.T.A . at the year end to reduce by another 10 per cent what remained of tariffs charged by members against imports from their partners . But if so , your conclusion is puzzling . The creation of the Common Market was encouraged by the United States and , if my memory is correct , was welcomed by The New York Times . Is it now your suggestion that the members of the E.E.C . and the E.F.T.A . be asked to reverse the progress they have made toward freedom of trade within their respective areas ? It is true that one of the American objectives in the Kennedy Round is to reduce the initial disadvantage to American trade resulting from the creation of the Common Market and the Free Trade Area and to achieve this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other outsiders . It has never been the American purpose to obtain a reversal of their progress toward economic integration in Europe . JOHN W. EVANS Former U. S. Minister to the GATT Council Cambridge , Mass. , March 6 , 1966 ? Health Program To the Editor : In your March 2 editorial " Program for Health " you say that " only now is it widely realized that the health of an individual or a family is not simply a private affair . " But this has not yet penetrated the ivory tower of the Commerce Department on the point of classifying the new Social Security Medicare payments as transfer payments , instead of calling them purchases of goods and services . Thereby the new dimension is hidden from sight . Money spent on military weapons is seen as productive of general good , but money spent on medical weapons becomes a mere bookkeeping detail . SIDNEY Houtz Washington , March 3 , 1966 ? Threat Is Communism To the Editor : Is Martin Eric Lowy 's interesting- " question of those .. . with good memories " ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgetting that the present threat to world peace is not Germany , but Communism , particularly that modern day Hitler : Communist . China ? Ask the Tibetans . ( Rev. ) ALEXIS MORRIS Boston , March 7 , 1966 ; Bar Group 's Stand on ? Vietnam Action To the Editor : - ' In Peking , whenever the Chitese Government disapproves of American action in some part of the world , it is standard practice for an important Communist party leader to ask a meeting of the national lawyers ' association to take a stand on whether the American action comports with international law . Like the other loyal " mass organizations " that are mobilized to support the Chinese Government 's position , invariably the lawyers ' association swiftly responds , and in solemn conclave , but without meaningful debate or other consideration , unanimously resolves that the United States has once again violated international law . We and the rest of the world take such resolutions for what they are worth . In Washington , after Senator Wayne Morse called attention to the fact that some international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be illegal , Senator Russell Long , acting majority leader , asked tile American Bar Association to respond . The A.B.A. 's House of Delegates immediately complied . Without any debate whatever , at their semiannual meeting in Chicago Feb. 21 , all 250 delegates resolved , by voice vote , that . " the - position of the United States in Vietnam is legal under international law , and is in accordance with the Charter of the ' United Nations and the Southeast Asia Treaty . "                     