@@723560

txt Letters to The Times LLOYD BURLINGHAMTAN H. WILSON.CLARENCE E. THURBER , JOHN J. DONOHUE . Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ' I have been watching for criticism of some of the concepts in Max Frankel 's article in the News of the Week in Review ( Oct. 12 ) but since I have sees none , I feel that I must comment . There seems to be a misunderstanding of the nature of alliances in general , and of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization in particular . Mr. Frankel wrote : " The impression is spreading here that the Soviet Union and the United States , far from having shaped alliances in their own images , have really helped to create an abundance of nationalisms that now threaten to engulf both in a display of old-fashioned European diplomacy played out over a worldwide scale . " The linking together of the Soviet Union and the United States in this context attempts to equate two alliance systems which are distinctly different in concept , Choice of Systems The Communist " alliances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ image of the major Communist power . Communist China and ? Communist Russia are currently disputing whose image that should be . The smaller Communist nations ( and parties ) can choose , if at all , only that shaping which galls least . The rising tide of nationalism does threaten the Communist system . Free nations , on the other hand , have entered alliances precisely in order to preserve their individualities . They have entered freely , to remain free , To become  --  or to impose  --  the image of any one power would defeat the purposes of the alliances . Thus , to say ( in implied criticism ) that the free alliances " have really helped to create an abundance of nationalisms " is in fact to state that the alliances have achieved success . As to SEATO : Mr. Frankel slips on a worn-out clich ? when he calls SEATO an alliance which has " waited years for formal burial . " He adds that SEATO " did more to divide its Pakistani , Thai and Filipino members from their neighbors than it did to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To accuse SEATO of dividing free Asian nations implies that unity has existed or is demonstrably prevented by SEATO . Assuming that one of the purposes of Asian unity would be to preserve national independence , a further implication would seem to be that , if completely unified , free Asia alone would be strong enough to defend its members from Communist aggression . Given the actual situation in Asia , can it be said that any of this is true ? SEATO has for more than nine years served as a means by which some of the responsible nations of Asia , Europe and America have been able to work together on a daily basis in measures against Communism and in measures to promote the social and economic well-being of the people of the treaty area . The member nations of SEATO have been able to maintain their independence , their right to be free , their right , indeed , to be diverse while unified in defense . LLOYD BURLINGHAM , Public Information Officer , Southeast Asia Treaty Organization . Bangkok , Oct. 31 , 1963 . U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES : I am disturbed by the ambivalent attitude toward corporate power manifested recently by some critics of U.S. Steel 's position in the Birmingham civil rights struggle . These critics would have the corporation ( and others like it ) wield , in the cause of civil rights , a presumed " economic power " which , in other circumstances , they would rightly condemn and seek to restrain . Too evidently this is a case of relying on the ends to justify the means , Unquestionably , any large employer has a responsibility , first , to set a community example by adhering to nondiscriminatory hiring and promotion policies within his own plants and , secondly , to make these views and practices known in the community and work effectively with various race relations groups . But to go beyond this , to exert economic pressure on local banks and other business establishments ( or even to threaten the community with plant withdrawal or cutback of proposed expansions ) ? as many critics , and even your editorial of Oct. 31 suggest  --  would be inappropriate , morally wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point a little closer home , what would be the editorial reaction of The New York Times if U.S. Steel were to attempt to bring economic pressure to bear on the paper  --  say , by withdrawing advertising  --  to support some cause , however worthy ? There is a natural and very human tendency in all of us to want every possible influence to be brought to bear in aiding causes that we passionately believe to be right . But in our impatience we must take care not to create other wrongs . For , as you have often pointed out editorially , " two wrongs do not make a right . " IAN II WILSON . Westport , Conn. , Nov. 1 , 1963 , After Peace Corps Service Fellowships Declared Available for Selected Groun To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A letter published Oct. 20 from Frederick L. Redefer , professor of education at New York University , calls attention to opportunities open at American graduate schools to capitalize on the interests and experiences of returning Peace Corps volunteers , Professor Redefer has correctly pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep challenge to the graduate school , and one which will need to be seized immediately and over the next few years if a major new educational opportunity is not to be lost . It should be pointed out that one program , in which eight American universities are cooperating , is designed to meet the needs of returning Peace Corps volunteers who may wish to devote a significant portion of their future careers to overseas technical assistance work . Training Programs Study Fellowships for International Development was established to provide graduate and professional training for a selected group of returning Peace Corps volunteers , and others with similar overseas experiences . The program is supported on an experimental basis for two years with a grant from the Ford Foundation , and has recently announced its first SO fellowships . These young men and women are studying this year at U.C.L.A. , Stanford , Chicago , Columbia , Cornell , Harvard , Penn State and the University of North Carolina . They , served abroad in all of the under ? developed areas , and they are nov ) taking professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health , community develo melt , public administration , en- , gineering , law , and others . In addition to taking work toward the first professional degree in these fields , 1 the fellows study the theory and practice of development assistance , , and take appropriate language and ' area work . Although this program is quite specialized , and thus can meet the needs of only a small percentage of all returning Peace Corps volunteers , the Inter-University Committee which administers the program has an interest in exchanging information with other university pro- , grams designed for returning Peace Corns volunteers , CLARENCE E. THURBER , Chairman , Inter-University Commits tee . University Park , Pa. , Nov. 7 , 1963 . Federal Aid to Church Schools To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Times : As a reader interested in the dispute between Prof. Paul A. Reynolds ( Oct. 20 ) and Father Edgar R. Smothers , S.J. ( Nov. 3 ) , may I say that I did not get the impression from Professor Reynolds 's letter ' that Father Smothers got . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : the child into the private school , " but there are many choices to be made in interpreting this policy . Methods of teaching and sex education may be cited as examples . Taxpayers , without resorting to legal means , like to have a voice in shaping these policies . Through parents ' associations and such or7. ganizations as the Public Education Association and the John Dewey Society , taxpayers have shaped policies in many ways in our public schools . Most educators believe that this has been all to the good . I do not think Mr. Reynolds wants government control of schools any more than does Father Smothers . I am sure that if President Kennedy 's plan goes through , churches and parents , through released time and expansion of Sunday schools and Sabbath schools , can prevent the " secularization of our national society " that Father Smothers seems to fear . JOHN J. DONOHUE . New York , Nov. 3 , 1963.                     