@@726558

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Strike of Teachers To the Editor : The Times is to be commended for the high level of most of its editorials on public education issues , even where its positions are debatable . However , your Sept. 7 editorial " School Brinkmanship " dealing harshly with the United Federation of Teachers ' position in the controversy over New York City teacher contracts , seems to me to strike below the belt in several respects . As an observer with no vested interest in the teachers ' gains and doubts about some of their demands ( e.g. , freedoms , to reject assignment to slum schools and to oust without question disruptive pupils ) , I would still expect fairer treatment in The Times of the union 's position in the controversy . For example , in the editorial in question , your commendation of the " $125-million package " rejected so far by the union serves only to obscure essential issues of reasonable living costs for teachers , comparable income for municipal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtaining needed funds to attract good teachers . Pupil-Oriented Interest The over-all size of the " package " is less relevant than what 's in it . Mammoth budget figures , uninterpreted , simply boggle the mind of the general reader . Rejection - of such an enticing amount is thus made to seem ridiculous to the thrifty taxpayer . Again , instead of praising the union for making expansion of the More Effective Schools program a requisite for their contract ( an unselfish , pupil-oriented interest if there ever was one ) , you denounced it and asserted that such an issue " ought not to be settled under deadline pressure . " As in any labor dispute , this begs the question of responsibility for " deadline " negotiations . For example , if the Board had paid little heed to the teachers ' plea for such expansion until now , would they not share responsibility for the brinkmanship you allege in the union 's tactics ? Finally , and still worse to my mind , you argue that the teachers ' prevention of a school opening " will he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This tired allegation has been applied to every school-integration demonstration or boycott in thecountry , making a false god of established order and routine . It obscures the invaluable lesson in civics that such protests are legitimate and loyal in the democratic tradition and as American as apple pie under the First Amendment . How better could a child learn this ? L. ALEXANDER HARPER Director for School and Community Integration United Church of Christ New York , Sept. 8 , 1967 . ? Charge by Romney To the Editor : The Governor of Michigan interrupted his campaign for the Presidential nomination to announce , on Sept. 4 , that his commitment to a policy of warfare had been the result of " brainwashing . " I find his approach to our involvement in Vietnam particularly novel . The Governor implied that a potion concocted of a 1965 inspection tour and briefings by Administration personnel was responsible for the numbness during which hawkish spirits overcame him . In admitting this alleged brainwashing , Governor Romney serves more to eliminate himself from consideration for the Presidency than to serve notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince public officials of the rectitude of their policies . Tours and briefings are the substance of that effort . Strongminded opposition governors are always free to chart viewpoints of their own . In the absence of other " instruments , " the Governor 's charge appears largely unsubstantiated . Were it valid , such a charge can not but cast discredit upon its author . Can we believe that it has taken the Governor two years to realize that the wool has been pulled over his eyes ? Or is it rather that the vapors of an upcoming election have served to jog his bewashed brain ? Either these charges indicate that Governor Romney 's reaction time is far too slow for our space-paced society or they are motivated by a political expediency . The most nagging uncertainty is whether a public figure who is susceptible to brainwashing by an opposition administration might not become a tool in the hands of others with whom his guard is down . Why should we not believe that Governor Romney is currently being brainwashed by political zealots more concerned with capturing the malcontent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. POLLACK Ardsley , N. Y. , Sept. 7 , 1967 ? Creditors ' Remedies To the Editor : I join your editorial sentiment Aug. 291 in favor of a truth-in-lending bill , but Would call your attention to the inconsistency in also supporting a Federal ban on the garnishment of wages to protect low-income borrowers . A ban of this type will raise , rather than lower , the cost of credit for low-income borrowers who repay their debts when it becomes more costly to collect from those who do not . The ban has no place in a truth-in-lending bill . Garnisheeing wages is an undesirable way to collect a debt mainly because it notifies the employer that an employe has not paid his bills . Most states permit garnishment but exempt 80 to 90 per cent of wages so that subsistence income will not he impaired . Yet a ban on garnishments would not invalidate assignment of wages as collateral , which also involves the employer . And if both were made illegal , some other collection method would have to he used if losses and credit costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit extended to low-income consumers . so that the law would have the , effect of hurting those who now repay in order to protect tho  --  e who do not . Instead of supporting a Fed= oral ban on one type of credi- , tors ' remedy to collect a debt , would n't it ? make much more sense to consider the whole question of creditors ' remedies and seek a balanced solution to a problem which has little to do with truth in lending ? There will be considered recommendations made in the near future when the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws comes up with ' a final draft of a proposal for a uniform consumer credit code . Let their recommendations be discussed at that time . Meanwhile this hasty , ill - considered rider to worthy legislation . should he removed from the truth-in-lending bill . ROBERT P. SHAY Professor of Banking and Finance Graduate School of Business Columbia University New York , Aug. 31 , 1967 ? ? r . Adirondack Billboards To the Editor : I was interested in reading of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ edition . It was a pleasure to drive on ' the beautiful section between Schroon Lake and Lake George recently . However , I noticed that billboards had begun to appear on the mountains , and , areas of timber in conspicuous places were being leveled , pre7 , sumably for more signs . I hope that this is not an indication of things to come . This area of scenic beauty ' should be protected from such commercialization . CARL SIMONSEN Croton-on-Hudson , N. Y. Sept. 1 , 1967                     