@@722863

txt New York 's new Legislature opens shop in the towering shadows of next year 's presidential election . Both political parties regara the man who read his legislative message to them Jan. 9 in Albany as the one most likely to succeed at the GOP nominating convention in 1964 . This will almost certainly influence the tone and content of the session . Gov . Nelson A. Rocefeller told a joint session that his administration " has set as its goal the stimulation of the greatest economic expansion in the state 's history-500,000 new jobs in the next four years " ? his second term . The Republicans will seek to make this year one of " consolidating the previous achievements of Governor Rockefeller rather than pioneering " as Assembly Speaker Joseph F. Carlino ( R ) of Long Beach put it . This is also the way the men around the Governor tend to sum up his program . The Democrats are determined to make the most of this in their own way . Said Senate Minority Leader Joseph Zaretski of New York City , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We are going to do everything we can to make him live up to it . If he does , we 'll support him all the way . ' Question Before Court Democratic strategy , however , is limited by the clear-cut GOP majorities in both houses ( Senate . 33 to 25 ; Assembly , 85 to 64 , with one vacancy ) , by the continuing disunity in the Democratic Party , and by the way in which C-overnor Rockefeller has managed to deprive them of many issues traditionally custom-made for Democratic slingshots . An issue on which the Rockefeller administration will be under pressure is legislative apportionment . The Democrats are demanding reform of the old law which made a recent GOP " gerrymander " possible . Right now , however , the question is before the Supreme Court of the United States and until it comes out of there , the Republicans can probably fend off any major assault on this flank . State aid to local communities , especially populous New York City , is another thorny issue for the GOP which , again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves . During the campaign last fall , the Democrats warned that the Governor was secretly planning a tax boost this year . Governor Rockefeller emphatically said there would be none . The Democrats , it is agreed , now will have a hard time insisting on more money since both parties are committed against additional taxes . Front Pages Unavailable The Democrats will , of course , repeat their annually proclaimed tax alternative ? legalization of off-track betting . It would , they say , yield S1.9.0 , - 000,000 each year for New York City alone , a " painless " answer to its mounting budget troubles . This drive may take on extra momentum because of what Democrats hope will be Governor Rockefeller 's embarrassment over an issue of potential national scope . But it would probably take an upheaval in public opinion to get these proposals out of committee pigeonholes . Continuation of the New York City newspaper strike far into the legislative session could make things still more difficult for the Democrats . Without recourse to front pages and editorials , their leaders say . they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pressure on the administration and the Legislature . Governor Rockefeller 's legislative program , confirming in official advance reports from Albany , centered on developing the state 's economy and higher education . His proposals ranged over a wide field , from labor relations to mental health , but none of it is regarded by observers as Major controversial legislation . He recently appointed a new chairman for the State Liquor Authority , which has been under a grand jury investigation in New York City for the past two months .                     