@@726559

txt the polls opened , 170,000 of Saigon 's 765,430 registered voters had cast their ballots , the Government announced . Reports from the provinces also indicated a very heavy turnout . In the first four hours , 57 per cent of those qualified had voted in populous Binhdinh Province on the central coast and about 20 per cent had voted in Chuongthien , a notoriously insecure province in the Mekong Delta . Polling Places Attacked Pressing their terror campaign into election day itself , the Vietcong staged a series of raids on polling places in Saigon , in its sister city of Cholon and in the suburbs around the capital . A total of 5,853,251 persons are eligible to vote for president , vice president and a 60-member Senate . Their decisions , It is widely believed , will go far toward determining the future of South Vietnam and , to some degree , the course of the American commitment here . The military , ticket ? Lieut . Gen. Nguyen Van Thieu , the Chief of State , for president , and Premier Nguyen Cao Ky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Phan Khac Suu , speaker of the Constituent Assembly , and Tran Van Huong , a former Premier , were expected to outpoll the eight other civilian tickets by a wide margin . Attack by Vietcong Speaking to correspondents last night at a reception in the floodlit Independence Palace , General Thieu predicted that he would get about 40 per cent of the vote . He agreed with Vietnamese analysts that Mr. Suu 's chances had improved markedly in recent weeks and described him as " the main threat to our winning . " On the eve of the election , a Vietcong force attacked Tamky , the capital of Quangtin Province . It was the fifth attack // against a provincial capital in the week preceding the election . In Saigon , the Government startled the political and diplomatic communities yesterday by suspending " for indefinite periods " two Vietnamese-language newspapers ? Than Chung ( Sacred Bell ) , one of the capital 's most widely circulated dailies , which has espoused the cause of peace , and Sang ( Light ) , a minor paper prone to sensationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were ordered because the newspapers had published " articles favoring the Communist line " and " sympathetic to the enemy . " Their publishers quickly denied all the charges . At the same time , several army officers , including a former chief of the National Police , Col. Pharr Van Lieu , were placed under house arrest because " they have repeatedly been absent without leave from their posts to campaign . " Colonel Lieu and his associates support Mr. Suu . Unimpeachable sources said that the Government had moved against the officers because they were involved in plans to bring Lieut . Gen. Nguyen Chanh Thi back to Saigon as Defense Minister if Mr. Suu won . General Thi was exiled last year after aiding Buddhist-led anti-Government demonstrations . The junta , which fears a renewel of unrest after the elections , feels that General Thi would again back the Buddhists . General Thieu defended the actions of his Government , asserting that " even in a democracy one has the right to suspend newspapers that support totalitarians and to arrest officers who are derelict in their duty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action . They said that , by choosing to act hours before the start of the voting , the Government had given further ammunition to those who have condemned the election as fraudulent . Such assertions have been made by some of the civilian candidates and by members of the United States Congress . General Thieu and Marshal Ky have insisted that the balloting would be fair , and the Johnson Administration ? said to be alarmed that the rationale of he American commitment would be undercut  --  has defended the rectitude of the campaign . Nevertheless , accusations continued into election day . After a survey of several weeks , highly respected civilian politicians , who can not , be identified but who are aligned with no particular nominees , circulated a list of 54 districts , of a total of 334 , where Government officials were said to have been ordered to tamper with the results . The elections are the nextto-last step in a process that began in the turmoil of the anti-Government outbursts in the spring of 1966 . First , a Constituent Assembly was elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which were ratified by the Government . The voting today and the balloting for the lower house on Oct. 22 will put into office the first popularly elected South Vietnamese Government since Ngo Dinh Diem was elected in 1961 in balloting that was generally considered rigged . General Thieu and Marshal Ky are favored for many reasons  --  because they have control of the Government apparatus , which includes military governors in all but one of South Vietnam 's 44 provinces ; because their names are known to everyone who listens to the Government radio and reads the newspapers , and because their policies have benefited minorities and other segments , of the public . They have courted , for example , the religious splinter groups  --  the Hoa Hao , with perhaps 400,000 votes , and the Cao Dai , with about 200,000 ? the Montagnard hill people , with perhaps 400,000 votes , and the Chinese community in Cholon , Saigon 's sister city . It is assumed that they will win a large percentage , though not all , of the votes of 700,000 soldiers and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million votes will be enough to win , politicians here believe , and the generals have apparently put together a coalition . that will guarantee them many more than that . Civilians Are Handicapped The civilians have been handicapped by the head start that any incumbents enjoy , by lack of exposure and by difficulties in organization . Even Mr. Huong has effective workers in only about half the districts . Their great hope is the rapidly growing urban vote . More than 1.5 million voters are registered in the six " separate cities " and the Saigon suburban province of Giadinh . There are a million more votes in cities that do not fall into the official category . By late estimates , about 4.5 million votes will be cast . The registration of 5.8 million amounts to about 60 per cent of the estimated population of voting age-18 years old and more . The remainder live in insecure areas where polling places have not been set up or have been ruled off the electoral rolls as Comunists or " neutralists . " American and Government experts do not expect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives of 190 South Vietnamese this week , to curtail the number of voters significantly . The United States Embassy continued to draw attention to the enemy effort , as it has been doing for some days , by making public the texts of two captured documents . Both exhorted Vietcong soldiers to destroy the election . One praised " the brilliant feats of arms " said to have been accomplished all American troops , civilian governmental employes and workers employed by companies under Government . contract were ordered off the streets at 9 P.M. yesterday . They have been told to remain in their houses or billets until 4 A.M. tomorrow . A greater hindrance to smooth voting than the Vietcong may be handed to the voters in the . Senate race , They will be required to ? choose- 6 slates of 10 men each . At least a million registered voters are illiterate . Recognizing the problem , the Special Commissariat for Administration , which is in charge of election arrangements , issued a last-minute plea to the electorate to " go to the polls early in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the day . " The 8,808 polling places opened at 7 A.M. and will close at 4 P.M. South Vietnam 's weather at this time of year ? sunny skies with only widely scattered monsoon showers-4 -- favors.a large turnout , as does the intensive . Government drive to get people to the polls . General Thieu voted at 10 o'clock at the rococo Saigon City Hall , where Mr. Huong had voted a few minutes earlier . The general said he planned to go fishing this afternoon " with the radio turned off . " Marshal Ky , to everyone 's surprise , announced that he was ill and had decided to fly , to Nhatrang in coastal central Vietnam to vote and spend the day skindiving . Like other members of the armed forces , but not their dependents , is permitted to vote anywhere in the country by producing his magenta pasteboard poll , card . The primary issue in the campaign has been the record of the junta for the past two years . The generals argued : that their preservation of stability entitles them to a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inflation and the assertedly bad performance of the South Vietnamese Army . An important subsidiary theme has been peace , although , none of the candidates has presented a detailed plan for bringing the war to an end .                     