@@723869

txt Washington , March 24-President Johnson said today that " reasoned agreement " is essential to settle differences between nations because a general nuclear war , killing millions of people , is an impossible alternative . Addressing an AFL-CIO conference , the President referred to current foreign " trouble spots " and to the " ancient feuds and recent quarrels " which are threatening peace in widely-separated parts of the world . In this world of a hundred new nations , he asserted , the United States " must offer the outstretched arm that tries to help instead of an arm 's length sword that helps to kill . World Has Changed The President insisted that hope for reasoned agreement instead of armed retaliation can bear fruit . As the most powerful nation in the world , he said , the United States " can afford to be patient , " because this country 's military power is well-known to would-be adversaries . " The world has changed , and so has the method of dealing with disruptions of the peace , " the President said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order soldiers to march the very moment a disturbance occurred , altho restraint and fairness are not new to the American tradition . " But the world as it was and the world as it is are not the same any more . Once upon a time , even large-scale wars could be waged without risking the end of civilization , but what was once upon a time is no longer so ? because general war is impossible . Isaiah Offers Answer " In a matter of moments , you can wipe out from 50 to 100 million of our adversaries , or they can , in the same amount of time , wipe out 50 to 100 million of our people , taking half of our land , taking half of our population in a matter of an hour . So , general war is impossible , and some alternatives are essential . " The people of the world , I think , prefer reasoned agreement to ready attack . That is why we must follow the prophet Isaiah many , many times before we send the marines , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ' and this is our objective  --  the quest for peace and not the quarrels of war . " President Johnson spoke today at the 9th national legislative conference of the AFL-CIO Building and Construction Trades department . Challenge in Poverty In his address the President told his audience of 4,000 delegates and guests attending the union conference that he asked the help of organized labor " in redeeming the future of the poor and the disadvantaged and those who have suffered from discrimination . " " The measure of our nation 's greatness is not how high we can raise our urban towers , but rather how high we can lift our people 's aspirations , " he said . He declared that the national commitment of a job for every American who needs one still stands , and he said he will not be satisfied until this commitment is fulfilled .                     