@@722423

txt Washington , May 4 ? Battle Hales , department of agriculture employe barred from his office in the Billie Sol Estes case , told reporters today that Estes received favored treatment from some department officials . Hales charged the special handling was in connection with the department 's cotton growing program . He appeared at a news conference that lasted for 3 1/2 hours and was marked , at times by bitter exchanges between Hales and his superiors . Secretary Has Breakdown Meanwhile , department officials confirmed that Miss Mary Jones , 51 , Hales ' former secretary , is in a hospital here undergoing treatment for what R. E. Leonard , press aid to Secretary of Agriculture Or vil ; e Fteeman , termed a " nervous breakdown " suffered in her office last April 24 . Also cleared up was the identity of a Jacob Puterbaugh , whom department officials assigned to " care for " the files on the Estes case in Hales ' office . Puterbaugh , it was learned , was liquor commis. sioner in Minnesota when Freeman was governor . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political appointee . Hales ' charges centered on a plan devised by Estes and others in Texas and New Mexico to sell land to farmers whose land had been taken over by the government for highways or other public projects . The Estes group , however , would use the land to grow cotton for themselves under the government support program . Hales told reporters that officials of the agriculture stabilization service had given " the equivalent of favoritism " in their handling of the case of Estes , who has been indicted in Texas for fraud . Hales named Horace Godfrey , administrator of the service , as one of those involved , but Godfrey denied the charge . Other lesser , officials made similar denials . Calls Dealings Legal Godfrey and the others insisted no favoritism was shown . Godfrey said the legality of cotton allotments assigned to Estes was carefully studied and reviewed in a proper manner . Hales insisted to the end , however , that the depirtment handled the Estes case in an " unprecedented manner . " lie said the case should have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late last month after the Estes scandal broke . The strange and unusually long press conference sometimes took on the air of a courtroom with Hates alone in the witness chair answering questions and reading from a statement . High department officials around the room , singled out by Thomas Hughes , executive assistant to Freeman , gave rebuttal . Hales and his superiors constantly dia. agreed on what happened and why . Long Time Employe Hughes called the news conference after Hales ' position was reported in Tirz TRIBUNE and a Texas newspaper . Freeman 's role in the proceedings was not clearly explained by Hughes and the others . The farm secretary has scheduled a news conference for next Monday morning to discuss the Estes case . Hales , 47 , is a veteran em ? ploye of the department with 27 years of government service . He was staff assistant ? o Emery Red Jacobs , former ceputy administrator for state and county operations of the commodity stabilization service . Jacobs was forced to quit last April 13 after allegations that he received gifts from Estes . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job , barred from his old office , and denied access to records of the Estes case in. his office . One of his jobs had been to review Investigative reports of irregularities in the cotton program . Hales said he tried to talk to Freeman about Estes , but Hughes prevented it . Hughes said he called in agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to question Hales instead . Hales charged in turn that he was handicapped in supplying information to the FBI because he was barred from the records . Hughes , Godfrey , and other officials including George Cox , an ASC deputy administrator ; Edwin Jaenke , associate ASC administrator , and William H. Duggan , head of the investigating unit of the ASC , denied this . Again at Odds Hughes and Ilales also are in conflict about Miss Jones . Hales said in the 11 years she had been his secretary there never had been a sign of illness . Hughes after the press conference told reporters Miss Jones ' condition was " a reoccurring thing . " Department officials deny her illness is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had not been questioned in the case . Puterbaugh , 37 , has an $8,955 a year job in the department as a consultant , Cox , under whom he works , said Puterbaugh was assigned to " care for the files " . He said he had known Puterbaugh only for a few months . After Hales was removed from his office , Puterbaugh was moved in by department officials to guard the files . This was confirmed today by Cox , who described the role as " caring for them . " Pute rbaugh 's close relationship with Freeman indicates for the first time that Freeman is more directly involved in the proceedings than previously known .                     