@@723247

txt London After the storm of the debate on the Profumo affair , both government and Opposition are concentrating on how to rebuild Britain 's badly tarnished intelligence and security services . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan is consulting with Labor Opposition leader Harold Wilson on the best means of achieving this . Today , thanks to the Profumo debate , there are no illusions about British security , which has been described as " making our allies ' hair stand on end . " Mr. Wilson reminded the House of Commons that the British Government spends ? 60,000,000 ( or 5168,000,000 ) a year on its security services and yet it was a Sunday newspaper which was largely responsible for tracking down the Profumo story . Encouraging Note But if there is one encouraging aspect of the Profumo affair it is the determination which . has resulted that this time the security service will be probed to its depths and appropriate action taken . It is expected that the new medium of inquiry will be a select all-party committee of the House of Commons . This would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleagues and ex-War Minister John Prof u m o . An editorial in the Daily Mail asks why there is all this mystery and hiding behind curtains in British security . It demands that Britain have a head of intelligence whose name is known to all as Allen Dulles ' was not only in the United States but throughout the world . It is widely charged here that " faceless " men have been Mr. Macmillan 's downfall . Another contention is that there is too much of an " old-school " tie outlook and camaraderie in the middle sections of British security . Meantime a fascinating situation persists in Westminster about Mr. Macmillan 's future . He is generally agreed to have given a superbly brave and cool performance on his reappearance in the House of Commons after his . ordeal in Monday night 's debate on the Profumo affair . - A few witnesses of the scene saw in this new evidence that Mr. Macmillan is a great fighter and will be tremendously difficult to dislodge from his pinnacle . Speculation Grows In his answers about future negotiations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave the impression he still would be Britain 's top man . But in the lobbies there seems to be a hardening of Tory rank-and-file opinion that Mr. Macmillan must be replaced as party leader . The general view is that under Mr. Macmillan the Tories would be certain to lose the coming election . With a new leader , it is argued , they might have a chance . A feeling in Labor quarters is that the Prime Minister will quit within a month . It is hard to find a British newspaper writer in Westminster who believes the Prime Minister will stay . Even The Times , of London , on these occasions shows particular care and good breeding , reports that in Westminster it is taken for granted that Mr. Macmillan will not lead the Tories at the next election and that therefore no time should be lost in establishing his successor . Mr. Profumo and his wife , ex-actress Valerie Hobson , have made a poignant return to London . The ex-War Minister has issued a statement about his profdund remorse . Rome Italy 's left-wing Socialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new left-center government . As an immediate result , Mr. Moro has given up government-forming efforts and Pietro Nenni , the long-time leader of the Socialist Party , has quit . Italy therefore still is without a government and the political scene is more confused than ever . Twenty-four days of political maneuvering , discussion , and hard bargaining which ended in agreement by representatives of the four parties concerned  --  the Christian Dem ocrats ( right wing ) Democratic Socialists , Republicans , and Nenni Socialists ? has been wasted and things are back where they were immediately after the April elections . One fact stands out clearly : as one newspaper puts it , " The Socialists ' No to Christian Democrats is a Yes to Communists . " Socialists Refuse lundamentally the Socialist refusal to play at the 11th hour represents a majority desire in the central committee of the Socialist Party to remain a satellite of the Communists . That seems to be the insuperable incompatibility between the democratic parties and the Socialists . For despite all concessions made by Mr. Moro and leaders of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political , and social demands , the new government of the center-left was to have been basically a closing of democratic ranks against the Communists ? something that was more than ever necessary after the results of the recent elections . Socialists Unready Additionally the Socialists are not prepared to take an unequivocal stand on complete identification with wholehearted support of the Atlantic Alliance . To a lesser degree they are unprepared to accept the economic consequences which a determined defense of Italy 's monetary stability might involve . Here perhaps is one of the election chickens which has come home to roost . Communist success at the polls inevitably exerted a strong attraction for bringing the Socialists back into the Communist fold . Much of Mr. Moro 's efforts in forming a new center-left government had been aimed at creating a countermagnet so as finally to achieve a complete break between Mr. Nen ni 's party and the Communists . For the moment it would seem that the Communists have won in this political tug of war . ' It is , however , possible that the present stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Socialist Party national congress which is to take place in July . But such a hope is slight , now that Mr. Nenni has resigned and the party is in greater confusion than ever . What happens next ? Time is now an important element in this affair , Under the Constitution a provisional budget for the year must be passed before June 30 . This date , too , has another significance , since it is the day when President , Kennedy is to arrive in Italy ? for talks with the Italian Government . Mere Stopgap The alternatives which arc now presented to the President of the Republic are either to ask Amintore Fanfani to carry on so as to get a budget passed or to ask some leading Christian Democratic politician to form a one-party " administrative " government to get the necessary business hurried through Parliament to meet the constitutional commitment . In either case it would be nothing more than a stopgap measure to last until the Socialist position has been finally and definitely cleared at the party congress in July . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present political impasse and arc all-out to see that the Socialists are more firmly bound than ever to their coattails . As a result of all this Italy 's political position is full of dangers . Without Communist cooperation continuation of the " opening to the left " experiment is impossible and with the strength of various parties as they are there seems little prospect of a stable government under any other formula .                     