@@722453

txt New York , May 19 - A car driven by the Most Rev. Joseph P. Denning , 55 , auxiliary bishop of Brooklyn Roman Catholic diocese , smashed out of control thru a school drum and ( bugle corps today , injuring 19 children and a woman , when the bishop put his foot on the wrong pedal . The prelate , about to alight from the car to walk with the group to a church , had hurriedly pushed his foot toward the brake to stop the car from rolling . Instead he struck the accelerator , police said . Six children were hospitalized , three in critical and three in fair condition . The other , 14 injured were treated for cuts or bruises and released . Wo n't Be Charged The bishop went to a police station for questioning and gave a lengthy statement . Police said there would be no charges against him . The purple and gold uniformed band of 150 was resting in formation by the curb about three blocks from St. Rita 's church in Queens , where the bishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hundreds of parishioners were waiting in the church and along the way . The bishop was about to turn the wheel over to ' the Rev. Barnabas Weng , in the car with him , when Father Weng warned , " The car is rolling . " Rolls Thru Crowd Then , as shocked parents looked on , the car " just rolled thru them , " an onlooker said . There were screams and thuds and it went about 30 feet before the frantic prelate could halt it . Bystanders gave first aid before ambulances arrived . Susan Angone , 12 , Robert Ryan , 10 , and Gary Petischan , 12 , were reported in critical condition with head injuries . In fair condition were Maryann Mondonaro , 12 , Greta Taylor , 15 and Arlene Daniels . Asks for Prayers The bishop went to a police station for brief initial questioning . Then he went to the church and administered the sacrament . He seemed deeply , shocked , witnesses said , and asked for prayers for the victims . Afterward he returned to the police station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more ' deeply moved than I am now . " From here he went to the two hospitals where the six children were taken . St. Rita 's school has about 850 pupils in 12 grades . Bishop Denning has been auxiliary bishop of the Brooklyn diocese , including also the borough of Queens , three years . Monday will be his 30th anniversary as a priest .                     