@@726414

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam , Tuesday , June ** American marines and a South Vietnamese militiaman were killed and 100 marines were wounded in North Vietnamese rocket , mortar and artillery barrages last night and this morning , an American spokesman said . The attacks were against three forward United States base camps just south of the demilitarized zone . An unarmed United States Air Force F-4 Phantom jet plane was shot down by Chinese aircraft Monday when it inadvertently strayed into Chinese Communist airspace near or over Hainan Island , the Defense Department announced in Washington . Page 4.1 The United States headquarters In Saigon said that the heaviest casualties in the series of enemy shellings were inflicted in a mortar barrage early today on a marine forward position five miles northwest of Khesanh , near the Laotian border . Four marines were killed and 83 wounded in this attack , the headquarters said , in which the Vietnamese militiaman also died . A United States Army Special Forces camp at nearby Langvei also came under light attack , but there were no casualties and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the enemy forces shelled a United States marine artillery base and airstrip in the northwest corner of the country , four miles east of the Laotian frontier . Spokesmen said one marine was killed and nine were wounded . Northern Build-up Reported The area near Khesanh has been repeatedly pounded by American B-52 bombers in recent weeks . North Vietnamese forces have been reported massing there along the Laotian border in a new build-up . United States spokesmen also reported that eight American marines were wounded when a forward artillery post at Giolinh was shelled twice yesterday . The Giolinh outpost , about a mile south of the demilitarized zone and near the coast , is manned by marine and Army artillery . units . The Army has its biggest artillery pieces-175-mm guns , capable of firing 20 miles  --  there to fire across the six-mile wide demilitarized zone into North Vietnam . In the air offensive over North Vietnam , United States planes . struck at railroad yards and sidings north and south of Hanoi and also attacked a surface-to-air missile site 54 miles northeast of the Northern capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroad yards 38 and 34 miles northeast of Hanoi . Pilots reported cutting up tracks at Phuxuyen and destroying 10 to 20 boxcars . Infiltration Routes Pounded Special to The New York Times SAIGON , South Vietnam , June 26 ? American pilots struck yesterday at infiltration traffic moving south in North Vietnam 's coastal panhandle area below Hanoi . A spokesman said road traffic in the area had increased considerably in the past few days since monsoon rains closed most of the Ho Chi Minh Trail . Air Force and Navy fighterbomber pilots avoided targets around Hanoi and Haiphong . The spokesman said heavy thunderstorms covered the area . Most of the 153 missions flown during the day were aimed at truck convoys and infiltration routes down the slender panhandle corridor leading to the border with South Vietnam . In the ground war South Vietnamese paratroopers were reported to have killed 105 enemy soldiers near the northern city of Hue , while South Korean infantrymen were said to have killed 43 Vietcong in a clash in Phuyen Province , 240 miles northeast of Saigon . American units reported only light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilots knocked down one end of a 180-foot double-lane metal bridge 21 miles northeast of the Mugia Pass , a key infiltration route leading from the southern panhandle to Laos . The spokesman said this would back up traffic , providing more targets for the fighter-bombers . Phantom jet pilots from Danang caught one convoy five miles north of the pass , blasting it with bombs and strafing runs . They touched off a large explosion and set a fire , which pilots said triggered 10 to 20 smaller explosions . The spokesman explained that the seasonal monsoons have now moved into the jungle areas of Laos limiting the truck traffic that can move over the muddy roads of the Ho Chi Minh trail . As a result , he said , more convoys are being spotted moving toward the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Vietnam .                     