@@725756

txt The commander of the United States First Infantry Division took pains today to absolve the Seventh Air Force of any blame in the accidental dropping of napalm on his troops . United States planes , attempting to drive back a battle-1 hardened Vietcong battalion , 1 dropped two canisters of fierY jellied gasoline on First Divi-1 sion forces earlier today dense rain forest north of Saigon . The United States command said a substantial number of Americans had been killed ? and wounded but refused to divulge casualty figures . According to an Associated Press dispatch from Saigon , more than a score were killed and many others wounded . Attacking at treetop level , the pilots dropped the napalm at the climax of a furious day-and-ahalf battle between 12 companies of , the " Big Red One " ? about 2,200 men  --  and 500 Vietcong guerrillas of the crack Thuloi Battalion . Moderate to Heavy Casualties The fighting took place between Routes 16 and 19 in War Zone D. Four of the 12 companies suffered what American officers described as " moderate to heavy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were no longer fit for combat . The Americans counted 53 enemy dead and captured six guerrillas and 10 weapons . Maj. Gen. William E. Dupuy , the First Division 's commander , said the engagement was " not a happy battle . " " We will find more bodies later , " the general said . " But we would prefer always to take fewer casualties ourselves and inflict more on the enemy . The closer the ratio gets to one-toone , the unhappier we are . " General ' Dupuy , a brisk , wiry soldier with a reputation for candor and articulateness , said at a press briefing in Saigon : " I want to make it clear that the First Division called in the air strikes close because this was close combat . This is a // rough business . When you 've only off by 50 meters and the planes are going 150 or 200 miles an hour , these things are going to happen . " I would ask for the strikes again in the same situation . " Chances of the Game ' At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have happened in every war , and they will happen in every future war . It is one of the chances of the game . " Two United States Air Force F-100 Supersabres made the mistaken drops , each coming in slightly off course . The targets had been marked with smoke rockets by forward air controllers in observation planes , and the infantrymen had thrown about 500 colored smoke grenades to outline their own positions . The accident happened between 7:30 and 8:15 A.M. Visibility was good , sources said . Vietcong riflemen had pinned down the American units al1 most all day yesterday , crouch- ' , ing in well-prepared bunkers and trenches and forcing the I First Division troops to attack . General Dupuy decided that air strike 's offered the only means to root out . the enemy - without taking overwhelming casualties . ' Would Have Lost More ' " We would have lost a lot more than we lost to the napalm if we had tried to winkle them out of those bunkers alone , " the general said . The engagement began Wednesday when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phuocvinh , 38 miles north , to permit a supply , convoy to pass . As a normal precaution the ' brigade sent out a 14-man am- , bush patrol Wednesday night. , By 3 A.M. , the patrol had arrived at a point three miles , west of the main road . At dawn the patrol found itself surrounded in the middle of a Vietcong base camp . The 14 men were facing four enemy rifle companies in entrenched positions , armed with , automatic rifles , machine guns and mortars . The patrol came under heavy fire , and eventually every man but one was killed or wounded . General Dupuy threw more and more troops into the battle . One battalion " lost all of its cohesiveness and ability to function , " General Dupuy said . Its acting commanding officer , two of its three company commanders and many of its lieutenants and senior sergeants were killed . When the second dawn of the battle broke , the enemy was still in position , and it was decided that air strikes would be directed at an area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell short , the other long . Neither , according to General Dupuy , was off by more than 50 to 75 yards . Other canisters were on the mark , and the Vietcong broke contact within a few hours and fled north . It was the First Division 's second experience with an errant air strike . In May a mixup in the code meaning of smoke signals resulted in the dropping of cluster bomb units ? canisters filled with bomblets that spray an area with tiny bits of shrapnel ? on top of Big Red One troops . Substantial casualties resulted .                     