@@721681

txt The Appellate Division decided yesterday that George L. Rockwell , self - styled American Nazi , was entitled to a permit from the City of New York to make a public speech in a park . The court held that his constitutional right to free speech had been infringed by the city when it refused him a permit because of " contemplated " incitement to violence . It said such speech was punishable only after the fact , for what actually was said ? if it was held by the courts to violate the law . Mayor Wagner said he would direct Corporation Counsel Charles H. Tenney to appeal the decision to the Court of Appeals , the state 's highest court . The New York Civil Lib // erties Union , which has provided legal counsel for Rockwell , said it would continue to defend his constitutional rights , even to the United States Supreme Court if necessary . It said his " hateful " and " racist " views were not the issue . The Appellate Division , in a 4-to-1 decision , reversed State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to order Park Commissioner Newbold Morris to issue the permit . Rockwell had asked for a permit to speak in Union Square Park last July 4 . Commissioner Morris had refused on the ground that such a speech would present a clear . and present danger of riot . Justice Epstein held that the right of free speech could not be invoked by " self-confessed advocates of violence . " The Appellate Division directed Commissioner Morris to allow Rockwell to file a new application for a permit and to act on it in accordance with yesterday 's decision . Besides its constitutional ruling , the court held that Mr. Morris had failed to comply with his own regulations that a refusal of a permit must be accompanied by an offer of an alternative time and place for a speech . " Price for Liberty " Justice Charles D. Breitel , author of the majority opinion , said that historically tyranny and dictatorship had sometimes followed suppression of speech by prior restraint . The risk taken in permitting free speech , he said , is " the price paid for liberty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioner as censor . " Order can be preserved , he went on , " by the sanction ofl punishment after the fact , " leaving it to the courts to provide punishment for any unlawful acts . He said the risk of letting Rockwell speak was not so great as to be intolerable in a " civilized , law-abiding community . " When Premier Khrushchev of the Soviet Union and other " provocative " foreign leaders attended last year 's United Nations session , he recalled , New Yorkers did not resort to riot . " They knew what was ex petted of them , " he went on. ! " It had also been made quite clear that the law was to be enforced without discrimination . " Little Rock Cited On the other hand , he noted , the violence over desegregation of public schools in Little Rock , Ark. , had shown that riots occurred when law-enforcement agencies declared their inability to prevent them . " It is not law or order that is fashioned to avoid riot at the expense of compromising constitutional guarantees , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end only in anarchy and then tyranny . " Justice Samuel W. Eager , in the dissenting opinion , held that Commissioner Morris had been fully justified in refusing the permit . " Where , as here , It clearly appears that the protecting of one individual in unrestrained freedom of speech is incompatible with public policy and order , the latter should prevail , " he held . Letting Rockwell speak , he went on , would invite " disgraceful mob action , as fully indicated by his prior speech-making incidents . " Justice Eager noted that Commissioner Morris 's refusal to grant the permit for a speech in a public park did not bar Rockwell absolutely from speaking elsewhere in the city , in a public street or a private hall .                     