@@726744

txt On Dec. 2 Britain becomes the first country in Europe to introduce a full color-television service . Beginning on that date about 80 percent of the BBC 's Channel 2 programs will be in color , representing a total of some 25 hours a week . BBC2 presents less light entertainment and more serious subjects than BBC1 or the independent commercial channels . In July the International Lawn Tennis Championships were shown here in color . Since then BBC2 has been transmitting regular color programs to a small minority of the British public . By early 1970 the independent channels are expected to leap on the color bandwagon , too . With more color programs offered , the number of Britons viewing color screens is expected to mount rapidly from then on . Yet the price of a color set is a formidable hurdle  --  about ? 300 ( S840 ) . So , unlike most Americans who buy their TV sets on the installment plan , most Britons probably will rent theirs . Snapping on seat belts is not the most popular outdoor sport in Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at high speeds . Others ca n't be bothered . Research here is well advanced toward an automatic seat belt that clips into place as the car door is closed . The aim is to make the fitting of the seat belt as simple as switching on the ignition . In the meantime , safety experts conclude that through education , both in and out of the schools , and through steady propaganda Britons somehow have to be persuaded to carry out simple acts to enhance their safety . Wearing seat belts ? at all speeds ? is one . Checking worn tire treads is another . The Ministry of Transport is proposing new regulations to lessen the danger from bald tires . Rulings governing minimum tread depth , cuts , breaks , and bulges can-be expected next spring . Checks on condition of tires will become part of the regular annual car tests laid down by the ministry for cars over three years old . e Britain is determined to hand over Aden and South Arabia to an official group . To that end talks open this week in Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Discussions will be delicate , since Britain will be negotiating with an organization which has yet to form a government and which has only recently been able to assert its authority in Aden over the rival nationalist organization , FLOSY ( Front for the Liberation of South Yemen ) . Talks will center on how the handover will be accomplished and on the drawing up of a treaty ceding power . Actual date of the handover and the withdrawal of British troops is still to be announced . But both are scheduled to be completed by Nov. 30 . Trends .. . Visitors to Britain are as welcome as flowers in spring . They enable the country to earn much-needed foreign exchange . And over the last four years their numbers have soared 50 percent ? an extra 1.5 million visits . Not all come to see the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace . Only about half Britain 's visitors are vacationers . Others come on business , to see friends and relatives , or to study . The Department of Economic Affairs believes that apart from the obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnet . It makes English-speaking people feel at home abroad . And for others , Britain , after all , is not a bad place to learn the tongue that has become the main international language . e When final figures are totted up , 1967 is going to be the best house-building year Britain has ever had . More houses will have been completed than ever before . More will have been started . And more will be in the pipeline ? 498,000 . On paper there now are more houses and apartments than families to fill them . This does n't mean the work is done . There are two million slum dwellings that should be replaced . And there are five million more that are below acceptable modern standards .                     