@@723480

txt Thc apparent easing of the cold war , and talk of the United States possibly trading wheat to the U.S.S.R. , is contributing to an extreme fluidity in how Latin Americans arc viewing Communist influences in their midst . The problem is that even if the cold war eases between the United States and the it will not necessarily stop infiltration nfiltration and subversion in Latin America . There has been no corresponding easing of Castro-Communist violence in Venezuela . If anything , the violence and bombings of United States shareholder - owned properties have increased in recent weeks . Violence Urged Premier Fidel Castro is not following the so-called soft . line of Moscow in this respect . Both he and his close aide , : Major Ernesto ( Clic ) Guevara have been advocating in public a step-up of violence . Their advocacy of violence and courting of Communist China has been almost in inverse ratio to the so-called easing of the cold war between the United States and the Soviet Union . Premier Castro has been describing President Kennedy in the foulest of terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban exile raids on Cuba from Central American points . The Castro regime automatically ascribes these to the United States and the Central Intelligence Agency . The Castro remarks indicate he feels President Ken nedy has broken faith with presumed commitments to " lay off " Cuba . Castro Shows Ire Conscious United States policy to go over the heads of Cuban officials and deal only with the U.S.S.R. over Cuba has bothered Premier Castro , as has the Soviet inclination often to deal directly with the United States on Cuban matters . An indication of this growing Castro impatience at being considered a minor world issue came last week at a centenary congress of the International Red Cross in Geneva , as noted with relish by Radio Peking . Gilberto Cervantes , head of the Cuban delegation came nut strongly against adoption by , the congress of a resolution lauding the international inspection by the International Committee of the Red Cross , during the nuclear missile confrontation in Cuba last Oc-1 tober . The Cuban delegate said that although the Soviet Union and the United States had agreed on inspection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as the nation chiefly concerned , did not accept it at that time . Chinese Communist Red Cross delegate Li Shou-pao took the floor after Mr. Cervantes and expressed full agreement with his speech . As Radio Peking notes : " When the French draft resolution ( on the issue of inspection ) was put to vote , Cuba , Communist China , and North Korea voted against it ; but the Red Cross delegations of the Soviet Union , Czechoslovakia , the German Democratic Republic , and Hungary , instead of speaking in support of Cuba , voted for it , in total disregard of the statement by the head of the Cuban delegation . " Shift Hinted The Geneva instance is notable because it is the first time Cuba has indicated unmistakably in public its official ire with the Soviet Union 's position on inspection of missile sites in Cuba . Other factors are being rendered fluid by an easing of the cold war . ? Argentina 's policy on export of wheat is giving evidence of changing markedly . Since Cuba is trading wheat to both Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why it can not begin exporting wheat to the Soviet Union , and possibly even having some of its wheat reach Cuba by diverse routes . ? There arc indications Brazil may be expanding its trade program with the Soviet Union . Such expansion of trade has been unpleasant to the United States because Soviet trade has is Often meant infiltration of Soviet agents and offered a convenient avenue for : - uhversion in countries unable to protect themselves against if because of the inadequacy of their police and intelligence services .                     