@@727014

txt New York , March 24 Reuters-Israel tonight rejected a unanimous United Nations security council condemnation of an Israeli invasion of Jordan Thursday and warned the military action might be repeated . The council later adjourned . Israeli Ambassador Yosef Tekoah insisted that Israel had acted in self-defense against Arab guerrillas and within the terms of the U. N. charter . " Jordan 's reaction to this debate and its conclusion may well determine whether we shall have to do it again , " he said . Insists on Reciprocity Tekoah told the council the middle east is " still in the throes of war a war waged relentlessly by the Arab states against Israel , in defiance of the U. N. and world opinion . " He said that as long as this continues Israel can only try to maintain the council-imposed cease-fire , but this can exist only on the basis of full reciprocity . If it is violated by terror and sabotage , the Arabs must understand that Israel will maintain its right to take " all necessary measures , " he said . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the council had approved a compromise resolution which condemned the Israeli assault last week and deplored " all violent incidents in violation of the cease-fire " from any source ? an allusion also to the Arab guerrilla raids . United States Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg insisted that the council should take note also of the events that led up to the Israeli action if it intended to censure Israel . The resolution , which grew out of days of intensive backstage bargaining , replaced a draft introduced last night by India , Pakistan , and Senegal which included no censure of other than Israeli military action . Indian Ambassador Gopalaswami Parthasarathi played a key role in the behind-thescenes discussions which produced the compromise agreement . Tekoah cautioned the council , " Do not belittle the dangers of the threats of the assaults the people of Israel are facing . Do not disregard the warfare which is being carried out against us . " The Israeli delegate said , " We shall not yield . We shall defend our rights with all the strength that is within us . " Speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli action was on a scale " out of all proportion " to the events which preceded it . A key phrase of the resolution was that the U. N. deplored " all violent incidents in violation of the cease-fire and declares that actions of military reprisal and other violations of the cease-fire can not be tolerated and that the security council would have to consider further effective steps as are envisaged in the charter to ensure against repetition of such acts . " Susan Charles canvasses her neighborhood to sell candy for the Camp Fire Girls . Candy Sale Camp Fire Girls from inner city neighborhoods will be ringing doorbells thruout Chicago this week as part of the Chicago area council 's 1965 fundraising candy sale . The sale , which will continue until April 15 , is to raise money for the council 's summer camping program at Camp Tiyalaka , Wis.                     