@@722031

txt More than 5,000 precinct polling places in Chicago and suburban Cook county will be open today from 8 a. m. to 9 p. m. so that citizens may register . The " permanent " registration records of the last 25 years have been canceled . Only about 1 in 25 of the estimated 3 million potential registrants has signed since reregistration started July 15 . The 1960 census figure of 3,268,485 persons over the age of 21 is subject to a discount for those who have mental , physical , or legal disabilities . Tell Who Can Register To be eligible to register today , a person must : 1 . Be a citizen of the United States . 2 . Be 21 years of age or over by April 10 , 1962 , the next election . 3 . Have resided in Illinois one year , in Cook county 90 days , and in the precinct 30 days , as of next April 10 . Residence is the place where a person actually lives . No one may register from a place of business unless he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . Foreign Born Need Papers Foreign born citizens should show their citizenship papers when registering . If the papers are not available , they should be ready to tell how and when citizenship was obtained , ineluding the name of the court and their certificate number . Registrants will fill out and sign a form which has a special , new material to make a smudgeproof copy on the second sheet . This need not take more than two minutes . The signature Is an important element of the permanent registration system adJpted in 1936 . It is available for comparison on election day . Each polling place today will have three registrars , each getting $12 for the 13 hour day . Registrars Evenly Divided Even numbered precincts will have two Democrats and one Republican , as registrars . Odd numbered precincts will have two Republicans and one Democrat . Republican County Chairman Francis X. Connell contends that the Democrats hays 40,000 payrollers , compared with fewer than 1,000 G. 0 . P. holders of public jobs to carry out the reregistration chore . The G. 0 . P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Illinois , with 2,500 volunteers . The Better Government association enlisted more than 100 organizations in the reregistration drive . Cover Wide Field Included are the Chicago Federation of Advertising Clubs , Chicago Real Estate Board , Citizens of Greater Chicago , Girl Scouts of America , Illinois Bankers association , Illinois Retail Merchants association , Chicago Parent-Teachers association , State Street council , and Wabash Avenue association . The next precinct registration also will be on a Friday ? Oct. 13.                     