@@727870

txt The Senate Republican leader , Everett Dirksen , rebuked Senator Edward M. Kennedy today for bis'eriticism of military tactics in Vietnam , suggesting that the Senate Democratic whip was undercutting field commanders and impairing troop morale . The Senate Democratic leader , Mike Mansfield , promptly came to the defense a his absent assistant . He said that the Massachusetts Senator had " a right to speak as he sees fit . " Only a handful of Senators were on the floor for the Dirksen-Mansfield exchange , which was pointed but lacking personal animus . Senator Kennedy was in Arizona delivering a commencement speech before the Rough Rock Indian school . In the politics of the Vietnam war , the exchange may mark an important turning point . As seen by some Senate Democrats , with the exchange the responsibility for the conduct of the war began to shift from the Democratic to Republican side of the aisle . As one Democratic aide put it after the half-hour long exchange : " The seeds were planted today for ' Nixon 's War . " ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Administration military tactics , such as in the bloody assault on Apbia Mountain  --  or Hamburger Hill , as it came to be nicknamed ? were " senseless and irresponsible . " It was on the basis of that statement that the Illinois Republican took the Massachusetts Democrat to task today . Mr. Dirksen had promised last week to make the speech after a meeting of Republican Congressional leaders with President Nixon . In one respect the speech was unusual . For Mr. Dirksen , normally one of the Senate 's great freewheeling orators , chose to speak from a prepared text , strengthening a belief that his speech had been carefully coordinated with the White House . Following a Iine of Administration reaction ever since the Kennedy speech , Senator Dirksen argued that battlefield tactics must be left to the generals and that homefront criticiEV by prominent members of Congress gave comfort to North Vietnam . Senator Dirksen recalled that both he and Senator Kennedy had served as privates in the Army ? Mr. Dirksen in World War 1 , Mr. Kennedy - in 1951 . Then he said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' senseless and irresponsible , ' as my distinguished colleague and private-at-arms put it , in taking Hamburger Hill , came as something of a shock . It did not dislocate my affection for him , but it did jolt my estimate of his wisdom and judgment . " Mr. Dirksen noted that the Hanoi radio had quickly picked up the criticism . Driving home his criticism in the form of rhetorical questions , he asked : " What could be the impact on troop morale and discipline when senators , 12,000 miles removed from Hamburger Hill , call the 10-day action ' senseless and irresponsible ' ? Can it be interpreted in any other way than a direct reflection of the judgment and competence of our field commanders ? If this is to be taken as the home-guard appraisal of the skill , judgment and capability of our commanders , what does it do to troop confidence ? " Quoting from Livy , the Roman historian , Senator Dirksen said that General Paulus , who had been selected to lead the war against ' the Macedonians , summed it up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , anyone thinks himself qualified to give advice respecting the war which I am about to conduct , which may prove advantageous to the public , let him not refuse his assistance to the state but let him come with me into Macedonia . " Senator Mansfield defended the Kennedy criticism as both justified and within the rights of a Senator . The Montana Democrat noted that the hill had been taken " after 12 assaults and then abandoned , " after which " the colonel , or maybe the general , then said the hill had no strategic value . " " Hills can be taken and hills can be lost , " he said , " but lives once taken are gone.v Senator Dirksen replied that " the question is whether the leadership in the field should be undercut by remarks " that have the effect of " impairing confidence of the troops . " In rebuttal , Senator Mansfield noted that after the bombing of North Vietnam had been halted last fall , the Johnson , Administration had issued orders to " keep the pressure on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still the policy , " he said , " the fault lies not with commanders in the field but with high political , military and civilian leaders at home responsible for laying down that policy . "                     