@@725560

txt Canada is about to celebrate 100 years of nationhood . In 1967 it will throw a big birthday party  --  the most ambitious and gay in its history . And everybody is invited . Montreal will open a world 's fair . And centennial projects are being charted for the big cities and the small hamlets alike . Museums , art galleries , theaters , auditoriums , swimming pools , skating rinks , and myriad other attractions are being built coast to coast . Federal and provincial governments intend to send thousands of students around the country on centennial tours . Canada 's 100th birthday will be decidedly culture-based . The nation made itself the second richest , per capita , in the world during its first 100 years . It hopes , to turn its second 100 into a golden age of arts and culture . Canada , however , will be 20 million strong before it is 100 years old . A national census , starting in June , is expected to confirm this new population estimate . The nation has grown by 1.6 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a 9 percent jump . And the nation 's wealth has more than kept pace . The gross national product will go up this year by perhaps 6 percent , maintaining Canada 's place just behind the United States as the world 's second most prosperous nation . That does n't mean Canada does n't face major problems . It does , on at least three fronts  --  political , economic , and cultural . And the linchpin of its future is national politics . They now are brittle , bitter , confused , and moving certainly toward major change . The Parliament is a divided house of minorities . And a new generation of politicians impatiently waits to inherit power from its elders . Until this transfer of power is complete  --  probably within the next two years  --  the whole political system may be buffeted by recurring storms . Trends . ? ? ? After 99 event-filled and generally respectable years , the Canadian Parliament 's prestige sagged this spring to an all-time low . Parliament was staggered by continuing partisan bickering , neglect of vital business , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paring down a huge legislative agenda . Part of the problem is that the decisive struggle of Canadian society , usually sited in Parliament , has temporarily moved to another jousting ground . It is being conducted now mainly within the nation 's two political parties . Both of them ? Liberal and Conservative ? are quietly undergoing deep reassessments , involving not only their future leadership but their basic policies . The central question both face is which way to veer : Farther left in a society committed to far-reaching social reform ? Or should Canada pause instead to absorb the massive and costly commitments already made ? The answer to these will perhaps emerge from the transfer of political leadership in the next two years . Economic echoes are bouncing down to the Canadian housewife from all these political strivings . She has watched prices jump rapidly ? . 4 percent in the last 12 months . That is far more than the government had expected . And it is making federal budget predictions of a smaller increase in the next 12 months suspect . Housewifely pique over this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all . All Canadian economists and politicians are arguing about the price rise and considering measures to control it . They know , however , that what the Canadian price level does hinges heavily on what happens in the neighboring United States economy . The two nations appear economically inseparable . And because of that , Canada 's organic independence is also figuring heavily in the current national political debate . Canada 's foreign affairs are In flux , too . The nation is substantially raising its foreign-aid sights . It is budgeting more food aid to India . And it is turning more acres into farms with an eye to even further food involvement worldwide in the years ahead . Canada has already become a prime wheat source for grain-shy Communist countries . Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson has told an American audience that Communist . China must somehow be brought into the international community . But he stops short of recognizing Peking diplomatically.                     