@@725349

txt The state 's Condon - Wadlin Law is unworkable and should be ' ' completely reorganized , " Mayor Lindsay said yesterday . The Mayor gave this opinion in a wide-ranging news conference at City Hall that covered taxes , police affairs , city-employe relations , minimum drinking ages and the night watch at City Hall . Without making any specific recommendations for changes in the Condon-Wadlin Law , Mayor Lindsay said the revision should make it " workable for all groups of public employes . " The law forbids strikes by public employes and bars raises to strikers for three years . The settlement of January 's 12-day transit strike provided for 15 per cent raises over the next two years . New Law Permits Raises A state law was enacted this week to permit the Transit Authority to pay the 35,000 workers the retroactive raises they won in their walkout . That circumvented a ruling last week by State Supreme Court Justice Irving H. Saypol that the pay increases would be illegal under the Condon-Wadlin Act . The entire procedure and the fear that other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the transit workers have spurred demands for a thorough overhaul of the law . During the day the Mayor had luncheon with Secretary General U Thant of the United Nations and had the City Hall portrait of the late Fusion Mayor , Fiorello H. La Guardia , transferred to a prominent place in his private office . At the news conference Mr Lindsay said there should be a uniform minimum age among the neighboring states of Connecticut , New Jersey and New York for the legal purchase of alcoholic beverages . At present the minimum ages are 18 in New York and 21 in New Jersey and Connecticut . While he " could not say " whether the legal age should be moved up from : 18 or down from 21 , Mr. Lindsay declared that he would have " no compunction " in making 19 the uniform age . " I 've been taking a glass of wine now and then since I was quite young , " the Mayor observed . Asked if he thought the night watch at city Hall had been " a success or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said it had been succesful . The watch calls for a top aide to the Mayor , a Commissioner or other official , to be on call at City ' Hall from 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. to look into distress reports and other situations . People More Comfortable ' " People are more comfortable , " the Mayor said , interpreting public reaction . " They have a better sense of security , They feel that some one is watching over them . " Last night 's assigned watch officer was Fire Commissioner Robrt 0 . Lowery . Tonight Sanitation Commissioner Joseph F. Periconi will be on watch ; tomorrow night Park Commissioner Thomas P. F. Hoving . It developed yesterday that the Mayor and the Transit Authority were united on one element concerning construction of the controversial rapid transit tunnel between Manhattan and Queens ? it should be started soon . John J. Gilhooley , member of the authority , urged not only an early start , but also that the tunnel be built under 63d Street in Manhattan . A tunnel under 31st Street , as urged by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " more hazardMS and much more costly and time consuming than the 63d Street route . " Mayor Likes 61st St. Plan On Thursday , Mayor Lindsay ; aid that the 61st Street route ' made sense " to him because t offered tie-ins with the IRT Lexington Avenue and BMT line n Manhattan . " But this is only my personal new , " the Mayor hastened to mid . " It is not vital if our studes , scheduled to be finished soon , favor the 63d Street 7oute . " He said he hoped construction could begin during the 3ity 's fiscal year beginning July 1 . After Mr. Lindsay 's news conference he posed for photographers in his office in front of the portait of Mayor Ida Guardia . Previously it had hung with those of other former Mayors in the City Hall rotunda . The portrait , painted by Sidney E. Dickenson from photographs in 1948 , is set in a gilt frame . It faces Mr. Lindsay 's desk and shows the former Mayor in a serious pose , his tortoise-shell glasses dangling from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bookcase , are photographs of Mayor Lindsay 's children . Mr. Lindsay was asked what Miss Katrina ( Katsie ) Thomas , a photographer who has served from time to time as a volunteer at City Hall , was now doing . " She 's in private life , " the Mayor responded . " She 's a very good photographer . She worked with me in campaigns for eight years . " Working In The Basement But the Mayor apparently did not know that Miss Thomas had reported for work yesterday morning as a volunteer in the Mayor 's information center in the City Hall basement . Miss Thomas came to public attention last month when she told reporters she was.scheduled to get a salary of $9,100 a year to be paid out of antipoverty funds . But the plan never materialized , and Miss Thomas 's activities have continued on a volunteer basis .                     