@@725629

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 40 Letters to . the Editor of The Times Eligibility Under Medicaid To the Editor : I am dismayed by your unqualified support in your July 4 editorial " Medicaid Improved " of the Javits amendments to Title XIX of the Kerr-Mills Act . As a professor of preventive medicine and a former health administrator I am taking the liberty of calling your attention to their serious implications . When Title XIX was enacted , we rejoiced that for the first time preventive services could be assured for all infants and young children in our country . The major contribution of modern pediatrics . lies in the prevention of unnecessary disease , disability and untimely death among infants and children . The proposed program should decrease the overly high infant mortality rates in our lower-income populations . Increase in Cases But preventive services , by their very nature , must be provided intermittently over long periods of time . The " first ? Javits amendment " for all practical purposes makes an effective preventive program for lower-income groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the child to pay for each , individual service . Deductible provisions make poor health legislation worse because they strike most severely at the lower end of the economic scale . Finally , the " first Javits amendment " will be self-defeating from the fiscal point of view since , in the absence of preventive services , it would result in an increase in the number of cases to be cared for under the Medicaid program . The " second Javits amendment , " providing for geographic differentials in eligibility limits , is quixotic . One can hardly imagine a state legislator voting a higher level of medical care reimbursement for constituents other than his own .. The " third Javits amendment " would bring chaos to local medical care administration . Because of the many relevant medical and economic variables ; the implementing regulations could not be specific . Local officials would have too much latitude in determining eligibility in individual cases . This complex administrative situatiOn would thus be tailormade for all kinds of personal political favors . Senator Javits deserves credit for his valiant efforts to salwage Title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can obviate the difficulties which are inherent in health legislation based on a means test . I share your preference for a program based on the Social Security insurance principle . I would therefore hope that in the light of all of these facts you would reexamine your editorial position on modifications to Title XIX of the Kerr-Mills Act . DAVID D. RUTSTEIN , M.D. Boston , July 6 , 1966 ? Demand for ' Black Power ' To the Editor : The sudden uproar against the demand for " black power " by S.N.C.C. and CORE is both hypocritical and divisive . If white liberals and their black counterparts are alarmed it is because they refuse to recognize the brutal realities which have made this concept urgent . The struggle for " integration " has failed utterly except where whites have directly benefited from token concessions . For progress the Government and our civil rights " professionals " have substituted rhetoric . Minor Concessions But no longer will militant words and utopian promises alone suffice to stay the wrath of an agonized people . The protracted struggles for minor concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best symbolized by the Watts riot . However , what has been achieved in the process is a Unity of purpose  --  psychologically and politically ? on the part of the blacks , North and South . And with it has come a sudden awareness of the power potential inherent in that black unity . The emphasis on blackness is necessary to a people emerging from - the stultifying mental wilderness of a white supremacy culture , a culture which has taught the black man to despise himself . Under the circumstances , the demand for " black power " ( i.e. , political and economic power ) in certain counties in Southern states where blacks are in majority , and self-defense against racist villains , is neither revolutionary nor extreme . It is a demand imposed by the ? ecessities of the black man 's existence in this alleged best of all possible worlds . Editorials July 7 , 121 LOYLE HAIRSTON New York , July 6 , 1966 ? Australia 's Stand To the Editor : C. B. Christesen , who stated in your columns that Prime Minister Holt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repudiated by " most Australian writers , artists and academicians " should produce supporting evidence . Have they authorized him to speak for them ? Of course not . His further statement that " the majority of decent citizens " repudiate . their Prime Minister implies that a majority ? of Australians can not be considered as decent , for their representatives in Parliament support Mr. Holt 's Government . Such sweeping claims are merely ridiculous and do no service to those whose dissent is . entitled to respect . RANDAL HEYMANSON President American Australian Association New York , July 8 , 1966 ? More Park Events To the Editor : In the Times of July , 2 a news ' article lists a very impressive series of summer events in the city parks . Commissioner Hoy. : ing is - to be congratulated for putting together - such an interesting schedule . Unfortunately , too many of the events take plade . in Manhattan and too few in the rest of the city . Brooklyn has half again as many people as Manhattan , yet Manhattan will have events in seventeen locations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of which five are in Prospect Park . None of the Bedford-Stuyvesant parks ? - Saratoga , Fulton , Tompkins or Fort Greene  --  will have any of those events . But the residents of that area are the very ones who badly need free summer events . We ' recognize that Manhattan is the center of the city 's cultural life and the magnet for tourists . But we hope that next year the Parks Department will provide a fairer share of these exciting events for the other four boroughs  --  where 80 per cent of the city 's population lives . ' PAUL KERRIGAN Board Member Pratt Area Community Council Brooklyn , July 3 , 1966 ? Token Hoarders ' Bonus To the Editor : Back in January the Transit Authority , noting that subway tokens were being hoarded , declared that if the fare were raised a different sized token would be used . Now it seems that the hoarders are reaping a small windfall , because these tokens , bought for fifteen cents , will be valid for a twenty-cent ride . It appears that the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reslotting the turnstiles and buying new tokens , have broken faith ? with the riding public . MORRIS T. HAMBURG New York , July 6 , 1966                     