@@723126

txt Former Vice President Richard M. Nixon announced yesterday that he would move to this city June 1 and practice law here . The announcement immediately set off speculation about Mr. Nixon 's political future . Republican politicians saw little merit in discussing one aspect of this question  --  whether the California Republican would become a rival of Governor Rockefeller for the Presidential nomination next year . They interpreted Mr. Nixon 's move as proof that he had no Presidential ambitions for 1964 . They said he was now without a political base and had no chance of picking up delegates here at Mr. Rockefeller 's expense . Mr. Nixon could not be reached for comment . He made his announcement in a brief statement handed out by a friend , and he refused to see tewspapermen . Governor Rockefeller said he thought . it was " wonderful " that Mr. Nixon was coming ' Jere and hoped the former Vice President would resume politcal activities . He said he thought there was . good chance that Mr. Nixon would do so . He added that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller was questioned at a luncheon of the Second Annual Governors ' Con- , ference on the Aging at the Waldorf Astoria . Fred A. Young , the new Republican State Chairman , who also attended this function , was considerably cooler . " Nixon says he has come to practice law , " Mr. Young said . " We are pleased to have him and let 's take him at his word . We have our own candidate , I hope , and anything I ' can do toward that end will be done . " Governor Rockefeller stressed afterward , at a meeting of the New York Blood Center , that Mr. Nixon 's move to New York was " important . " " We have a new blood donor , " he said , parenthetically . " That 's Dick Nixon . " Wagner Declines Comment When City Hall was asked for reactions , an aide to Mayor Wagner said simply : " No comment . " In Washington , the general conclusion among observers , including some who knew Mr. Nixon personally , was that the move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican said it represented as clear and conclusive an end to his political career as could be imagined . In his statement yesterday , Mr. Nixon said he would move his residence here June 1 and would become counsel to the firm of Mudge , Stern , Baldwin &; Todd , of 20 Broad Street . " After I have met the six months ' residence requirement of the New York law I shall apply for admission to the New York Bar , " the statement continued . " When . admitted to the Bar I shall become a general partner in the firm . " Pending my admission to the New York Bar I shall engage principally in matters relating to the Washington and Paris offices of the firm . " After fulfilling the six-month residence requirement , Mr. Nixon must apply to the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court for admission to , practice in this state . He is expected to apply to the Appellate Division 's First Department , which covers Manhattan and the Bronx . Upon ' admission , he will he entitled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ references to I the court and they will be ex- amined by its Character and Fitness Committee , a group of lawyers appointed by this court.1 Approval by the committee ' invariably means acceptance . Lawyers here said yesterdayn that they expected the proce- dure to merely be a matter of form and that Mr. Nixon would , be admitted without any difficulty . The statement was distributed by Ned Sullivan in the lobby of the Waldorf Astoria , where Mr. Nixon and his wife have been occupying a suite . Mr. Sullivan identified himself as an insurance man and close friend of the former Vice President . Policy Approved He said that Mr. Nixon 's refusal to see newsmen was in keeping with legal ethics . Paul B. De Witt , executive secretary of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , said Mr. Nixon 's conduct was " absolutely correct . " Mudge , Stern , Baldwin &; Todd is engaged in the general practice of law . A spokesman distributed a statement announcing the Mr. Nixon was joining the firm but declined further comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base for Mr. Nixon 's return to the political arena as a candidate . In the contest with President Kennedy in 1960 , he lost nationally by only 118,550 votes but lost this state by 383,666 votes and the city by 501,009 . Last year Governor Rockefeller carried New York state by 544,464 votes in his contest with Robert M. Morgenthau . When Mr. Nixon was defeated for governor of California last year by the incumbent , Governor Edmund G. Brown , he announced that he was retiring from politics . Subsequently he became a consultant to a Los Angeles law firm .                     