@@724416

txt The Democratic leadership of the House of Representatives has agreed to back changes in the House rules to make it easier to bypass the conservative Rules Committee , which clears legislation for floor consideration . Of equal or perl- .. - 22 even greater importance is a decision , to increase the ratio of Democrats on House committees ? including the Ways and Means Committee , which considers tax legislation , and the Appropriations Committee . The effect of these decisions , reached in the last few days , will be to make much clearer sailing for President Johnson 's legislative program , includin &; such items as medical care for the aged . An Undecided Matter Meanwhile , sources said that Mr. Johnson would adopt a polH icy of nonintervention in the question of whether to disci-1 pline Democratic Representatives John Bell Williams of Mis- , sissippi and Albert W. Watson Of South Carolina . The two openly supported the Republican Presidential candidate , Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona , in last month 's election . House Speaker John W. McCormack told confidants yesterday that he and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow the Speaker to call a bill to the floor after it had been held by the Rules Committee for 21 days . He will also support , sources said , a change allowing a bill to be sent to a House-Senate ' conference committee after seven days in the Rules Committee . Another change expected to receive leadership support is a proposal that bills held up in various committees could he brought to the floor through a discharge petition signed by 175 members , if the Speaker approved . Under present rules this takes 218 signatures , but the Speaker need not approve . The present rule would be left rntact and the 175-member rule would be a supplement to it . A Congressional source revealed - that there had been a decision to " change the ratio " on all House committees to reflect Democratic election gains . This would change the representation on the Ways and Means Committee from 15 Democrats and 10 Republicans to 17 Democrats and eight Republicans . On the Appropriations Committee the ratio would be changed from 30 and 20 to 34 and 16 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject of an unwritten agreement between Democratic and Republican leaders that they would not be subject to representation exactly proportional to the parties ' strength in the House . One effect of the change would be to decrease the power of the coalition of Republicans and Southern Democrats in resisting liberal Administration legislation . Mr. McCormack was reported to have said that he would not give support to a proposal advanced by liberal Democratic Representative Richard Bolling of Missouri to modify the seniority system by giving the Speaker the power to appoint committee chairmen . Mr. McCormack reportedly told a group of House members that he was a " progressive " ? land that his voting record would prove it , but that " some of my liberal friends want to Iown me . " I He also said , according to the reports , that he did not want " to be another Cannon . " This was a reference to former Speaker Joseph G. Cannon of Illinois , whose dictatorial control of the House was overturned in 1910 . House liberals have been proposing that the decisions of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to approval by the Democratic caucus . Some sources believe there is a chance the leadership will DEMOCRATS PLAN REFORM IN HOUSE // approve this when the terms of the proposal are made more specific . Several informed sources said I Mr. Johnson would-not support any move to expel the rebel Democrats , Mr. Williams and Mr. Watson , from the Democratic party and to strip hem of their committee assignments and seniority . There were , however , conflicting reports as to whether he would seek to discourage such action . His present intention is said to be to let the majority sentiment of the Democratic caucus in the House prevail , but it is not especially leasy to keep the White House out of such fights .                     