@@724682

txt Democratic legislative leaders heard what they wanted to hear at today 's special hearing on possible alternatives to the 2 per cent state sales tax . Speakers representing business associations and other groups conceded , for the most part , that they would prefer the sales tax proposed by Governor Rockefeller to such alternatives as increases in corporation or personal income taxes . Senate Majority Leader Joseph Zaretzki and Assembly Speaker Anthony J. Travia had called the hearing largely to establish that point . They hope that such comments will encourage reluctant Republicans and Democrats to vote for the sales tax bill . Alternative revenue proposals were set forth at the beginning of the hearing by three Democratic Senators from New York City  --  Manfred Ohrenstein of Manhattan , Jack E. Bronston of Queens and Joseph E. Marine of the Bronx . All are opposed to the sales tax . 2 Leaders Want Sales Tax During the five-and-one-halfhour session , Mr. Zaretzki and Mr. Travia monopolized the questioning . Their questions , designed to elicit support for the Governor 's proposal , made no secret of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a witness decided to save time by omitting his prepared statement , Mr. Zaretzki asked him to read the paragraphs in which he backed the sales tax measure . He did so , and Mr. Zaretzki said : " You 're giving us the answers we 're looking for . " The majority leader said after the hearing that he was convinced that the substitutes were " vicious . " He promised that the sales tax bill would be voted upon in the Senate next Tuesday , the day before the next state payroll is due . State Employes Want Pay Apprehension that next Wednesday would come and go without the adoption of a budget  --  and without paychecks for state employes  --  occasioned the day 's only excitement . More than 300 civil servants applauded and shouted as their representatives urged the Legislature to take quick action . The state employes filled the area to the rear of the Assembly Chamber , the balconies and most of the 150 Assemblymen 's chairs . Julia Duffy , a head nurse at the Pilgrim State Hospital in West Brentwood , L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible for many employes to save money for the kind of rainy day that faces them next Thursday . " " I 'm afraid you are approaching that date without a budget or without a plan , " Arnold Moses , an attendant at the Brooklyn State Hospital , declared , " because of an internal dispute which , as reasonable men , you had better solve .. . or we will stand In judgment of your action . " Senator Bronston , the leader of the anti-sales-tax Democrats in the Senate , proposed the elimination of the sales tax by increases in the corporation franchise and partnership taxes , greater use of highway bonds , a deferral of per capita aid payments to upstate areas and other measures . Noting that he had been accused by his opponents of a " potpourri " approach , the Senator said : " You can eat just as well at a cafeteria as you can on a single loaf of bread . " Mr. Ohrenstein said specifically that the sales tax should be replaced by increases in the income tax the corporation franchise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax and the state 's share of parimutuel breakage . Senator Marine called for an increase of 5 per cent in the pari-mutuel tax . His proposal was opposed by representatives of both thoroughbred and harness-racing tracks in the state . 27 Speakers Heard Only 27 of the 53 speakers who had asked to be heard could be accommodated today . John T. Satriale of the Bronx , the chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee , said the rest would be heard on Monday , beginning at noon . Only a few of the 47 members of the Senate Finance Committee and the Ways and Means Committee of the Assembly were present at any time throughout the hearing . At times , there were only two or three members listening to the speakers . Among the business organizations whose spokesmen indicated that they preferred the sales tax were the State Chamber of Commerce , Associated Industries of New York State , the Commerce and Industry Association and the New York Chamber of Commerce . Mark E. Richardson of the New York Chamber of Commerce declared : " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales tax at this time to provide the adequate revenues required to finance the state budget . " Other groups  --  including the United Federation of Teachers and the Liberal party  --  said they would prefer a higher income tax , and still others , such as the Conservative party , called for massive budget cuts to make new taxes unnecessary .                     