@@725076

txt Geneva More than half a hundred Asian and African governments have the year 's biggest diplomatic-white elephant on their hands . They must soon decide what to do about the already thrice-postponed second Afro-Asian conference . Algeria wants to hold it as planned in Algiers Nov. 5 . India , Indonesia , and a few other participants in the first Afro-Asian conference at Bandung a decade ago appear to want it , too . Comment echoed But the shifting east wind of Chinese Communist policy , which was strongly behind the Algiers meeting last June , has turned against it . At the Oct. 15 meeting of the 14-nation preparatory committee , Peking 's Ambassador Tseng Tao formally requested a new postponement . This was in line with the Sept. 29 comment by his master , Foreign Minister Chen Yi , that the time was " not ripe " for the meeting . Over the past year Peking has seen what it calls the " revolutionary situation " in Asia and especially Africa growing less favorable toward its plans for a united front against " American imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should consecrate this front . Apart from the question of whether the conference is to take place at all , another shorter-term query arises : Who is to make the decision to postpone it again ? Meeting slated The preparatory committee was to meet again in Algiers Oct. 19 to debate this . At the last meeting , Pakistan backed the Chinese postponement proposal . Absent , and apparently in tacit agreement on postponement , were Cambodia , MalaVvi , Tanzania , Zambia , and Ethiopia . Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia said Oct. 17 he favored adjournment . " I do net think there is presently any real solidarity between Afro-Asian nations , " he said . If the committee can not decide , the whole issue may again ? as last June after President ben Bella 's overthrow by Col. Houari Boumedienne ? be tossed to the African and Asian foreign ministers . They are supposed to gather in Algiers Oct. 28 , just after the Accra-African summit meeting . Invitation debated The Soviet Union and close allies like Cuba have fought steadily for an invitation to the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand . Cuba is in fact beating muffled diplomatic drums for its own big event in January . This is the long-heralded Afro-Asian Latin-American Peoples Solidarity Conference in Havana . This promises to be a jamboree of anti-Americanism , punctuated by outbursts of Sino-Soviet rivalry for influence in Latin America . An Algiers conference without Communist China and its closest friends , with or without Soviet participation , might endorse " peaceful coexistence " and other nonrevolutionary themes Peking abhors . African and Asian moderates like Tunisia , Ceylon , and the Philippines , who now are hesitant , might attend . If the conference does take place and China takes part despite its objections , Peking might lose both face and some more of the diplomatic momentum it had a year ago . If the conference is not held at all , many Westerncrs , Africans , and Asians will be relieved and satisfied . But President Boumedienne 's Algerian Government , and especially his Foreign Minister , Abdelazziz Bouteflika , will have suffered a stinging diplomatic reverse which could have repercussions at home .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      