@@721628

txt I Sympathy tie-ups by truck ( drivers and railroad freight ! handlers yesterday deepened the impact of the day-old strike on New York 's railroad ferryboats and other harbor craft . The new moves threatened to paralyze most of the city 's freight operations . Federal peacemakers called a night conference of union and management negotiators in an effort to end the stoppage before it caused major hardship . They were spurred by a fear that unionized longshoremen would further immobilize the port by joining teamsters and freight handlers in respecting the strikers ' picket lines . The meeting was recessed at 11:50 P. M. with no apparent progress . Talks will resume atll 11 o'clock this morning . The immediate effect of the walkout of 660 marine employes of eleven railroads was to corapel 30,000 New Jersey commuters to scramble for - substitute transportation to Manhattan . As a result , there was heavy crowding on buses and trains of the Pennsylvania and Hudson and Manhattan ( Hudson Tubes ) Railroads . Tunnels and bridges also were jammed as suburbanites organized car pools to get from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on rail freight for Manhattan , Brooklyn and the Bronx cut off delivery of thousands of carloads of food , fuel oil and other commodities . The Teamsters Joint Council , representing all the city 's truck drivers , voted unanimously last night to honor all picket lines established by - the striking rail crews . John J. O'Rourke , president of the council , said formal instructions would go out today // to drivers telling them to refuse to move trucks past the pickets . The New York Central SysIon , which was excepted from the freight embargo because it runs its freight trains into New York over land lines , reported that most of its freight handlers had refused to report for duty yesterday afternoon . This raised a possibility that the New York Central might have to suspend its freight movements . However , a spokesmap said early last night that all trains were being assembled and moving normally . He explained that workers on the morning shift had been kept on duty to prevent a cessation of activity . H. J. Chapman , general chairman of the Brotherhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its members were respecting picket lines set up by the marine strikers . He declared that their action would force an eventual cessation of all freight operations . The New York Central moves 1,100 carloads of freight in and out of the city each dayv They carry meat , fruits and vegetables , automobiles and a wide variety of manufactured goods . 9 Ferries Affected The strike directly affected nine Hudson River ferryboats , fifty-one tugboats and hundreds of barges , carfloats and lighters that haul freight cars and cargoes about the harbor . The only railroads that bring freight into New York by land are the New York Central , the New Haven and the Long Island . The strikers are represented by ' the New York Harbor Railroad Council , made up of units of the Seafarers International Union , the Marine Engineers Beneficial Assqciation and the Masters , Mates and Pilots Union . ' rue pivotal issue is a union demand for minimum manning requirements on the harbor craft . The labor group wants at least five men in the crew of each tug . This is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should have discretion to use as few as three men on diesel tugs . Some hope of an accord developed With an announcement that the employers would make a written proposal on the manning issue through their bargaining group , ' the New York Harbor ? Carriers Conference Committee . Job Question Paramount John J. Gaherin , vice president of the New Haven and chairman of the employer group , called the job question " the hinge on which this door swings . " He said the employers were trying to - " put some grease " on it . But the union group rejected the proposal . According to a union participant in the negotiations at the Biltmore Hotel , the proposal referred to a method of minimizing lay-offs that would result ? min cuts in tugboat crews . Claude Simmons , chief spokesman for the strikers , agreed that progress on the manning scale would represent a " turning point " . However , he emphasized that the union did not intend to retreat on its opposition to a cut in the five-man crew . He said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency movement of food , fuel and other supplies to hospitals and other institutions . He also agreed to supply men to move military cargo if defense authorities requested such help . The indomitable spirit of the 1Jersey commuters proved superior once again to any test of weather or labor trouble . It took longer for many riders to get to work , and some found it necessary to make complex and costly connections , but there were no reports of major tieups . Passengers on the Central Railroad of New Jersey changed at Elizabeth for Pennsylvania trains , instead of going to their normal ferry transfer point . The Pennsylvania cooperated by stopping more of its trains at Elizabeth : It also honored Jersey Central tickets . In a further effort to ease the jam , Jersey Central ran four special commuter trains into the Pennsy 's station at Exchange Place in Jersey City so that passengers could take the Hudson Tubes into downtown Manhattan . The Hudson Tubes ran extra trains on all its routes . It also established a special shuttle service from Exchange Place to the Hudson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jammed , but order was kept through the use of reinforced police details and soothing messages over loudspeaker systems . The Public Service Transportation Company put on fifteen extra buses between Hoboken and New York . New Strike Threatened Meanwhile , the port was faced with the possibility of another major strike on Jan. 31 . More than 4,000 men employed on about 350 harbor craft  --  other than the marine equipment of the railroads ? may strike on Jan. 31 , when their current contract expires . A one-hour negotiating session yesterday between Local 333 of the United Marine Division of the National Maritime Union and the Marine Towing Transportation Employers Association , ended with demands by the tugboat men that a ' fourth crew be available on the tugs , lighters and tankers . The employers said it was a " pro-1 hibitively costly demand . " Meeting Is Called . Capt . Joseph O'Hare , president of Local 333 , called a meeting of the union for Jan. 22 , at which the members will vote to strike or withdraw their deeland . The meeting will be neld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street . A strike by the tugboat men could cripple the harbor . The craft operated by the members of Local 333 include tugs that dock cargo and passenger ships , and move lighters , scows and other non-propelled vessels . ' I he men also are employed on tankers that carry oil in and around the harbor , and on , elfpropelled barges that carry sand and gravel . The local struck for a week in 1958 and for thirty-six days in 1956.                     