@@723975

txt Secretary of Defense Robert S. laid before President Johnson today a new plan for increased military and economic support for South Vietnam . Accelerated Communist activity will require expanded United States support , particularly lo increase the size of the South Vietnamese Air Force , Mr. said at a news conference after reporting to the President . This may require modest increases in the number of United States training personnel in South Vietnam , he added . The Defense Secretary repeated earlier predictions of ultimate victory against the Communist insurgency . " But I want to emphasize it is not going to come soon , " he said . " This is not that kind of war . This is a war for the confidence of the people and the security of ttiose people , and that kind of war is a long , hard war . " Talks Last Hgur and Half The Defence Secretary and Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , - Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , reported to . President Johnson and his aides for on6 and one half hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Mr. 's fifth trip to Vietnam . Mr. , with General Taylor by his side , afterward met reporters in the Fish Room of the White House . He said that the Communists in Vietnam had increased their terrorist activities in recent weeks , and explained that his proposals for increased support to the Government of Nguyen Khanh were being considered . He noted that this might MI volve sending more American troops . Additional meetings with the President on the topic have been scheduled for tomorrow and the next day , Mr. said . Police Units Will Return The United States withdrew 1,000 men from South Vietnam at the end of last year , leaving 15,500 . Two military police units are due to be returned , however , in addition to more training personnel for the Air Force . The role of United States military forces in South Vietnam is officially characterized as the providing of training and logistical support . United States pilots and ground soldiers go into the combat zones , however , and are authorized to fire when fired upon . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed by hostile action in South Vietnam since Jan. 1 , 1961 . In addition , 87 casualties have been suffered in actions not attributed to the enemy . The number of wounded is officially estimated at 854 and nine persons are missing . In funds , the American effort in South Vietnam is costing $500 million a year . The Defense Secretary also disclosed that he had been summoned to appear before the House Armed Services ComMittee at a closed hearing next Tuesday . The committee has made known that it wishes to question Mr. on charges that the United States propeller-driven airplanes in South Vietnam are obsolescent and have caused the deaths of American pilots . The Secretary of the Air Force , Eugene M. Zuckert , denied the charges yesterday . Mr. himself said at the airport , when he arrived this morning , that the aircraft being used in South Vietnam were " well chosen for the purpose in hand . " An Antignerrilla War " I think it is necessary again to emphasize that this is an antiguerrilla war , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fact that the United States does not use modern jet fighter aircraft in South Vietnam . The United States is not aI signatory to the Geneva agreements of 1954 that ended the French-Indochina war . The agreements provide that no modern jet aircraft be introduced into the area . Washington has , however , indicated its intention to abide by the agreement . It was announced yesterday that 75 Douglas Skyraiders , designated A-lli and A-1E , were being sent to South Vietnam to replace the B-26 fighterbombers that were recently withdrawn and the T-28 trainers still in use . The Skyraider is a propeller plane . The United States does , however , have two types of jet aircraft in South Vietnam . A few RF-101 reconnaissance jets have been flying photo missions . In addition , U-2 planes have used South Vietnamese airfields for mapping missions that presumably cover much of Southeast Asia . Secretary , discussing the accelerated Vietcong attacks , said that they were directed primarily at the rural population to erode confidence in the protective effort of the Saigon Government . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambushes increasing " very substantially " in recent weeks , the Secretary said , it is " absolutely essential " for the Government of South Vietnam to increase its counterattacking activity .                     