@@723999

txt President Eisenhower has transformed the California primary election . His description this week of the kind of Republican Presidential nominee he favored has clearly helped Governor Rockefeller and hurt Senator Barry Goldwater by emphasizing policies , the Arizonan has often opposed in the past . Senator Goldwater at first spoofed the Eisenhower statement , printed in The New York Herald Tribune and other newspapers on Monday , as a toy arrow in his back , and later endorsed it as " most timely and most welcome , " but it has given Governor Rockefeller the opportunity to dramatize the differences between the programs favored by General Eisenhower and Senator Goldwater . The New York Governor has seized avidly on this opportunity . Increasingly yesterday and today , he has dramatized this comparison , not between Mr. Goldwater and himself , but between Mr. Goldwater and General Eisenhower , as if the General were the candidate , and he ( Mr. Rockefeller ) were merely a stand-in for all the forces in the party opposed to the Arizona ' Senator 's conservative policies at home and militant policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been trying persistently to draw this distinction on his own between what he calls moderate responsible Rockefeller policies on the one hand , . and conservative militant Goldwater policies on the other . His political billboards , for example , which stand out above the busy streets of Los Angeles , have urged the voters for weeks to : " Vote for Rockefeller ? A Responsible Republican , " and his speeches have implied the , same point , namely , that he is in the liberal Republican tradition , that once dominated the politics of this state under Earl I Warren , . while Mr. Goldwater the spearhead of a countermovement that would capture the Republican party here and ' in the nation and carry it into conservative and militant paths . Even before General Eisenhower 's intervention , there was some evidence that this Rockefeller argument was picking up considerable . support , but this support did not appear to be as personal for Mr. Rockefeller as it was tactical against Mr. Goldwater . Even last night , for example , when Governor Rockefeller held a rally at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the meeting was advertised on the hotel bulletin board as a rally for " Gov . Rockefellow .. " Nobody in the California newspaper , television , or political communities , however , has misspelled General Eisenhower 's name or mistaken the purpose of his statement . What was first a Goldwater versus Rockefeller race in California , with wide misgivings in the electorate about both candidates , has developed , first , into a Goldwater versus Rockefeller-Lodge race , and finally into a Goldwater versus **27;1923;TOOLONG race , with the former President , as usual , the most popular of the lot . Collusion Discounted There is no evidence of collusion between General Eisenhower and Governor Rockefeller on the Eisenhower statement . A number of influential Republicans , notably the former President 's brother , Milton , had been saying to him privately that unless the general intervened to state the kind of nominee and platform he favored , Senator Goldwater would get the nomination primarily through the support of the party 's pee fessionals . The Rockefeller aides here , for example , have never minimized Senator Goldwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldwater 's claims have been modest and that he ly now has , by the Rockefeller feller count , 591 delegates , not counting California , and thus would go over the 655 majority needed for nomination if he won the 86 California delegates in the primary election next Tuesday . As late as two weeks ago , however , General Eisenhower expre-sed disbelief privately that the Goldwater bandwagon was this far along the road . He did not conceal his misgivings about the Arizona Senator 's policies . In fact , he is known to have said to at least three prominent Republicans that he was more concerned about Mr. Goldwater 's foreign policy views than his conservative domestic views , and feared the Senator might blunder into a war . Nevertheless , General Eisenhower was inclined to doubt that Senator Goldwater was on the point of getting enough delegates to assure the Presidential nomination , and indicated to friends that even if this proved to be true , he could if necessary state his views on the qualities and policies he favored at the Republican convention in San Francisco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , it is understood that several of his close friends , including his brother Milton , and former Gov . Elmer Anderson of Minnesota , convinced him that speaking out at convention time would be too late and that , to be effective , he had to say something before the California primary . Accordingly , the statement was issued and it has had considerable effect here , at least in political and journalistic circles . The major newspapers of California are overwhelmingly for Mr. Rockefeller . The Los Angeles Times and The San Francisco Chronicle have both come out strongly for him , while The Oakland Tribune , run by Mr. Goldwater 's California campaign manager , former Senate Majority Leader William F. Knowland , is a major paper to support Mr. Goldwater . Even so , this support has been ' directed primarily , not at getting the nomination for Mre Rockefeller , but at preventing the Goldwater forces from capturing the machinery of the Republican party . This is a major issue in the state 's Republican party organization . For example , The Los Angeles Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the efforts of the ultraconservative groups to get control of the G.O.P. state organization . " It is apparent , " Casper W. Weinberger , state Republican chairman , told The Los Angeles Times , " that an effort is being made by a small , narrowly based and heavily financed group to take over the official committees of the California Republican party . " He did not identify the persons concerned , but argued that ultraconservative candidates " conspicuously refuse to pledge support for the nominees of our party unless those nominees hold the same narrow views put forth by those trying to seize control of these party committees . " Mr. Weinberger Ailed on California Republicans to " recognize this hazard to our twoparty system and defeat these local candidates whose real aim is the destruction of the Republican party . " Thus , there is a local and state aspect to the Eisenhower statement . The feeling here is that if Mr. Goldwater were not strongly opposed in next week 's Presidential primary , the ultraconservatives would have e. better chance of having their 139 Congressional and state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Eisenhower , hovw= ever , has intervened on behalf of the moderate and progressive wing of the party , which he came into politics to sustain against Senator Robert A. Taft in the campaign of 1952 , and it remains ? to be seen whether that intervention will succeed . One thing is fairly clear . General Eisenhower has given the powerful California press , based on The Times in Los Angeles and The Chronicle in San Francisco , a strong argument . They were not enthusiastic about Mr. Rockefeller , even when they supported him , but they were opposed to ultraconservative control , of the G.O.P. and General . Eisenhower 's intervention has given them a more popular rallying point than they had before . More important , General Eisenhower gave support to what is probably the main argument of the RockefellerLodge forces in this state . This is that unless California votes for Rockefeller next Tuesday , the Republican convention in San Francisco in July will not have an opportunity to make a free judgment on the party 's nominee . General Eisenhower defended this position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as I so devoutly do , I have ' for many months urged that Republicans from coast to ' coast be given , a ? fair chance to work their will , in careful deliberations , at the national convention ? and therefore to make that convention truly representative of the party . I hope they will have that ' chance . " What Mr. Rockefeller and his aides are saying here ? is that this appeal by General Eisenhower can not be redeemed unless Senator Goldwater is defeated in the California primary . next week .                     