@@723305

txt New York Laurance S. Rockefeller , whose credentials in the field of conservation and recreation are impressive ( he has poured Rockefeller millions and years of effort into the development of recreation areas ) , speaks hopefully today of the furtherance of his objectives : ? Suddenly , our political leaders have found that the preservation of open space  --  and the use of it  --  is interesting to the voters . ? This new awareness to the political values involved in a recreation-conservation program has sparked legislative or voter action in several states , among them New Jersey , Connecticut , and Wisconsin . The beginning of this awareness of public interest in recreation and conservation came , says Mr. Rockefeller , during the first two years of the 1960 's when New York voters approved bond issues totalling $100 million for the acquisition of lands for additional parks and recreation areas , Open Space Viewed as Vital When these bond issues passed by a surprisingly big 3-to-1 margin , the politicians  --  here and throughout the United States  --  were able to see there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance , says Mr. Rockefeller , of the concept " which equates the government role in providing recreation and conservation facilities with other services we feel our government must provide . " Thus , he says , some state legislatures are tending to place recreation right along with education . medical care , and welfare . Mr. Rockefeller says there is a close correlation be- k tween , for example , the problems of juvenile delinquency and the crowded conditions of the city . Thus , he says the provision of open space and recreation is being seen as a service that is in the best interests of the American people  --  and a government service that can be equated with health and education . At the same time he speaks of progress , this tall , slender Rockefeller brother emphasizes that he holds one major reservation on the direction the ' government is heading : He thinks that compared to the amount of money being spent on buying up lands for wilderness and recreation far too little is being spent to make them usable by the public . This lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money toward buying  --  and so little for development . " " We use much of our ( Rockefeller ) funds for development , " says Mr. Rockefeller . He was speaking of his projects in Grand Teton National Park , Wyoming ( which are directed toward preserving this area and making it available to the public ) , and to several other similar Laurance Rockefeller projects . Mr. Rockefeller says that two underlying , but conflicting , ideologies have , in the past , slowed the progress of conservation and recreation : ( A ) those who would preserve areas in their natural state and keep almost everyone out and ( B ) those who would turn all these areas into a Jones Beach . New Impetus Given to Report In 1958 Mr. Rockefeller was named by President Eisenhower to head the Resources Review Commission which , in January , 1962 , made a report to President Kennedy and to the Congress after a three-year study . An important recommendation of this commission was a zoning approach to preserving land  --  which would package these natural beauty areas , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewing and use and holding other areas in their natural state and relatively untouched by the touring millions . In this study an accommodation was found between the conflicting ideologies , and this , in itself , has helped to further all conservation and recreation projects . Mr. Rockefeller counts the report of the Outdoor Recreation Commission as a major factOr in giving new thrust to the conservation movement in the United States  --  along with the new awareness by political leaders of the public 's interest in this area . " This report , " he says , " pulls together the best information and thinking on the subject . " Undoubtedly the make-up of the commission  --  consisting of members of Congress and lay leaders in the field of conservation  --  also has given prestige to the report which , in turn , has given impetus to its implementation .                     