@@722943

txt Miami Beach new bargaining approaches must be found if labor-management conflicts arc to be avoided in the years ahead , according to George " Meany , AFL-CIO president . Mr. meany.s warning was directed at the federation 's 135 unions  --  and employers and the government ? as the AFL-CIO policymaking executive council met here this week for a sober assessment of labor 's prospects in a lagging economy . The " luxury of tough disputes " no longer can be afforded , Mr. Meany said . The impact of major strikes now is likely to be too severe . To avoid them , labor , management , and the government should be prepared to accept " genuine , close , and wholehearted cooperation . .. on a scale not previously acceptable to any of them . " Mr. Meany 's sober urgings of more cooperation  --  largely to be directed at the elimination of high unemployment  --  came during a review of critical problems that must be faced this year and next . " The advance of automation and allied technological developments has proceeded from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meany said . " Combined with a flabby economy and a soaring population , it has produced an ever-increasing back . to of unemployment . and the wholesale destruction of jobs . " The resulting problems . he said , will " affect workers first but eventually will influence the future of everyone . " Meanwhile . cuticcti ye-bargaining agreements in key industries or with large national corporations lend to set patterns fur millions of workers not directly involved and have an impact on the whole economy . When strikes occur . the impact is broad and likely to be severe . And issues in bargaining  --  now over jobs more than wages  --  are less subject to settlement by the art of compromise or by tests of strength . as in the Atlant ie-Gulf Coast dock strike earlier this year or the current New York newspaper dispute . When bargaining fails . neither mediation nor arbitration will prevent disputes effectively , nor will legislation provide for an orderly solution , until there arc jobs enough to go around , Mr. Meany warned . " Unemployment , the inability of idled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is putting heavy pressures on bargaining . ' Although reluctant to criticize or blame the Kennedy administration it helped put in office . the AFL-CIO considers tax and other moves to spur the ecolJemy to be too little and too late . Retraining programs , as they arc operating now , are a step in a right direction but inadequate , says the AFL-CIO , Moreover ? the federation notes , retraining " can not be a solution until there arc jobs enough to go around . "                     