@@724025

txt Salt spray is n't dampening any enthusiasm for the sailing set off the coast of Oyster Bay , N.Y. , this week as four graceful sloops slice smartly through the waves of Long Island Sound . Its a wet job sailing on a 12-meter boat  --  but that 's part of the sport . Preliminary races in the first set of trials to select a United States defender for the 113-year-old America 's Cup might aptly be called the " tune-upshake-down " series . Nefertiti , Columbia , American Eagle , and Constellation  --  the competing boats  --  are in varying degrees of preparedness with green crew members , untried sails , and new equipment . A week of match racing will point out the weak spots to each skipper . He then has until July 8. the beginning of the next series of trials , to organize his crew into a skilled team and make any desired changes in his boat . ; Rotation System American Eagle first competes with Nefertiti and Columbia with Constellation . Nefertiti then sails against Columbia , and American Eagle takes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Columbia ; Constellation vs . Nefertiti . This rotation system is then repeated on a further three clays . Bolted securely to a pedestal in the New York Yacht Club stands the coveted American Cup . As its guardian , the NYYC is in charge of every challenge for the trophy and is responsible for running the races . A selection committee of club members will devote their energies to the summer-long effort of choosing a defender for the 19th challenge . Yachtsmen enthuse easily over the prospect of close competition . This is indeed the year for it . Titanium Mast . Although Nefertiti , owned by the E. Ross Anderson syndicate , did not prove a fast light-weather sailer in America 's Cup trials two years ago , she is expected to fare better this season since having her keel streamlined , her mast moved forward , and her sail area increased . Ted Flood , talented designersailmaker , is again at the Nefertiti helm , eager to benefit from past experience . His task is considerably lightened by many returning crew members . American Eagle , designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ syndicate headed by Pierre du Pont III , is making her debut this season . She is captained by Bill Cox , four-time international champion . A unique feature is her flat deck which permits easy crew work and lowers the weight in the boat . Constellation , the other new 12-meterer , was designed and built by Olin Stevens Jr. , as was Columbia in 1956 . Perhaps the greatest conversational stir with regard to this boat concerns her mast constructed of aluminum at the base topped by 36 feet of titanium . The fact that titanium cost 14 times as much as aluminum is offset by its ability to bend four times as much before breaking . This greater flexibility should permit bending the mast to adjust the mainsail draft when sailing to windward . Walter Gubelman , owner of Constellation , selected Eric Bidder for helmsman . Western Entry Columbia , the 1958 Cup Defender , is being skippered by Walter Poulak , dinghy and star champion . Thomas Patrick Dougan , of Newport . Beach , Calif. , recently startled the inner circles of cast coast yachtsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry into the America 's Cup trials . In the past this has been strictly a pastime engaged in by eastern seaboard aristocrats . A fifth boat , Chandler Hovey 's twice eliminated Easterner , will enter competition in the second series of trials , beginning July 8 . Across the Atlantic , the Royal Thames Yacht Club is busily conducting its own trials between Kurrewa V and Sovereign in search of a contender to return the cup to Britain .                     