@@722915

txt The Soviet Communist Party declared today that it was prepared t o meet with the Chinese Cominufists " at any level and at any time " to discuss ideological differences . The party offer , contained in , an editorial article of Pravda , the party newspaper , appeared to open the way for a confrontation of the two adversaries , whose public debate has virtually split the Communist camp . Pravda 's long statement made it clear that the proposed meeting would be designed to " create better conditions " for a general conference of all Communist parties on such issues as present-day political tactics toward the West and the parties ' attitude toward distinctive Communist systems like Yugo-slavia 's , Evidently a reply to a recent editorial in , Ten Min Jih Pao , the Chinese Party organ , t h e Soviet statement represented a further conciliatory step in the debate between the t w o parties , in which each side has called for unity and accused the other of departing f r o m " true " Marxism-Leninism . Warning that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the precipice " a Chinese editorial of Jan. 27 said : Take Initiative " We sincerely hope that the fraternal party that launched the first attack , meaning the Soviet Union , will suit its action to its words , take the initiative and return to the path of interparty consultation . " Though denying that the Communist movement had gone t o " the brink of the precipice , " the Soviet statement conceded that it was inadequate simply t o stop polemics as Premier Khrushchev proposed last month at the East German Party Congress , and to let the air cool in preparation for a general conference . The statement acknowledged that such a truce would encourage the parties " to freeze the existing disagreements and remain in the same positions " and went on : " Our party considers it expedient to hold bilateral or broader meetings that would help create better conditions for a conference of all fraternal parties . " Clearly addressing the C h nese , it added : " The Soviet Communist Party declares : " If , in reply to this initiative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences between us may be , displays interest in a bilateral meeting , our party is ready to have such a meeting at any level and at any time acceptable to both sides . " No Retreat Through inviting the conference to thresh out differences , the Pravda editorial gave no indication of a retreat from the Soviet positions in the ideological debate with the Chinese . On Yugoslavia , it reiterated the view that , despite " differences on some ideological questions , " President Tito 's regime was " socialist " and entitled to be part of the World Communist movement . The Chinese have contended that the Yugoslays have placed themselves outside the camp by their " revisionist " policies . Among the differences with the Soviet view , the statement said , are " attempts by some Yugoslav party figures " to equate the Western military alliance with its Communist counterpart . The Russians called such an approach " a departure from Marxist - Leninist class positions . " Distinguishing between a n essential unity in the Communist camp on strategy and greater flexibility between the parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way must be found to accommodate the different points of view within a world Communist movement . " We must look forward to a day when the road of socialism will be chosen by dozens of other countries in Europe , Asia , Africa , America and Australia , it said . " They will undoubtedly introduce great diversity into the solution of problems relating to the construction o f Socialism . " The statement asserted that there must be basic agreement on a " single strategy " in the fight against capitalism , for the victory of Communism , for the triumph of " national liberation movements " and in the struggle against " imperialist wars . " As for tactics , it added , though unity in that respect is also desirable , there can be " different forms and methods " to achieve a common aim . The statement also warned the Communist parties against extending ideological differences " mechanically " into the economic , cultural and political fields . This was taken as an allusion to the suspension of diplomatic relations between Albania and the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of the ideological split .                     