@@723176

txt Development of a system to encourage integration of people of various races and economic classes in big-city high schools Wag recOMmended last night by Dr. Robert J. Havighurst , w h o has been suggested to head a survey of Chicago , puntic schools . The recommendation was one of several that Havighurst , a professor of education at the University of Chicago , proposed to provide a more diversified program for the schools . He spoke before a group of parents at the Chatham Y. M. C. A. , 1021 E. 83d st . Favors Negroes in School " I favor more colored students in high schools . I also believe that youths from all economic le v e Is of society should attend a single high school . " I am opposed to all-Negro or all-white high schools , " he said . " But I believe the economic integration is. the . more important factor . " Havighurst indicated that racially and economically integrated high schools are closely tied in with what he called " the social urban renewal program . " Area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas that he will thoroly study if he is appointed to conduct the Chicago public schools survey . Fairfax M. Cone , member of the Chicago board of education and chairman of the survey selection committee , has recommended approval of Havighurst , but so far the board has taken no action . Havighurst outlined a plan in which several high schools in a single region would be available to a student so that he could attend the institution which best provided for his educational needs . Urges Varied Programs " All high schools in a big city can not have the same program . They must be diversified enough for all students , " he said . " There is no sense to take tough , below-average students and put them in college preparatory course , " he added . For such students , he urged more vocational training . They would not get a high school diploma , but they would get a job , he said . Havighurst also favors college-level courses to be offered in some high schools for gifted students . Not every school could afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in each region could meet the need , he said . Emphasizes Pre-Schooling Turning to elementary schools , he placed emphasis on pre-school and kindergarten education . Working with young children , he said , will reduce the number of disinterested students in the higher grades who become a problem and later a " drop-out . " " Some 4-year-olds are prepared for school ; " he said . " Others are not , and these are the ones we must ; work with . It might be well to set up special pre-schools in certain neighborhoods , particularly in the slum areas . "                     