@@721724

txt The feverish pace of trading on the New York Stock Exchange in recent weeks is pushing the exchange toward automation of many of its operations . But sizable obstacles still must be overcome before electronic " brains " come to the aid of brokers and investors . Current volume is outrunning all expectations of exchange officials . " We 're now getting five-million-share days which our volume projections did n't anticipate until 1965 , " says G. Keith Funston , president of the Big Board . " At this rate , seven-million-share days will be the normal courseqess than five years from now . " Even now , the exchange is having trouble keeping up . On February 28 , the ticker the exchange operates to report stock prices ran late for four hours and two minutes of the five-and-a-half-hour trading session ; at one time , he ticker was 18 minutes behind actual trading . Yesterday the ticker ran late for more than two hours . Despite the possibility that soaring volume might eventually cause more serious breakdowns in some of the exchange 's services , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new electronic gear to help handle stock transactions . For one thing , exchange officials say suppliers have been unable to come up with exactly the types of equipment that would be needed for the system the Big Board has in mind . In addition , the exchange could face serious problems if it moved into automation at once ; its officials now are uncertain whether the exchange will remain in its present building . Badly cramped for space , the Big Board is considering moving a few blocks eastward on Wall Street to a proposed new World Trade Center complex of buildings , when and if the center is built . Backers of the , Trade Center believe it will be clear later this year whether the center will be built . The exchange is the focal point of the nation 's stock-trading activities . There are 13 stock exchanges scattered around the country , but the Big Board last year handled 84% of the total dollar volume of stock trading in the U.S. The second largest exchange is the American Stock Exchange , also located here in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1960 stock trading dollar volume . Pressure of Heavy Volume Though a plunge into automation , while relocation is Under consideration , would create major problems for New York Stock Exchange officials , the pressure of heavy volume is forcing the exchange to intensify exploration of more efficient operating techniques . Less than a year ago , the exchange set up a new Department of Operational Planning and Research . Recently , this department has been pushing studies of ways to automate the exchange 's operations , and its representatives have been conferring with suppliers of electronic equipment . The system now being considered by the Big Board would bring big changes in its operations , which have seen a few important alterations in the past three decades . Here , in simplified form , is how the exchange operates now : A buy or sell order is received by a member firm 's floor clerk via the telephones and teleprinters ringing the high-domed trading room . A broker for the firm is summoned to pick up the order . He then goes to a trading post  --  there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to carry but the order . An exchange employe , called a reporter , makes a note of the completed transaction on slips of paper . One slip of paper is shot by pneumatic tube to the ticker preparation room on the building 's fifth floor  --  where clerks at keyboards type out price quotations for transmission over the tickers . Another slip of paper goes to the quotation center on the 15th floor , where clerks keep a current record of quotations and answer telephoned queries on prices . Multi-Purpose Computer The proposed electronic system , which would be built around a multi-purpose computer . would make no change in the present system up to the point where the exchange reporter now makes a note of the transaction . From that point on , the electronic system would largely take over . Information on the transaction slips would be fed into the computer , perhaps by scanning devices located on the trading floor . The resulting Impulses would bring up to date in the computer 's memory drum such data as prices for each listed stock . The computer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as each trade is made . The computer also would take over the tasks now handled by the quotation room . By dialing a special code on a direct line telephone or by sending a coded message by teleprinter. brokers would be able to obtain the latest price of a stock from the computer . In the case of phoned queries , the computer would convert its answer into voice sounds , while questions received by teleprinter would be answered by wire messages This quota . tiona system would operate in much the same way as an electronic quotes system which the American Stock Exchange plans to install by early 1963 . The A.S.E system , which will handle only the quotes service , at least at first , will be produced by Teletegister Corp. , a subsidiary of Ogden Corp . In the system under consideration at the New York Stock Exchange , the computer at the close of each day 's trading would print a list of all the sales of each active stock and bond in the order made . This data , which now must he compiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch " sleuths in their in. vestigations of peculiar price movements and would also be useful to the specialists who make a market in a stock . Another possibility is that the computer could provide a summary of daily transactions for newspaper and press wire service use : these summaries are now prepared by Hite services The computer could produce the summary in the form of a punched tape which could activate typesetting machines to set stock tables automatically . Exchange officials , however . insist it 's Impossible to make any major changes in the system for executing the sales and purchases themselves . " There 's no way to substitute for a broker 's iudgment m a stock trade . " says John H. Schwieger , exchange vice president In chat ge of liaison with member firms . " Some people say a computer should be able to handle the entire transaction . merely by matching buy and sell orders as they come in , but I do n't think they really mean R. What would happen . for instance . if there should be a pile-up of selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would ' simply knock down the price . A selling broker , because of his grasp of the market , will wait if he can until buy orders appear , perhaps in sufficient number even to boost the price . " While computers may not be ready to replace floor traders , it 's generally agreed they could ease sonic of the problems stemming from heavy volume . So far this year , dailyvolume on the New York Stock Exchange has exceeded 5 million shares on 15 occasions . Yesterday 's volume of 6,010.000 shares was the highest since September 26 , 1955. following President Eisenhower 's heart attack . In the IS business days of 1961 through yesterday . there have been 24 days when more than four million shares changed hands . In all 1960 , there were only two five-million-share days and eight four-million-share days . Consultants Recommended Automation The exchange looked into the possibility of using a computer system to handle its voluminous record-keeping and data dissemination tasks as early as 1956 . It hired outside consultants , Ebasco Services , Inc. , who proposed an automation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they also proposed abandonment of the exchange 's present building , a 60-year-old landmark at Wall and Broad Streets . No action was taken on Ebasco 's recommendations , however . " At that time , " recalls R. L. Forster . an Ebasco official , " the exchange 's member firms were geared to a two million average volume day and were baiely willing to concede that a three million daily volume was possible . " The suggestion that five-million-share days might not be far off was scoffed at , adds Mr. Forster . In January of 1959 , the exchange asked a firm of New York economic consultants to make a study forecasting probable future volume levels . On the basis of this research , exchange officials concluded early last year they could expect average daily volume to run a bit over 3.7 million shares by 1965. 4.5 million by 1970 , 6 million by 1980 and 8 million by 1960 . These figures now appear to have been far too conservative . Average volume this year is already more than 4.6 million shares daily . Speeding Up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of the ticker tape 's frequent inability to keep up with trading . The present tickers , which first went into use in 1930 , can print 500 characters a minute . " In 1954 we tested a modification of the ticker geared to 600 characters a minute , but it did n't perform satisfactorily , " says Edward DeLaura , the Big Board 's development and planning chief . After that . a ticker with a speed of 900 characters a minute was tried out . It operated so fast , says Mr. DeLaura , that people monitoring the tape as it left the machine had trouble keeping up with it . Next July tests are scheduled for an ex- perimental ticker receiving unit produced by Teletype Corp. , a subsidiary of Western Electric Co . Unlike the present tickers , which put out a three-quarter-inch tape , it prints lines of quotations across a strip of paper three inches wide The device has a capacity estimated at 900 to 1,200 characters a minute . If the new ticker is approved by the exchange . It would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to Mr DeLaura The exchange pi esently is experimenting with a number of devices to speed floor opetations , but has n't decided whether to use them . One is a pocket-sized electronic paging unit which calls the person being summoned by emitting a low hum . These might he used to call brokers to their firms ' booths at the perimeter of the floor to pick tip customers ' orders . At present , member firms signal brokers by flashing numbers assigned to the brokers on three giant annunciator boards on the trading room 's walls . " Right now , a broker on the floor has to look three ways -- at the annunciator boards , the overhead ticker projector and straight ahead to keep from running into anybody , " observes Mr. DeLaura . But he is n't sure the paging units will work out , since it would often be difficult to deter mine whose signal was being sounded on the noisy , crowded trading floor . The Big Board is also considering equipping its own employes on the half-acre landing floor with small sending and receiving radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would enable supervisors to communicate faster with floor employes                     