@@726899

txt President Johnson said today that the Vietcong suffered " a complete failure " militarily throughout South Vietnam this week and he expressed confidence that as the facts became known the enemy would gain nothing psychologically either .. Measuring his comments at a news conference with extreme care , Mr. Johnson said the second stage of a long-planned enemy winter-spring offensive was imminent around Khesanh . He has tried to provide his commanders with everything they think ' they need to repulse that expected assault , he said , and is " reasonably sure " and " confident " about their readiness . Opening statement . Page 8 . Only when the engagement is over , the President said , will he be able to give an over-all appraisal-of the position of antiCommunist forces in South Vietnam So far , . he added , no basiC " changeS in strategy seem necessary . Cites Riots in Detroit Mr. Johnson acknowledged that the Vietcong 's simultaneous attacks on cities throughout South Vietnam had ' disrupted life in many communities and inflicted casualties on ' civilians . But " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he remarked , pointing to the disruptions caused by riots in Detroit arid other American communities . The important thing , the President said , was that their plan and ability to do this was " anticipated , prepared for and met " and that the enemy took more than 10,000. battle deaths . against a loss of 249 American and 553 South Vietnamese soldiers . Later casualty figures were higher . " I can count , " Mr. Johnson asserted . " It looks like somebody has paid a very dear price for the temporary encouragement that some of our enemies had . " Mr. Johnson said the Administration had known for several months that the Vietcong and North Vietnamese were planning an offensive whose purpose , in part , was to set the stage for a " general uprising " that would destroy the Saigon Government and force the United States to accept a " Communist-dominated " coalition regime . Stage One was the coordinated attack on cities and American installations , he said , but the " stated purposes of the general uprising have failed " as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular support . " Stage Two is expected at any time now at Khesanh , the President said . Gen. William C. Westmoreland. the American commander , has prepared his forces for the attack , the President ' said , has been given everything he feels he needs and has had his strategy favorably approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Thus , while the situation remains " fluid , " Mr. Johnson said , and while he prefers " to be played low-key " and was not " unduly optimistic , " the facts should become clear to the American people and the world in the near future . While many are playing " Monday morning quarterback " in second-guessing the American position , the President said , he and General Westmoreland have been " looking at the other fellow 's hole card " and conducting the war as best they can on the basis of the best information they could get . The President called the news conference in the Cabinet Room and demonstrated the sense of confidence that all who have seen him in recent days have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of misjudgment and ' miscalculation , but emphasized that he had exhausted every channel of advice and possibility of preparation . Nor did he endorse the view of some ) observers that the Vietcong are ! embarked upon their last military gasp . All he could do , he said , was to match their apparent objectives against their actual performance so far and this pointed to a military failure . ' Measuring My Words ' " I am measuring my words , " Mr. Johnson said . " I do n't want to overstate anything . We do not believe that we should help them in making it a psychological success either . " The disruptions caused by some of the attacks may require some adjustments of defenses , the President observed , but no major strategic change and no change in the planned build-up toward a total American force of 525,000 men in South Vietnam are contemplated . But , he said , neither has he seen any reason to change his underlying estimate that " we have made progress " in Vietnam . Noting that Chinese Communist commentators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House and that other Communist sources were questioning American strength , Mr. Johnson threw wide his arms before the reporters and said , " judge for yourself . " The casualty figures and the relatively modest losses of American planes and equipment , he said repeatedly , are even a better indication of the outcome . Question of Morale When asked about comments by top American officials that enemy morale was growing weak and that war weariness had begun to set in among the Vietcong , Mr. Johnson first responded that he had not had such reports . Question 101 He went on to say that no one in authority had ever felt that there could not be a Vietcong offensive of the kind carried out this week , " particularly when they have ordered it and predicted it and we have been expecting it . " And the fact that people 's morale may have suffered , or that they have encountered difficulties , does not even in domestic situations prevent them from acts of terror . " That goes with it , that is part of the pattern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness nor strength , he said , remarking that even a " few highly energetic and courageous people " could seize Washington 's National Airport . " But could they hold it ? " he asked . " Does it endure ? Is it a victory ? Do they pay more than it is worth and so on and so forth ? These are the things that we have to evaluate . " Mr. Johnson implied that his exploration of North Vietnam 's offer to move into ne ? gotiations if the United States stopped bombing its territory was still under way but he said he had no success to report . Question 7.1 In fact , he said , he has not " found anything that would give an impartial judge reason to be encouraged . "                     