@@725026

txt Washington As the time limit of the Chinese Communist ultimatum to India expired , Washington policymakers kept busy honing their contingency plans . Across the capital , teams of officials waited in " crisis centers " for Peking 's next moves . Countermoves for every possible Chinese action were weighed . The expectation was that China undoubtedly would make some kind of move  --  perhaps small and carefully planned to embarrass India , but at the same time calculated to test the United States , which Peking often calls a " paper tiger . " Lights burned around the clock in the Pentagon as the weekend moved on , with strategists keeping pace with every report of Chinese troop movements along the India-China frontier . Question remains As New Delhi reported Chinese troops had moved into positions near the frontier of Sikkim , and as the Chinese accused India of fresh border violations in Sinkiang Province near Kashmir 1,000 miles to the west of Sikkim , Washington experts studied their maps and weighed what could happen . Some movement had been expected as Communist troops made their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital unanswered question remained how much of the movement was preparation for an actual attack , how much was Peking posturing . In those hours , it was impossible to be sure . Up on the seventh floor of the State Department , " relief teams " were brought into the operations center so that officials who had been monitoring the crisis since its inception could get some rest . It is known that Indian Ambassador B. K. Nehru asked the United States to provide ' military aid to India if Communist China should attack . He asked that the amount of aid be proportional to the strength of a Chinese assault . He did not , however , ask for any immediate aid on the basis of the Chinese threat . They examined the long-term implications of the fighting , assessed the Chinese position anew , and measured possible American re-. sponses to a wider war . If the Chinese attacked , should the United States take action at once ? If so , what action ? Should it wait ? How long ? These were the problems confronting military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned China not to intervene in the India-Pakistan conflict ? on threat of undefined American counteraction . It also noted that at the ' United Nations , Secretary-General U Thant had asked the Security Council to take tougher steps to end the war . These steps could lead to international sanctions , blockade , and even armed intervention under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter . But no one at the UN or here believed such UN Charter escalation was likely . Chapter 7 has been used only in such early era crises as Palestine and Korea . The great powers are extremely reluctant to get involved with this ultimate UN weapon nowadays . Presidential press secretary Bill D. Moyers reiterated on Saturday that the Johnson administration backs the peace efforts of the United Nations to the hilt . America 's hopes for peace in Kashmir , he said again and again , rest with the UN 's efforts . Sources here said the Chinese complaints about Indian militancy at the Sikkim border were obviously trumped up . India has few sophisticated military installations at Sikkim , an Indian protectorate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of Sikkim , weakest link in India 's 2,000-mile border defenses , New Asian becomes the newest pressure point in Communist China 's Asian strategy . Chinese focal point troops were reported gathering near the Sikkim frontier and trouble also loomed on the Sinkiang border , just beyond Kashmir .                     