@@726110

txt Washington . Feb. 9 - Secretary of State Dean Rusk today questioned North Viet Nam 's desire for peace in the light of what he termed the disturbing number of incidents in the current cease-fire . He told a press conference that the Communists are rushing supplies south by boat . He made it clear that the United States will not unconditionally stop the bombing of North Viet Nam . Rusk stressed that there must be a promise of reciprocity on the part of the Communists be , fore the bombing will stop . " Violations Disturbing " He said the two sides are already in the middle of the Asian New Year cease-fire and there has been . a " disturbing " number of truce violations on the part of the Communists . " We have seen a large number of Wats and other vessel dashing south to resupply forces . " said Rusk . Now this indicates their intention to continue operationS.and that they are not particularly interested in stopping the action . " Rusk asserted that attempt at peace talks thus far have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some time now there has been evident a systematic campaign by the communist side to bring about an unconditional and permanent cessation of the bonibing of North Viet Nam . without any corresponding military action on their side in exchange . " , said the secretary . We can not accept a situation in which men and arms move , without interruption by us , to cross the 17th parallel and attack allied . armed forces and Vietnamese civilians in the south . " Prepared for Talks Rusk said that the United States is prepared to have talks with the Communists about either the prospects for peace or about the mutual steps which the two sides can take to reduce the violence and move Closer toward peace . " We are prepared to talk about any point , any handle that can be grasped , which might make a difference in the situation , " Rusk said . " For ex ' ample , withdrawal of commu ' fist troops from the demilitarized zone along the lith parallel ; a guarantee of the I neutrality of Cambodia , or an exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rusk did . not necessarily tie in the above examples with the United States stopping its mili : tare action . He indicated that hostilities could continue while preliminary discussions were held about what action can be taken by the two sides in the military field . " Let us make it clear , " he said , . - we do not . say . that any action on the military field is a pre-condition- for talks . " The Rusk press conference . which was announced in advance yesterday by the White House , appeared to be designed to make an American response to pleas to both sides from neutrals around the world , including Pope Paul VI , to extend the present lull in the fighting into peace negotiations . Stopped Bombing Twice He began the conference with a nine - minute statement that restated in detail the American position . The statement recalled that twice the United States has stopped the bombing without results . Rusk said that he could not forecast the possible extension of the lunar truce from four days to seven . The allies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will observe a seven-day stay . Rusk said Nuygen Cao Ky , South Vietnamese premier , is willing to discuss an extension with the other side , tho an extension would involve difficult military problems . Sees No Slowing Down In answer to a question , Rusk said that he saw no indications that the infiltration from North Viet Nam into the south has stopped or slowed to a level which the United States would consider a reciprocal military move to halt the bombing . Asked whether the climate for peace negotiations has improved because of the turmoil in Red China , one of North Viet Nam 's chief suppliers , Rusk answered that it is hard to judge atmosphere .                     