@@723921

txt Harrisburg , Pa . Gov . William W. Scranton 's name continues to be mentioned as a dark-horse possibility for the Republican presidential nomination , despite his aloofness front the campaign . Therefore , this interview reporting the Governor 's views on politics is included in this series of articles on the current thinking of the major GOP presidential campaigners ' camps . Governor William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania . though a declared noncandidate , is outlining ? and practicing  --  a fresh brand of Republicanism here which stresses giving the states larger responsibilities in the federal-state equation . This philosophy , along with the weekly reports of the Republican Citizens Committee critical-issues council , constitutes a barrage of new ideas to hurl against a Johnson administration seeking to monopolize the midroad position in this campaign year . Upsurge in State Activity Noted Governor Scranton indicates that he has not quite laid aside politics when he remarks that President Johnson will get into trouble by trying to be all things 4o all people ? but maybe not immediately because " the President has cleverly arranged it so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day . " The Governor 's stress on state responsibility is not the old " states ' rights " cry . It is a turning to state handling of problems because , says Mr. Scranton , this is the " efficient " way . " You solve many national problems ? poverty or rapid transit , " said the Governor recently , pacing his spacious A.vood-paneled office , " by pinpointing individual solutions rather than by seeking a common denominator to apply hroughout the country . " This idea , that the states are better equipped to handle many of the nation 's key problems than is the federal bureaucracy , is reflected in the upsurge of activity by state governments in the past few years . For instance , employment in state and local government has doubled between 1947-63 . A decade ago state governors were very lukewarm ? along with Congress ? to President Eisenhower 's proposal to assist state finances by shifting the telephone tax over Io the states . Today , Governor Scranton says , the governors would give such proposals a much more enthusiastic reception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to allocate to the states adequate sums of money for projects , under assurance that the states will spend the money for intended purposes , " he says . " Either redistribute the tax system , or arrange for lump-sum appropriations to the states . " Governor Scranton says the states can expertly handle major portions of such projects as urban renewal , housing . elimination of pockets of poverty , transit programs . He is expected to outline his Republican philosophy in a speech when he is awarded the Yale Law School Alumni Award at New Haven April 25. // Let the States Scranton-Style Republicanism // What the Governor aims at , aides at Pennsylvania 's gubernatorial offices will tell you , is to erase from the Republican Party its " depression syndrome " ? its depression-born fixation on negative obstructionism without affirmative propositions . It was during the depression that state governments began to lose their vitality , while great tasks gravitated to Washington . Now the trend is at least partially reversed . Yet , in welfare programs or in the new war on poverty , the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrict their use carefully to what Washington approves . Thus one Pennsylvania official argues that in the Johnson antipoverty drive the state governors have very little " say . " They can say yes or no as to whether the domestic Peace Corps shall operate in their states . But in such a state-involved matter as education , individual communities can funnel their proposals direct to Washington , without state approval . The Nuts and Bolts ' " Congress launches the broad outlines of a program . " a Scranton assistant argues , " and then some federal department is given the job of deciding the details . How much better if Congress could let the states decide on the nuts and bolts of a program . " We think that we in Pennsylvania know more about Philadelphia 's rapid-transit needs than Washington does . " Meanwhile . Pennsylvania is practicing individual solutions in its own industrial development program . Johnstown , for instance , located in a deep valley has different industrial rehabilitation needs than does Erie , located in flat country . One needs new industrial sites ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admires state solutions because he feels he has discovered how to make them work in Pennsylvania . To improve state finances ? where there was a $32,000,000 deficit ? he got from the Legislature a sales tax rise from 4 to 5 percent , the highest in the nation . Pennsylvania has no income tax , a tax greatly disliked in other states these days . He obtained an $85,000.000 increase in state aid to local schools . He put an additional 17,000 state employees under civil service . In March by a narrow margin he persuaded the Legislature to approve his plan to refonp ? unemployment compensation , So here Is as well as philosophy , atul " contrast " with the Democratic philosophy of running to Washington for solutions .                     