@@727577

txt Defense Secretary Clark M. IClifford has expressed " increasing concern " about the rapidly growing Soviet force of intercontinental ballistic missiles , which nearly quadrupled in two years and which is expected to exceed that of the United States this year or next . But Mr. Clifford , in what amounted to a valedictory statement on the eve of leaving office , insisted that the United States remained stronger than any potential adversary . He said that his hopes for a peaceful world had been encouraged by Soviet willingness to discuss a halt in the arms race and by the shift in Vietnam emphasis from the battlefield to the conference table . The Secretary is credited by many with having played the central role in turning the Johnson Administration 's strategy from one based on gradual but steady escalation of force to one stressing de-escalation and negotiation . In remarks released today he said , " I think that we have now set a true course toward peace in Vietnam . " Mr. Clifford 's views were contained in a detailed analysis to Congress of the outgoing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explores , the rationale behind the country 's national security policy and its lweapons decisions , covers 165 pages in the unclassified version , which was released to the press . today , and more than 300 pages in the secret version . The latter was sent to the armed services and military appropriations committees in the House and Senate today . Mr. Clifford said the Russians had surpassed American intelligence estimates by moving from 250 ICBM 's in mid-1966 to 900 by last September . Other sources say the Soviets now posses more than 1,000 ICBM 's , having drawn roughly even with America 's land-based force of 1,054 missiles . While the Defense Secretary said he expected the Russians to continue to install even more such missiles , he predicted that " the rate of increase will be considerably smaller over the next two or three years . " Solid Fuel Missiles Mr. Clifford revealed that the Soviet Union had begun to deploy its first solid-fuel ICBM 's , similar to the early Minuteman missile of the United States . The bulk of the Soviet missiles are liquid fueled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile submarines similar to Polaris submarines with a missile range of more than 1,500 miles . But he credited the Russians with only 45 missiles on such submarines , compared with 656 on this nation 's Polaris submarines . Work on antimissile sites around Moscow slowed down last year , Mr. Clifford said , but research and development work on antimissile missiles continued " at a high rate of activity . " During the Presidential campaign , Richard M. Nixon charged that a dangerous " security gap " was developing because of Soviet weapons advances in a number of fields , strategic and conventional . Mr. Clifford acknowledged that the Russians were actively attempting to catch up with the number of land-based and sea-based missiles in the United States arsenal . But he insisted , in effect , that the Soviet suffered from a technology gap . The Russians are " still well behind us in advanced missile technology , " he said . The new Soviet solid-fuel missile is similar to the first Minuteman that was deployed about eight years ago , he said . The Russians ' nuclear submarinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decade ago , he said , and the Soviet antimissile system appears to resemble the Nike-Zeus system that the United States " abandoned years ago because of limited effectiveness . " Edge Expected to Stay Other officials say that multiple warheads on Minuteman 3 missiles , which the United States plans to start deploying during the next fiscal year , together with similar warheads on Poseidon missiles that are to be deployed later on , should continue to give this nation an edge in the number of accurately deliverable warheads for some time to come . These officials insist the Russians are lagging in multiple warhead technology , but by a few years rather than by . several years . Mr. Clifford repeated a theme associated with his predecessor , Robert S. . The number of warheads alone does not assure security , he said . Under this theory , to deter an enemy a nation must have enough secure weapons so that even after sustaining a surprise attack it can retaliate and kill tens of millions of people in the homeland of the attacker . Rather than see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clifford said would increase insecurity , he called for negotiation of a " verifiable " agreement with the Soviet Union to limit strategic offensive and defensive forces . On Vietnam , Mr. Clifford is known to have told associates in recent days that in his views , " the die is cast . " He considers it unthinkable that the Nixon Administration would break off Paris talks and consider either much larger ) troop levels or tough measures1 against North Vietnam , both of which were very much under consideration when he came into the Defense post last March . Total Victory Ruled Out The Secretary put it this way in his Congressional statement ' " While we now can not lose militarily , neither is total military victory within our grasp.1 That is why we are in Paris . That is also why the enemy is in Paris . Each side hopes to pursue its objectives at lower costs . " Mr. Clifford talked of two disquieting developments last year :  --  the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and the " smoldering conflict " in the Middle East , which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms to Arab countries . But he noted with seeming pleasure that Communist China 's nuclear weapons program seems to be lagging behind schedule , as a result either of technical problems or effects of the cultural revolution . He said he still foresaw a " moderate " force of Chinese ICBM 's by 1975 . Word of a slowdown in the Chinese nuclear missile effort will likely be used by Congressional opponents of the Sentinel missile defense system to attempt to block the " $1.8-billion in appropriations this year for deployment of the system . The Sentinel plan is designed primarily to guard the country against the Chinese missile threat . Mr. Clifford said that an adverse balance of payments problem attributable largely to the extensive foreign deployment of American troops was forcing Pentagon planners to contemplate cutbacks in administrative and support troops in Western Europe and in Japan and Okinawa . There are plans to make " substantial savings " by closing post exchanges and consolidating certain headquarters in Europe , he said , but he gave no details . Threat From Submarines A growing Soviet submarine threat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moves in the antisubmarine warfare field . Last year 's plan to cut back from six to five antisubmarine aircraft carriers has been scrapped . So , too , was a plan to phase down the number of antisubmarine patrol - aircraft . Additional land-based patrol aircraft will be bought and a new carrier-based patrol plane will be developed , he said . Also , the Secretary said , this Administration has decided to scrap Mr. 's old plan to limit to 69 the number of nuclear-powered attack submarines for the planned antiU-boat force . He said that plans were being made to buy a number of new types of faster and quieter nuclear-powered submarines , the first four of which are proposed in the new budget . In two previous years the Pentagon has requested funds from Congress for the first of 30 new fast deployment logistics ships designed to rush tanks and other heavy weapons to distant trouble spots where they would be used by air-lifted troops . Both times Congress refused , partly because of fear that the ships in peacetime would compete with commercial cargo vessels and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some future Administration to try to police most of the world 's crises . A Clifford Compromise As . a compromise , Mr. C1V ford seeks authority to build only 15 of these ships , relymg - on military charter of 30 smaller , specially built commercial vessels to provide the balance of the required capacity . In other weapons decisions , the Defense Secretary disclosed that : 9A new early warning satellite , designed to give instant notice of the launching of an enemy ICBM , was being developed . 9The Air Force was develop . ing small , long-range decoys , called SCAD , that on enemy radar would look like big bombers and would thus draw the fire of enemy air defense missiles . The SCAD would also carry a nuclear warhead so that if it were not downed , it could destroy enemy targets . 9A fourth nuclear-powered aircraft carrier was currently envisioned for next year 's budget . The third , to cost $510-million , wail requested this year . 9The Air Force was cutting back on planned orders for bomber , fighter and reconnaisance versions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year the Navy canceled its order for the TFX , which was-supposed to have been a dual service airplane.                     