@@723257

txt The battle that is just beginning in Congres5. over President Kennedy 's civil rights program is not the Negroes ' battle ; it is the battle of all Americans who believe that racial distinctions have no place in American life or law , The central issue is justice , and there can b ? no justice for any of us while one-tenth of our people are kept in a state of second-class citizenship . If the indivisibility of justice remains our touchstone through all the weary weeks of Congressional discussion , the outcome must be a. strong new shield to defend and make real the constitutional guarantees of equal treatment for : every citizen . How far the Negro now is from fully possessing his birthright of equality was graphically set forth by the President in his call to conscience earlier this month : " The Negro baby born in America today , regardless of the section or the state in which he is born , has about onehalf as much chance of completing high school as a white baby , born in the same place , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completing college ; one-third as much chance of becoming a professional man ; twice as much chance of becoming unemployed ; about one-seventh as much chance of earning $10,000 a year ; a life expectancy which is seven years shorter and the prospects of earning only half as much . " This is the grinding price of discrimination for the Negro , even when his lot is not made more insufferable. by the " keep out " signs ? open or covert  --  that so often block his access 16. a job , a place to live or even a place to eat a sandwich or see a movie . All the barriers that have been removed to the Negro 's advancement , all the avenues of opportunity opened up for the first time in recent years , simply accent many more barriers are still in place and li ( : ) w monumental an effort will be required to Level them all . Obviously , this is a task that far transcends the adoption of a civil rights law . The basic need is for a national assault on poverty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and practices . But the start for remaking this country into a " land of the free " for all its citizens lies in legislation of the kind the President seeks , to bar discrimination in employment , voting and access to stores , restaurants and other places of public assembly . Congress has been the laggard thus far in the great civil rights revolution that is shaking the nation . The President has put forward a bold and inspiring program ; it must now be considered with gravity and urgency . We do not agree With all aspects of it , and we certainly h ? Oeve it should be soberly debated ; but there is neither need nor excuse for hippodrome tactics on or off Capitol Hill , for or against the measure . This is a great national test ; it must be met in tile spirit of a nation proud of its traditions and prouder still of its respect for the dignity of every human being .                     