@@724191

txt Special to The New York Times MIAMI BEACH , Aug. 22 ? Midway through the Teamsters ' Executive Board meeting here this week , James R. Hof fa , the union 's president , got an urgent telephone call . It was from a local union official reporting that 14 of his members had just received notice that they were to be laid off-because their company was transferring some operations to another city . The official was worded both about the men and the effect their dismissal would have on his own chances for re-election . It was just one local out of 850 in the International Brotherhood of Teamsters with only 14 members out of 1.5 million . But Hoffa immediately put the problem at . the top of his agenda . He called an official of the company and arranged to have the men kept on the job for 15 days until a plan to transfer with their work could be devised . Power to Deliver The incident may appear to be minor , but multiply it by hundreds of similar ones and it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adverse national publicity , investigations , Federal pressure and two convictions on Federal charges , I Hoffa still rates high with the truck union 's membership . Both in handling many such seemingly small problems and at the bargaining table , Hoffa delivers for the members . His power to do so is based on a combination of factors . In the nearly 30 years , since he began his rise to national power as a local union official in Detroit , he has built a complicated system of alliances with local and regional union officials and employers . He knows the general trucking industry  --  the heartland of his- union  --  perhaps better than any man in the country . He uses this knowledge sometimes to do favors and sometimes to deliver a painful economic rabbit punch to recalcitrant employers . He is a master at manipu lating the contract grievance procedure to reward or punish both employers and local union officials . And his domination of the board of trustees of the multimillion-dollar pension fund covering union members in the Midwest and South enables him to reward friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on charges of mail and wire fraud and conspiracy in the use of these funds that Hoffa was convicted last month in Chicago and sentenced to five years in prison . The conviction was his second on Federal charges . The first was last , March in Chattanooga , where a jury found him guilty of mas-1 terminding an effort to fix a jury that had tried him earlier on other charges in Nashville . For . this he was sentenced to eight years in prison . He Is free pending the outcome of appeals from both convictions . Service for Dues By the logic of ethics , Hoffa would no longer be president of the nation 's largest union . But it is the logic of power that governs . The union 's members have raised no great outcry against him , It is unlikely that they will . The vast majority appear to regard the union as sort of an automobile club . They are n't much concerned with the ethics of the men who run it as long as they get satisfactory service in exchange for their dues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as the Teamsters union , it is difficult to see how a rank-and-file revolt could succeed . To be sure , a dissident Philadelphia group of union members has filed suit to recover from Hoffa and the 14 other members of the union 's General Executive Board the money spent by the union to pay Hoffa 's legal fees . As a result of this , John F. English , secretary.treasurer of the union , has denied Hoffa further access to the union 's $42 million treasury to pay his lawyers . The success of the dissidents so far , however , appears to be the result of the fear of Hoffa 's fellow board members that they may be held personally liable for repayment under the Landrum-Griffin Act if they ' allow further allocation of union funds to pay Hoffa 's legal expenses . It is not evidence of a revolt by the board against him . Under the union 's constitution , only the board is in a position to set in motion the machinery to oust Hoffa as president of the union between conventions . A number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disenchanted with Hof fa and would like to get rid of him . Their feeling is shared by a goodly number of local union officials who resent Hoffa 's incursions against their local autonomy and are tired of the notoriety he has brought to the union that has meant defeats in organizing campaigns and diminished political influence . Board 's View The board could presumably try Hoffa . But it would take 10 members  --  a two-thirds majority ? to find him guilty . Even then , he could appeal to the convention . The next one is not scheduled until 1966 . The board members are convinced that Hoffa 's appeal from the Chattanooga conviction will be disposed of before he could be removed from office under union procedures . So they prefer to wait to see whether he will go to jail . For his part , Hoffa does not seem inclined to provoke the board . He did not , for example , ask the board at this week 's meeting for permission to resume drawing on the union treasury to pay his legal fees . He did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his stewardship of the union . The result is a kind of truce between Hoffa and the board members . The terms of the truce were implied in a statement signed by all 13 vice presidents of the union and Mr. English here this week . The Statement The statement said , in effect , that the board did not intend to act against Hoffa while his appeals were pending . Significantly , it avoided any expression of support for Hoffa . And it explicitly reserved to the board the right " to take such measures as are necessary " to preserve the union 's integrity . This truce appears likely to continue until Hoffa either is cleared on appeal or the prison gates awing shut behind him . Convictions                     