@@724264

txt The report of the President 's Commission on the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy will be made public tomorrow . The White House has set 6:30 PM. , Eastern daylight time , as the official release time . Copies of the report have been made available to the major news media to permit worldwide distribution of its contents . The New York Times will print the report in full in Monday 's editions . Most radio and television networks plan to broadcast the report 's major findings immediately . The commission of seven men , headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren , is expected to confirm that Lee Harvey Oswald was the President 's assassin in Dal11 las on ' Nov. 22 and that he acted alone . As previously . : reported the Federal Bureau of Investigation is understood to have named Oswald as the-assassin beyond doubtein krepert to the commis sion Dec. - .9 ; ' Dallas police officials also have named Oswald as the President 's assassin . The:commission is also expected to confirm , that " Jack L. Ruby , who killed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was tried , in , for the ! murder of Oswald , found guilty and sentenced to death , The1 sentence has been appealed . ? The Government is making a full-scale effort to give the findings of the commission not only to the American people but also to people throughout the rest of the world . A United States Information Agency spokesman ' said that the agency was cognizant of doubts and rumors about the assassination and its aftermath that received unusual currency abroad . He said that the agency would broadcast over the Voice of America and send out over its new wires lengthy extracts from the report as well as explanatory news material . The spokesman said that the commission report would re-i ceive " top play " in all the Gov-1 ernment 's information services.I He said that the report would be allowed to " speak for itself " and that no attempt would be made to interpret it . In addition , in cooperation with the State Department , ' the agency has undertaken to distribute 25,000 copies of the commission report to American embassies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 66 reading rooms and 258 various types of information centers tnroughout the world . In the United States , the official report will go on sale at 8:30 A.M. Monday at , the retail hook store of the . Superintendent of Documents in the Government Printing Office in Washington . The price will be 83.25 for hardbound copies and 52.50 for paperback copies . More Data to Come Certain book publishers have announced plans to reprint and issue copies of the report . as swiftly as possible after the official release date . The New York Times plans , in addition to printing the text in its Monday editions , a special soft-cover edition of the report to be published by Bantam Books for $1 . The Bantam edition is expected to be available within two days after the release of the report and will include an introduction by Harrison E. Salisbury , an assistant managing editor of The Times . The report to be released on Monday will not include all of the official material prepared by the commission in its investigation . In addition to the report , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission has prepared extensive appendixes including testimony from witnesses and police and medical findings . The appendixes will be made available to the public at a later date . President . Johnson , who received a copy of the commission report on Thursday , is understood to have taken it with him for reading at his Austin ranch over the weekend . After the White House ceremony in which he turned the report over to the President , Chief Justice Warren was asked whether the presentation ended the I commission 's task . The Chief Justice answered with an emphatic " yes . " The report is being ; released almost 10 months to the day after the commission was appointed by President Johnson on Nov. 29 , 1963 , to ascertain and appraise tie events . that took place in Dallas on Nov. 22. when . President Kennedy was assassinated . In addition to Chief Justice Warren , members of the commission were Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia ; Senator John Sherman Cooper , Republican of Ken ' tucky ; Representative Hale Boggs , Democrat of Louisiana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allen W. Dulles , ' former director of the Central Intelligence Agency , and John J. MeCloy , who has held many high posts in Government and was President Kennedy 's disarmament adviser . The commission held its first meeting Dec. 5 in the National Archives Building . With the help of a staff , headed by J. Lee Rankin , former Solicitor General , who served as general counsel , the commission obtaMed statements in person and in writing from hundreds of witnesses connected in some way with the assassination and the events surrounding it . Among the witnesses who testified in person were Mrs. John F. Kennedy , the President 's widow , and Lee Harvey Oswald 's widow , Mrs. Marina Oswald . Mrs. Oswald has said in a television interview that the " facts tell me that Lee ' shot Kennedy . " Oswald 's mother , Mrs. Marguerite Oswald , Ruby and many officials of Dallas and the Federal Government also testified personally . - The commission also heard ? testimony by officials of Dallas and of the Federal Government , including of State Dean Rusk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agency ; J. Edgar Hoover . director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , and James J. Rowley , chief of the Secret Service , which is charged with the protection of the President . In an unusual act of cooperation , the Soviet Union turned over to the State Department documents from their files that concerned Oswald .                     