@@724343

txt London What is happening in Britain is not just a change of government : it is a revolution . When that revolution is over there should be no need of tariff protection ever again for Great Britain , in the Labor government 's view . But there should be every chance of rapid and continuous economic growth . This is the message which Douglas Jay , president of the Board of Trade , takes to Geneva where he faces Britain 's trading partners in the European Free Trade Association ( EFTA ) . All of these partners are either more or less perturbed by the Labor government 's 15 percent extra tariff on imports . It is also the meaning behind the quick-fire winter budget being prepared for Wednesday presentation by James Callaghan , Chancellor of the Exchequer , at No. 11 Downing Street . Labor Strategy That budget is to formalize the introduction of the tariff . But it is expected also to see the introduction of a range of entirely new taxes , starting possibly with a full-scale capital gains tax . Labor 's revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain 's protective wall , is expected to bring payments into balance with a bump . ? The new taxes are to transfer much of the weight of a more complete welfare society from the shoulders of earners to those of companies and capitalists . ? The more complete welfare society , with an almost totally free national health service again , higher pensions , controlled rents , better housing , and an improved educational system , is aimed at releasing the average individual 's energies so he or she can at last give full attention to work , living , art , and leisure . Gamble Involved The theory is that Britain 's preoccupation instead of making do or muddling through can in future be productivity , in the fullest sense of that word . A successful " incomes policy , " in the Labor view , at last will also become possible . This , combined with increased automation and the reinvigoration of areas where job opportunities currently are below average , will makereat Britain competitive once again and fully productive and ? so Mr. Jay will explain ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commonwealth partners . There is , of course , a gigantic gamble involved . For were Labor now unable to persuade trades unionists to give effect to an incomes policy ; were the new taxes , plans , and controls to reduce either productive efficiency or total output instead of to increase them ; were the extra spending on welfare , automation , housing , health , and education to prove inflationary  --  then a high level of protection would be more or less permanent . This would have deep repercussions on all EFTA members , as well as on Britain itself , obviously enough . Indeed , shock waves would spread out clear around the globe . The revolution would have failed . Pa r t v Convinced But no government , of course , sees itself as a failure . And the British Labor Party is genuinely convinced that its revolution is going to succeed  --  and fast . Since the tariff surcharge is strictly temporary , Mr. Jay is to explain in Geneva , it must be nondiscriminatory . The acceleration of tariff cuts within EFTA to compensate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same reason . But EFTA can go ahead to its original schedule , it is said , with another 10 percent tariff cut for members this January and complete internal free trade in 1967 . By that time the surcharge , it is hoped by Laborites , will have long since been forgotten .                     