@@724571

txt New York The basic steel industry faces the uncertainty of complications in contract bargaining as a result of the close and controversial election in the United Steelworkers of America . But union spokesmen say there 's no reason for pessimism about an agreement before a May 1 strike deadline . Within the next two or three days , there could be unofficial results indicating the election of I. W. Abel , now secretary-treasurer , or reelect ion of David J. McDonald . But the narrowness of the margin is almost certain to leave the actual outcome in doubt , possibly until the end of the month . Litigation is virtually certain , Both sides are prepared to act quickly on a basis of widespread reports of irregularities in voting and vote counting . Canvassing Set Under toe steelworker 's union election procedure , tally sheets are clue in Pittsburgh by Feb. 19 . The international union 's official tellers , supervised by the Honest Ballot Association . will begin canvassing the returns immediately , according to present plans . Because of the procedures required under the constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union spokesmen said it might be Feb. 25 or later before an official count is announced and either Mr. McDonald or Mr. Abel is declared a winner to the tellers ' satisfaction . If . as expected . victory is by a slim margin , challenges and litigation could go on for weeks  --  or months . Problems Seen Generally , steelworkers union sources say that if the election can be decided by the end of March , or if contesting forces work out a mutually satisfactory relationship for bargaining before then , there will be adequate time for negotiating a contract . Traditionally , bargaining has been in a 60-clay period . However . the longer bargaining is delayed beyond April 1 , the more problems will pile up . " We 're not worrying about that . At least , not yet , " a union spokesman said . The steel industry is much less optimistic about a McDonald-Abel bargaining rapprochement . It says that negotiations now hinge on what kind of legal proceedings are brought in the election , and on how bitter and serious the court disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry will renew its appeals for an extension of the May I deadline . Meanwhile , there is sonic easing of worries about inventory building as a hedge against a steel strike . With the current pace of the national economy , steel is being used about as fast as it can be delivered . Stockpiles are n't growing at the pace the industry feared they would .                     