@@724168

txt Washington , Aug. 14 ? President Johnson intends to keep hands ' off of the New York senatorial race which Atty . Gen. Robert F. Kennedy reportedly has decided to enter , it was learned today . An unimpeachable source said the President has made no , recommendation and does not intend to . The source said Kennedy has not . consulted Johnson about the matter . The President , the source said , believes that it is a matter entirely up to the people of New York and . Kennedy . Loss of Votes Feared Disclosure of the President 's views was seen as a move to inform those New York Democratic leaders who do not want Kennedy : in the race of Johnson 's position . These leaders . it Was ' learned , did not want Kennedy but thought Johnson did . Another source said that Johnson fear 's that Kennedy 's intervention in New York could cost the party 's national ticket votes . , Published-reports in the last week have said the attorney general , had made up his mind to enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post . Kennedy has made no comment on these reports . Uses Two States A published report this morning said that Johnson was in sympathy with Kennedy 's ambition to be a senator from New York . It said a prominent New York political figure Shad said this and that this had been confirmed by sources , close to the White House . The source revealing Johnson 's views was apparently acting to counteract this report . Earlier this summer , Kennedy said he would not make the race . But after Johnson ruled him out of contention ? fpr the Vice Presidency , he reportedly reconsidered this decision . Kennedy is a resident of Virginia and maintains his . legal voting address in his home state of Massachusetts , from which he will be a delegate to the Democratic national convention . Not Resident of N. Y. Kennedy is not a resident of New York state and this is the main controversy about him making the race . Nothing in the Constitution prevents him from running , but some of his opponents question his right under state laws . Rep. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate nomination , has said he will file suit to block Kennedy if Kennedy announces he will make the race . The seat being contested in the general election in November is held presently by Sen. Kenneth Keating , a Republican .                     