@@728048

txt Local and state policemen moved cautiously through the streets of Hartford 's North End last night and early today making scores of arrests in an attempt to quell racial disorders that began here Monday night . At midnight , five hours after a curfew was imposed , 155 persons had been arrested , most of them for curfew violation in the predominantly black and Puerto Rican section . These figures brought the total number of arrests since Monday to more than 300 . Scores of persons had been injured , including a policeman shot in the thigh , and more than 60 stores were damaged . At 12:30 A.M. , one of two men who were allegedly looting a neighborhood grocery at Main and Canton Streets- was shat by the police and wounded in the buttocks . He was arrested and taken to a hospital . The other man was also arrested . The widspread looting of Monday night was not repeated but sporadic instances of firebombing continued in the section . Policemen also reported some sniping . The disorders began Monday when youths attacked a fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship between firemen , who said they were pelted with bottles and rocks when they answered alarms , and Puerto , Puerto Ricans , who said the firemen used racial slurs . State troopers patrolled with 12-gauge - shotguns , and two , battalions of National Guardsmen stood by on alert in nearby armories. - The major streets of the North End were generally clear , but people in the windows of buildings taunted the police and occasionally threw things at them . It was the second major disturbance in Hartford this summer , and , according to a number of city officials , the worst in the city 's history . After a tour of the troubled areas just before 11 P.M. , Mayor Antonina P. Uccello called the disorder " absolutely horrible and appalling . " " I want the people in this city to be assured that we will not stand for the type of things that happened in June and last night , " she said . " I think the curfew is bringing down the number of incidents , " saidPolice Chief Thomas J. Vaughan . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one instance of sniping had been confirmed . It occurred around 8 P.M. in the South Ei.d , outside the main trouble area , when a man on a roof pinned a patrolman under an automobile with rifle fire . The sniper was caught . Near midnight , North Main Street , the principal trouble area , was deserted except for stragglers  --  who were quickly apprehended for violating the curfew  --  and scores of policemen in riot helmets and gas masks . Police vehicles were stationed at every major intersection , and the streets were littered with empty tear-gas canisters , dented garbage cans , . overturned telephone booths and broken glass from the windows of more than 60 stores that had been damaged . Fire , Station Pelted The violence began at 7:20 P.M. Monday when a crowd of youths surrounded a fire station at Main and Belden Streets . According to the police , the crowd hurled rocks and bricks through the windows and attempted to force their way inside . A contingent dispersed the ' crowd , largely Puerto Rican , with a 20-minute barrage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas and gangs of youths roamed the littered streets until the early morning hours , dispersing and regrouping under frequent barrages of tear gas . Shortly after ' 1 A.M. , 15 policemen , one of them armed with a high-powered rifle , stationed themselves at Main and Kennedy greets and shot at what they said were snipers who were occasionally silhouetted on the roof and in the windows of a four. - story tenement building . At a news conference yesterday , City Manager Elisha C. Freedman said that instances of sniper fire had not yet been substantiated , but policemen and reporters on the scene during the night said there were numerous exchanges of gunfire . The policeman who was shot in the left thigh was identified as Antonio Frasanelli , 46 years old , of South Windsor . He was struck at 1 A.M. when he was among a squad of policemen firing tear gas and bullets down Kennedy Street . Mr. Frasanelli was reported in satisfactory condition yesterday at Hartford Hospital . Four other policemen were Injured . One was cut on the throat , one was kicked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head with missiles . At least eight persons were admitted to hospitals . Among them were two firemen , one with a cut on the leg and the other with a back injury . Rumors added to the tension . Yesterday the slums were swap ' with a rumor that a youth had The New York Times Sept. 3 , 1969 Heavy line bounds the area of Hartford disturbances . died late this afternoon after being shot by a patrolman Monday . This was denied by the police . Throughout Monday night , as the looting and firebombing gained momentum , policemen used 12-gauge shotguns , hundreds of tearitas canisters , and .38-caliber pistols to quell the disorders . At midnight , a wedge of 15 policemen with orders to arrest anyone on the street marched north on Main Street from the intersection of Albany Avenue , which marks the beginning of the area 's boundary . They crossed a sea of broken glass , shining under tones of light from street lamps . They were met with obscenities , hoots and bottles from the dark night air . When they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intersection that had been set afire . Flames reached 4 feet into the air , and gained height as they were fed with armfuls of garbage carried by small darting figures . As the night wore on , fires cropped up in street after street . One blaze , which Fire Chief Edward M. Curtin Jr . attributed to a firebomb , destroyed the interior of a twostory red-brick branch of the , Hartford Public Library . An-I other fire destroyed the Green Hat restaurant on Albany Avenue , where the looting was intense . Firemen , who were pelted with bottles and bricks when ) their trucks pulled to the scene of a blaze , reported that a band ) of vandals had attempted to ignite the gasoline tanks at a service station at Walnut and Edwards Street . Yesterday , most of the stores along a mile stretch of Albany Avenue remained closed . Their smashed windows alternated with the hoarded-up fronts of stores destroyed in last June 's disturbances that had never re-opened , Speradic looting continued . On Main Street people carried bags of groceries past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old , was seen carrying a six-pack of soda , a box of crackers and a broken container of detergent that left a trail of powder behind him . Policemen in blue-and-white squad cars with windows caged in wire mesh were stationed at every intersection on Main Street . From time to time they would lob tear gas at youths who darted out from behind the buildings with their arms cocked . Angry knots of onlookers , rubbing their smarting eyes , stood on the corner . The main streets leading to the slums were blockaded by the police , but white motorists who got in through other roads were stopped , pulled from their cars and pummeled . Half a dozen cars were set on fire and columns of smoke rose lazily into the haze . Yesterday afternoon a weeping woman in a yellow dress was escorted to police headquarters . The policeman with her said she had been driving in the area and was pulled from her car by a crowd of Negro youths . " I am Latvian , " she said . " I did n't know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a friend . " Suspects Arraigned Upstairs on the second floor , in the Circuit Court , those arrested on the night before were being arraigned on charges of looting , loitering and breach of the peace . Most of them were released on bond . The curfew was declared yesterday morning by the City Manager . Under it , anyone on the street is liable to arrest and all restaurants , theaters , gasoline stations and stores are to be closed . In the downtown section of the city , which is close to the North End , stores that were to be open late last night to make up for Labor Day closings , shut their doors at 6 P.M. The imposition of the curfew followed a declaration of a state of emergency by Deputy Mayor George B. Kinsella . Mr. Kinsella , who termed the disorders " the worst in the city 's history , " acted in the absence of Mayor Uccello , who was returning from a vacation in Maine . Mayor Uccello , a Republican , is a candidate for Mayor in the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kinsella . Yesterday afternoon an emergency session of the City Council quickly passed an ordinance that had been pending before it to define in detail the powers of the City Manager during a state of emergency . Mayor Uccello returned to the city at 5 P.M. yesterday and went promptly to police headquarters . Although she would not comment on the cause of the disorders , she added that evidence indicated that the earlier disorders , those in June , were " organized . " At that time a three-day curfew was effective in curbing looting , vandalism and violence that swept the North End on two successive nights . A total of 316 persons was arrested during the outbursts , which seemed to be confined largely to Negroes and which saw no , sniping .                     