@@722347

txt EVIAN-LES-BAINS , France , March 18 ? A cease-fire ending the Algerian war was signed here today by French and Algerian rebel delegations . The document terminating the rebellion after seven years , four ' , months and eighteen days will go into effect throughout Al- ' geria at noon tomorrow ( 6 A. M. Eastern standard time ) . The signing took place at 5:30 P. M. The accord ended the long fight between the French Republic and the Algerian rebels ' National Liberation Front . for control of the vast North African territory . It opened a new phase in the resistance of the Secret Army Organization , made up of extremist Europeans , to a policy certain to lead to an independent , predominantly Moslem Algeria . Referendum Provided Only after France and the nationalists have mastered the bloody terror unleashed by the Secret Army will the settlement become really operative . The accord covers the process by which Algerians will vote on their own political future in four to six months and the cooperation between France and the independent Algeria that will result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rights of the 1,000,000 Europeans living among 9,000 , - j000 Moslems ; an interim political regime ; provisions for a continued French military presence in Algeria ; joint exploitation of oil and other minerals in the Sahara , and a broad amnesty for military and political prisoners on both sides . Joxe Announces Accord The accord was announced here shortly after 6:30 P. M. by Louis Joxe , French Minister for Algerian Affairs . M. Joxe has shepherded it through four open conferences and one secret meeting since June , 1960 . The settlement came at the end of twelve days of hard bargaining here with a rebel delegation headed by Belkacem Krim , Deputy Premier and Interior Minister of the rebels ' Provisional Government . An hour and a half after the announcement here , President de Gaulle went on the state radio and television networks in France and Algeria to proclaim the settlement and to call for massive backing of the Government 's Algerian policy in a referendum to be held , probably early next month , in France . At Aubonne , in Switzerland , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the accord . It coincided in all essentials with the French announcement . M. Joxe 's statement gave no // details of the ninety-three-page document containing the blueprint for Algeria 's future . The French radio and television networks and the French News Agency later gave a summary of the main points . Both were silent on the identity of the twelve men agreed upon by the two delegations to man the Provisional Executive . This will handle Algeria 's internal affairs , under continued French sovereignty , between the cease-fire and formation of an Algerian government as a result of free elections . It was reported by informed sources that the President would be Abderramane Fares , former President of the old Algerian Assembly , who is now in a French prison for having served as banker for rebel funds collected in France . Other members were reported to be Dr. Chawki Mostefei , rebel representative in Rabat , and a Dr. Hamibou , who is in a similar post in Casablanca . Among the twelve were nominees of both France and the rebel Government , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest information cast doubt on - previous reports that each group had four of the seats . The executive will be named by French decree , probably within the next fortyeight hours . Also in doubt was the identity of the High Commissioner who will exercise French sovereignty until after the selfdetermination referendum and elections for an Algerian constituent assembly . The first nominee , Pierre Billotte , a left-wing Gaullist and retired general , has withdrawn , apparently in disagreement with some aspects of the settlement . Under discussion for the post is Maxime Roux , second man in the present French Administration in Algeria ; Georges Gorse , Secretary of State in the French Foreign Ministry , and Christian Fouchet , currently Ambassador to Denmark . M. Joxe , with Robert Buron , Minister of Public Works , and Jean de Brogilie , Secretary of State for the Sahara , his associates in the negotiations , met the press officially for the first time since the final discussions began in the closely guarded lintel du Parc here March 7 . He made a brief statement listing the headings of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Evian Conference . " It was less than a formal treaty because France recognizes the rebel organization only as the directing agency of the fighting forces , not as a government . French and foreign observers were unanimous in praising the patience , good humor and diplomatic skill M. Joxe had displayed . He confessed that he lost half his voice in the course of the last twelve days . This apparently was a result of the application of his diplomatic maxim that the essential thing in difficult negotiation is to keep talking . With the closing of the conference Evian prepared to slump back into the comfortable off-season ease of a summer resort . For the last two weeks the town on the south shore of Lake Geneva has been heavily invested by security forces deployed to frustrate Secret Army attempts to interfere with the talks . The Algerians , unwilling to live in Fiance as long as they were at war with her , established themselves across the Lake near Rolle , in Switzerland , and commuted daily by helicopter , boat or auto . The final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the signing . The rebels took off by helicopter Eor the last time a few minutes after 6 o'clock .                     