@@724732

txt Saigon A willingness to work with all factions within South Vietnam characterizes the administration of Premier Phan Huay Quat . And this time the moment might be right in harried Vietnam . The Quat government assumed office in the wake of months of political chaos in South Vietnam . There has been coup , countercoup , would-be-coup , and even , as one humorist put it , the convertible coup . Both at home and abroad , as the slim Dr. Quat took up the worn reins of the premiership , there was disillusionment , skepticism , cynicism . To capture the trust and support of the peasantry seemed an impossible task  --  especially in light of the Viet Cong campaign to eliminate good and honest administrators wherever they emerged . After some two months in office for the South Vietnam unity ' Premier Reproduced with permission of the Quat government , the problems are still tremendous . Politically , nobody doubts that South Vietnam is at the crossroads . If this government falls , few can predict what chaos may follow . Yet as day succeeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasks untoppled , one is beginning to detect the first faint gleams of hope that political stability may be returning to South Vietnam . Quiet strength seen There are rumors and offstage rumblings about coups to come . The military situation is unimproved . Dr. Quat 's administration has made barely a dent in the task of bringing good and trusted government to the people of South Vietnam . Overnight these hopes could be dashed . Yet , quietly it seems to be gaining ground and confidence . It is a government with a new character , and a new mood about it . The old Saigon hands , hoary with cynicism , grudgingly give it credit for progress . The consensus seems to be that it is concentrating on teamwork more than any other previous government , and that this is what South Vietnam needs most at this time . Dr. Quat himself is a soft-spoken man , slender and graceful like most Vietnamese . He is a medical doctor , an orchid-fancier , and as one talks to him behind his vast prime ministerial desk it is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one might imagine to be requisite in a leader to rally a tired nation . Here is not the dynamism , the ruthlessness , the charisma , of an Asian Churchill , Kennedy , or Johnson , for example . Yet perhaps therein lies Dr. Quat 's strength . For South Vietnam has experimented with strong personalized rule and found it wanting . The country has rejected both civilian strongmen like President Diem , and military strongmen like Lt. Gen. Nguyen Khanh . Its two main religious groups , Buddhists and Roman Catholics , are jealous and wary , suspicious of any move to dominate . There are signs the top military men who make up the Armed Forces Council are tired of involvement in power politics . They may be seeking a balanced command , rather than a new strongman . Thus this may he Dr. Quat 's oppOrtunity . Soundings taken As he gains confidence , the new premier is taking some relatively adventurous steps . He has decided to remove military men from civilian ministries . In addition the Quat government is moving toward formation of a proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , formed earlier this year to help establish a legislature , is edging cautiously forward . The council is sounding out various segments of public opinion to see how elections might be held and a legislature formed . Throughout April delegations from the council are supposed to fan out throughout South Vietnam 's 45 provinces , assessing the mood of the public . It is suggested that in light of the security situation some of the representatives in the new legislature may be appointed rather than elected . One main job of the legislature would be to draft a constitution for the country . All this may sound mild enough . But against South Vietnam 's roiled political background , even to talk of elections and a representative legislature is a bold move . Thus , while Premier Quat 's government is still beset by many problems , there are signs it is gaining momentum . And in a forward direction .                     