@@722271

txt Detroit , Feb. ** Romney , 54 year old industrial wizard who popularized the compact car in America , has suddenly become a dazzling political phenomenon in the Republican firmament . Millions of Americans are wondering whether he will turn out to be a star of the first magnitude or only a meteor , incandescent but transient . If Romney is not elected governor of Michigan , for which he is expected to announce his candidacy next Saturday , he will fade away . If he is elected , he will be a rival of Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona and Gov . Nelson Rockefeller of New York for the Presidential nomination in 1964 . In recent weeks , national magazines , press services , and newspapers from coast to coast have focused attention on Romney and occupied every moment of his time that could be diverted from his business , civic , and family responsibilities . Photographers have trailed him day and night , even on his daybreak constitutional canters over the snow covered fairways of the Bloomfield Hills golf course . Republican politicians identified with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party are looking hopefully upon Romney as a possibility to stop Sen. Goldwater , whom they consider too conservative , in the event of Gov . Rockefeller 's failure to win the nomination . Some Republicans believe Rockefeller 's impending divorce will hurt his chances . Recalls Wendell Willkie 's Rise Romney 's sudden achievement of national celebrity as a result of publicity is reminiscent of Wendell Willkie 's elevation from obscurity to the Republican Presidential nomination in 1940 . Eastern newspapers and magazines promoted Willie because they regarded Thomas E. Dewey of New York , Sen. Robert A. Taft of Ohio , and Sen. Arthur , H. Vandenberg of Michigan , all contenders for the nomination , as isolationists who would not carry on President Roosevelt 's war intervention policy . Willkie was a lobbyist for the electric utility industry in Washington when Romney , a much younger man , was lobbyist for the Aluminum Company of America , but there the resemblance ends . Willkie 's pretended principles were held so lightly that he could and did dismiss them , after his defeat , as so much " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Auto Workers , who has fought many a verbal duel with Romney , both in public and at the bargaining table , credits him with sincerity of conviction . Moreover , Washington pundits and magazine editors of the socialist-labor , welfare-state liberal persuasion who are acclaiming Romney as " the brightest horse in the stable " would recoil in horror if the political principles he professed in interviews with this reporter were put into practice . Romney , like Rockefeller , disdains labels , but in political theory he is a Jeffersonian liberal . He is a foe of the welfare state and of all excessive concentrations of power , whether in Big Government , Big Business or Big Labor . He is a champion of private enterprise , of free competition , of voluntary cooperation on the part of labor and management and all other elements of society , and of primary reliance upon local and state governments for social welfare . He studies and fully agrees with the economic philosophy of the late Prof. Henry C. Simons , one of the brightest stars of the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maverick All of this makes Romney closer to Goldwater than to Rockefeller , at least in principle . Many conservative Republicans , however , look askance at Romney . They are disturbed about his proposal to limit the share of any industry that could be retained by any single company to 35 per cent , or 25 per cent in the case of companies engaged in several industries , such as General Motors and Ford . They regard him as a maverick , a sort of nonpartisan Republican . Romney made himself unpopular with Republican regulars in the 1960 campaign . In a speech in Miami , June 30 , 1960 , he said : " Both parties are headed in exactly the same direction and will reach the same destination . The difference is a question of who is going to drive and whether we are going to go 30 miles an hour or 50 miles an hour . " Critical of Steel Pact On Oct. 14 , 1960 , Romney sent a " plague on both your houses " open letter to Vice President Richard Nixon and Sen. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees of extended federal power " and ignoring " excessive private power . " He stung Nixon particularly by denouncing " pattern-fixing wage settlements resulting from truces between corporate and union power blocs which feed the cost-price spiral , block economic growth and produce unemployment , reduce exports and increase imports , undermine the dollar , and expose the nation to centralized economic control . " As an example , he mentioned the steel strike settlement of January , 1960 , effected by Nixon and James Mitchell , secretary of labor in the Eisenhower administration . Asking Nixon and Kennedy to denounce " excessive private power , " particularly labor union monopolies , was like asking them to withdraw from the Presidential race . They answered Romney politely but noncommittally . Yet Romney attributes his present place in the political sunlight to Nixon . He met Nixon in 1956 at the National Auto Show dinner in New York 's Waldorf-Astoria hotel . Romney was president of the Automobile Manufacturers association and the Vice President was the main speaker . They talked before and after the dinner and later in Washington . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rally in Detroit last May , he urged Romney to run for governor of Michigan , but could get no commitment . Presents Views to Ike In December , Romney enlisted Nixon 's help to get former President Eisenhower as a speaker at Michigan 's constitutional convention in Lansing . Romney is chairman of Citizens for Michigan , a nonpartisan citizens ' group , which was responsible for the authorization and election of the constitutional convention , and is a vice president of the convention . Nixon told Romney to express his political views to Eisenhower and Romney did , en route by private airplane from New York ' to Lansing and from Lansing to Augusta , Ga . Later , Eisenhower told Rep. William Miller R. , N. Y. , chairman of the Republican national committee , according to Miller , that Romney is , " a very impressive fellow with a very articulate , pleasant personality , and attractive look , jog . " Meanwhile , Nixon , having announced his own candidacy for governor of California and his intention , if elected , to serve a full , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican leaders as a far more desirable possibility for the Presidential nomination than Goldwater . Almost overnight the Romney boom was launched by a publicity campaign unlike anything this country has seen since the Willkie episode . Romney is president , chairman of the board , and general manager of the American Motors eorporation . He is president of the Detroit stake of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints Mormon ) and a former missionary of his faith in Scotland and England . He is a descendant of the Morman pioneers who made the long trek from Nauvoo , to Utah , beginning in 1846 . He was born in Chihauhau , Mexico , July 8 , 1907 , tho his parents were born in the United States . This makes him legally a " natural born citizen " of the United States , hence eligible for the Presidency . Has Four Children Romney is married and has two daughters and two sons . He is lean and athletic of stature , five feet , 11. inches tall . His weight , now 170 , has n't varied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair , parted slightly off-center , has a corona of silver . He thinks his eyes are hazel but to some they are steel blue and to others gray-green . He has a pugnacious chin but a warm , friendly smile and the engaging bonhomie of a natural born politician . Anticipating his candidacy for the governorship , Democrats already are deriding him as " Gorgeous George " and a " summa cum laude graduate of the Dale Carnegie school of success . " The latter gibe alludes not only to his buoyant optimism and debonair , glad-hand demeanor but also to the fact that his college education was both irregular and incomplete . He attended the Latter Day Saints University High school and Junior college at Salt Lake City and later studied briefly at the University of Utah and George Washington university , Washington , D. C. Romney is articulate and affable but not as easy to interview as Goldwater or Rockefeller . He expresses his political and economic philosophy with eloquence and obvious conviction but he is not as well informed on national and international issues as Goldwater or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about this country 's lagging economic growth , the wage-price spiral , the chronic deficit in our international payments balance , the steady erosion of our gold supply , and the concern of European bankers for the stability of the dollar . But Goldwater and Rockefeller are far more familiar with specific facts and figures on the national economy . Avoids Direct Answers Moreover , Goldwater and Rockefeller are ready with yes or no answers to all questions on national and international affairs , whereas Romney declines to say explicitly , for example , whether his anti-welfare state philosophy would exclude a federal . department of urban affairs , as proposed by President Kennedy ; whether the federal government should help provide medical care for the aged ; or whether aid to education is a proper function of the federal government . He says he has been too busy running his company and meeting his civic responsibilities in Michigan to keep in close touch with specific issues in Washington . This explanation is plausible enough , but Romney seems a little more guarded , a little more prone to circumlocuation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor he is not expected to be opposed for the Republican nomination . Michigan has not elected a Republican governor since 1946 . G. Mennen ( Soapy Williams , a six-termer , was succeeded by Gov . Swainson in 1961 . A Detroit News poll , published Jan. 23 , indicated that Swainson would receive 50.7 per cent of the vote and Romney 41.9 per cent in an election today . The remaining 7.4 per cent of the poll sample was undecided . Romney expresses confidence that if he decides to run he can overcome Swainson 's apparent lead by putting on an aggressive campaign . ( Tomorrow 's report discusses Romney 's vie iv of excessive power concentrations as a departure from constitutional principles and a menace to our survival as a free nation. )                     