@@721804

txt New York , April 24 Special - Two Canadians who were in Cuba during last week 's abortive invasion and 59 other passengers , many of whom hid their Identities but hinted darkly at terror , arrived here today on the first flight out of Havana in nearly two weeks . It was a Cubana Airlines plane , which carried a crew of 11 in addition to the 61 passengers . Four hours after landing it started a return trip with 60 passengers but developed mechanical trouble and returned to Idlewild airport . Public Attitude Changes The Canadians , who freely identified themselves , were the most talkative of the passengers . They said they were Henry A. Dolansky and Henry Marvin , both of Montreal , president and vice president , respectively , of a Montreal cigar manufacturing firm . They said the unsuccessful invasion took place while they were in Cuba to buy tobacco . " Before the bombing of Havana on April 15 , it was ' yes ' and no ' with most of the people we talked to , " said Dolansky . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Castro . " Marvin said the Cuban people he talked with told him that whoever had done the bombing of a helpless city " deserved no support from them . " Allowed to Move Freely Dolansky and Marvin said they moved about Havana freely in the 10 days they were there and had no trouble about leaving . They were not allowed to make telephone calls , but Dolansky said he received a call from his wife inquiring about his safety . Kinji Kawarnura , a correspondent in Washington for the Asahi newspaper of Tokyo , described Havana as " a very dark city , " with " everybody scared . " He said young militiamen with rifles were roaming the streets under obvious orders to shoot persons acting suspiciously . He said he was not molested but thought this was because the Cubans mistook him for a Chinese Communist , asserting the Cubans waved at him and called him " Chino " whenever he walked about . Observes Many Arrests Kawamura estimated 80,000 to 100,000 persons have been arrested and said he witnessed many arrests on the streets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jails to take food to prisoners . He said the " majority " of the Cuban people are supporting Castro and believe the invasion has justified this support , but said he himself left Cuba because of censorship of his dispatches . Quotations from other passengers included : " There is nothing but an atmosphere of terror in Cuba . " " I feel so good , so free , and so happy to be here . " Bobby Cedeno , 15 , born in Cuba but now a United States citizen living in Elizabeth , N. J. , said he was returning from a visit to relatives in Havana and that he heard much anti-American talk . He said he also heard that " thousands and thousands of people " are prisoners In Cuba .                     