@@725417

txt A quick solution to the cause of the Gemini 8 failure appeared in the offing today . An investigator at the Manned Spacecraft Center here said that technicians might be able to unravel the mystery in a few days . There had been fears that the investigation might drag on for weeks or months , seriously setting back the nation 's space exploration timetable . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration , however , maintained an official silence on the progress of the inquiry and , would not offer any theories on what happened . Human Error Suspected There were strong indications that human error , either on the ground or in the air , might have led to the trouble . Accoraing to one source , human error is , " definitely " suspected . Other possibilities that are considered likely include a mechanical or electrical problem in maneuvering rocket systems of the Gemini or the Agena or a failure in ? the command system . The Gemini 8 astronauts were forced to make an emergency splashdown in the Western Pacific Wednesday night when their spacecraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a planned three-day mission . On their fifth revolution , they had linked their Gemini with the Agena rocket for the world 's first docking in space . " - Trouble again plagued the astronauts , Neil A. Armstrong and Maj. David R. Scott of the Air Force , as they headed home to Cape Kennedy . An engine in their Air Force jet plane failed during their flight from Okinawa to Hawaii . New Evidence Studied Mechanics replaced the engine at Hawaii . The astronauts are expected to arrive in Cape Kennedy tomorrow morning . The Agena , their docking partner , was still flying a wide circular orbit with no indication of any trouble . At the control center here , engineers began working with fresh evidence from tape recordings flown in from  --  the Hawaii tracking station . These contained the instrument data that had been recorded during the crisis and relayed by radio to the ground ' during Gemini 's pass over the station . Such data would include pressure rates , temperatures , stresses and strains and other conditions of all systems aboard . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after examining these tapes it may be that the Hawaii data holds some of the key . clues . Engineers also examined wordfor-word , figure-by-figure a the taped conversation between the control center and tracking Ships and the Gemini 8 astronauts . They will begin hearing the astronauts ' report tomorrow . Computer Is Studied One special object of investigation today was the computer at Houston that supplied data and commands for the Gemini 's on-board computer . At one point while Gemini 8 was preparing for its first maneuvers in combination with the Agena , flight controllers were getting " read-outs " from their computer that indicated it may have been out of order . Christopher C. Craft Jr. , assistant director for flight operations , said that an investigation showed that the commands sent to the . Gemini " were exactly correct and exactly as we wanted them . " In an interview , Mr. Craft cautioned against making conjectures of what happened based merely bn the published transcripts of conversations during the crisis . " The pilots ' . interpretations are not necessarily correct , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wrong . " . Malfunction Is Weighed Because the failure occurred immediately after Major Scott sent an electronic command for the Agena to start its tape recorder , much of the speculation centers around the possibility of an improper command stored in the on-board computer or of an electrical " glitch " ? space talk for a malfunction  --  that caused the spacecraft or Agena thrusters to fire wildly . In one of his first reports after the failure , Mr. Armstrong told the flight controller that the No. 8 thruster on Gemini 8 " apparently failed in an open position . " This could have sent the craft into its lateral spin . But it is not clear f the thruster was the Earlier in the flight there had been concern that the Agena 's set of maneuvering thrusters ? attitude control system  --  might fire out of turn . The flight director said at one point : " If you run into trouble , and the attitude control system of the Agena goes wild , just send in command 400 to turn it off and talse control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what may have happened were contained in the transcripts of conversations between the crew and the ground during the time Of crisis . As Gemini 8 left radio range with the Madagascar - based tracking station , Major* Scott sent the command for the Agena to start its tape recorder . As Mr. Armstrong explained about 15 minutes later , while the spaceship still was partially out of control but being brought back : " It was when we were in the 0-180-0 spacecraft configuration flying backward , spacecraft BEF blunt end forward , hooked onto the Agena and we were stabilized there . We had the attitude control power off in the spacecraft . " At the time we sent 041 , recorder on , the spacecraftAgena suddenly , or the combination , started . . . " Here the voice was cut off by loss of signal . As described later , the combination of spaceship and rocket " went . wild . "                     