@@722114

txt President Kennedy directed the heads of Federal agencies today to tighten up on spending . " The current outlook , " he told ' them , " re-emphasizes the necessity to conduct the necessary work of the Government at the lowest posz : : : : e cost , to eliminate or defer low priority activities and to limit the number of Government employes to the absolute minimum . " The President said any acceleration of spending instituted as an anti-recession measure should be " phased out . " Mr. Kennedy made the statement at a meeting with his Cabinet and directors of other agencies . It preceded by only a few days the Budget Bureau 's announcement of its annual review of the current year 's budget . Large Deficit Forecast Notice that the budget review " will not make happy reading " has already been given by Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon . In a speech to the nation 's bankers in San Francisco Oct. 17 , he predicted " a deficit of somewhat more than $6,750,000,000 . " The budget review , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures for the year ending next June 30 , the first full fiscal year of the Kennedy Administration . Mr. Kennedy , summing up the causes of the imbalance today , said he was asking each agency chief to " follow a most careful and frugal policy . " Appropriations , he went on , " are only a ceiling , not a mandate to spend . " He said he desired particularly that new programs or expansions of existing programs " be undertaken with caution and deliberation . " I With respect to Federal employment , , he said : " There is no question that employment can be held substantially below the levels which would be possible under the funds authorized by the Congress , if strong efforts are made Ito achieve increases in productivity and efficiency , to use better techniques of management and production , and to I staff each activity with only the minimum number of em'Noyes needed to carry out our objectives . " Pierre Salinger , the White House press secretary , was asked if dismissal of Federal employes might follow . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that where it was found by department heads of Executive departments that work could be performed as efficiently and as necessarily as indicated with fewer employes , that in those cases there would be reductions . " Civilian %Porkers Rise The civilian work force in the executive agencies has risen from 2,352,837 at the end of January , 1961 , to 2,445,034 at the end of August , an increase of 92,197 . Of this increase , 18,888 took place in the Defense Department , and 8,600 of that in August . This followed President Kennedy 's decision to increase the defense forces to meet the Berlin crisis . Mr. Salinger announced that thirteen agency chiefs , in addition to the Cabinet members , attended* the Cabinet meeting , at which the President presented his statement on the budgets for the fiscal years 1962 and 1963 . His statement , dealing briefly with the budget for 1963 , said it was still " my intention to propose a balanced budget for that year , barring extraordinary and unforeseen defense requirements . " The original Kennedy budget last March contemplated a deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $5,300,000,000 , lar , ; ely because of expanded defense planning . Recession Is Blamed With Mr. Dillon 's announcement that a still higher deficit is likely , Mr. Kennedy reviewed the causes arising from both revenues and expenditures . Revenues in the current year , he noted , reflect incomes earned during the calendar year 1961 and therefore are depressed by the effects of the recent recession . " Indeed , " he said , " had there been no recession in 1960.61 the budget would today be in surplus even with all the additional expenditures for defense and other purposes . " On the expenditure side , he noted the postal deficit of about $750,000,000 , which Congress failed to offset by approving the President 's requests for postagerate increases . The Health , Education and Welfare Department said it would cut $110,000,000 from itsi programs . About $60,000,000 ofd this would come from funds for the National Institutes of Health .                     