@@721948

txt TEXT OF STATEMENT Text of Kennedy statement on Berlin issue is on page 2 . United States army is reorganizing its troop command in West Berlin to give more emphasis to training of its 5,000 man garrison . Story on page 4 . By ROBERT YOUNG Washington , July 19 ? President Kennedy and his top advisers on the national security council late today reached a decision on actions they believe the United States must take to strengthen its military position to meet Russia 's threats against Berlin . At 9 p. m . ! Chicago time next Tuesday the President will tell the American people what his build-up of defenses involves . Details will be spelled out in a message to Congress the next day . OK 's Urgent Program Kennedy approved an urgent program to increase the military power of the United States after a final review with the national . security council of the national defense position and needs and what should be done to strengthen this position in the light of the Berlin crisis precipitated by Russia . At a news conference earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Europe and announced he would tell the American people in a nation-wide address what steps the United States must take to build up its military might . The President read a statement to news men following up the reply sent by the United States government last Monday rejecting Russia 's lemands and proposals for the future of Berlin and Germany . The United States declared it would not compromise its rights in Berlin and , with its allies , was prepared to defend these rights to stay in the city and have free access to it . The President said that'Russla 's memorandum on Berlin and Germany speaks of peace but threatens to disturb it , speaks of ending the abnormal situation in Germany but insists upon making the present abnormal division of the country permanent . There is peace in Berlin , in Germany , and in Europe today , the chief executive said ; and if the Soviet Union destroys that peace by its threatened unilateral action , Russia 's leaders will bear a heavy responsibility before world opinion and history . Asked About Call-up The President was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a national emergency to call up national guard and military reserve units . He replied that later in the day the administration would conclude its review of what actions it might take " towards strengthening the military position of the United States . " The decisions reached today will be brought to the attention of this country 's allies " who also bear heavy responsibilities in this area , " he said . Kennedy , on July 8 , ordered the defense department to review and prepare a report on the nation 's military strength and needs after Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev announced that Russia was abandoning planned reductions in its armed forces and , instead , was increasing its military budget by one-third to keep up with the western countries . Meets with The President discussed the national defense report yesterday with the joint chiefs of staff . He had a breakfast meeting with Secretary of State Dean Rusk this morning . Gen. Douglas will have lunch with Kennedy in the White House tomorrow . The President invited , World War If and Korean war commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier this month . Salinger said in announcing the luncheon meeting last Saturday it is likely the President and the 81-year-old , five-star general of the army also will discuss the nation 's military strength . Plans Tax Proposal Kennedy was asked if he favored raising taxes to pay for prospective increases in military power rather than deficit spending . He replied that the present tax structure " would bring in very substantial resources " if the national economy is proceeding at a hopedfor steady rate of growth . The administration 's judg ? ment on taxes and spending , he said , therefore " will be made in the light of what will produce the best economic situation for the United States in the months ahead , " he said . The President said the administration will make clear " what exactly we propose on taxes " when it makes public next week its report on the national defense position and needs . The chief executive declined to indicate how much more in defense funds he might ask Congress to vote , noting that a final judgment would he reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Asks NATO Parley Later in the day , the state department announced that Secretary Rusk has asked for a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty organization council in Paris Aug. 8 to discuss the Berlin-Germany situation with the representatives of the defense alliance member nations . The NATO meeting . would follow the previously announced Aug. 5-7 meeting of Rusk , British Foreign Secretary Lord Home , and French Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Mtirvine , on western strategy to cope with the Berlin-Germany situation . The foreign minister pf West Germany , Heinrich von Brentano , will participate in some of the discussions . Bowles to Remain Other highlights of today 's news conference included : 1 . The President said that Undersecretary of State Chester Bo wle s , who has been reported on his way out of the state department , " has my complete confidence " and is a valuable part of the administration . Contrary to reports , Kennedy said , he has n e vte r asked Bowles for his resignation and Bowles will continue as undersecretary . 2 . The President announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and social council conference scheduled to begin Aug. 5 in Montevideo , Uruguay .                     