@@723671

txt Springfield , Ill. , Dec. 19 ? The Republican majorities of both legislative houses today blamed Mayor Daley and Gov . Kerner for the situation that apparently will require the state-wide election of all 177 state representatives in 1964 . By separate caucus action , the G. 0 . P. senators and representatives served notice that they do not want the Senate to become involved in an at-large election . Of the 22 Republicans whose Senate terms expire next year , those who seek reelection are circulating petitions for renomination at the April 14 primary from their old districts . A resolution adopted by the Senate G. 0 . P. caucus at a morning meeting was also adopted by House members later in the day . It was part of a Republican effort to map strategy for a special session which the Democratic governor will be forced to convene , probably Jan. 6 . Warns on Campaign Numerous Democrats contend that , because a Kerner appointed House reapportionment commission failed to agree on redistricting by last Saturday 's midnight deadline , half of the Senate members as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next year . It was emphasized in both caucuses that Republicans intend to campaign downstate on the ground that Kerner is a political subordinate of Mayor Daley , the state 's top Democrat . " This situation was brought about solely by the actions and failures to act of Mayor Daley and Gov . Kerner , " the resolutions said in blaming the Democrats for the reapportionment muddle . Tell Kerner Support Republican reapportionment commissioners , headed by Fred G. Gurley of Chicago , were highly praised in the duplicate resolutions . The legislators commended them for refusing to give special advantages to Chicago Democrats in setting up new districts for the election of state representatives during the next 10 years . Kerner has given complete support to the stand taken by the Democratic commissioners , which the Republicans say is obviously unconstitutional . The Republicans of both houses threw the ball to Kerner , who vetoed a reapportionment bill passed in June by the Republican legislature . They said that the responsibility for the next move is up to the governor , and left it to him to decide what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has arranged a second meeting next Monday with the leaders of both houses . " We are of the firm and forthright opinion that it is the clear duty of the governor to submit the best program he can now devise to alleviate as far as possible the difficulties of the present situation which he has created , " the resolution said . In neither caucus were the Republicans specific about how a state-wide convention to nominate state representatives should be , set up . Meanwhile , a final effort to get the Illinois Supreme court to intervene was made by Rep. Fred Branson R. , Centralia and John W. Spence of Fairfield , Wayne county Republican chairman . They filed a mandamus petition designed to give the court an opportunity to rule that Kerner did not have the authority to appoint the Bipartisan Reapportionment commission and that , therefore , the 1964 House elettion should be held under the 1955 map . The SpenceBranson petition was filed by Atty . James Wham of Centralia . The Supreme court recently ruled in another case that Kerner had a legal right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which Branson , seeking a mandamus order in an effort to reinstate once more the 1955 districts , also raised a question about the veto power .                     