@@727756

txt National guard troops were withdrawn from streets in troubled parts of the city yesterday as police patrols were increased to deter violence . Brig . Gen. Richard T. Dunn , head of the 5,000 national guardsmen called to duty in Chicago , said they would remain here thru today and that " we 'll assess the situation as it develops . " Police said there were few incidents in the troubled near north and west side areas yesterday . Last night , four shots were fired at a squad car at 13 ) N. Hermitage ay . One bullet lodged in the car front seat , said Patrolman James Carberry . The city counted a total of 90 injured and 271 arrested in the hours of fighting , rock throwing , gunfire , and looting which began about noon Thursday and lasted thru the late afternoon . One Person Hospitalized Of the injured , only one still remained in a hospital . John L. Milton , 17 , of 816 S. California ay. , who was shot in the chest , was reported in satisfactory condition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained in jail . Sixty-nine were juveniles who were released at district stations to their parents . Fighty-one other juveniles and 121 adults were processed thru Mass Arrest court at 1121 S. State st . All were released on bonds se in Mass Arrest court , which completed the job of processing the 202 at 7:30 a. m . Police said the youth division and states attorney 's office would decide which of the juveniles will be taken to court . Curfew Stays in Effect Still in force were Mayor Daley 's ban on sale of gasoline or other flammable materials in cans or portable containers , guns and ammunition , and liquor in the troubled areas . The 7 p. m. to 6 a. m. curlew for those under 21 years old also was still in effect . Gov . Ogilvie and Dunn met with Daley and top police and fire department officials in the mayor 's office to assess the situation . Daley said later he assumed they would meet- again this morning . Daley said after the conference that Thursday night he had been in touch with Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they wanted to cooperate , and that what the city and state administrations did was in their interest and in the interest of the neighborhoods , to save lives as well as property , " Daley said . Gov . Ogilvie said he would rely on national guard commanders to decide how long to keep downstate guard units on standby alert in various armories . " I 'd like to congratulate the mayor on moving as firmly as he did Thursday , " Ogilvie said . " Situations like this are very sensitive to timing , and I think the mayor 's request and the outstanding job the guard did in responding and getting on the street quickly probably eased this tense situation . " Daley Praises Ogilvie Daley offered his personal thanks to Gov . Ogilvie for the aid given the city , saying " I think it was a great example of the cooperation that can and should exist between the state and local governments . " Capt . John T. Kelly , deputy chief of police patrol , said that an 8-hour day had been resumed for police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect and that patrols in the troubled areas were increased about 20 per cent over normal patrols . Police got help from the weather . Heavy , periodic rains kept many off the streets and washed away some of the evidence of Thursday 's violence . City workers cleaned up broken glass and rocks in the street on the west and near north sides . Liquor Sale Banned The sale of liquor is banned in two areas . One is bounded i by the Chicago river on the south , North avenue on the north , the north branch of the river on the west , and State street on the east . The other is , between Cermak road on the south , North avenue on the north , and west to the city limits from Canal street . Many bars on the ' near north side were closed Thursday night because of a misunderstanding about the areas where liquor sales were banned . A few bars and restaurants closed in late afternoon yesterday . The Chicago public library system , from the main library ; at Michigan avenue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on orders of Dr. Alex Ladenson , acting chief librarian . Plans Are Changed Altho the library system usually is in full operation on Good Friday , Ladenson said it had intended to close only the branches in some areas " because it was the wish of the communities . " Many services were scheduled yesterday on the anniversary of the assassination in Memphis a year ago of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , civil rights leader . Gen. Dunn said last night that if the city remains quiet and there are no disturbances growing out of the peace parade , " we hope to begin pbas-. ing out our men by midnight . " " We wo n't go anywhere unless there is a disturbance . " be said . " I do n't want even a single uniformed man watching the parade . "                     