@@722880

txt Washington It may be that a time of exploratory talks is opening between Moscow and Washington , which could cover the nuclear test ban , or even Germany . Eventually the talks could produce a major breakthrough in improved relations . or a small face-saving agreement  --  or nothing at all except the same old stalemate . No one here is quite sure what Soviet Premier Khrushchev is up to . Talks have begun at New York between the Soviet Union and the United States on disarmament and nuclear test ban prospects . The Soviet Ambassador to Paris recently suggested that larger understandings were in order  --  an agreement on Germany 's frontiers , a nonaggression pact between the NATO and Warsaw Pact powers , an improvement in contacts between West and East Germany . Premier Khrushchev , preparing to carry through with new denunciations of Peking at this week 's East German Communist congress , needs to be able to talk big of what he proposes to do elsewhere . Nothing worries and angers the Chinese leaders more than the prospect of improved relations between Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arises , when Moscow turns to friendly talks , is whether the Soviets actually do want improved relations with the United States . Has Moscow learned some lessons from the Soviet-Chinese split , the Chinese attack on India , and the Kremlin 's missile defeat in Cuba ? The cautious reply must be that any Moscow gestures toward Washington are probably tactical . They hardly represent , at this time , a considered decision that the Soviet Union faces a better future in friendly association with the West than in alliance with Peking . When Premier Khrushchev talks of reaching compromises with the United States , as he did at one point recently , he must be aware that the positions of Washington and Moscow on such matters as Berlin are so wide apart that compromise is n't easily reached . So wariness is the order of the day in Washington , though it is accompanied by a realization that the Peking-Moscow split eventually may indeed force Premier Khrushchev into new positions . If he can not somehow compel Peking to agree to recognize Moscow as world communism 's leader , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A This will mean that Moscow and Peking will be competing with each other for control among the Communist parties all across the globe , and for influence in many of the nonaligned nations . If and as the conflict widens , it might certainly occur to Mr. Khrushchev that he could use an anchor to windward in the West . Reason also dictates that the United States and the U.S.S.R. would have few natural areas of conflict  --  beyond prestige rivalries  --  if it were not for communism 's desire to rule the world . However , one can hardly count on this kind of reason taking over , yet , in the Kremlin . But Washington is always prepared to see and scrutinize what Moscow has to offer .                     