@@726995

txt The six European nations represented at the monetary talks in Washington last weekend have agreed not to draw gold from the dwindling United States hoard , sources close to the negotiations said yesterday . The announced accord to stop selling gold to private buyers , thus creating a two-price system for gold , these sources said , was only part  --  and in the long run perhaps not the most important part  --  of the understanding that was reached between the principal financial powers , with the sole exception of France . In effect , it was said , the United States and its European partners ? Belgium , Britain , West Germany , Italy , the Netherlands and Switzerland  --  have laid out the strategy that will he followed to maintain international financial stability through the period of stress created by the Vietnam war . The United States , for its part , has agreed to take decisive action to restrain inflationary pressures In its economy . An increase in income taxes is considered to be the most effective weapon to accomplish this goal , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Reserve is prepared to impose severe monetary restraints . This could mean sharply increased interest rates , which in some cases are already at their highest levels since the Civil War , and a sharp cutback in home-building activity . The agreement not to take gold from the United States , it was said , was the principal reason why the Federal Reserve increased its reciprocal credit agreements  --  commonly called " swaps " ? with foreign central banks by $2.3-billion , to a new total of $9.4-billion . In this way , borrowing facilities will be available to cover payments between nations that otherwise might have to be settled in gold . It was considered unlikely yesterday that the French would agree to abstain from buying gold from the United States . On the other hand , it is probable that Washington , through bilateral negotiations with other nations , will attempt to minimize , if not eliminate , gold purchases from this country that would draw the gold stock much below its present level of $11.4-billion . Cooperation Invited Informed observers noted that the last sentence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday said that participants " invite the cooperation of other central banks in the policies set forth above . " This was interpreted to mean that the six European nations would try to impress on other ? countries that further drains on the American gold stock might endanger international financial stability . The French had been excluded from the Washington talks , it was said , because of the consistent pattern that had developed in recent months of ' information " leaks " from the French Treasury to Le Monde , the Paris newspaper . Time after time , it was asserted , the most " perverse and disruptive interpretations possible " of private and confidential conversations between governments had been promptly reported in Le Monde . There could be no assurance , the sources said , that the French would maintain the confidential nature of the talks . The French dropped out of active participation in the gold pool last June  --  it was the remaining active members of the gold pool who gathered in Washington last weekend ? but even so , it was said , the financial importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had it not been for the " Le Monde problem . " Friction Fostered The French had to be excluded , . even though it was taken for granted that the friction generated by their exclusion would complicate the next major step in international monetary reform  --  the meeting scheduled for March 29 in Stockholm to reach final political agreement on the plan to create " Special Drawing Rights " in the International Monetary Fund . Stripped of technicalities , these S.D.R. 's are designed to be a new form of international money that central banks will use in settling payments among each other  --  in addition to gold , dollars and , to a lesser extent , pounds sterling . Long-term , many economists believe that the S.D.R. represents a basic solution to the problem of providing an adequate volume of international monetary reserve to facilitate steady expansion in the volume of world trade . At the meeting of ' the International Monetary Fund in Rio de Janeiro in September , when the S.D.R. plan was adopted in principle , its implementation was tied to a reform of the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member nations of the European Common Market  --  and France in particular  --  a greater voice in its affairs . The basic issue at the Stockholm talks , it was indicated , would be whether agreement on I.M.F . reform would have to precede ratification of the S.D.R. agreement by the I.M.F . ' s member governments , or whether it should be a - precondition for activation of the plan that had been ratified . The Stockholm talks were likely to be difficult , it was indicated , since the six nations who participated in the Washington negotiations , " having done so much for the United States , " would now " bend over backward to placate the French . " It was also indicated that the members of the gold pool in their Washington agreement had in effect handed an ultimatum to South Africa , which is the principal gold-producing country in the non-Communist world . If South Africa decided to sell gold to the private market , it was said , she would cut herself off for an indefinite period in the future from selling igold to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the seven countries " no longer feel it necessary to buy gold from the market . " The word " market , " it was . Imdicated , could be freely translated to mean South Africa . In other words , if the South Africans wanted an assured market for their annual gold output of more than $1-billion ( rather than the variable demand of a freely fluctuating private market ) , then she would have to play the game according to the Washington rules .                     