@@724051

txt A nationally known authority on apportionment said yesterday that it would be possible to reapportion the New York State Legislature equitably in a two-week period . Indications in the Republicancontrolled Legislature were , however , that redistricting at that pace was not at all likely . The outlook for putting new districts into effect for the Nov. 3 election appeared dim . In pointing to the possibility of acting with dispatch , the authority , William J. D. Boyd of the National Municipal League , insisted that proper safeguards would be necessary . He said that creation of a nonpartisan advisory commission , such as has been proposed to Governor Rockefeller , would constitute such a safeguard . The New York State Committee for Fair Representation has urged Mr. Rockefeller to name a " nonpartisan blue ribbon commission , " made up of experts , to make basic recommendations to him . He , in turn , would present the recommendations to the Legislature . Backing the commission approach to redistricting , Mr. Boyd declared : " There is no reason why in the State of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balanced in population , can not be set up within a week 's time . All it needs is people with a thorough knowledge of the process , technical help , computers and a conscience . " Any other kind of a rush job could produce wild gerrymandering . " The Fair Representation Committee put its proposal before the Governor in a letter signed by its chairman , Walter Frank . In it , Mr. Frank stressed that the apportionment of legislative seats and redistricting " can no longer be considered an exclusively legislative function " in the light of the Supreme Court 's new ruling . The committee transmitted examples of new apportionment of both the Senate and the Assembly to illustrate how quickly a group of experts , not concerned with politics , could do the job . The population in all of the regrouped districts was within 5 per cent of the statewide average . A state administration spokesman said the committee proposal , designed to keep politics as much as possible out of redistricting , was being given serious study together with other proposals that have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican legislative leadership did not intend to be hurried . Speaker Joseph F. Carlino , concerned about Republican fears of losing legislative control , sent telegrams to all Assembly members urging them to exercise caution in public statements on the effects of the decision . Marchi Urges Census And State Senator John J. Marchi of Richmond , chairman , of the Committee on the Affairs of the City of New York , called upon the Governor and legislative leaders to take a p Istatewide census before reapportioning . Failure to do so , he said , could " effectively disenfranchise and prejudice hundreds of thousands of state residents living in fast-growing areas . " In counseling delay , he also suggested the need for study of " general policy for establishing a reapportionment system . " Senator March ! said there was further need " to reexamine our entire public policy on the diffusion of governmental power and responsibility , " but he said this phase could be done on " a. long-term basis . " The Fair Representation ( Committee , broadly representative of city civic interests , presented a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average district population would be 279 , - 705 -- the most populous district just 3.9 per cent above that average and the least populous just 4.6 below it . Under this districting proposal , there could be no majority in the Senate representing less than 50.9 per cent of the state population . Sharing of Seats Proposed The Assembly plan , retaining the present 150 seats , would have no district with greater than a 5 per cent deviation from a state-wide average of 111,882 . Every one of the state 's 62 counties , with the sol ? exception of thinly settled Hamilton and Fulton , which are linked as one , presently has at least one Assembly seat , but under this proposal a number of counties would share single seats and in two cases five counties would I share two seats . Under the Assembly example , New York City , urban upstate counties , New York City suburbs and the rural area would have precisely the same proportion of seats in the Assembly that they have of state population  --  that is , 47 , 30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would greatly increase Long Island 's representation . Suffolk , which now has one Senator , would have two and share a third with Nassau . Queens Would Gain Nassau , which now has three Senators , would have four others of its own . Queens would go up from five to six and share still another with Kings . Kings , which now has nine , would have nine of its own plus the one shared with Queens , and another shared with Richmond . New York County would retain six seats , but the Bronx would go up from four to five . Westchester now has three seats and would drop to two , though sharing a third with all of Putnam . Rockland would share a seat ' with part  --  instead of all ? of Orange . Upstate Erie would have thee , instead of two , seats , while Monroe would retain its two and share another with Tompkins , Cayuga , ' Seneca and Wayne . The Upper Manhattan Civil Rights Committee sent a telegram to Governor Rockefeller last night asking that he call the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's legislative reapportionment mandate on an emergency basis for the November elections . " Reapportionment , the telegram said , would prevent a two-year delay in strengthening state civil rights laws .                     