@@727715

txt The Council of State , one of France 's two highest advisory bodies on constitutional matters , has told President de Gaulle that his plans for a referendum on regional reform and transformation of the Senate are in part unconstitutional . The council , which consists of 80 magistrates , many of them appointed by the Gaullist regime , declared last night that the proposed abolition of the Senate in favor of a consultative assembly without powers of decision amounted to a constitutional reform that could he made only by the National Assembly . The judgment of the Council of State is not binding for the Government . Government officials made if clear that while the regime might bow to the council on some minor matters , it would not give in on the central point  --  namely , inclusion in the referendum of the question of the Senate 's transformation . The council charged , that the referendum as planned for April 27 jumped too many complex issues into one and thus " falisifed " the meaning of consultation with the people . The Government intends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " no " to a long single question involving two highly complex areas of reform . The first involves the creation of 22 new regions , each headed by an assembly having limited powers to direct the region 's economic and social affairs . Some of the members of the regional assemblies would be elected by existing municipal and departmental councils . Others would be named by unions , management associations and other professional organizations . Members of the National Assembly would automatically belong to their respective regional assemblies . Succession Would Change The second , principal- reform involves the elimination of the Senate as it now exists . The new regional assemblies would send their representatives to Paris to serve in a new national council that would replace the Senate as the second chamber of Parliament but would have only consultative functions  --  and only in the economic and social fields . The present Senate , though much reduced in its power by Gaullist reforms , still has nominal legislative functions . The Senate reform is of overriding importance to President de Gaulle because it would end the existing order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of the republic should die or resign , the President of the Senate would succeed him automatically for a period of up to 35 days , pending an election . After the reforms , it would be the Premier who would assume the interim presidency . The Premier , being appointed by the President , is necessarily a Gaullist  --  which has not been the case of the Presidents of the Senate . Under the Constitution the Government must submit all projects for new legislation to the Council of State for its opinion . One of 2 Watchdogs This council is one of the two top constitutional watchdog organizations . The other is the Constitutional Council , whose main functions include judgment on the results of elections , referendums and parliamentary procedure as well as approval of foreign treaties . Most of the decisions of the Constitutional Council are binding . The Gaullist regime has already once ignored the findings of the Council of State on the legality of a referendum on a constitutional change . This was in 1962 when the electorate endorsed a proposal for presidential elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an electoral college composed of the two houses of Parliament and members of departmental councils . The finding of the Council of State coincided with arguments made by the opposition parties , who are asking their followers to vote " no . " The Communists and the Socialists as well as a part of the right have come out for a " no " vote . Some groups on the Left advocate abstention . But deep misgivings about the wisdon of the referendum have also been voiced in the ranks of the Gaullists and their allies . The Government is known to have been disappointed by the results of confidential surveys , which showed that public opinion ranged from indifference to hostility . But the expectation is that in the end millions of voters will cast a favorable ballot . Developments Are Crucial Much depends on developments during the remaining five weeks of the campaign in the field of labor relations and in the country 's schools . Sporadic strikes are continuing . In the universities the malaise remains deep , although the most radical protesters have been losing ground . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these fronts would almost certainly touch off a fear reaction and bring in millions of additional " yes " votes . The Government could easily have skirted criticism by the Council of State . It could have safely put its reform plans before the National Assembly , where it has an overwhelming majority . But President de Gaulle preferred , as he has in the past , to get a popular endorsement of his regime .                     