@@727954

txt Senator George D. Aiken , who holds what many observers believe to be the single most crucial vote on the missile defense issue , said today he would not vote for the Administration 's Safeguard proposal unless it was modified . But the 76-year-old Vermont Republican gave no indication whether he would vote to prohibit deployment entirely this year or would support . an amendment offered today by Senator Thomas J. , Democrat of New Hampshire . The proposal , which the sponsor characterized as a compromise , would permit the Army to deploy radar and electronic equipment at the first two planned Safeguard stations in Montana and North Dakota , the only two sites involved in the first-year proposal . But it would not alAssociated Press Senator George D. Aiken low production and deployment of the actual missiles for the sites . Opponents of the proposed antiballistic - missile system , who want to continue research but prohibit any deployment , argue that Senator Mc- // Intyre 's plan is no compromise at all since the Administration does not plan production or deployment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two other wavering Senators are willing to back the amendment , it would provide a fallback for Administration forces if it appears that there are not enough votes to approve the unmodified Administration proposal . Both sides of the ABM issue agree on the basis of their own head counts that the Senate Is ' close to evenly split on deployment this year . They suggest that four Senators are truly on the fence , not leaning either for or against deployment . In addition to Senator Aiken , they are Winston L. Prouty , Mr. Aiken 's fellow Republican from Vermont ; John J. Williams , Republican of Delaware , and Senator . Defeat Foreseen Senator undoubtedly will vote for his own amendment . If Senator Aiken should decide to vote for it also , most observers believe that he could take Senator Prouty along with him , thus providing the margin of defeat for those who oppose any deployment . Following Senator Aiken 's speech on the Senate floor , Mike Mansfield , the Senate Democratic leader and a strong opponent of the ABM , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be determined by the Senator from Vermont . " Senator Aiken , the ranking Republican in terms of seniority and one of the Senate 's most influential members , said that unless the Administration proposal was modified he would have to vote against it , and he predicted that it would be soundly defeated by the Senate . " It has been obvious for some time that authority for the Defense Department to proceed with the development of an unlimited ABM system could not be approved by this Senate , " Mr. Aiken said . The amendment was criticized today by Peter H. Dominick , Republican of Colorado , a stanch Administration supporter , who said it would " cast a cloud of doubt over the entire Safeguard authorization . " Bargaining Position Mr. Aiken delivered his speech in midafternoon after several hours of desultory debate . Without indicating what modification he favored , the Senator said the legislation finally approved by the Senate would play an important role in any forthcoming arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union . " May I point out , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Russia looking to the control of armament and aimed at developing a less tense relationship between the two countries , that even though the legislation as written could be approved by as many as 51 or 52 votes in this Senate , which I doubt , we would be in an extremely weak bargaining position . " I believe it is absolutely necessary for President Nixon to have a much larger number of votes of this Senate supporting him when we enter into such a conference . " This pending legislation relating to the ABM must be modified to the extent that a strong approval of this Senate will be obtained . " Despite Senator Aiken 's opposition , Ronald L. Ziegler , President Nixon 's press secretary , expressed confidence that Congress would approve the President 's ABM program . He was not asked about the possibility of a compromise . Packard 's View David Packard , Deputy Secretary of Defense , refused to rule out an eventual compromise . He told newsmen it was " a matter which will have to be dealt with by the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's . proposal , but has repeatedly stated that it sought no compromise . Under President Nixon 's plan , missiles would not be deployed at the first two stations until 1973 . But Defense Secretary Melvin R. Laird has said that a year 's delay in Senate approval would mean a two-year delay in. deployment . Senator John C. Stennis , chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , meanwhile produced letters from Secretary Laird and a representative of Richard Helms , Director of Central Intelligence , rebutting assertions by the opposition that there are differences between the Pentagon and the intelligence community over the likely Soviet threat in the mid-1970 's . In his letter , Mr. Laird once again said that he believed that the Soviet Union , through a combination of land-based and submarine-launched missiles , would have the capability to ? " gravely weaken our deterrent by the mid-1970 's . " Mr. Laird said he had furnished a copy of the letter to Mr. Helms , who " assures me he has no disagreement with the statement concerning the potential Soviet and Chinese Communist strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The letter from Mr. Helm 's representative , Lieut . Gen. R. E. Cushman of the Marine Corps , deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency , affirmed this . Senator Stennis interpreted the letters to mean that both officials " have made it clear , that there is no disagreement between them as to the strategic threat " and that " there is no disagreement on the intelligence issue . " Senator J. W. Fulbright , the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , who first raised the issue of differences ) between the Defense Department and the intelligence community , acknowledged there was no distinction in their views on the long-term threat because the interagency intelligence board had never been asked to make a survey of such a threat . But the Arkansas Democrat held that there were differences of opinion about recent developments such as the " characteristics of certain Soviet weapons . " From the way Mr. Helms 's statement was phrased  --  as quoted in the Cushman letter and by Mr. Laird  --  it was apparent that he was not so much endorsing Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disagree with them . The differences between the informal intelligence community and the Pentagon are not so much over whether the Soviet Union could produce the number of SS-9 missiles and Polaristype submarines projected by Mr. Laird . Rather the differences are over whether the Soviet Union intends to continue such a military buildup into the mid-1970 's and whether it has the economic and technical capacity to do simultaneously all the things projected by Mr. Laird . In NO " York tonight , Senator Jacob K. Javits said approval of the Safeguard system would make it " much harder to bring about meaningful arms jimitation . " In a speech to the Edward R. Murrow World Affairs Forum of the Overseas Press Club , Senator Javits criticized those in the Administration who have objected to " the private efforts of Senate Republican moderates such as myself to reach a compromise . " He said that the Nixon Administration had made some liberal and some conservative decisions in its first months a ; office and that " the decision on deployment of Safeguard stands out as a critical phase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "                     