@@728075

txt A strike by teachers on all eight campuses of the Chicago City college threatens to delay the beginning of the fall semester today for 37,000 students . Pickets will be set up on each campus as the teachers strike to protest the transfer of two teachers from the college 's Bogan campus . Oscar Shabat , City college chancellor , urged the teachers and students to attend classes today . He said teachers who do not are violating their contract by a " wildcat strike . " Both Must Ask Aid A spokesman for Mayor Daley said the mayor would not intervene M the dispute unless he received a request to do , sodrom  --  both.the Cook County College Teachers union and the City ? college board . Thus far , only the union has requested his help . Norman Swenson , union president , said he sent a telegram to Daley yesterday asking for his help in bringing both sides . to the negotiating table . Swenson said the teachers would strike today unless the mayor intervened . He said the union held a strike committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike issue is " whether we 're going to allow the teachers ' contracts to be violated and whether the faculty has rights . " The two teachers , Michael Kaufman and Bernard , former Bogan department chairmen , were transferred over their objections . ' Shebat Tells Issue Shabat said the issue is " who runs the college . " A spokesman for the college ' board said that the mayor should not have been called in to settle a. strike which had not yet taken place . Shabat ? has . threatened to seek a , court injunction to halt the strike . The 359 ? member teachers union voted , 449 to 307 , last Thursday to strike . The teacher strike in the Morton High school district serving Cicero and Berwyn threatened to enter its third week today , but James Moon , school superintendent . promised that the two high schools will be opened today . Classes Have Resumed Moon said classes resumed Friday with about 50 per cent of the classes staffed by nons triking teachers and staff member s . Robert Kelly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Teachers , said he expected 300 of the district 's 401 teachers to remain away from their classrooms today because " the school board wo n't even discuss a possibility of negotiations . " He predicted that only one out of five classes have a teacher . Judge Daniel Covelli of Circuit court ordered the teachers back to work last Thursday after issuing a temporary injunction sought by the school board . In Waukegan , the strike by teachers threatened the loss of a portion of the city 's state financial aid . If the schools are unable to complete 180 days of class by June 30 , 1970 , the district loses 1 per cent of annual state aid for each day classes are not held . Union officials voted yesterday to take the pickets away from the high school in response to a court injunction Wednesday against the picketing and teacher sup port of the strike . Striking teachers in East Chicago Heights are protesting what they have termed low quality education in the system Six teachers have been hired to replace 44 striking educators who have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the holding ? of classes today in a number of schools where the mothers are trying to force the Illinois department of public aid to pay , back-to-school clothing allowances . The public aid mothers , members of the Chicago Welfare Rights organization , are demanding a $90 annual public aid allotment per dependent child . The mothers are demand ! ing $75 per child for clothing and $15 per child for school supplies . The mothers say they will operate three welfare schools staffed by volunteer teachers so that the boycott can continue without the children missing any school .                     