@@721746

txt The United States made a new and earnest appeal today for Soviet cooperation in achieving a peaceful settlement of the crisis in Laos . A warning that the Laotian situation , if permitted to continue on its present course , could produce a larger conflict I was given by Secretary of State Dean Rusk during a five-hour meeting with Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister . The two diplomats and their advisers conferred on a wide range of East-West problems . Following the meeting , they issued a joint statement expressing the hope that their talk would contribute to better mutual understanding of their governments ' policies . Fear of Major Explosion The talk was described as " open and frank . " The statement said only that " a variety of subjects of mutual interest " had been covered . The problem of Laos was one of the principal items of business , informed sources said in reporting the United States ' call for Soviet cooperation in a Settlement . The United States position is that the chance of a major explosion is great as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebel forces . The United States feels obligated to increase its military assistance to the royal Government to meet this growing threat . If attacks by the pro-Communist Pathet Lao forces continue , even more forceful action might have to be considered by the United States and its allies in the light of their commitments in Southeast Asia . Proposal for Truce Board The United States wants Moscow to agree to allow a commission of neutrals to go into all parts of Laos to help end the fighting and halt foreign intervention . There was no indication of IMr . Gromyko 's reaction . The presumption was that he promised to communicate Mr. Rusk 's views to his Government . The details in this respect probably would be less important than the tone and mood on the United States side , for the general outlook here was relayed earlier to Premier Khrushchev by the United States Ambassador , Llewellyn E. Thompson Jr. , in a note from President Kennedy delivered last week . The meeting today began at 1 P. M. at a luncheon in Secretary Rusk 's dining room . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their aides moved to the Secretary 's office . They concluded their talk at 6 P. M. The session was a further effort by the new Administration to establish through " quiet diplomacy " conditions favorable to ' solutions of major issues . It is assumed that a number of others of these issues were discussed . The joint statement sought to make clear that there was no emergency reason for the session today . The statement said that the Soviet Foreign Minister was in the United States for the United Nations meetings and that the Secretary of State soon would be leaving for a trip abroad . Mr. Rusk will depart next week for Bangkok , Thailand , to attend a ministerial meeting of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization . The meeting will consider the problem of Laos , including the possibility of joint military action there . The United States would like to see a broadly based regime installed in Laos with the peaceful participation of major political elements . It would also like to see Laos established as a free , independent and truly neutral state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might then be prepared to enter into the kind of multinational conference that Moscow has long advocated . But Washington feels strongly that such a conference should not be the first step toward peaceful settlement but should be called at a later stage to ratify what has been accomplished by the Laotians themselves and by the neutral commission proposed to Mr. Gromyko . With regard to other possible items on today 's agenda , a number of problems now occupying the United Nations , including the executive structure and authority of the United Nations itself , were thought certain to have been discussed . Preliminary talks had been going on in New York on these matters between the Soviet Foreign Minister , who is in this country as head of the Soviet mood of friendliness , even joviality , prevailed as Mr. Gromyko and some of his aides arrived for their 1 o'clock appointment . Mr. Rusk recalled that he had last met the Soviet diplomat in 1951 when both attended the Japanese Peace Treaty Conference in San Francisco . Mr. Gromyko remembered and said : " Oh , yes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a couch arid posed for photographs , one of the cameramen asked the Secretary to move closer to his guest . Secretary Rusk laughed . Mr. Stevenson , sitting at Mr. Gromyko 's left , said that this would certainly be " open diplomacy , openly arrived at . " ' That Is Aonther Question ' The same outward friendliness was evident at the end of the meeting . Secretary Rusk escorted his guest through a crowd of waiting reporters to the elevator . Mr. Gromyko. was accompanied by Arkady A. Sobolev , Soviet . Deputy Foreign Minister , and Ambassader Mikhail A. Menshikov . Also in the Soviet party were Mikhail Smirnovsky , Minister in the Soviet Embassy ; Vasily F. Grubyakov , a Foreign Ministry official , and Viktor M. Sukhodrov , interpreter . Representing the United States at the talks , in addition to Mr. Rusk and Mr. Stevenson , were : Chester Bowles , Under Secretary of State ; Foy D. Kohler , Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs , and Charles E. Bohlen , special assistant to the Secretary on Soviet affairs . Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for-almost an hour with Koca Popovic , Yugoslavia 's Foreign Minister . Officials said the exchange had been friendly and extremely useful , but details were not revealed . M. Popovic left Washington this afternoon for New York where he will lead his country 's delegation at the United Nations . United Nations delegation , and Adlai E. Stevenson , the chief United States delegate . The United States has sought , thus far with little subcess , to win Moscow 's agreement to reduce the number of items on the General Assembly agenda and eliminate as far as possible propaganda - laden issues on which there is little chance of progress . It was presumed also that the participants took up the problem of negotiating a realistic arms control and disarmament agreement . The United States has ? offered to resume in August the negotiations broken off by the Soviet Union at Geneva last June 27 . It has been generally agreed that the United Nations is too large and unwieldly an arena for effective work on so complicated a problem . The United States has supported resumption of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist bloc and half from the West , that worked on the problem last year . The Soviet Government favors a larger group and has proposed the inclusion of five neutral states . After a meeting at the White House this morning , Mr. Stevenson said he hoped that " some progress " would be made in the next week in working out with the Russians detailed plans for a renewal of disarmament talks . President Kennedy , Mr. Stevenson and the President 's special adviser on disarmament matters , John J. McCloy , met with other specialists on the disarmament issue for an hour and a half . No results were made public . At the State Department a                     