@@727653

txt The following are excerpts from a speech by Senator Philip A. Hart of Michigan last week at ceremonies at the University of Michigan inaugurating a " Pilot Program , " described as an attempt to establish " meaningful connection " for students between their classrooms and their dormitories . Things change . Sometimes too fast . So I have come to the campus today with a list of demands and it seems appropriate to me that they be deposited here . My first demand is that the university set up a special department devoted to the study and understanding of middleaged Americans and their role in the development of this country . I noticed that Pilot Program students live in the company of graduate students who , according to the literature , bring their " varied resources , interests and intellectual commitments into the Pilot Program houses . " That 's a quote . Well , no wonder that harmony is breaking down in this nation . Those graduate students tend to he full of new ideas and it 's been my experience that new id ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school here , there were a lot of new Ideas kicking around . Radical ones . Social Security . Medicare . Minimum wage . Ideas such as those , all of them troublesome . I intend to suggest that thei , Pilot Program get rid of those graduate students and substitute the intellectual commitment of people from the mainstream of American life . Certainly , I would n't dictate the individuals who should come in but they ought to have varied resources . I would suggest a past commander of the American Legion Post in Flemingsburg , Kentucky . A humanities advisor from the International Business Machine Co . General Hershey 's adjutant . A naturalist from the Union Oil Company in Santa Barbara . The American . Medical Association 's staff socialist . And maybe a political scientist from Mayor Daley 's office . This , it seems to me , would be the best way to reverse the alarming trends we see on each campus today . Everywhere we turn , we see students who are losing faith in a society that we middle-aged politicians have labored so hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they live in a society that talks peace but drops napalm . Their youthful and inexperienced eyes seem to see an inconsistency in that . I 've met young people who are irritated because our system can build luxury apartment buildings so high that they can be seen from slums miles away . And there are even some students who wondered how our system could send men to the moon on Christmas Day while on earth thousands of homes went unvisited by a kindlier aeronaut , Santa Claus . College students are members of this nation 's elite . They have always been considered junior members of the establishment and only recently have they rejected membership . You are already members of a privileged class . In all likelihood , you will live well , travel the world and sell your advice and services for useful sums of money . Recognition and self-esteem will be easier for you to attain . The only advice I would give to any ball of fire is not to fall into the trap of believing that he is in sole possession of the truth or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevail . Non-Arrogant Approach Certainly one mark of the non-arrogant approach Is a willingness to present positive alternatives . It is not enough in my mind for students to rule out workable alternatives by simply saying : that 's not our job . Be loud and vocal , but also be creative . The politics of harassment ? in and of itself ? is neither an end nor is it the substance of meaningful change . Somewhere , somehow , the machine needs new parts . And someone needs to design them , build them , make them work , and keep them running . So I guess my message in my homily would be the very old one : get involved . Dissent hut remember that arrogance only diminishes effectiveness . Find failings in the system but remember tint there are some problems that are nobody 's fault ? and that alternatives are welcomed . Another Opinion On Troublesome Ideas                     