@@727862

txt Judge Warren Earl Burger is such a perfect symbol of the qualities and values President Nixon is clearly trying to emphasize in his new Administration that reporters now have to wonder why they were so timid in predicting that he would be Mr. Nixon 's nominee as Chief Justice of the United States . Mr. Burger is experienced , industrious , middle-class , middleaged , middle-of- the - road , Middle - Western , Presbyterian , orderly and handsome . Yale and Harvard The old-boy network at Yale is grieving that the President did not elevate Associate Justice Stewart to the top job , and the liberals and intellectuals would clearly have preferred Paul Freund of Harvard or Judge Friendly , who is probably the most admired judge in the lower courts ; but Judge Burger was clearly the obvious man for President Nixon at the present time . The mood of the moment is not for innovation ' but consolidation . Mr. Nixon is clearly not thinking about how to do spectacular new things , pass dramatic new laws , or introduce dramatic new figures or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to slow things down at home and abroad and absorb the experiments and innovations of the past , lower the tension , and minimize the controversy about the Court both in Congress and the country . The President may be right and he may be wrong in thinking that we now need to put a brake on social reconstruction , but that is clearly his view , and the mood of the majority , if not of the militant minority , is with him . His priority is order , and in picking a new head of the Court , there is a great deal to be said for his choice . He was choosing , not only a presiding officer for the Supreme Court , but a Chief Justice of the United States . The distinction between the two is important . The Chief Justice is not only the head of the principal court but of the entire Federal judiciary system of the nation , and the system is in trouble . The Administrative Problem It is sadly in need of orderly administration . WhatIver else Mr. Justice Warren was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republic . The services of the Federal courts are woefully inadequate . They have been short-changed . They are In need of marshals , probation officers , court reporters and all the modern administrative techniques of computers , which can speed up the administration of justice . Everybody is talking now about Judge Burger 's opinions , his emphasis on law and order , his commencement speeches against the permissiveness of the age , and the ambiguities of court orders governing the rights of criminals and the police , and all this is obviously relevant and open to endless speculation . But two points are fairly obvious . The history of the Supreme Court emphasizes the treachery of trying to decide how new Supreme Court judges will act on the basis of what they have said and done in the past . The security and the majesty and the associations of the High Court are such powerful influences that they make speculation about men 's actions on the Supreme Court unreliable , if not actually foolish . Judge Burger is clearly against giving every arrested man a lawyer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he is not a hanging judge , and he did n't come out of the progressive political tradition of Minnesota for nothing . He was part of that remarkable generation of the twenties and thirties in the Upper Middle West that produced the Progressive and Farmer-Labor parties , the La Follettes , the Olsens , the elder Lindbergh , Harold Stassen , Hubert Humphrey ; and at the same time , an extraordinary generation of journalists  --  Hedley Donovan of Time , Eric Sevareid of CBS , Harrison Salisbury of The New York Times , Phil Potter of the Baltimore Sun , and many others . The Industrious Yearners Like most of them , Judge Burger was the Horatio Alger poor boy who somehow got to the top . Also , like most of them who worked hard , he may be critical and even Calvinist about the permissiveness of the present time , but no doubt he is a worker and a yearner still . No great intellect , no great innovator or speaker , he has somehow climbed the greasy pole like Richard Nixon . But he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has reached a pinnacle beyond his dreams . So he will work , and may even bring order to the Federal courts , and that is not a bad prospect , as things are now going .                     