@@727445

txt Bundy , one of the leading proponents of school decentralization , said yesterday that the city school crisis indicated that local control should have started much earlier , but only after more time had been allowed for effective planning . The Ford Foundation president insisted , however , that " protection of teachers ' rights and community participation remain essential and compatible unless the whole thing is crushed in a sea of hatred . " Mr. Bundy said that " the basic problem of education in the cities is fiscal . " He called it tragic that the opposing parties in the decentralization.battle failed to become allies " in going after the public treasury . " Mr. Bundy expressed these views in an interview , following widespread criticism of his and the foundation 's role in advancing the cause of decentralization of establishing three demonstration school districts . Ocean Hill - Brownsville , the focal point of the present school controversy because of its involuntary transfer of members // of the United Federation of Teachers , is one of these districts . The others are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District on the Lower East Side . Mr. Bundy was also chairman of the decentralization panel appointed last year by Mayor Lindsay . The Bundy panel recommended the creation of 30 to 60 largely autonomous community school boards . Subsequently , Mayor Lindsay modified the proposal by leaving the reconstituted central Board of Education in control of the high schools and putting it in charge of policing the operations and standards of the local schools . Legislature Rejected Plan The Legislature later rejected the modified plan submitted by the Mayor , but approved a system under which the central Board of Education could delegate some powers to the existing 33 local school boards in the city . To date , Ocean Hill-Brownsville has received approximately $180,000 from the Ford Foundation , and it remains eligible for perhaps another $90,000 under earlier authorizations . Most of the funds were earmarked for planning the experiment , financing the election of members to the local governing board , training those members as well as the district 's teachers and school aides and underwriting experiments in reading instruction and bilingual Spanish-English courses . Mr. Bundy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local conflicts were even deeper than our inquiries in 1967 suggested to me. " and added that it had been extraordinarily dificult to " find men of goodwill and competence who can reach across the conflicts . " " The problem was bigger and tougher , " he said , " and it should have been attacked earlier . If we had to do it over again , we should have been in it earlier to get to know people better and make them more responsive . " Mr. Bundy admitted that there should have been a better developed plan for the demonstration districts . But , he added , conditions were such that " there was no time for delay . " ' The problem was tough , but it needed to be done , " he said . As for the role of the decentralization panel he headed , at the Mayor 's request . Mr. Bundy said that it would have been preferable for the school system 's own leadership to have taken decisive action on its own . His Duty to Serve But , he went on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that speedy action could be mapped out only by a specially convened group , ' he saw it as his duty to serve . " How seriously does anyone take , you , if you do n't take the risk to get your hands dirty once in a while ? " he asked . Mr. Bundy stressed the following points : 9The foundation is involved in many other efforts to help improve urban education , with millions of dollars supporting such projects as the training of school administrators , voca tional education reforms and research in improving the financing of public education . qA foundation 's rule ought to be : " Everybody is entitled to get mad at us , but we do n't get mad at anybody . " 9Many of the areas of potential danger that exploded into the school crisis had , in fact , been recognized and had been underscored in a letter sent along with the decentralization proposals on Nov. 0 , 1967 . Mr. Bundy pointed to the following warnings in that letter : " We have met men and women in every interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own power  --  teacher power , parent power , supervisory power , community power , Board of Education power ... " Oppose ' Fragmentation ' " Decentralization is no substitute for other deeply needed changes  --  and in particular it is no substitute for the massive infusion of funds which the school system now needs  --  for ic  --  w buildings , for better teach:lg , and for a higher level of aerformance in almost every , field ... " " While we believe in decen ? trulization. we are opposed to fragmentation . . . " Mr. Bundy underscored the warning , in the 1967 proposal . that it was essential to keep in mind " the extraordinary importance of respecting the rights of all " and of not permitting " a monopoly of power " for any group . specifically , the letter also warned that the central board - nd the State Commissioner of Education must have powers " which can prevent racism in any district , or under any name . " In retrospect , however , Mr. Bundy admitted that the need to strengthen the powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning and implementation stages , might have been taken too lightly . " Perhaps we failed In not making the point more sharply that you need a strong central agency , with public confidence , as well as decentralization , " he said . Mr. Bundy deplored what he considered " some simplistic views of community control " leading to excessive demands for power as well as such statements as " the existence of the union is at stake " in the present conflict . Despite the foundation 's support of the demonstration school district , said his organization could not play a major role in settling the school crisis . But he added that he and his staff were always available for informal discussion of the problems .                     