@@723632

txt President Johnson today presented the Enrico Fermi award , the highest honor of the Atomic Energy Commission , to Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer , the atomic physicist once declared a security risk by the commission . Throughout the White House ceremonies ran the underlying theme  --  in the words of the President and the response of Dr. Oppenheimer  --  that with the award the Government was in part vindicating the honor of a man who directed the scientific development of the atomic bomb during World War II . In presenting the $50,000 award , President Johnson praised Dr. Oppenheimer as a " leader " who by his example , had set " high standards of achievement " for the rest of the nation . Charity and Courage ' Talking directly to Mr. Johnson in a low personal voice , 1 Dr. Oppenheimer said : " I think it just possible , Mr. President , that it has taken some charity and some courage for you to make this award today . That would seem to be a good augury for all our futures . " These words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somber time I gratefully and gladly speak them to you . " The political controversy stirred up nearly a decade ago by the Oppenheimer case , however , had obviously not been stilled completely . Noticeably absent from the crowded Cabinet room were Republican members of the Joint Congressional Atomic Energy Committee who had been invited to the ceremony . Senator Bourke B. Hicken-1 looper of Iowa , the ranking Republican on the committee , had declared that he could not " in good conscience " attend . In the Cabinet room were many officials who had been intimately involved in the ' Oppenheimer case  --  senior Democrats on the Atomic Energy Committee , Dr. ' Edward Teller , Dr. Oppenheimer 's chief adversary on the question of whether to develop the hydrogen bomb , and Dr. Henry D. Smyth , the I lone dissenter in the 4-to-1 commission decision in June , 1954 , that Dr. Oppenheimer was a security risk . The - Kennedy Administration decided last spring to give Dr. Oppenheimer the Enrico Ferini award . Aside from honoring the theoretical physicist , the award was also intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been placed under a security cloud by the prior Administration . The award was originally to have been presented personally by President Kennedy . With his death , the possibility was raised of having the commission present the award to spare any political embarrassment to the new President . Mr. Johnson , however , directed that he would give the award at a White House ceremony , as planned . President Johnson observed that " one of President Kennedy 's most important acts was to sign the award " giving the honor to Dr. Oppenheimer . He said it was with " great pleasure and pride " that he substituted for President Kennedy . In behalf of the commission " and the people of the United States , " President Johnson presented to Dr. Oppenheimer the citation , a gold medal , and " perhaps least important to you a $50,000 check from the Treasury of the United States . " Dr. Oppenheimer immediately handed over the check to his wife , standing behind him with their two children . " You may observe , " the President said with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check . " The $50,000 award is taxexempt . For a few moments , the thin , 59 - year - old scientist stood silently and reflectively , looking down at the citation and the medal . In his brief prepared statement he noted that , Jefferson had often written of the " brotherly spirit of science . " The citation , signed by President Kennedy , honors Dr. OpMilted Press International Dr. Edward Teller , who attended the award ceremony . penheimer for his " contribu- , tions to- theoretical physics as a teacher and originator of ideas and for leadership of the atomic energy program during critical years . ' During World War II , Dr. Oppenheimer was director of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory in New Mexico , where the first atomic bombs were developed . Since 1947 he has been director of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton , N.J. Until 1954 Dr. Oppenheimer held several consultative and advisory posts with the A.E.C. and the Defense Department . He still has not been granted security clearance that would permit him to resume his advisory role to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position that the initiative to restore the secprity clearance must come in a request from Dr. Oppenheimer , a move that he is reluctant to make since it could reopen the inquiry and hearings of a decade ago . The presentation came exactly a decade after the Government challenged the character and associations of the scientist , setting off a celebrated security case that split the scientific political communities . On Dec. 3 , 1953 , President Eisenhower ordered a " blank wall " placed between Dr. Oppenheimer and secret information pending a review of his security clearance . The Presidential order led to a finding by the Atomic Energy Commission in June , 1954 , that the physicist was a security risk . In its 4-to-1 vote , the commission charged " fundamental defects in his character " and stated that " his associations with the persons known to him to be Communists have extended far beyond the tolerable limits , of prudence and self-restraint . " Senator Hickenlooper , in announcing that he would not attend the ceremony , noted that he had " had some considerable familiarity with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially Communist - sympathizing associations since 1947 . " Senator Hickenlooper also questioned whether Dr. Oppenheimer deserved the award on scientific grounds . The Fermi award was created in the Uole-Hickenlooper Atomic Energy Act of 1954 . This authorized the commission , with the ' approval of the President , to give a $50,000 annual award " for any especially meritorious contribution to the development , use or control of atomic ener-gy : , The award was named in Honor of Dr. Enrico Fermi , the Italan-born scientist who was pioneer in developing atomic energy . Dr. Fermi was the first scientist to receive the award . It has since been presented annually , except 1960 , - when a controversy developed over whether it should be given to Dr. Hans A. Bethe or Dr. Edward Teller , two outspoken antagonists on nuclear policy issues . The controversy was resolved by giving it to Dr. Bethe in 1661 and then last year to Dr. Teller .                     