@@725027

txt The strike planned by the Chicago Teachers union is " ill-timed , illadvised , and illegal , " the Chicago Education association , which represents 4,000 public school teachers . charged yesterday . The CEA also charged that the CTU vote to strike did not represent a majority of public school teachers and that the CTU deliberately chose a strike date which " will deprive Jewish teachers who do not wish to strike of their right to worship . " In a statement issued by Miss Shell Lulkin , the association made it clear that it does not oppose strikes in general . Satisfied with Board The association noted that the board of education has granted all the pay raises it is legally empowered to until December . when it will vote on raises in January . " Why strike in September on a matter which will not be decided until December ? " the association asked , noting that the " Illinois Supreme court has already decided that such a strike would violate the state constitution . " The association also declared that " the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the CTU as the sole bargaining agent for Chicago teachers , is illegal in the state of Illinois . The CTU failed to gain passage in the last session of the General Assembly of a bill that would have made it legal . " An association poll , Miss Lulkin said , showed that teachers are overwhelmingly against the walkout . Religious Absenteeism In addition , she said , principals in some schools expect from 25 to 50 per cent absenteeism of teachers on the date of the strike , Sept. 27 , because of the Jewish High Holy days . Jewish teachers who do not wish to strike , she said , have complained to the association that " they are practically being deprived of their right to worship . " Their impression is that they must attend school that day to make clear that they are not sympathetic to the strike , she said . " Only 90 teachers voted for the strike . " the CEA noted . " On a matter this important , why was the union afraid to let a majority of its claimed membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioned whether the union actually does represent 13,000 of the 22,000 teachers in the city 's school system . Progress has been made in association negotiations with the board to obtain additional pay increases in January , Miss Lulkin said , and the negotiations will be pursued .                     