@@727774

txt Washington , April 14-President Nixon today outlined his administration 's priority domestic programs in a special message to Congress listing 10 legislative proposals he said will be forthcoming as " part of a responsible approach to our goal of managing constructive change in America . " Nixon said that beginning this week , he will send a series of recommendations to Capitol hill which will include increasing social security benefits to meet the rising living costs , a start on a plan to share federal revenues with financially-troubled states and cities , tax structure reform , and new measures to fight organized crime . Nixon 's message represented the administration 's first move - nearly three months after taking office-to present the major domestic programs it wants Congress to enact this session . No Extravagant Promises Nixon told the Senate and House today he had decided against a formal state of the Union message this year , but was indicating in advance some of the principal legislative proposals he will submit in the weeks immediately ahead . " These programs will not carry extravagant promises , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises , too many false hopes raised , too much substitution of easy slogan for the hard performance . " Wo n't Come Cheaply " " Neither will they carry large price tags for the coming fiscal year . We must recognize , however , that in the long run , progress will not come cheaply , and even tho the urgency of controling inflation di ctates budget cuts in the short run , we must be prepared to increase substantially our dollar investment in America 's future , as soon as the resources become available . " Follows Revised Budget Nixon 's unveiling of his major domestic programs followed by two days his announcement of a revised budget for the 1970 fiscal year cutting 4 billion dollars from the Johnson administration budget and estimating a surplus of 5.8 billion  --  largest in 18 years . Nixon said that peace has been his administration 's No. 1I priority because peace concerns the future of civilization and fulfilment of domestic needs will depend in large measure on prospects for an early end to the Viet Nam war . Calls on Congress Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we know we can execute once it becomes law . " He said ? in apparent response to complaints f r om congressional leaders that the administration was-dragging its heels in submitting a legislative program ? that long hours of hard deliberations went into the programs he will submit this session to make sure they would be workable . " Merely making proposals takes only a typewriter , " be said . " Making workable proposals takes time . We have taken this time . " He called on the Democraticcontroled - Congress " to join ' with this administration in this careful approach to the most fundamental issues confronting our country . " Hasty action or attempts to gain partisan political advantage by either Congress or the executive branch " can only be self - defeating and aggravate the very ills we seek to remedy , " he said . Lists 10 Points Nixon listed 10 major , priority legislative recommendations he will send to Congress beginning this week . In addition to the social security increase , revenue sharing , tax reform and anti-crime legislation , he told Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to provide " new incentives " for enlisting additional private resources to meet urgent social needs . 2 . A program to increase the effectiveness of the national effort for equal employment opportunity . 3 . A comprehensive reorganization of the postoffice department . 4 . A program for the District of Columbia , including home rule and representation in Congress . 5 . A " fareaching new " program for development of airways , airports and mass transit systems . 6 . A comprehensive labor and manpower program , including job training and placement , improvements in unemployment insurance and proposals to help guarantee the health and safety of workers . Nixon told Congress today that in his three months in office , " one priority that has emerged clearly and compellingly is that we must put a halt , swiftly , to the ruinous rise of inflationary pressures . " He declared that the current inflationary surge  --  a hangover from the Johnson administration already in its fourth year ? " represents a national self-indulgence we can not afford any longer . " Noting his administration 's attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 10 per cent income tax surcharge , Nixon commented that unless the value of the dollar is preserved , " we will have nothing left with which to save our cities  --  or anything else . " Nixon also singled out crime control for special mention as another priority . He said he will soon submit a crime-control package to Congress covering new measures to fight organized crime and crack down on racketeers. narcotics traffic , and obscenity peddlers which " will make clear the federal government 's commitment , nation-wide , to assist local authorities in protecting the lives , rights , and property of their citizens . " Nixon said that his administration 's review of federal policies since taking office last January has strengthened his conviction that in approaching national problems , this country " needs a new direction-not a turning away from past goals .                     