@@724752

txt Altenburschla , Germany One day seven geese belonging to a farmer of Grossburschla swam across the Werra River to Altenburschla , on the other side . Since the geese seemed disinclined to swim back on their own , the people of Altenburschla wanted to send them back to their owner across the stream . How to do this occupied the perplexed attention of mayors , town councils , and security officials on both sides . For the sleepy little villages with the long names , though within hailing distance of each other , lie in different countries . Altcnburschla ( 550 persons ) belongs to the West German Federal Republic . Grossburschla ( 2,000 persons ) belongs to the Communist German Democratic Republic . Once only the winding Werra separated the two towns , situated in the exact heart of Germany , where the Iron Curtain slices down on its way from the Baltic Sea to Czechoslovakia . Direct plan conceived Today the east bank of the Werra bristles with barbed wire and , land mines , laid down by the East German regime that controls Grossburschla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East German trying to do the'same would be shot , if he were not blown up by the mines . Mayor Karl Montag , a hearty , florid man who has headed the Altenburschla town council since 1056 , conceived a plan to return the geese . It was as direct as the Mayor himself . The creatures would be taken across the river to the barbed wire , which would part for an instant while the geese were handed through . This plan could have been shouted across the river by Altenburschla 's town crier , who each day rings his bell in the streets and bellows out the local news . Instead , Mayor Montag telephoned his counterpart in Grossburschla . The call was routed via Frankfurt in West Germany , to Leipzig in East Germany , then to Grossburschla . Last-minute reversal A huddle ensued on the Communist side . How many officials were involved , Altenburschla could only guess . The answer came through . The geese might be returned at the river 's edge , at a certain hour on a certain day . One hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ via Leipzig and Frankfurt . The Communists had had a change of heart . The barbed wire could not part for the geese . Instead , the wayward fowl must travel to the nearest official crossing point between East and West Germany , 55 miles away . Total journey , 110 miles . What Mayor Montag and his colleagues said in response was not disclosed . What they did was to take the geese down to the river . There the creatures were prodded away from the Altenburschla shore until they got the idea and swam across . There were no explosions on the other ! side . Altenburschla hopes the geese got safely home . First of two articles Bundesbildstelle , Bonn Reverse goose step Two villages separated by a stream . They belong to two worlds  --  and geese trying to cross over can cause trouble for humans .                     