@@726774

txt Chairman of federal reserve board is sharply critical of President Johnson 's leadership in the area of fiscal affairs . Story in business section . BY LOUIS DOMBROWSKI Chicago Tribune Press Serviced Washington , Dec. 4 ? President Johnson said today that the nation needs a tax increase and that he hopes Congress will miss one . He told reporters at an impromptu press conference that the need for such an increase is becoming more evident every day . - We 're still very hopeful that the Congress in their wisdom will act on it , " he said . Time Element Omitted Absent , however , from the President 's comments was the time element for the tax increase .. In recent weeks , Johnson and his principal advisers have been pushing Congress to get a tax bill thru both Houses before they adjourn for the year . The House ways and means committee , which by law must initiate all revenue measures , last week virtually ended all thought of raising taxes this year , but left the door open for a new effort next year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which begins July 1 . Repeats Stand on Cuts In rejecting the proposed 10 per cent income tax surcharge. the committee also turned down an administration plan to cut federal spending by 2.6 billion dollars as being too little . Johnson reverted to his former position that spending cuts are up to Congress . " The Congress has the cutting power , and we would hope it exercises that power , " he said . " A President ca n't spend a dime that they do n't appropriate . " The President volunteered that the new defense budget would call for whatever was necessary to adequately protect the country . However , he added that deliberations have not yet reached the stage of setting a specific dollar figure . Committee Not Discussed Earlier in the day he held a budget meeting with Defense Secretary Robert S. , Deputy Secretary Paul Nitze , and the joint chiefs of staff . Johnson said the failure to get a tax bill out of the ways and means committee did not enter into the discussions of the size of the budget . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Viet Nam spending in the next fiscal year to the levels of fiscal 1968 in order to get his tax increase . " I would not want to specu- ' late on what the budget will be for any particular department , " he said . " I have found when you express a hope sometimes you mislead people .                     