@@721374

txt RIO DE JANEIRO , Aug. 6 ? Four weeks ago , awed Cubans learned of the illness of Fidel Castro Ruz , the Maximum Leader of their revolution and the man who is the living sym. bol of the tremendous changes being wrought in Cuba . For four weeks , the Cuban nation has lived through deep uncertainty , fed on rumors and official contradictions , as to the condition of the young Premier , chances of his recovery and return to power , and the possibilities of this replacement in the revolutionary leadership . This uncertainty , concern and worry underscore , if it , indeed , need be proved , that Dr. Castro 's extraordinary personality dominates and overshadows the entire Cuban scene to the exclusion of all other figures in the revolutionary drama . In a larger sense , the Cuban revolution will undoubtedly survive whatever shocks and clashes may yet result from Premier Castro 's illness or his incapacity to continue to hold the reins of government as he has done for nineteen months . constitute the base and Premier Castro is  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they were Cuba 's most powerful men , and if Premier Castro has to bow out , the original triumvirate will become the consulate of Raul Castro and Che Guevara. feel assured that nobody will stand in his way . In the course of the last twelve month or so , the coldeyed little major has solidified his hold over the Cuban armed forces , purging all enemies , particularly the revolutionary but anti-Communist officers . His ministry controls the 190,000-strong peoples militia ? six times the size of the army . The man directly in charge of the militia is his ideological and political ally , Maj. Ernesto Guevara . In the pyramidal structure of revolutionary power in Cuba , Raul Castro and Major Guevara Associated Press Raul Castro , picked by his brother to succeed him . Between them , the two majors , both openly oriented toward communism , have succeeded in eliminating from high and low ranks of the government and related groups , such as the labor confederation , most potential opponents . It so happened that most of these men who are now gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent months , the penetration of " Raul 's men " and " Che 's men " has been one of the most significant political developments in Cuba , embracing the armed forces , labor , Havana University , economic agencies , the Foreign Ministry , the media of mass communications and virtually every field that matters . President Osvaldo Dorticos Torrado , figure-head chief executive of Premier Castro 's regime , has been asserting himself more lately and informed Cubans are convinced that he has climbed on the bandwagon of the two majors . And political observers tend believe less and less the revolutionary slogan proclaiming that " Fidel , Raul and Che are one . " Issue of Control Should Raul Castro indeed assume power , and Major Guevara alongside him , it may be open to question whether Premier Castro would be allowed to return to the full exercise of authority , even if his health improved . Beloved as he still is by the Cuban masses , the Premier would obviously have to be maintained as the symbol of the revolution , and Raul and Guevara would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in death ; but a way might have to be found either to control him or place him under their unquestionable influence ? a hard task if one consideres Fidel Castro 's personality , Until now the Premier has seemed to accept their counsel , but this situation could change . Cuban history would undoubtedly take upon itself to drive wedge some day between the two majors , devoted allies that they may be today . But in a possible power struggle between them , Raul Castro would have the advantage in that Premier Castro was careful not to include Guevara in the line of succession and that objections to the Argentine born major persist among the most dedicated revolutionaries . Thus far , the personality of Premier Castro has helped to keep behind the regime the majority of Cubans , who have had enough faith in him to close their eyes to many abhorrent or Korrisome features of government . Once he is removed , much of public opinion could swing behind the opposition groups that are advocating " recovery of our pure revolution , " meaning restoration of freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Premier , Raul Castro would undoubtedly resort to repressive measures to maintain the regime , thus in turn leading to more opposition . Permanent Factors As the great social and economic upheaval that the Castro revolution turned out to be , even his vanishing from the limelight could not turn back history and undo the profound and drastic transformation forced upon Cuba 's national structure and upon her people But the political strains and stresses likely , if the Premier actually steps aside , could profoundly alter the nature and character of this revolution ? either toward greater radicalism or toward moderation , depending on who emerges on top of the heap of Cuban leadership . If Dr. Castro thus becomes a victim of his own revolution , the mantle of Maximum Leader will fall on the shoulders of his brother , Maj. Raul Castro , Minister of the Armed Forces . And Raul Castro 's ascension to power will certainly mean an lttempt at a culmination of the process of turning the Cuban revolution increasingly radical , ncreasingly close to commuiism and to the Soviet bloc . More than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brother to be his mfr . Today Raul Castro has : oncentrated in his own hands ; ufficient potential power to                     