@@721479

txt Foreign Minister Golds Meir of Israel challenged the Arab leaders today to meet and negotiate . Israel 's call was directed at President Camel Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic and the leaders of Jordan , Lebanon and other Arab states . Israeli leaders have made similar offers before . The offers have been rejected by the Arab governments . Airs . Melt ' made it clear that the proposal was renewed now because . the Arab leaders had been active in urging face-to-face talks between ! President Eisenhower and Pre1 ? Speaking in the General Assembly , Mrs. Meir demanded that the Arab leaders follow their own advice and meet with Premier David Ben-Gurion for peace negotiations ? " or at least for an agreement on nonaggression . " She said the Premier was ready for a meeting without any preconditions , to be held at any time . Mrs. Meir 's suggestion was greeted with scattered applause , but Qassim Hassan , Iraqi Ambassador to Prague , slapped his palm on the delegation table in protest . Foreign Minister Musa Nasir of Jordan said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that the speech was " full of distortions . " He said he intended to reply . Omar Loutfi , United Arab Republic delegate , exercised his right of reply and charged that Israel 's conduct had been " aggressive and belligerent " on a number of occasions . Mr. Loutfi said that , despite hundreds of condemnations by the United Nations Mixed Armistice Commissions , Israel remained bellicose . He charged that Mrs. Meir 's speech was " designed to confuse public opinion with insidious propaganda . " Although Israel and the Arab states signed armistice agreements eleven years ago ending the Palestine conflict , these have not been followed by peace treaties . Relations have remained on a level of an armed truce , but no real peace . The Arab states have opposed negotiating with Israel without guarantees that Israel would fulfill a number of prior conditions . These include the repatriation of the more than 1,000,000 Palestinian Arabs displaced by the war in 1948 . The Arabs also insist that Israel return to the lines of the prewar partition plan , which would mean surrender of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused both conditions and countered , as Mrs. Meir did today , with the reminder that the Arabs have not carried out United Nations resolutions , including the Security Council directive to allow free passage through the Suez Canal . Mrs. Meir also insisted that the continuing predicament of the refugees was the outcome of the Arab states ' policy of refusing to allow them to settle down permanently and become absorbed into the Arab economy . Needs of Africa Cited Mrs. Meir underscored the needs of the under developed countries , particularly of Africa . She suggested that ample funds would be made available if all the industrialized states would pledge 2 per cent of their national output for economic help , making a fund of $17,000,000,000 annually , " How can we expect Africans to be impressed by the feats of the space age when so many of their own people still are illiterate ? " she arcked . On world disarmament , she urged acceptance of the proposal of Prime Minister Macmillan of Britain that a. fresh start be made by trying to negotiate East-West agreement on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo aid directed by Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold . She added that , although Israel had not always been in " perfect agreement " with Mr. Hammarskjold , his task in the Congo had been " most conscientiously carried out . ' ' Meanwhile , at a meeting of the Assembly 's Social , Humanitarian and Cultural Committee , Muhammad El-Farrah of Jordan charged Israel with repression of civil and political rights of the Arab minority , of 200,000 in his country . He said Israeli military forces controlling the Arab communities had imposed collective punishment for individual acts , frequently flouted Ithe decisions the courts and had restricted the freedom of movment of the Arab minority .                     