@@724473

txt Snow Emergency Is Declared in City Tne iv . , Orle " titles Dori CMar/esi A Department of Sanitation worker in Times Square yesterday interrupted his shoveling for pedestrians to pass Air and RoadTravel Snarled ; 2,000 Men Digging Out Here By ARNOLD H. LtiBASCH A snow emergency was de- ' , clared in New York City andl Nassau County yesterday asl. five to nine inches of snow fell ' on the metropolitan area , disrupting air and road travel . The emergency meant parkeH cars had to be removed from major arteries . In the city , 159 ! main streets are marked with : special snow-emergency signs . Parking is banned on thlse streets and only vehicles with snow tires or chains are per-1 mitted to use them . The snow stopped falling in the city shortly before midnight , according to the Weather Bu-j reau . It reported that about five ' inches had fallen in Manhattan , Brooklyn and the Bronx , about six inches in Queens and Up to nine inches on Staten Island . As the snow started to accumulate yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plows removing snow and sanding and salting approaches to tunnels and bridges . Expressways and main roads also were sanded and salted . About 2,000 Sanitation employes were on snow-removal jobs , and Sanitation Commis-. sioner Frank J. Lucia canceled days off for 1,000 men . The metropolitan area was . not alone . Sleet , snow and plummeting temperatures spread over a 12-state area from east-. ern Kentucky and northern ' // Virginia to southern New England . The forecast for today was for fair and cold weather ; the outlook for tomorrow was for fair skies and seasonable temperatures . The City Traffic Department , which put the snow emergency into effect at 5 P.M. , said it might be possible to lift it by 8 o'clock this morning , The last snow emergency in the city was on Jan. 13 , 1964 . The department suspended alternate-side parking regulations for today . The Board of Education said regular classes would be held , but urged all handicapped children attending public or parochial schools to stay home . All school field trips were canceled . Snow and fog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and last night . Kennedy International Airport reported that about 250 inbound and outbound flights were canceled during the day and that 30 inbound flights were diverted to other cities . La Guardia Airport reported 150 flights canceled . Many airlines here reported delays of up to one hour for all arrivals and departures . Wor ' ried passengers clustered around ticket counters throughout the day . Hazardous driving conditions prevailed throughout the metropolitan area , and traffic was generally light . All trains , subway lines and ferries were operating on schedule , acccording to the city 's Municipal Communications Service . In Ebensburg , Pa. , about 80 miles east of Pittsburgh , a Greyhound bus skidded off a road and plunged 50 feet down an embankment into a creek . More than 20 passengers were injured , nine of them critically . The driver was thrown through , the windshield . The bus doors were jammed and the passengers , including the injured , had to be taken out through the shattered windshield . The New Jersey Turnpike reduced its speed limit to 35 miles an hour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day . Traffic in northern New Jersey was very light in most places . A bus took an hour and 45 minutes to make the trip from Ridgewood , N. J. , to New York last night , a trip that normally takes an hour . In Nassau County , where the police reported road conditions to be " very treacherous , " County Executive Eugene H. Nickerson declared an emergency at 9 P.M. He said vehicles parked on designated snow-emergency roads would be towed away . The Westchester police said that the New England and New York Thruways had been salted . Light traffic was reported . In Connecticut the state police said that main roads had been plowed and sanded , but bridges on the Thruways continued to be icy . Five members of the City Island Yacht Club who braved the snow to go sailing on Eastchester Bay went for a chilly swim when their sailboat capsized ' off City Island . The soaked sailors managed to right the sailboat , then returned to port to spend the rest of the day in warm and dry quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city at 8:53 A.M. The bureau 's first " heavy snow warnings " for the city came at 10 A.M. Its 5 A.M. forecast had called for " cloudy and cold through tonight , with some light snow developing during the day and ending tonight . " At 7:15 A.M. it said : " Cloudy and cold through tonight with snow today ending during the night . " In Washington , the Weather Bureau issued a special 6 P.M. bulletin on snow conditions , , noting that heavy snow and hazardous driving warnings were in effect over most of the northeast . It said that the low , pressure system causing the ' snow was near the coast of , northeastern North Carolina atl 6 P.M. and was expected tol move over the Atlantic overnight .                     