@@723097

txt PESHAWAR , Pakistan , April 19 UP-Police guards , some with bayonets fixed , were posted today at the United States consulate and the hotel where most westerners stay ? all because of an ambassador 's cat . This was Peshawar 's day of protests arising from a report that a gift cat for the children of John Kenneth Galbraith , soon-to retire as United States ambassador to India , had been named Ahmed by his children . Ahmed is one of the holy names of the Prophet Mohammed . Ignoring United States disclaimers , Moslem religious leaders followed the day 's prayers with sermons denouncing the United States . One senior Moslem leader here , Ghulam Ghous Sehrai , said " such unholy attacks can no longer be tolerated " and urged that Pakistan break with the United States , its ally in several military treaties . Prayers Criticize U. S. The prayers and sermons in the mosques of the mudwalled old part of Peshawar were described by one Pakistani as strongly critical of the United States . Danger appeared to have passed by late afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city . Mindful of riots last May , when a mob of bearded , turbaned Pakistanis streamed out of mosques thru the narrow bazaars of the old city to attack the consulate and the hotel , police stationed their guards around possible trouble spots . The May riots erupted over reports that a United States and an Italian film company were planning to film the life of Mohammed . The Moslem religion forbids depicting the prophet . Reports about plans for the film were denied . Cat Causes It All The cat in the controversy was one presented to Galbraith 's children last year when he visited the city of Ahmedabad , India . The cat was first named Ahmedabad , for the city . After reports that the children had shortened the name to Ahmed , Pakistan newspapers called for protest demonstrations . A United States embassy spokesman in New Delhi denied the reports but said the name the cat answers to now is Gujarat  --  the name of the state in which Ahmedabad is located ; it is the native state of the late Mohandas K. Gandhi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembly at Dacca , in East Pakistan . Il the reports are true , House Leader Khan A. Sabur said in Dacca , " the matter will be taken up on diplomatic level with the United States govern . ment and consequential action will not be delayed . "                     