@@723787

txt Governor Rockefeller said at a news conference today that he had no intention of giving up the Governorship if he failed in his bid for the Presiidency . However , he left the door ajar for his possible departure from Albany in the event that a high Federal post should be offered to him next year by a Republican President . He also indicated strongly that if he was not the occupant of the White House next year , he would seek re-election as Governor in 1966 . Mr. Rockefeller is now in his second fouryear term . Speculation has been widespread that the Governor might resign and turn the state administration over to Lieut . Gov . Malcolm Wilson if his national aspirations are not fulfilled . Asked if he would resign in such circumstances , Mr. Rockefeller replied : " My plan is to stay on as , Governor of the state unless I get a call to Washington for higher duty . " Avoids ' Frozen ' Position Asked whether his decision to remain in Albany was motivated by a desire to run again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't preclude that . " The office he has in mind , he explained , is the Governorship . It is too early , he said , to look ahead to 1968 , a Presidential year . Mr. Rockefeller said he was not making a flat pledge to serve out his term , because he did not want to be " frozen " into a position that would prevent him from taking a Federal office . " I can say , " he explained , " that I am not going to leave this office just to retire . " Mr. Rockefeller commented on a wide range of questions dealing with state issues and national politics at the news conference , the second he has held this year . Backs Railroad Bill He took issue with Fred A. Young , ? Republican state chairman , without mentioning his name , on the subject of the fullcrew repeal bill for railroads , which Mr. Young recently described as a " corpse . " The bill , one of the major items in the Governor 's legislative program , would repeal a 51-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The railroads contend that the law mandates " featherbedding " that is costing them $17 million a year . Asked whether he agreed that the bill was dead , Mr. Rockefeller replied : " No , I do not . " He said he understood the railroads had agreed to give greater protection to employes than is provided in the national arbitration award that recently recommended elimination of firemen on diesel freight locomotives . The award would protect those with two years or more seniority , The Governor 's bill was amended last week to protect the jobs of all persons employed at the time the bill became effective . Mr. Rockefeller ' said he had telephoned former Gov . Thomas E. Dewey last night to con-1 gratulate him after he had signed the bill designating the New York Thruway as " The , Gov . Thomas E. Dewey Thruway . " " I thought he sounded very pleased , " the Governor reported . Mr. Rockefeller said he had received none of the 200 rubber rats that were said to have been mailed to him from the promoters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , he will forward them to City Hall in New York . He said the problem of the city slums depended upon the " will " of city officials to enforce the fire , health , housing and other codes . Mr. Rockefeller said he felt the city had not made full use of the receivership bill enacted two years ago . It empowers the city to take over certain slum properties and rehabilitate tham at the owners ' expense . He said he would give careful consideration to city proposals to strengthen the city 's hand in dealing with slums conditions : The Governor declined to take a position on the controversial bill now on the Senate floor that would outlaw professional strikebreakers . However , he said he had always felt there was a link between proposals to outlaw professional strikebreakers and those to prohibit the use of imported pickets . There has been some discussion about coupling bills on these subjects . Mr. Rockefeller said he thought the recent boycott of New York City schools was " unfortunate " because it involved a violation of the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of enforcement of the law , " he said . The Governor still described himself as the " underdog " in the New Hampshire Presidential preference primary March 10 , but he felt that he was " moving up . " The California primary June 2 , he said , will be " the most decisive in its influence on the convention . " Asked whether he thought the loser of the California primary should withdraw , he replied : " That 's a decision the loser would have to make ? he or she . I would not . I have said I will go right through the convention . " The Governor has also entered the West Virginia primary May 12 and the Oregon primary May 15 . He may enter others , he said .                     