@@723796

txt Special to The New York Ttmes BONN , Feb. ** is to our advantage to seek agreements where grounds for a workable agreement in our mutual interests may be found to exist . We should pursue this endeavorl without excessive expectations for rapid or spectacular success , but also without discouragement . " These words were spoken this week by Ambassador George C. before the German Foreign Policy Association in defense of the United States policy of d ? tente toward the Soviet Union . They could equally well have been employed by Chancellor Erhard in explanaion of West Germany 's policy of detente toward its neighbor and ally in the West , France . Bonn and Paris are at odds on fundamental issues of national policy . Their differences on the organization of Europe , the uses of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Europe 's relationship to the United States are for the time being intractable . Yet Chancellor Erhard returned this week in a cheerful mood from his second visit to Paris since he assumed his high office last October . His press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through candor . " Meaning of the Words Translated into every man 's language , these words meant that the Chancellor and President de Gaulle frankly acknowledged their disagreement on large issues , so turned to lesser matters where some useful work was done . Ministerial delegations of the two countries , meeting under the terms of the one-year-old French-German Treaty of Co operation , made several minor agreements . They arranged to coordinate French and West German economic aid programs in Latin America , to have their economic experts study ways of halting a flight of capital from inflation-threatened France to stable West Germany , to improve an existing youth-exchange program , to broaden joint military training activities . As is often the case when the United States achieves some secondary understanding with the Soviet Union , even these minor agreements stirred shivers of apprehension in fnterested bystanders . It was speculated that Pres- , ident de Gaulle had enlisted West German support in a plan to undermine United States influence in Latin America . Smaller members of the European Common Market wondered whether the French-German economic talks signified the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all six members of the community . As far as Bonn is concerned , none of these alarums arose from even a grain of truth . Chancellor Erhard is committed by necessity and conviction to a " balanced " Western policy in which France is neither favored nor shunned . A Commitment A year ago , when Dr. Erhard was still knocking at the door of the Federal Chancellory , he was counted among the critics of former Chancellor Konrad Adenauer 's friendship treaty with France . The then Vice Chancellor and Minister of Economics advocated reconciliation between the two ancient rivals . But the Elysee treaty looked to him like a commitment to the " Little Europe " that President de Gaulle openly hopes to organize and represent on the world stage . From the beginning of his public career , Dr. Erhard 's horizons have stretched far beyond the shores of continental Europe . It is half forgotten now that he , supported only reluctantly negotiations leading to the creation of the Common Market in 1957 . During the weeks last year when Dr. Erhard stood waiting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first major act of foreign policy would be to reduce the Elysee treaty to a scrap of paper . Shortly after he assumed the Chancellorship he made his first " get acquainted " visit to Paris . He used part of his time in the French capital to make a speech pledging West Germany 's allegiance to Atlantic partnership and United States leadership of the Western alliance . In his talks with President de Gaulle , Chancellor Erhard was quickly convinced that there was no dissuading France from her pursuit of an independent nuclear force , no chance of her joining the proposed NATO Polaris atomic fleet , no prospect of President de Gaulle 's backing down from his go-it-alone international policy . He ? found a glimmer of hope in the French leader 's agreement that a political guiding hand must be established to control Western Europe 's fast-growing " technocracy " of supranational economists and technicians . Policy Unchanged Chancellor Erhard returned from Paris in November with a policy on France not substan-I tially altered in specifics from ' that handed to him by his predecessor . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within Ms own Christian Democratic party with a " Gaullist opposition . " In fact , Chancellor Adenauer had been deterred by a suspicious Parliament from ever bringing to fruition the Frenchoriented policy signified by his cooperation treaty . An alarmed Government , fearful of isolation from the United States , required the retiring Chancellor to reaffirm Bonn 's ultimate dependence on the United States . The victory of Bonn 's " Atlantic " faction was won by the addition of a " clarifying " preamble to the ratification of the French-German treaty . Improved Relations Thus the low point in the special relationship between France and West Germany was reached before its architect , Dr. Adenauer , left office . Since Dr. Erhard came into office relalations have improved . This improvement arises from a point of agreement between Chancellor Erhard and his predecessor . Both believe that a close association with France is essential to the German national interest and to achievement of its Western policy aims .. Dr. Adenauer holds that intimacy between Bonn and Paris could lead to a revival of Atlantic harmony . His successor believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unhappy situation . So he has settled for a waiting policy , pursuing the modest object tives of surface harmony and small accommodations . Dr. Erhard has learned in the last four months that the big issues are not ripe far settlement or compromise . He returned from his second trip to Paris this week with his one initiative on a major policy front  --  European political union ? badly set back . President de Gaulle remains prepared at any time to establish a European political authority ? a council of the sovereign heads of government of the six Common Market countries . His solution is anathema in other Common Market capitals , including Bonn . If " Europe " is to be confined to the six , it will have to be a supranational community , they say . If " Europe " is to remain a concert of sovereign states , It will have to include Britain and other neighbor states . Foreign Minister Gerhard Schroder thought that Bonn 's move toward a new attack on the political union problem was premature . By present indications he was right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his first attempt to arrest the centripetal forces that are driving the Atlantic alliance into disorder . He has achieved no exceptional personal intimacy with the enigmatic French President . Despite the Elysee treaty , General de Gaulle has not yet consulted him on a major policy decision , such as recognition of Communist China . Chancellor Erhard declines to take such slights as an excuse for hostility . He considers it the better part of wisdom to maintain the forms of harmony and , like his fellow Western leaders , to hope that something turns up . He is faced at home by a small but influential " Gaullist " faction seeking to prod him into closer identification with Paris . The Chancellor regards this group , led by Dr. Adenauer , as a minor annoyance . For the time being , in his relationship to the West German electorate , Ludwig Erhard can do no wrong . No one in the Government party entertains the remotest hope of challenging his leadership . Some politicians of other parties are ? perhaps prematurely  --  speaking of Chancellor Erhard as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterring the Chancellor from a successful French policy lie not in Bonn . They are to be found in Paris . Erhard Maintains Close Association With de Gaulle Within Framework of His Relationship With U.S.                     