@@726555

txt Ivory-billed woodpeckers ? spectacular red , white and black birds of the Southern swamplands that ornithologists had long feared extinct  --  have been found in Texas . Three pairs of the 20-inch birds ? as big as crows  --  have been sighted in the Neches River Valley in the Big Thicket country of eastern Texas by John V. Dennis of Leesburg , Va. , America 's leading expert on woodpeckers . Mr. Dennis , who searched for the woodpeckers under a contract with the Interior Department , estimated on the basis of his study and reports from amateurs that there were five to 10 pairs of the birds in the Big Thicket . The last previous confirmed sighting of an ivory bill , America 's largest woodpecker , was of one bird on the Chipola River in Florida in 1950 . ? Since then there have been occasional reports of ivory bills , but ornithologists have dismissed the sightings as misidentifications of pileated woodpeckers , somewhat , similar birds quite common in the woodlands . Now , Mr. Dennis said , the reports of the amateur birdwatchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall said that reports of the ivory bill 's survival would be investigated along the Congaree ' River in South Carolina , along the Apalachicola River in Florida , along the Tombigbee River in Alabama and Mississippi and along the Altamaha River in Georgia . Mr. Dennis saw his first ivory bill in the Big Thicket early last December , about a week after his field study began . He was alone , walking through a cypress swamp , when he spotted the bird on a tree only 50 or 60 feet away . Mr. Dennis was carrying his seven-power binoculars , so he had no difficulty in identifyinP , the bird as an ivory bill , with its shiny black and white plumage and long ivory bill . Male birds wear a brilliant scarlet crest . The Interior Department ex ? pressed the hope that curious persons would not try to find the ivory bill , and for that // reason the exact spot of the sightings was not disclosed . Mr. Dennis said , however , that the chance of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if he were given specific directions . The birds live in the deep swamp , he explained , are wary and are " nomadic  --  they do n't stay put . " With all his expertise Mr. Dennis saw no nests . Nor did he take any pictures . Mr. Dennis would not speculate on the possibility of preventing the ivory bill from becoming extinct . He said it would be a mistake to believe that there were fewer ivory bills than the approximately 40 whooping cranes known to exist . Survival Hopes Raised One of Mr. Dennis 's findings raised hope that the ivory bill would survive . Ornithologists have long attributed the species ' decline to the disappearance of hardwood forests , where the ivory bill fed or . the larva of wood-boring beatles . Mr. Dennis , however , discovered that the ivory bill also fed on insects in pine slashings , indicating that the bird might be adapting to the changed environment . Harry Goodwin , chief of the office of endangered species of the Bureau of Sports Fisheries and Wildlife , has asked timberland owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although there has been a campaign to make the Big Thicket a national park , Mr. Goodwin said that he was not asking that the Government acquire the land . Mr. Goodwin is , however , asking timberland owners to rotate their cuttings of pines so there will always be a supply of branches to feed on . The lumbermen are also being asked to leave pockets of cypress in deep swamp , which are uneconomical to cut anyway , and to leave some of the older trees standing in other areas for nesting . In addition , Mr. Goodwin said , the East Texas Wildlife Federation has promised to patrol 100,000 acres it controls in the Big Thicket to prevent shooting of the ivory bills , Federal law provides for a maximum penalty of a $500 fine , 60 days in jail or both for injuring an ivory bill . The ivory bill was once common in the Southeastern United States . Mr. Dennis , who saw it in Cuba , said its call was " anemic for such a large bird . " John James Audubon , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quotes authorities as saying that the sound made by the ivory bill may be accurately reproduced by using the mouthpiece of a clarinet . Other North American birds described by ornithologists as extinct include the Carolina parrot , which once ranged from the Gulf states to Colorado . Nebraska and New York and which was last seen in 1904 ; the heath hen , a species of prairie chicken ; and the passenger pigeon , a bird eagerly sought by business interests in the 19th Century . The last known passenger pigeon died in 1914 in the Cincinnati Zoo .                     