@@727589

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 22 ? The faculty committee that recommended the establishment at Harvard University of a degreegranting program in American Negro studies sounded a sensible note in a controversy that has alienated whites from blacks and split the black community . Demands for autonomous , black - controlled black studies programs have figured in most of the bitter campus confrontations that have marked this academic year ? most notably at San Francisco State College . When Roy Wilkins of the N.A.A.C.P. said that such demands would lead to " another version of segregation and Jim Crow " he moved Roy Innis of CORE to fiery response . Wilkins was out of touch , Innis said , and should " withdraw from the stage , " since he could not recognize that " the time of the civil rights movement and the integrationist philosophy is past " and that the black students ' demands were based on " their need at this stage for black identity , selfawareness and togetherness . " Innis thus seemed to be subordinating the purely academic values of black studies to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of black autonomy ; Wilkins struck almost the opposite note when he said of Negro students : " If they are going to live in a white world , they had better learn what the white boys are learning . " Despite this dispute , there is a growing acceptance of what the Harvard committee emphasized  --  that it is a " legitimate and urgent " academic task to study and teach something about ' ' 25 million of our own people with a special history , culture and range of problems . " Action Without Duress The Harvard report is important because it moves the nation 's most prestigious university toward this goal before its hand is forced by ugly demonstrations , sit-ins and strikes ; and even if this movement is the product of social pressures subtler but no Jess real than those of the picket line and the boycott , Harvard at least has not waited for disaster to spur it into action . The faculty report , moreover , is a persuasive document that leaves no doubt of its authors ' sincerity ; they are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a hack department teaching the kind of trumped-up or patronizing courses that one black scholar has called " Chittlins 101 . " The report nevertheless does not deal extensively with the question of black autonomy , except to make it clear that the recommended black studies program at Harvard would be open to all students , and that black students would have a voice in , but no veto power over , faculty selection . The committee no doubt concluded that an ' ' autonomous " department controlled by its students and not open to whites would be administratively awkward , of dubious intellectual and professional standing , and obviously in violation of the spirit of a free university . Still , Roy Innis , in his emphasis on the black students ' " need at this stage for black identity , self-awareness and togetherness " has raised an issue that has to be dealt with by the dominantly white faculties and administrations of our colleges and universities . Charles V. Hamilton of Roosevelt University , one of the most articulate of black teachers and writers , points out that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " people who are just coming into their own politically . They are making political demands with tremendous psychological implications for themselves and they have to he answered with that . in mind . " Toward Self-Awareness The universities will fail their black students , in these circumstances , if they respond to such black demands by retreating into purely academic or administrative attitudes . A black studies program will be fully useful only if it has , in addition to its educational purposes , the broadly social function of helping black students toward what Hamilton has called " a firm base of self-awareness and identity " ; and that can hardly be achieved unless the black students believe in the program and its relevance to their lives . That is why black students not only need , but are going to have to be given , a stronger voice in the Harvard program , and those that other schools may be planning , than students normally ask for or get . The forms of autonomy are not possible or desirable , but something approaching the substance of autonomy will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear to black students as one more course in the white man 's burden .                     