@@721905

txt Dr. John J. Theobald , the Superintendent of Schools , and his administration were accused yesterday by a member of the State Investigation Commission of having " callously " ignored known defects and needed repairs in the city schools . The charge was made by Jacob Grumet in reply to criticism of the commission previously expressed by the Superintendent . Dr. Theobald had said that if the commission knew of hazardous conditions in the city 's schools it should have called those conditions to his immediate attention and not have waited until public hearings started last week . The hearings , which recessed last Thursday after three daily sessions , will be resumed this ' morning at 270 Broadway . They are scheduled to end Thursday . Evidence in Board 's File Mr. Grumet made his reply to the Superintendent in an interview shortly before Dr. Theobald issued a new statement defending his administration 's record . " The evidence that was brought out at last week 's hearings , " Mr. Grumet said , " was taken right out of the files of the Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports of the school custodians and in the innumerable letters of complaint written by the principals . The oral testimony supporting these documents was given by employes of the Board of Education . " The Board of Education had this information  --  in many in // Among those who have admitted gratuities and side work , Dr. Theobold said , was Michael L. Radoslovich , director of architecture for the education board . Another aide , who was not specifically mentioned in this connection but whose case will also come up for review , it was learned , is Joseph R. Weiss , the Deputy Superintendent of Schools in charge of buildings . Mr. Weiss , has admitted accepting a case of liquor from a contractor , but has said he gave it to members of his staff and admonished the contractor not to send him any more presents . Demand by Civic Group The Citizens ' Committee for Children , meanwhile , called for the " immediate and uncondi. ptional dismissal of officials in the Board of Education found guilty of conflict of interest or cbrrupt practices . " District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Dr. Theobald a copy of his findings on some of the thirty-nine school employes who were accused earlier this month by the City Department of Investigation of Raving accepted gratuities from contractors . In some instances , it was learned , the two-year statute of limitations would bar prosecution , but the employes are still liable to departmental action that could lead to , the loss of their jobs . Another report , on alleged collusion in rigg'ng bids for school work in the plumbing field , is also being prepared by the District Attorney 's office with the cooperation of Louis I. Kaplan , the City Investigation Commissioner . In his statement Dr. Theobald again denied that school children were being exposed to . dangerous conditions and said that safety and welfare of pupils were of paramount concern to school officials . " One would be unrealistic if one thought that in a system this large there was not always something wrong , something to be improved or corrected , " he said . " In this kind of situation it is easy to find ? things to criticize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe the worst . " Going beyond his previous statements , Dr. Theobald took issue with the " innuendo " that " everything that is wrong with our schools , particularly with the Division of Housing , is the fault of the present head " ? Mr. Weiss . The Superintendent asserted that most of the conditions complained about at the state hearing " occurred before Mr. Weiss became head of the unit " in September , 1959 . Of seventeen new schools that were mentioned during the hearing , all were planned before Mr. Weiss assumed office , and all except three were completed before he came on the job . Dr. Theobald said that at the end of 1958 , eight months before Mr. Weiss took over , the school board had a balance of $26,263 , - 960 in unspent school modernization funds , As of last December , he said , Mr. Weiss ' speedup of repair and modernization activities left a balance of only V50,155 in unspent funds . " One charge that seems to have validity is the charge that letters from principals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the Superintendent conceded . " This is apparently a long-standing complaint . On the other hand , this does not necessarily mean that work was not done or that the need was ignored . " Builder Sues to Testify In another development.stemming from the state inquiry into alleged irregularities , waste and inefficiency in the school build- , ing program , the Caristo Con- ; struction Corporation obtained a court order to compel the commission to show cause why ; Vincent J. Caristo , president of the concern , should not be allowed to testify at the public hearings . The order is returnable at 10 A , AC tomorrow at Supreme Court in Manhattan . The concern , whose work was sharply criticized last week by several witnesses and by some members of the commission , said that it wanted the opportunity to refute the allegations . Mr. Caristo and his lawyer , Max E. Greenberg , in an interview at the company 's offices yesterday accused the commission of distorting the truth and subjecting the concern to unfair criticism . Mr. Caristo , whose company has built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifteen years , said his workmen followed the specifications of the Board of Education and faithfully lived up to all contracts . Mr. Caristo asserted that the charges had damaged his personal and business reputations and that he had become a target because the commission wanted " for political purposes " to " impugn " the city 's school building record .                     