@@726717

txt A sweet breeze of optimism , stirring renewed hope that American astronauts can make it to the moon , in 1969 , swept through the nation 's Apollo " Project team here today ; following yesterday 's Suc-7 cessful first launching of the Saturn 5 lunar rocket . The self-doubts of 10 months , generated by the Apollo spacecraft fire in which three astronauts were killed last January , have given way to selfcongratulations . There is also a new confidence that the $23-billion lunar landing project can achieve its ambitious goals . Budget Cuts Eclipsed Forgotten for the moment at least were the space budget cuts imposed this year by Congress and the string of Soviet Union space successes in recent weeks , including the first soft landing of a craft on Venus and the first automatic link-up of two unmanned orbiting vehicles . The Saturn 5 is considered by United States scientists to be the most powerful rocket ever tested . Development of the rocket was managed by Dr. Arthur Rudolph of the George C. Marshall Spaceflight Center at Huntsville , Ala . Dr. Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Space Administration , sounded the keynote to the new mood shortly after the eight-hour and 37-minute flight ended . The most important result of the mission , he said , was " the clear indication that we do have the capacity in this country to be pre-eminent not only in space , but in all human endeavor involving science and technology . " This sentiment was echoed wherever Apollo engineers gathered to celebrate . An engineer for the North American Rockwell Corporation , the prime spacecraft contractor that was widely criticized after the fire , was heard to proclaim at a " splashdown party " here : " Our slate 's clean now , baby ! We showed them who knows how to fly a bird . " NASA officials said that the Apollo 4 mission had achieved all of its objectives . It proved for , the first time that the three-stage moon rocket could fly , that its third stage could restart in space , that the spacecraft 's own rocket could fire in flight and that the spacecraft 's heat shield coating could withstand the . 5,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lunar-return speeds . On the actual moon journey , the Saturn 5 's third stage must restart to boost the spacecraft out of earth orbit and toward the moon . The spacecraft 's rocket must slow down the astronauts so that they can get into lunar orbit and , later , thrust them back toward earth . During this mission the capsule plunged from an altitude of 11,286 miles to reach the velocity expected during such a return through earth 's atmosphere . Return of Capsule The 12-foot-long , cone-shaped capsule , which splashed down in the Pacific Ocean northwest of Hawaii , is aboard a recovery hip on its way to Pearl Harbor . it will then be flown to the North American Rockwell factory in Downey , Calif. , for a more detailed examination . Much of the success of the rocket itself was attributed to the complicated , computer-operated inspection made of the vehicle during the final moments of the countdown . Sensors placed at critical areas took , in effect , the rocket 's blood pressure and pulse readings continuously up to , the moment of lift-off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies , research centers and universities , has often been described as the greatest mobilization - of resources for a peaceful undertaking . The major industrial contractors , besides North American Rockwell ( which built the spacecraft , Saturn 5 main engines and second stage ) , in-clude : The Boeing Company ( Saturn 5 first stage and integration of the entire 363-foot-tall vehicle ) , the Douglas Corporation ( Saturn 5 third stage ) , the International Business Machines Corporation ( rocket instrument unit and control room computers ) , the Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation ( lunar landing craft ) . Also the General Electric Company and the Radio Corporation of America ( electronics for checking the vehicle ) , the Avco Corporation ( spacecraft heat shield ) , the AerojetGeneral Corporation ( spacecraft service rocket ) , the Collins Radio Company ( spacecraft communications system ) and the Sperry Rand Corporation ( tracking computer system ) .                     