@@723291

txt Washington Foreign policy is not usually made by triumphal tours , but President Kennedy 's visit to Western Europe was by no means wasted energy . It dealt , in particular , with a very challenging problem which is indicated in a statement made by a high Washington official just before the President set out On his 10-day tour . " A Kennedy visit to Germany , " he said , " will help to assure the continuity of German policy toward the alliance . " A A A By his visit with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and by his contacts with Chancellor-Designate Ludwig Erhard and West Berlin Mayor Willy Brandt ? even more than by his speeches in West Germany ? President Kennedy sought to hold this energetic , divided nation to its postwar course and its full-fledged Atlantic partnership . And he did this at a time when the attempt of President de Gaulle of France to monopolize West German policy threatens to set up a diversion and a less effective coalition . Through both the Eisenhower and Kennedy terms , and indeed as far back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to involve West Germany 's great energies and abilities in the tasks of European unity and Atlantic alliance . This has been accomplished through the Coal and Steel Community , the European Common Market , and , above all , NATO . Chancellor Adenauer , of course , has been the key architect of this anchoring of West Germany into the family of the West . A A A In his last months in office , however , Dr. Adenauer has been bemused by President de Gaulle 's more nationalistic solutions  --  his plans for French-German leadership in Europe . Add to this the Chancellor 's usual suspicions of any Washington approach to Moscow , which takes in President Kennedy 's recent American University speech and the forthcoming nuclear talks . The old fear is that the United States would be led into concessions at the expense of West Germany . Now the European tour has given President Kennedy an opportunity to honor and reassure Dr. Adenauerwhom he characterized at the Cologne airport as the " architect of unity . " It gave the President also a chance to lend support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adenauer and who strongly favor Atlantic partnership and Britain 's entry into the Common Market , though President de Gaulle has vetoed that entry . Simultaneously , of course , President Kennedy did not in his speeches allow Western Europe to forget that , through all the vicissitudes of the cold war , he has striven to keep talking with Moscow . For the true twin tasks of Washington diplomacy in these years have been to maintain the Western alliance ? with West Germany closely tied in  --  and to work toward alleviation of the cold war with the Soviet Union . ? A A A If President de Gaulle scorns this effort to maintain a dialogue with Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev , President Kennedy is not deterred . Washington can remind the French leader that he himself has dreamed of Russia rejoining the family of Europe . But it is Washington 's thesis that negotiations with Moscow can be carried forward better from the position of strength that is the Atlantic alliance , rather than from the weaker French-German coalition . All these considerations were present as Mr. Kennedy crisscrossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Gaulle 's nationalism appeals to some Europeans . Washington 's mixed-manned force of Polaris-armed surface ships seems to appeal to very few . But President Kennedy , who may be conferring with General de Gaulle in the autumn , made clear the direction , and the basic strength , of American policy toward Western Europe and its potent neighbor , the Soviet . Union .                     