@@721412

txt Louisiana 's ' Attorney General walked angrily out of a Federal court hearing on New Orleans school integration today . " You are violating my constitutional rights , " Attorney General Jack P. F. Gremillion shouted to the , jUdges. - They had rejected his:Motion. for a fiveday continuance of the hearing . As he headed for the courtroom/ door , he added : " I am not going to stay in this den of iniquity . " The three-judge court , presided over by Chief Judge Richard T. Rives of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals , continued without him. : . ' At the Conclusion of the twohour hearing , , it . took under advisement motions . by the National Association for . the Advancement ' of Colored People and a white parents ' group . The motions asked for an injunction prohibiting state interference with a Federal order to integrate first-grade classesof New Orleans public schools at the ' Associated Press iViiiPhoto Jack P. F. dreiniltinu as he : left , the , court ? ycsterilay. , beginning of %the school term Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Orleans Parish ( County ) schools from the local school board Aug. 18 to block compliance with a Federal Court order of May 6 ordering integration of the first grade . The- integration order was issued by Federal Judge J. Skelly Wright on that date after the board had failed to present a plan for integration . He had ordered the board four years ago to proceed with " all deliberate speed " . to implement the Supreme Court decision of 1954 ordering school integration . Judge Wright sat yesterday as a member of the three-judge court . The third judge was Herbert W. Christenberry . All three judges are Southerners . Judges Wright and Christenberry are residents of New Orleans , Judge Rives of Montgomery , Ala . The walkout by Attorney General Gremillion came after Charles Richards , attorney for the parents group , attempted to introduce some routine affidavits in lieu of testimony , The quirt had ordered that method to speed proceedings . Mr. Gremillion protested that he had not received . a copy of the affidavits and that Federal court procedure required they be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the fiveday postponement . Judge Rives read from the rules of procedure , which seemed ' to give him discretion in the matter , then overruled the Attorney General 's motion . Previously he had overruled motions to dismiss the whole proceedings and for a continuance on other grounds . Not Justice , Ile Says " I do n't consider this justice , " Mr. Gremillion said , his face reddening . " I demand my constitutional rights . This court is running roughshod over us . " " You may reserve your objections , " Judge Rives answered mildly ; " and I hope you will do it in a manner respectful to this court . " Mr. Gremillion sat down for a moment but continued to mutter about justice and the Constitution in an audible tone . As Mr. Richards began to read the affidavits he was presenting , Mr. Gremillion jumped to his feet , shouted at the bench that he was walking out , then strode down the aisle and out the door without even picking up his papers . His chief assistant , M. E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdraw " since I can not proceed in the absence of my Principal . " , The court assented and he and three other aides left . Governor Davis was not present at the hearing , although he had been named as a party . Two deputy United States marshals testified they had been unsuccessful in attempting to serve a subpoena on the Governor but that they had served subpoenas on his secretary and on his receptionist . When Mr. Gremillion attempted to argue the legality of the service , Judge Rives halted him . The judge then ruled , however , that although the Governor was " in default " at the hearing , his presence was not needed . ? After the courtroom had quieted , down , following the walkout , Mr. Richards introduced his affidavits , as did counsel for the N. A. A. C. P. Judge Rives then asked if there was other evidence to be introduced . In the absence of the Attorney General and his staff there was no answer . " Let the record show , " the judge then said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in open court and none is offered . " Thurgood Marshall , chief counsel for the N. A. A. C. P. , made only a brief argument urging the court to grant the injunction against any interference with the carrying out of Judge Rives ' order . " This is no longer a case of Negro children seeking their constitutional right , " he said . " This is now a challenge of the officials of the State of Louisiana to the sovereignty of the United States . The duty of this court is clear . "                     