@@728100

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 22 ? Dr. Wernher von Braun wants to orbit a President in 1976 . It would be an appropriate ob-servance of the 200th anniversary of American independence from England , Dr. von Braun says . Shirley Temple sits at the United Nations listening to Andrei Gromyko . George Murphy , her dance partner in films of long ago , sits in the United States Senate pondering taxation . The Senate meets after daily prayer to a God of mercy . It calls for cannon , bombs , rockets and gases that can eat the nervous system . In the interludes between votes , it hears speeches about the evils of air pollution . Marijuana in Vietnam The United States Army sits embattled in Vietnam . It was placed there for reasons that are so many that many persons disagree about why it was placed there . So many United States soldiers there are smoking marijuana that it has become a cash crop for Vietnamese farmers . Army authorities are fighting it with Federal agents , helicopters , police dogs and televised propaganda . Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N. J. , has just published another book . It is her second since immigrating to the United States . At Bladensburg , Md. , black and white adolescents fight with and threaten each other in and about the local high school to express their dislike for each other 's skin color. , Here and there in other school districts , parents and administrators conspire , harangue and quarrel about whether schools should offer children ( A ) prayer and ( B ) sex education . The Democratic candidate for Mayor of New York is Mario Procaccino . Dean Burch has been nominated to the Federal Communications Commission . Ronald Reagan is Governor of California . Last month Richard Nixon gave a birthday party for Lyndon Johnson . The Vice President of the United States is Spiro Agnew . He says we should go to Mars quickly . 1970 is less than fifteen weeks away . A rock retrieved from the moon by two Americans who went there in July is drawing huge crowds at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington . " Oh ! Calcutta ! , " an entertainment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge crowds at $15 a seat in New York . Blowing Up Nevada Nevada is being blown up underground by the Atomic Energy Commission . The Everglades are being destroyed to make room for an airport . Congress is considering destroying one side of the United States Capitol to make way for a cafeteria and restaurant . The National Football League is selling beer , automobiles and cigarettes . Joe Namath 's mother says that his legs pain him excruciatingly when he plays football . The American Ambassador to Brazil is kidnapped and held for human ransom . Arabs steal an American airliner and take it to Syria , where its Israeli passengers are kidnapped . The kidnappers explain that they are committing acts of nationalistic heroism . 1976 is less than six years and fifteen weeks away . The Congress is having second thoughts about passing a tax bill which would require certain millionaires who are now exempt from taxation to pay taxes . The 10 per cent surcharge payment on all tax bills continues in force this year . Ten per cent of zero is zero . The Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to the United States . decision to begin work on Safeguard . Both are clever machines for firing nuclear warheads . They are being built by the Soviet Union and the United States to prevent the United States and the Soviet Union ; from destroying the planet . Nixon and Hot Dogs President Nixon has endorsed , Federal regulations that would require the frankfurter industry to hold the fat content of hot dogs at a maximum of 30 per cent . At present , some /lot dogs are 51 per cent fat . Mr. Nixon says that he is on a lowcholesterol diet . 1984 is less than fourteen years and fifteen weeks away .                     