@@725160

txt The name of a state legislator was among other names scrawled by Murray The Camel Humphreys on 17 loose leaf pages found by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents in his apartment when he was arrested Tuesday afternoon , THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . The papers were seized by the agents along with S22.600 and two .38 caliber revolver : when they broke into Humphreys ' apartment to arrest him on an indictment charging him with lying to a federal grand jury . Phone Numbers Listed The notations on the papers deal mostly with telephone numbers and dates the numbers were called . Some of the papers contain records of business dealings between Humphreys and an out of state millionnaire real estate developer and insurance executive , it was learned . Also found in the apartment were enlarged cdpies of a newspaper photo of Lt. Francis Nash of the Chicago police intelligence unit . Nash leads a squad which has intensively investigated Humphreys ' activities . The papers and the money were ordered turned over to United States Marshal Joseph Tierney yesterday for return to the heirs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the apartment Tuesday night . Send Guns to Lab The two guns have been sent to the FBI laboratory for exa mina tio n , THE TRIBUNE learned . Humphreys was found dead four hours after he was released on bond on the perjury charge . During the early afternoon , he had fought fiercely with FBI . agents who were forced to break down his apartment door to serve the arrest warrant . He bit one agent on the hand and threatened to kill them with one of the guns he surrendered . Later , he tried to grab a second gun from a dresser drawer when he saw the 17 personal papers were being taken . Tell Autopsy Results Meanwhile , Cook County Coroner Dr. Andrew . J. Taman said an autopsy performed on the embalmed body of Humphreys in the undertaking parlor at 7651 Jeffery blvd. indicated he died of a heart attack . " Death was due to an acute coronary occulsion of the right anterior artery , " he said . Toxicological tests will be conducted on all of the vital organs and the results will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The coroner said he did not order an autopsy Tuesday night before the body was embalmed because he had been misinformed by a deputy coroner that the physician who pronounced Humphreys dead in his apartment indicated he would sign the death certificate . Yesterday morning , Dr. Taman said , the physician informed him he could not sign the certificate because Humphreys was not a patient of his . Humphreys ' family physician also could not sign the certificate because he had not treated Humphreys within the last 30 days , a necessary prerequisite , Toman said . Should Be at Morgue Atty . Arnold H. Crane , a fellow of the American Academy of Forensic Sciences and a fellow of the British Academy of Forensic Sciences , criticized Toman 's delayed action . " There should have been an immediate seizure of the body by the coroner and forensic pathologists should have been dispatched to the scene of the death immediately before anything in the apartment was disturbed , " he said . " The body should have been removed to the morgue for immediate medical-legal autopsy and a thoro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a blood analysis . " The state legislator , who has sponsored many anti - crime bills , told THE TRIBUNE : " I have n't the slightest idea why Humphreys would have my name . I knew his reputation but I 've never seen him , never talked to him , and never received any communication from him . Maybe , he intended to try to fix me or maybe he intended to kill me . Who knows ? " United States Atty . Edward V. Hanrahan called a news conference to provide " a proper public understanding of the circumstances " of Humphreys ' arrest .                     