@@725252

txt The Government of North Vietnam has accepted a secret letter from the United States Government in a meeting between an American official and a Hanoi representative . Informed sources said that there had as yet been no response to the letter . Acceptance of the letter was regarded as a step forward in the United States peace effort . ' It was recalled that during last ' May 's five-day pause in United States air strikes against North Vietnam , Hanoi refused to accept a note from Washington ' proffered through Canadians . The contents of the new letter were a closely guarded secret here . It may outline the United States position on settling the conflict in Vietnam and emphasize the sincerity of the Administration 's quest for negotiations . The existence of the letter was disclosed by other sources ' after Bill D. Moyers , the White ' House press secretary , acknowledged that there had been direct contact between representatives of the United States and North Vietnamese Governments during the current peace effort . Asked About Lynd Mr. Moyers was asked at his regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prof. Staughton Lynd of Yale and his two associates that . the United States had apparently failed to make direct contact with the Hanoi Government . " They are incompletely informed . " Mr. Moyers said . Asked whether a conclusion could thus be drawn that there have been direct contacts , Mr. Moyers said : " That 's a safe deduction . " Mr. Moyers would not say how , when or where the contact had been made or whether there had been any result . He cut off further questions on the subject . Although Administration sources have repeatedly indicated that the United States peace efforts are not limited to the highly publicized travels of American envoys , Mr. Moyers 's was the first official acknowledgement of direct contact . Meeting Probably Brief It was thought that the encounter between the United States representative and the representative of the North Vietnamese Government had been brief and for the purpose of getting the secret letter into North Vietnamese hands . The Washington efforts to persuade Hanoi to go to the conference table began with the Christmas Eve truce . Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then and have not been resumed . Meanwhile , United States envoys have traveled to many for // eign capitals to assert the sincerity of the Administration 's desire to negotiate a settlement . The principal envoys have been Vice President Humphrey ; Arthur J. Goldberg , Chief United States representative at the United Nations ; G. Mennen Williams , Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs , and Ambassador at Large W. Averell Harriman . Mr. Harriman was in Australia today and will arrive in Saigon on Wednesday to confer with South Vietnamese officials and Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge , Mr. Moyers said . After his Saigon visit , Mr. Moyers said , it was " safe to assume " that Mr. Harriman would return ? to Washington . Although these envoys have visited a number of capitals where contact with North Vietnamese representatives would have been possible , there was doubt as to whether the secret contact was made by any of them during their highly publicized visits . Sources said that it was not difficult physically to contact North Vietnamese representatives . But they would not say where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information as . signficant . This seems to imply that further contacts might be contemplated . Officials declined to comment on why Mr. Moyers acknowledged the secret contact in commenting on the assertion of Professor Lynd and his companions , who returned yesterday from Hanoi . It appeared that Administration officials , who presumably anticipated questions on the Lynd statement , were faced with a dilemma . United States officials have long been concerned that Peking would exert pressure on Hanoi to prevent it from working out a peaceful settlement if it decided it wanted one . To disclose the contact might create the risk of increased pressure On Hanoi by Peking and also of further denunciation by Hanoi of the American peace effort . On the other hand , to deny It or to refuse comment might have led Hanoi to conclude that the United States was not sincere . A denial might also have put Hanoi in a good position to attack the credibility of the United States  --  it could then disclose the contact . Furthermore , the American envoys presumably have been saying privately to the governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States has been in contact directly with Hanoi . Under the circumstances . it apparently was decided that since the over-all peace offensive was public and since word of the contact would probably be disclosed somehow , it was less risky to acknowledge it . today with the representatives ' ; of four major powers . Arthur J. Goldberg was the ; , first envoy to visit Mr. Thant/ after the Secretary General 's , return from a brief holiday in ' Trinidad and Tobago . He was followed immediately by the Soviet representative . Nikolai T. Fedorenko , then the , French representative , Roger Seydoux , and then Sir Roger Jackling , deputy chief of the British delegation . Mr. Thant 's spokesman said the Secretary General had summoned the latter three atter receiving Mr. Goldberg 's request for an appointment . " They discussed several common problems , including Vietnam , " the spokesman said .                     