@@723584

txt Chief of the Paris Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Paris Within the sleek headquarters building of NATO on the edge of the Bois de Boulogne , there is no visible sign that the very existence of the 15-nation organization in its present form may be at stake . Yet this is the conclusion of veteran diplomats here , as they watch the evolution of the French Government tactics within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . These tactics have moved beyond the essentially negative withdrawal of French military forces from the alliance , into a realm of more direct confrontation with the United States . This confrontation is viewed as part of President de Gaulle 's many-faceted attack on the whole American position in Europe . Study Debated Current arena of conflict within NATO is the so-called " Stikker Study , " named after NATO Secretary-General Dirk I. Stikker , who long had urged a searching examination into the national defense , economic , and financial policies of the 15 member states . Object of the study would be to formulate a new strategic policy for NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , and assess to each member its proper share . The study was enthusiastically backed by the United States , which had hoped to validate its conviction that prosperous European members of the alliance could and should bear a greater share of the military costs . Last July the French Government appeared to veto the Stikker study , on the grounds that NATO 's international secretariat had no authority to investigate internal policies of sovereign governments . Compromise Set A compromise was worked out and apparently accepted by the French , whereby responsibility for the study would be assumed by the NATO Council , in which each member government is represented directly . Under these conditions the level of forces study is inching forward and , as it doe 's so , the pessimism of many Allied diplomats deepens . Emerging French tactics indicate that General de Gaulle plans to use the Stikker study as a platform for his own views on the future of the alliance , views diametrically opposed to those of the United States . To President de Gaulle , the present military integration of NATO  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( to him ) the continued military domination of Europe by the United States , Joint Command Plan The French leader wants instead the setting up of a separate and independent European command , embracing nuclear and conventional weapons , which then would coordinate strategy on a footing of equality with the United States . NATO in its present form apparently would disappear in the process . The United States argues for a strengthening of the current system of military integration , with nuclear control to be shared through some device yet to be fully worked out , such as the proposed multilateral surface fleet of Polaris-armed warships . Within this system the United States would continue to bear the main burden of nuclear expense , while the European powers would contribute assigned quotas of conventional forces , in addition to voluntary sharing within the multilateral fleet plan . Clash Sighted The Stikker study , it was hoped in Washington , would confirm this outline as the best way to give Western Europe a share in its nuclear defense , without breaking up the alliance into separate races for national nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Stikker study may plunge to a more fundamental plane  --  a clash between the United States and French Governments as to whether NATO should continue to exist at all in its present form . In such a clash the United States could expec+ the support of most , if not all , other members of NATO . But a frontal French attack on the structure of the alliance might preclude the forging of a fresh new strategy for NATO , to which European governments would be willing to subscribe money and men .                     