@@727074

txt WASHINGTON , April 22 ? There are so many Presidential candidates in the display case that it 's hard to decide which one to choose . This is probably because everybody is concentrating on what they are all saying they will do , instead of thinking about how they will actually behave after they get into the White House . To make the choice easier , let us look ahead to November 1969 , when the election will be long behind us , and see what the President-critics will be writing in the event that1 . Richard Nixon is elected : " President Nixon 's decision to grow a beard and wear a shawl will fool nobody . It partakes of the same Madison Avenue impulse which recently led him to paint the western half of the White House black , and more recently to have Lawrence Welk and the Rolling Stones play simultaneously for the White House dinner in honor of Sidney Poitier . The ' Great Umbrella ' " When President Nixon summoned all Americans to ' Come gather together under the Great Umbrella , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end the terrible divisiveness rending our society , but the goals of the Great Umbrella program are scarcely served by his insistence upon being all things to all men . " His weekly television performance , ' Bedtime at the White House , ' in which he and Senator Dirksen , in carpet slippers , read the great documents of American history to bedtime America , would be commendable but for his insistence upon having the documents edited and abridged so as to eliminate complex sentences and polysyllabic words that might be difficult to persons under twelve . A President who lacks style simply wo n't do ; Mr. Nixon 's lack of it is voluminous . " 2 . Robert Kennedy is elected : " Why does President Kennedy continue to operate oil the shabby show-business principle that style makes the President ? The loudspeakers recently erected around the White House grounds would in themselves be offensive to all sensitive persons , but to have them continuously blaring ' Camelot ' at passers-by raises serious questions about the President 's fitness for office . " These will not be overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Congress . " Reports that his children , during a family frolic on the second floor , recently stamped down one of the chandeliers in the East Room once again raises grave questions about the fiscal soundness of having a President who is the father of ten . Moreover , Life magazine 's picture story of the President 's family beating the Cabinet at touch football does nothing to reassure us about cultural life in the White House these days . How can Americans tolerate a Presidential example of competitive violence at a time when the White House should be used to reconcile our terrible divisions by bringing together such disparate cultural elements as Lawrence Welk and the Rolling Stones , or by having Sidney Poitier to dinner ? " Best Man for Secretary 3 . Eugene McCarthy is elected : , " President McCarthy 's appointment of Robert Lowell as Secretary of State is simply intolerable . Leaving that vital office unoccupied for ten months was bad enough , even when we were led to believe that the President was seeking the best qualified man in America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' wanted to see if we could n't get along just as well without a Secretary ' was an outrage . " Mr. Lowell 's only qualification appears to be the success of the poetry read-in 's which he conducted on the White House lawn last summer , at the President 's request , for the Washington diplomatic colony , Also , President McCarthy 's re. ? fusel to move out of his house , on Woodley Road and into the White House shows a disrespect. for panoply which Is in no wag mitigated by his explanatidn that ' Sidney Poitier would n't ' feel comfortable coming to dirf- ; ner at a mausoleum . ' " Too Much Talk 4 . Hubert Humphrey is ekes ' ted : " It may be , as some have ' suggested , that President HUM ? ' phrey has the most active in. ; telligence of any President siriek Thomas Jefferson . If so , whx , does he refuse to shut up long enough to let us think ? Aftl &,; just one year of Humphrey , the ( country is already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; will need a hearing aid . " , v. 5 . George Wallace is elected ; : , " President Wallace 's recent , ejection of New England , the ! ? Middle Atlantic states and Cali , fornia from the United States.z , coupled with his proposal fon% reconstituting the nation as ' . ; ' the Confederate States ? of America ' wo n't do . Nor will the : , argument of his supporters that ' government under Wallace ifir. fun again ' A certain amourit.o ? fun is admirable in a President , but when he refuses to haVge Sidney Poitier to dinner at the White House , fun has exceedeft its legitimate bounds . "                     