@@724129

txt New York On the heels of six days of violent Harlem-Brooklyn rioting , New York City is turning its attention to possible overhaul of its law-enforcement practices . Most oft-mentioned reform have as in other American cities where police have clashed with crime-infested minority groups is the establishment of a civilian review board to investigate for the public charges of reported " police brutality . " Even before the present outbreaks of violence in New York 's largest Negro ghettos resulting in one killed , 140 injured , and over 600 establishments damaged , the formation of such a civil agency had been under consideration , A bill to establish such a board now is before the city council . There is no doubt that bad police-community relations ignited the tires in the present racial trouble here , once the spark v. : 13 produced by the killing of a Negro schoolboy by an off-duty white policeman . Siaff Named Had an independent board to review charges of police brutality been in existence at the time of the slaying of the boy , the public might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nr falsity of the charges leveled against the police officer , and the ensuing riots might never have been touched off , the local Civil Liberties Union has declared . Up until a week ago , brutality complaints against the police were heard by a board of three deputy police commissioners . These were police employees who did not have to publicize their findings . in the last three years , they lOoked into more than 575 complaints and recommended disciplinary action in 33 cases . One of the first steps that Mayor Robert F. Wagner took to calm down the inflamed situation here was to name a six-man staff to help him review the police department 's handling of complaints , against policemen . This staff has now gone into action , with two Negro lawyers among its members . But at the same time , the Mayor has completely backed up Police Commissioner Michael J. Murphy who has himself been the target of some of the bottles and bricks thrown at policemen during the current violence . It is police officials ' view that most of the men on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rioters . They point to the fact that only one Harlemite has been killed in six nights of turbulence as ample evidence . On the other hand , some of the policemen , tired and disgusted from long hours of dealing with full-scale violence , feel that the restraining hand ? put on them from headquarters has been unrealistic and inadequate to break the back of the , continuing violence . Example Cited Cited as one example in the policemen 's book was the withdrawal of the tactical patrol force , trained in the toughest combat techniques , , a conciliatory gesture tothe Negro community , just prior to the worst outbreak of vandalism In the Bedford-Stuyvesant area of Brooklyn . Police in the area were under instructions not to make arrests except in clear-cut felony , cases , not to provoke and , not to use more force than neces sary . In a force of 26,000 , there are bound to be some violations of orders in times of high tension such as those prevailing here last week , officials noint out . Urgent Need ' Nevertheless , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , insisted that there was " urgent need to curb the reckless and panicky violence which characterized so much of the police activity during the disorders . " The issue of civilian police control is already cropping up in the political campaign here with the conservative party in Brooklyn issuing a proclamation calling for enforcement of existing laws and ordinances protecting individual citizens against governmental excess and society against individual excesses , The party commended the law-enforcement agencies of New York City . It opposed the proposed civilian review board .                     