@@725210

txt Cape Kennedy , Dec. 19 ( UPI ) - Gemini 7 Astronauts Frank Borman and James Lovell returned to Cape Kennedy today and a backslapping , joshing reunion on solid ground with their Gemini 6 space pals , Walter Schirra and Tom Stafford . The two cosmic champs , who set new manned space records , flew to the cape and landed not far from where their Gemini capsule soared into space 15 days ago . After a short welcoming ceremony , Borman and Lovell were whisked off to the astronauts ' private quarters on nearby Merritt Island where they had a gleeful and private reunion with Schirra and Stafford , only minutes after they had landed . Borman and Lovell arrived at the cape from the recovery ship , the carrier U. S. S. Wasp , which plucked them out of the Atlantic ocean yesterday after their splashdown . As Borman and Lovell walked down the third floor hallway of the crew quarters and were about 100 feet from their room , Schirra sprang out of concealment and began giving them hand landing signals similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deck . Borman and Lovell broke into chuckles , as Schirra signaled to them . Then , the astronauts who had last met 185 miles up in space last Wednesday , began shaking hands , slapping one another on the back and joshing . Borman and Lovell , who landed closer to the recovery carrier , ribbed Schirra and Stafford and reminded them of a bet on who would splashown the closest . 45 Minutes of Talk But the joshing soon was replaced by the serious business of debriefing and for 45 minutes the four astronauts took part in a combined debriefing before Stafford and Schirra left for Houston and the manned space flight headquarters . Only a small group of about 100 persons was on hand to greet Borman and Lovell . " Jim and I do n't have an awful lot to say . It was a real great flight , " Borman said as he and Lovell passed down a line shaking hands with space agency officials . Shortly before the space men arrived at the cape , a driving rain covered the airstrip . It stopped just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peeped out from behind the clouds . Visible 2 Minutes Borman and Lovell were on the strip and visible for only two minutes before they were whisked away to the astronauts private quarters , and more debriefing . As they drove off , the rain resumed . Borman said it usually took 8 to 9 days for debriefing but added : " I doubt it will take that long . Everything operated so perfectly . " Both astronauts said " it 's good to be back , " and Lovell added , " it was a wonderful flight . " Watching the first movies of their rendezvous with Gemini 6 , the Gemini 7 crew said the two ships probably came within 3 feet of each other  --  closer than originally estimated . Borman and Lovell saw the film shortly before climbing aboard an airplane and leaving the aircraft carrier Wasp for the cape . The color movies , shown to earthlings last Friday after it was brought home by the Gemini 6 astronauts , showed Gemini 7 as it flew in formation . Dr. Charles Berry , the astronauts ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great . But they are a little stiff . " Up and Chipper Lovell and Borman were up and chipper aboard the Wasp . They ate a hearty breakfast of orange juice , eggs , toast with honey , milk and coffee . Borman asked for ground beef . They still were on a strictly controlled diet as part of a scientific experiment . They flew to the cape aboard two navy anti-submarine airplanes . At Ellington air force base near Houston , Schirra and Stafford were greeted by wives , children , and several fellow astronauts , all ringing bells and singing traditional Christmas songs . There were no speeches or formalities .                     