@@721216

txt Russia 's political billboard system usually points to the men most likely to inherit future power . This does not mean they will hold such power but merely that they will gain it . When Stalin died , most diplomats were able to predict that Beria , Malenkov and Molotov would succeed the dictator , even though few foresaw Khrushchev 's ultimate control . Nevertheless , initial Soviet shifts are easier to forecast than their equivalents in the United States . It is clear to us that President Eisenhower hopes to hand over office to Vice President Nixon , but it is by no means so clear that the American people will ratify his choice . And if it is uncertain who will be America 's man of tomorrow , it is even more uncertain who will be the man of the day after tomorrow . Likewise , ' one might conceivably imagine that if the party retains a majority in West Germany Adenauer may be succeeded by any of several conservative politicians and after that by Strauss , the ambitious young Defense Minister . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scene he could conjecturally first be followed by former Premier Pinay and eventually by Soustelle . This is fallible guesswork , but logical when applied to the Soviet Union , where elections resemble a race with but a single horse . The first lap of that race would seem , as a consequence of hierarchical shifts , to have been won by Frol Kozlov , 51-year-old member of the ruling Presidium and new secretary of the Communist Central Committee . As of today he seems most likely to be Russia 's man of tomorrow . More significantly , as of today , Russia 's man of the day after tomorrow appears to be Dimitri Polyansky , elected to the Presidium at only 42 . One may assume that Khrushchev relies on these lieutenants to carry on his policy . Khrushchev has aged rapidly . He has a weak arm and occasionally drags one leg , leading to suspicions that he might have suffered a minor stroke . He has other ailments and it is sensible that he should think of his succession . Difficult Days at the Top Khrushchev himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had destroyed the political power of the secret police . He himself destroyed the political power of the army . His eyes were opened to that danger when Marshal Zhukov promised in a Presidium quarrel that the army would support him . If one man could speak for the entire army , Khrushchev clearly , thought , that man had to go . Zhukov went . Khrushchev apparently now feels confident enough to name his sue- ! , cessors . His old opponents have been deprived of influence and Molotov , 1 their leader , is ill in Moscow . Khrushchev surmounted the last crisis shortly before his American journey when he was attacked in the Central Committee for " courting favor " in the citadel of capitalism . The disputes with his policy are less serious than with his methods of applying it . It is improbable that Kozlov would fundamentally change things . He may be considered still part of the older  --  not the oldest  --  Communist generation educated under Stalin . But Polyansky , the man of the day after tomorrow , represents something new and incalculable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of an out-ofdate image of itself . It contains a major contradiction between a newly massive industrial order and an anachronistic party rule perfected under wholly different circumstances . Although perhaps but 1 per cent of the Russians are deeply affected by ideology as such , they dare not yet oppose prevailing orthodoxy . This situation will probably not change if and when Kozlov replaces Khrushchev . It is a problem of the new generation for which Polyansky speaks . When we talk of Soviet maturation and of its eventual impact upon Moscow 's outlook , we are in reality talking of the day after tomorrow . Khrushchev 's hope to impose his own brand of future leadership may be altered by events , events as removed from Soviet control as the Suez or Hungarian crises . But in analyzing Russia 's future we must deal with probabilities ; we can never deal with certitudes . The first probability is that within three years Kozlov will be boss of the Soviet Union but will not substantially revise policy . The second probability is that some years later Polyansky will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well see major and revolutionary shifts .                     