@@727546

txt LONDON . Jan. 5 Sunday R113-An Afghanistan air liner groping thru thick fog toward a landing at London 's Gatwick airport smashed into a house and exploded into flames early today . Rescue workers said 42 persons , including 3 occupants of the house , were feared dead . Visibility was only 100 yards , airport officials said , when the Boeing 727 jet of Afghanion 's Arian Airlines plowed thru trees and hedgerows , skipped across a field , and demolished the house on the main road from Rediull to Eastbourne . The plane carried 54 persons , including 45 passengers and a crew of 9 . Fifteen survivors were rushed to hospitals . Police said most of the passengers on the plane were Pakistanis Hears ' Terrific ' Bang " I jumped out of bed and pulled . the curtain open when beard this terrific bang . " Eric Rankin , an engineer , who lives 200 yards from the crash site , said . " Flames shot out across the field . I ran over there , but as I approached there was another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . " More than 50 firemen fought the blaze . Wreckage and bodies were scattered over a wide area . Another resident of the area . Donald Edwards . said the crash awakened him about 2:45 a. m . " I ran out and people were walking towards me from the blazing wreckage , " he said . " Bow they survived , God only Imows . Found Children on Ground " Some children were lying on the ground . They looked like Pakistanis . The wreckage was blazing from end to end . Survivors were walldng . They said something to me . I do n't remember what now . " Some bodies were lying on the ground on fire . " The crash site was at the eastern end of the airport , which was closed because of fog last night . The air liner , on a weekly flight from Kabul , the capital of Afghanistan , by way of Frankfort , West Germany , would have been the first plane to land since the airport was closed . Airport officials said the captain bad been advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport to see if a landing were possible . House Is Rabble The house was reduced to smoldering rubble . Edwards said Mr. and Mrs. William Jones and their baby girl lived in the house . " I walked hera the rubble , " Edwards said . " It looked like a bulldozer had marched back and forth , methodically dismantling it brick by brick . In one corner stood a burned out baby carriage . " After destroying the house the plane bounced on across a muddy field , tearing itself to pieces over the next 50 yards . Some of the wreckage was sprinkled over the foggy fields in bits the size of an ashtray . The nose section of the plane , completely gutted with ribs showing like the carcass of a whale , blazed under the floodlights of police emergency squads .                     