@@724403

txt PARIS  --  Harold Wilson 's aim in Washington is to renegotiate the Nassau agreement but all he is likely to end up with is a Dutch rub from that expert masseur , Lyndon Johnson . Before becoming British Prime Minister , Wilson promised not only to renegotiate but to denegotiate the arrangement concluded Dec. 21 , 1962 , by Messrs . Kennedy and Macmillan . This provided for a NATO nuclear pool plus a multilateral force , now known as M.L.F. Tory Governments paid only lip service to M.L.F. Wilson now objects that it would give West Germany restricted access to nuclear arms and might disturb efforts to attain d ? tente with Russia . He prefers to move down the ladder of atomic prestige by abandoning Britain 's national deterrent and thus achieving parity with Germany ? rather than moving Germany up . But Wilson 's bargaining stance is weak . The future of sterling depends on sustained American aid . Wilson wants to display continued " special relationships " with Washington as a political asset . And , being opposed to British integration with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington is prepared to grant Wilson concessions , it insists on one essential  --  British participation In at least a miniature M.L.F. The President seems ready to expand existing over-all allied nuclear arrangements so long as the kernel of M.L.F. remains inside . Wilson would agree to place under NATO control all Britain 's Vbombers and at least three Polaris submarines it will almost surely build . He could thus reach his goal of unloading Britain 's costly national deterrent while hoping to satisfy Tory nationalism by the facade of a Polaris program . But he must have a very tough skull to resist Mr. Johnson 's pressures on M.L.F. The United States apparently remains determined to launch this disputed project , even if it is drastically pared to insure British support , without which Italy , 1 Belgium and the Netherlands wo n't join ; Paris ' is against it anyway . Mistrust of Germany American policy believes proliferation of atomic weapons must be curtailed but that Germany , which contributes NATO 's largest European army , deserves restricted nuclear access . The argument boils down in a sense to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is prepared to descend to their atomic level as a sacrifice to this suspicion . Paris , which opposes M.L.F. , trusts the Germans to this left-handed extent : since they are already pledged to forego nuclear arms , the question should n't arise . Oddly and paradoxically , Washington 's logic implies most mistrust  --  the assumption that if the Germans are n't given a share in atomic armament they will soon acquire their own , regardless of treaty commitments . One would think Wilson 's arguments would reasonably appeal to Washington . He does n't want any new members of the atomic club , even associates ; instead he wants one less member , Britain . He would have NATO rely essentially on the U.S. deterrent but seeks a larger voice in its control for allies . This accords with U.S. policy under Kennedy , but Johnson seems more heavily committed to M.L.F. and if the skillful , powerful President wants to have his way , it is hard to see how Wilson can resist . Should Britain accept a poor man 's Nassau , meaning a little M.L.F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATO 's ministers meet Dec. 15 . By then de Gaulle 's anti-M.L.F. policy will also be French law . These twin developments need not necessarily exacerbate the alliance crisis but would freeze the division . France would de facto withdraw from NATO strategic planning , which would thus effectively lose its European keystone . And Russia will fan suspicion of Germany to reassert control of Eastern Europe . President Johnson will probably come here in March to see President de Gaulle and it would be pleasant to imagine alliance topics left for them to talk about so they do n't just stare from frozen positions like amiable basilisks . The only tangible result of Nassau 1962 wad de Gaulle 's exclusion of Britain from the Common Market . Let us hope a poor man 's Nassau 1961 does n't lead to de Gaulle 's exclusion of NATO from France .                     