@@723985

txt Washington , May 19 ( UM ? The state department said today it has discovered a network of more than 40 microphones buried deep in the walls of the United States embassy in Moscow . Officials said the listening devices had apparently been there since 1952 or 1953 . United States Ambassador Foy Kohler today delivered what was described as a strong formal protest on the matter in Moscow . Assume Rooms Bugged The state department said a review is being made to determine whether there has been " any significant compromise " of sensitive information because of the electronic devices . But United States officials said that personnel of the embassy , and of all other embassies behind the iron curtain , have always been under directions to assume that their rooms and offices were bugged . The state department said that before the current discovery in Moscow , more than 130 listening devices of various types had been found and removed from American embassy buildings behind the iron curtain in Europe since 1949 . Remodeled by Russians Many embassies in such countries have specially constrnited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations can therefore be held in them . United States officials said the listening devices were presumably installed in the embassy building when the Russians remodeled it for American occupancy in 1952 . The United States has leased the building since May , 1953 . Ali the construction work was done by Russians , and United States officials were not permitted to inspect the building until they took occupancy . Officials here said security personnel at the embassy had long conducted all the standard tests to detect listening devices . Last February , when a security technician was in Washington for conferences , it was decided to try more drastic measures . Wires Lead to Others Technicians selected one room in a sensitive section id the embassy and demolished all four walls and the ceiling and floor . There they found the First microphone , and the wiring then led them to the others . The microphones were embedded 8 to 10 inches inside the walls . Each was equipped with a hollow wooden tube which reached just to the plaster on the inside of the wall to carry sound . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the stucco which covered parts of the building and the wiring system then went off underground apparently to some listening post Found on Three Floors Officials said microphones were found on the eighth , ninth and tenth floors of the embassy building , which are offices . These floors include the office of the United ' States ambassador , but officials declined to say whether a microphone was found there . Listening devices also were found in some of the apartments on lower floors . The demolition work which led to the discovery began in April , officials said , and the first microphone was discovered April 23 . Some Appear Rusty Some of the microphones and wiring appeared to be rusty and inoperable when discovered , officials said , but others were thought to be still capable of operating . The incident recalled the famous discovery of an electronic pickup found in 1952 in the great seal of the United States in the United States ambassador 's residence in Moscow . The great seal case was used by Henry Cabot Lodge as United States ambassador to the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against American U-2 reconnaissance flights over Russia                     