@@721594

txt Governor Rockefeller and the Republican legislative leaders agreed today to press in 1961 for renewed rent control and more liberal election laws . The Governor , Senator Walter J. Mahoney , the majority leader , and Assembly Speaker Joseph F. Carlino announced a joint agreement on measures that would do these things : cContinue rent control for two years beyond its present expiration date of next June 30 . CiEliminate from the Constitution the requirement that a resident must have lived in the state for a year to vote , A two-year extension of rent control would insure that . the controversial subject did not come up in the Legislature during 1962 , when Mr. Rockefeller and all the lawmakers will he seeking re-election . Pressure for Repeal There has been steadily increasing pressure in Republican circles for the repeal or substantial relaxation of rent control . Relatively few of the Republican legislators are from New York City , and virtually all the controls left are centered in the city . In New York Mayor Wagner urged that the rent law be amended to limit rent increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such increases be barred for one year from the date of the sale and then be limited to 15 per cent instead of 40 . The Republican opposition is based largely on party philosophy . The Governor indicated today that the rent-control system might be in for some substantial changes in 1961 . He said the two-year extension bill , would also correct " abuses and inequities " under study by two groups currently . The State Rent Commission is making its usual survey of the present extent of the hous- ing shortage , which normally provides the justification for continuing controls . In addition a five-member special committee named by the Governor is studying the efficacy of the present formula under which landlords are guaranteed a " fair return " on their vestment . Mr. ' Rockefeller declined to say how much he would shorten the residency requirements for voting in the state . The Constitution now requires one year in the state , four months in the county , city or village , and one month in the election district . Most criticism has been leveled at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who move into New York less than a year before a national election but feel they should have a voice in the selection of the new President . The elimination of this provision in the Constitution could ' not be accomplished before ; 1964 , since an amendment must be passed in 1961 , repassed in , 1963 and submitted to the eleeAorate for ratification that fall . Thus it could affect the 1964 Presidential election in New York . Mr , Rockefeller said he would leave it up to the Legislature to decide what the new residency requirements should be . At a news conference during which the party programs were announced , Mr. Rockefeller also reported that he had ordered a speed-up in state construction projects in seven upstate areas where unemployment Avas kigh . The areas affected are Albany-Schenectady , Utica-Rome , Buffalo , Gloversville , Amsterdam , ? Auburn and Plattsburg . The Governor did not know just what projects would be accelerated or how much . The Governor and the Republican leaders also agreed to push through early in the 1961 session the court-reorganization constitutional amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the party has ' long been committed to a reformed court system and could not make changes in the amendment , now without losing two more years . Mr. Rockefeller reported that he and the leaders had discussed the question of a state income tax rebate next year but had reached no conclusion . The Governor is committed to a 10 per cent rebate . Senator Mahoney wants a rebate but is n't sure about the form , and Speaker C:rlino is n't sure about the rebate .                     