@@724494

txt The Prime Ministers of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland met today for the first time since Ireland was partitioned , more than 40 years ago . After the meeting , a Northern spokesman said , " Things will never be the same again . " He may have been overcome by the excitement of the occasion . But there was agreement throughout Belfast that Prime Minister Terence M. O'Neill and his guest from Dublin , Prime Minister Sean F. Lemass , had achieved a breakthrough that could soften the old bitterness of Irish politics . They met in the Cabinet office at Stormont Castle , separated from the Parliament building by a quarter-mile of wooded estate . Mr. O'Neill extended the invitation to Mr. Lemass after a recent Washington meeting of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development . Communique Is Issued After the talks there was a tea party , at which Mr. Lemass met other members of the Northern Irish Cabinet . Then both Prime Ministers issued the following communiqu ? : " We have discussed matters in which there may prove to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explore further what specific measures may be possible or desirable by way of practical consultation and cooperation . " Our talks ? which did not touch on constitutional or political questions  --  have been conducted in a most amicable way , and we look forward to a further discussion in Dublin . " The subjects of the talks were believed to include trade and tourism , in which closer arrangements have been evolving for some time . The future of the Dublin-Belfast railroad , which is operating at a heavy loss , was also mentioned as a matter for urgent review . Mr. Lemass 's consent to come to the seat of government at Stormont is accepted in Belfast as a token of goodwill . Mr. O'Neill commented on television , " I regard it as a symbolic act . " Past statements of the Prime Ministers have reflected the animosity between the 26 counties of the independent Roman Catholic South and the 6 counties of the Protestant North , a component of The United Kingdom . In the summer of 1963 , Mr. Lemass said in an address to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support for a divided Ireland . Mr. O'Neill retorted that Mr. Lemass was being intractable . Mr. O'Neill is understood to feel that he could not participate in any talks touching upon an end of Irish partition . He is also believed to have urged that Dublin strictly control the Irish Republican Army , which employs terrorism in an effort to drive the British completely from the island . The illegal army was responsible last week for demonstrations against Princess Margaret during her visit to Ireland . Both Irish leaders have taken bold stands against extremism .                     