@@722029

txt WASHINGTON , Sept. 11 ? The foreign ministers of the United States , Britain and France opened their second conference of the summer today with broad discussions of the situations in Berlin , Laos and the Congo . No official statement on their deliberations was issued this evening . It was understood , however , that the Allies reviewed the emergency plans that are being prepared to meet further Communist harassment or Challenges in Berlin and in Germany . They were said to have heard a cautiously optimistic report about the chances of negotiating a more stable peace in Laos . They were also believed to have heard a review of the United Nations ' role in the Congo with an eye toward developing a common Western position for the United Nations General Assembly session that opens Tuesday . West Germans Awaited The foreign ministers met for two hours and forty-five minutes before adjourning until tomorrow morning . At that time the West German delegation - will join in the main business of the conference : an atteMpt to agree on ways of negotiating a peaceful settlement in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last conference in Paris six weeks ago , the Western ministers were confronted at the last minute by a new Soviet gesture . In fact Moscow 's move amounted to a physical intrusion into the Allied deliberations , since it culminated in a brief conference between Secretary of State Dean Rusk of the United States and Mikhail A. Menshikov , the Soviet Ambassador here , before the Western conference had ended . Mr. Menshikov delivered an oral message from his Government which , according to a reliable source , was similar to but not identical with a statement broadcast by Moscow earlier today . This had agreed to exploratory conversations on Germany between Mr. Rusk and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko in New York next week . United States and British of // ficials were pleased by that development ; the French were unenthusiastic . It ? was not clear whether Mr. Menshikov further complicated . ' the situation in elaborating ' on the Soviet position during his fifteen-minute chat with Secretary Rusk . The Soviet diplomat had requested the meeting this afternoon , only a few hours before Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Couve de Murville of France began their conference at 4 P. M. The Secretary of State already had a commitment to leave for the airport to see off President Modibo Keita of Mali at 5:45 . The Soviet request complicated his schedule still further . Rusk Hurries Off Mr. Rusk left the Allied meeting at about 5:30 , rushed to the Military Air Transport Service terminal at the National Airport and returned only five minutes before Mr. Menshikov strode in . The Russian was led to the Secretary 's seventh-floor suite and stated his business in an anteroom , a few yards from where the Western discusisons continued . Both meetings broke up at about 6:45 . Mr. Menshikov refused to divulge his mission , but did stop long enough to make newsmen take down a statement deploring the " Fascist bandit " attack that he said caused a fire in his residence here Saturday . In Mr. Rusk 's absence , Charles E. Bohlen , his special assistant for Soviet affairs , and Foy D. Kohler , Assistant Secretary . of State for European affairs , represented the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave any background briefing tonight about their meeting . Exploratory Conversations In the West 's view , the RuskGromyko meeting will be held only to determine whether there is any prospect for formal East-West negotiations at the foreign minister level late this fall . The State Department said it was pleased by the Soviet agreement to such contacts during the meeting of the United Nations General Assembly . President Kennedy had publicly suggested the discussions yesterday , although the idea already had been broached informally by Llewellyn E. Thompson Jr. , the United States Ambassador in Moscow . The British delegation here also expressed pleasure at the development . Lord Home will be in New York , too , and expects to meet Mr. Gromyko privately . The French , however , were unenthusiastic , feeling as they have all summer that the West should not be what they call , " begging " for negotiations before Moscow withdraws its threat of unilateral action in ' ' Germany . Frenchman Will Not Attend M. Couve de Murville does not plan to attend the United Nations meeting , reflecting Paris ' contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis , as well as its opposition to discussions on Berlin and Germany with the Russians at this time . The Allies are generally agreed that negotiations on Germany will take place later this year , but only if Moscow agrees to talk about more than its unilateral proposals for a peace treaty with East Germany and the conversion of West Berlin into a so-called free city , a politically unaffiliated but open-ly accessible territory . There was disagreement as to whether Moscow 's statement today met this condition . The Soviet statement expressed an " assumption " that I Mr. Rusk and Mr. Gromyko would " display a serious atti-I to the talks and will jointly search for a solution of the problem of the conclusion of a German peace treaty and a settlement of the situation in West Berlin on its basis . " This dropped for the time being the traditional Soviet in- ' sister.oe of a free city solution for Berlin . But the statement also clearly limited the discussion to West Berlin and seemed calculated to exclude any pro-1 posals involving both the Western and Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet objective to obtain West-1 ern recognition of East Berlin ' as a part of and indeed the ' capital of Communist East Ger-1 many . Despite some vehement protests in Allied circles , the United States and Britain seem to be veering toward a tacit acceptance of such a limitation . Whether Mr. Rusk will have the authority in New York to speak for all the Allies was still uncertain .                     