@@723165

txt The National Association tor the Advancement of Colored People announced yesterday a drive against Northern school segregation based on housing Patterns . The campaign , which will touch , at least 25 states from New England to California , will be based on Thursday 's ruling in the Orange ( N. J. ) case by the State Commissioner of Education . It will seek to achieve its aims through other State Commissioners of Education , but where these officials believe they lack authority to desegregate , action will be taken in Federal courts . In the Orange case , Dr. Frederick M. Raubinger , the New Jersey commissioner , called on the local school board to submit a plan to end de facto racial segregation in the predominantly Negro Oakwood school by the opening of the September term . An ' Explosive ' Issue Robert . L. Carter , general counsel of the N.A.A.C.P. , said that " direct action " in Northern school situations might diminish if court and administrative rulings were implemented , but that " major explosions " might result after Sept. 1 if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the North , Mr. Carter said , because Negro parents feel their children are being " short-changed in education " because of de facto segregation . He felt it would be " far better for the country and for everybody involved " if state education commissioners , in accord with state laws , took steps comparable to the ones suggested in Orange . There , pupils would be reassigned on a grade basis . All pupils in the first to third grades would attend one school and all from fourth to sixth would attend another . The effect would be to cut a 99 per cent Negro registration at Oakwood to about 72 per cent ; and to raise a 50 per cent Negro enrollment at Park School to 72 per cent . The racial balance would thus be the same in both schools and , the Negroes feel , would properly reflect the balance in the community . This particular solution , known as the " Princeton Plan , " was originally developed in the university town after World War II . Population , geography and other local factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the Princeton one , were submitted in the Malverne ( L.I. ) case , which Mr. Carter also cited . On Malverne , Mr. Carter , interviewed at his office at 20 West 40th Street , referred to Friday 's recommendation by a three-man committee appointed by New York 's State Education Commissioner . The committee reported to Dr. James E. Allen Jr . that there was " racial imbalance " in the Malverne school district . It added that , when a " ' neighborhood school ' ... is viewed as being reserved for certain community groups , or when its effect is to create or continue a ghetto-type situation , it does not serve the purposes of democratic education . " For Malverne , the committee felt the Princeton plan would " do the most to satisfy the current complaints . " Behind Mr. Carter 's announceIment lay a long , painstaking effort by the N.A.A.C.P. to link the United States Supreme Court decision of 1954 , declaring segregation in the public schools unconstitutional , to situations other than the ? overt ones of the Deep South . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , set aside the 58-year-old doctrine of " separate but equal " facilities , and unanimously underwrote a Xansas decision that legal segregation had " a tendency to retard the education and mental development of Negro children . " " It seems to me , " Mr. Carter put it , " that what Dr. Rau , binger has done in New Jersey is to take that decision and apply it realistically . " 69 Cities Studied This , in the view of the 45-year-old attorney who has won 18 cases before the Supreme Court , may constitute an effective precedent-from which " real and complete application across the board " of the principle of desegration might be obtained . Last January , June Shagaloff , the association 's special assistant on education , reported in detail on field work in sixty-nine cities in fifteen Northern states . Mr. Carter noted that he and Miss Shagaloff had traveled across the country last year , studying de facto segregation . The areas where the issue will now be pressed include all New England , the Middle West and the Pacific Coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . States like North and South Dakota and Wyoming will not be included , presumably because they do not have large Negro populations . Mr. Carter 's plans , following his victory in the Orange case , were summarized by the N.A.A.C.P. this way : IlSince the decision was made under the education laws of New Jersey by the Commissioner of Education , a survey will be made of 27 Eastern and Western states to determine whether the rights accorded to school children under the education laws , civil rights statutes and the constitutions df each state afford a basis for a series of similar cases in these states . CiField investigation will determine whether there are communities in these states in which schoolchildren are compelled by school district lines to attend segregated schools that materially and adversely affect their learning process . ? flEfforts will be made to persuade State Commissioners of Education to enunciate a statewide policy to remove segregated schools . Failing that ; if requests are made to N.A.A.C.P. offices , assistance in processing petitions before Commissioners of Education will be given . ( 11Mr . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that of the State of New Jersey and will remove segregated conditions and that school boards will be directed by the education departments of the state to desegregate . Where Commissioners of Education believe they lack the authority to desegregate schools , appropriate cases will be filed in the Federal District Courts .                     