@@724953

txt ACCORD REACHED BY HANOVER BANK IN ANTITRUST SUIT Compromise on Merger Set With Justice Department ? Court to Study Plan WALL ST . IS SURPRISED ; Agreement Is Announced by Katzenhach ? Up to 40 Branches Would Close By ROBERT FROST Attorney General Nicholas deB . Katzenbach disclosed yesterday that the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company had reached agreement with the Government on a plan to settle the antitrust suit pending against the bank . The compromise is reported to involve the giving up of as many as 40 of the bank 's branches . In a statement that took a large part of the financial community by surprise , Mr. Katzenbach told the House Banking Committee the settlement was " entirely satisfactory to the , Government . " When asked by Representa- , tive Wright Pa tman , Democrat of Texas . chairman of the com- ; mittee , what the plan covered , Mr. Katzenbach said the bank had requested that he not dis-1 close the details . Mr. Patman ; then agreed not to press for further data . Brandies at Stake However , neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confirm the reports of the divestiture plan . The suggestion that the divestiture might involve as many as 40 branches was offered by a Justice Department spokesman . Banking sources here felt that the total was more likely to be about " two dozen . " Manufacturers Hanover has 135 branches , the same number that it had at the end of 1961 , the year that the Manufacturers Trust Company and the Hanover Bank were merged . As a result of the merger , Manufacturers Hanover be- ; came the fourth largest bank1 in the nation , ranking behind ; the Bank of America , the ' First National City Bank and ' the Chase Manhattan Bank . If the bank is forced to divest ; itself of some branches , it may ; do so either by selling them to ' other banks or by using them as ' a nucleus in the formation of a1 new bank . More Logical Plan Bank industry representatives suggested that the sale of the branches was the more logical . plan . The bank 's only statement on the settlement noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we can not comment on it . Any resolution between the bank and the Justice Department is subject to court approval . " An assistant to Mr. Katzenbach said in a telephone interview that before the details of the plan could be disclosed , the settlement would have to be presented to Judge Lloyd F. in the United States District Court here . It was Judge who ruled last March that the 1961 bank merger was in violation or antitrust sections of the Sherman and Clayton Acts . His // gave the bank an unfair comopinion was weighted heavily by the assertion that the merger petitive advantage because of the number of branches it had . Judge could not be reached yesterday for comment . Although Mr. Katzenbach 's assistant did not specify when the plan would be put before Judge he did indicate that it would not be presented in " the next week or two . " Spokesmen for both the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Controller of the Currency , the bank supervisory agencies on the Federal level , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York State Department of Banks said the state regulatory agency had " no comment " on the reports . The announcement of the ' settlement was part of Mr. Katzenbach 's testimony before the House committee on a bill that would exempt from antitrust suits , retroactively , six bank mergers that the department had charged violated the antitrust laws . Not Part of Text The statement about the setelement , however , was not part of Mr. Katzenbach 's prepared text . The subject arose when Mr. Patman asked the Attorney General what progress was being made in the Manufacturers Hanover case . Mr. Katzenbach denounced as " outrageous " that part of the bill that would exempt banking mergers from antitrust action . His attack on the bill to revise bank-merger procedures represented one of the few instances in which the Administration has taken a stand in opposition to the general business community . The measure , which has been approved by the Senate , is supported by the banking industry as well as some officials of regulatory authorities , such as William McChesney Martin , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Controller of the Currency . The most significant change the bill would make in bankmerger procedures would be to allow the Justice Department to object to any future mergers only during a 30-day period following the approval of a merger by regulatory agencies . The proposed legislation is being sponsored by Senator A. Willis Robertson , Democrat of Virginia , who is chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee . and Senator William Proxmire , Democrat of Wisconsin . The merger bill would also affect leading banks in Lexington , Ky. , Los Angeles , Chicago , Nashville and St. Louis that were recently formed by mergers . In the Manufacturers Hanover case . Judge did not necessarily seek to break up the S7 billion bank , but asked the Justice Department to submit a " plan of relief . " Deadline Extended Following his March 10 ruling , Judge gave both the bank and the Government 10 days to come up with a plan . He subsequently extended the deadline to March 30 , then to July 15 and then to Aug. 16 . Last Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 1 . Neither the bank nor the Justice Department , however . would say they wanted the postponement . Presumably it was to complete the details on its settlement plan . Prior to the 1961 merger , the Hanover hank was noted as a " blue chip " bank that dealt primarily with giant corporations and catered to high-income customers . The bank 's trust department has a list of customers that read like a " Who 's Who " of New York . Manufacturers Trust , on the other hand , was known as an aggressive retail bank that catered to the man in the street . The merger with the Hanover was looked upon as a natural move . The merger , however , was immediately contested by the Justice Department . A quick decision was promised by Judge . But that quick decision turned into a four-year wait , during which the Manufacturers Hanover , Trust Company operated with hazy status . The pending litigation pre- , vented the bank from opening new branches . According to study prepared by the bank stock firm of M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still , while its 10 competitors in the New York Clearing House Association added 115 branches . On Dec. 31 , 1961 , the bank accounted for 25.6 per cent of the metropolitan area 's 528 branches . On June 30 , 1965 , its share of the branches fell to 21 per cent . On that date , there were 643 branches . " For Manufacturers Hanover to recoup its 1961 position , " the Schapiro report concluded , " it would have to open 40 additional branches , while its 10 competitors remained at a status quo. "                     