@@727522

txt LONDON , DEC. 14 ? Britain 's Labor government can not be panicked or r at t led into resignation or defeat , Home 1 Secretary James Callaghan said tonight . Callaghan spoke before a party rally as Britons increasingly asked whether Prime Minister Harold Wilson could be forced or persuaded to give in to a national government before the nation is caught in financial disaster . Cabinet Is Shaky Callaghan admitted the government has lost its popularity . He even indicated that there are potential defectors in the cabinet . " Anyone who gets seasick because the going is rough should never have joined the ship , " he said . Callaghan added , " It 's times like these that separate the men from the boys . " Reginald Maudling , deputy Conservative leader , said Wilson 's resignation would be " the best thing that could possibly happen . " He said that only because of lack of confidence could wild rumors gain credence in Britain and thruout the world . Rumors are Rampant In the last week rumors have had Wilson about to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Wilson himself , Queen Elizabeth abdicating from Buckingham Palace . Wilson , in Glasgow today , temporarily stood aside from the campaign which he has denounced as unpatriotic sabotage . He merely warned Scottish nationalists that if they try to " go it alone " they will " lose a lot of English money . " A junior Labor minister , Denis Howell , said the campaign seeking a national government , made up of politicans of all parties and drawing men from outside politics , is outrageous and is a sign of Conservative hysteria . Woodrow Wyatt , a Socialist maverick who has frequently differed with Wilson , came back to the fold tonight saying he could not understand the timing . He said many things are now going right for Britain , including higher exports and lower unemployment , and he did n't know quite what had happened to " top people . " Other Socialist members of parliament declared they had lost confidence in London 's financial leaders and demanded an investigation into what they called deliberate sabotage of the nation . From the far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely dangerous for the Labor government . " Every reactionary force is mobilizing for action , to prodoop a hard-faced businessmen 's government which would be vindictive against unions , " he said . Denies There Is Plot William Rees-Mogg , editor of the London Times which Monday called for a national government , denied there is a plot to oust the prime minister and install first a coalition governmnt and then by-pass parliament itself . " But Wilson sees a plot in everything , " Rees-Mogg said . The game of drawing up a national cabinet Is in full swing . Because of party antipathy , both Wilson and Tory party leader Edward Heath are widely being eliminated as prime minister possibilities in a national government . New Faces Sought The men most mentioned are Denis Healey , minister of defense for the Labor government , and ex-Conservative prime minister Sir Alec Douglas Home , altho his failure to keep power five years ago is held against him . Because the country is fed up generally with ex-ministers who have monopolized high places for most of the post-war period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is Geoffrey Rippon , 44 , newly appointed Conservative spokesman for defense . From outside politics , one of ' the strongest runners is Cecil King , former publisher of Britain 's largest circulating daily newspaper , the tabloid Daily Mirror . He was ousted by other Mirror executives last May after he , prematurely , called for a national government . He is mentioned as a potential prime minister , but he told THE Trunuivs , " I have no personal aspirations . " Socialists Running Anothr non - political front runner is Lord Cromer , the former George Baring , a banker who early in life worked with J. P. Morgan company in New York and at 42 became the youngest governor of the Bank of England . Two once-prominent Socialists , Alfred Robens and Hartley Shawcross , both subsequently made lords , are active in the I fight . All of these figures are speaking out for a national government , and warning that Britain is heading for the worst financial crisis since 1931 . Hits Government Errors Shawcross says : " The government h a s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The cabinet is gutless . " Rippon says : " This incompetent and profligate government is leading Britain into disaster . " Against such complaints and predictions , Callaghan tonight claimed that financial and business leaders are behaving as tho they are thinking only of their own interests and not of the nation 's good . He called them prejudiced and blinkered.                     