@@726858

txt Autonomy for the Berkeley campus of the University of California and a decentralization of governmental and educational structures on this campus were proposed today after a ' year-long study . The recommendations were reported by a student-faculty commission created after a student strike in December of 1966 . The strike was one of a series of confrontations at Berkeley since the Free Speech movement and its Sproul Hall sit-ins in 1964 . The student-faculty group 's co-chairmen , Prof. Caleb Foote of the School of Law , and Henry Mayer , a University of North Carolina graduate working for his doctorate here in history , said that the Berkeley report was the first to be corn : pleted among a number under way in universities around the country , all with similar problems . " Berkeley , " said Professor Foote at a press briefing , " is now the foremost symbol of the issue whether we can have high quality public higher education . " He acknowledged , however , that because of the pyramidal // nature of the university 's governmental organization , action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commissioners viewed as its urgency . The commission 's report was assertedly aimed at " reforming and regenerating the educational process of the university . " It took the view that extensive student participation in policy decisions in educational and governing matters was essential in reducing campus distress and turbulence . The report Is to appear tomorrow as a tabloid supplement to The Daily Californian , with about 27,000 copies to be distributed to students . Each of the more than 1,500 faculty members will have a copy in his mailbox . The commission , composed of six members appointed by the Academic Senate ( faculty ) and six by the Student Senate , described the Berkeley campus as a place of " inertia and a brave and unwarranted complacency . " " Inertia and discouragement , " the report said , " have combined to produce a situation in which fundamental educational problems are discussed only sporadically and then in so prosaic a fashion as to make education seem a dreary affair when compared to the melodrama of campus politics . " What is worse , the attempts to call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delusion that a brief period in which students are not massed in Sproul Plaza or milling in Sproul Hall is a sign of institutional health and success . " ' Dangerous Assault ' The commission said that " it is now evident that we are on the threshold of what threatens to become the most dangerous assault on academic autonomy and integrity in the history of the modern public university . " It observed that cries of " strident power " or " student participation in decision making " were distinguishing features of student demonstrations on campuses throughout the country . The commission , on which campus activists as well as moderates and conservatives were represented , concluded that pressure to make concessions to student demands for " more power " was likely to lead to " an expedient compromise which gives only token or peripheral ' consultation , ' " a re suit that could " worsen our situation . " " If students want more ' power ' in helping to formulate university policies , " the report continued , " they must be prepared to engage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frustrating process offers neither the excitement nor the seductive appeal and militant posture of direct confrontation which subverts a necessary partnership with administrators and faculty . " In calling for an educational policy overhaul , the report took as an example the College of Letters and Science , with 14 , - 493 undergraduates . It said that about 5,000 of the 7,000 lower division students " occupy a kind of academic limbo . " Professor Foote called the lower division education " a cut-rate shop . " As an experimental step the commission called for four new lower division colleges , each with only 500 students and " each with autonomous control over its budget , curricula , staff and physical resources . " Like the small liberal arts colleges rising on the university 's Santa Cruz campus , each would " differ from its sister colleges in curriculum , style of academic life and student body . " " We are skeptical , " the commission stated , " that a count of Nobel Prize winners , the high national rating of graduate departments , or the presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatness . " These attributes do not in themselves represent a university 's ultimate goals , but rather means toward achieving them . " Besides proposing autonomy for the Berkeley Campus , one of nine in the 90,000-student university , and urging broad student participation in policy decisions , the commission recommended the development of an independent student-faculty judiciary system at Berkeley . Inroads on Liberties This , the commission said , would make it unnecessary for Chancellor Roger W. Heyns to become involved in day-to-day decision-making as a kind of chief law enforcement officer on the campus . The commission performed its task against a background of what it described as " inroads on civil liberties and academic freedom " even during the last year . These " inroads , " it said , " are warnings that for the first time in many years we are faced with a consistently unfriendly state administration whose theories of educational financing are a logical accompaniment to its suspicions of this campus . " This criticism of Gov . Ronald Reagan was supplemented by statements such as the fol-lowing : " At times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by political controversies ; an adverse public reaction has led to political reprisals against higher education in California ; and an atmosphere of distress and suspicion exists on the campus . " A recommendation that the Berkeley campus be made autonomous was made in 1965 in a report by a committee designated by the Board of Regents . The regents have taken no action . Professor Foote and Mr. Mayer were reminded of that and were asked why the commission had any hope that its major proposals might have a better fate . Mr. Foote replied : " Since the Byrne Committee report to the regents two years ago this autonomy has been shown to be absolutely essential . " The Next Hurdle As explained at the press briefing , the commission 's recommendations would first have to be approved by the Academic Senate on the Berkeley campus . The next hurdle would be the statewide Academic Assembly , representing the faculties of all nine campuses of the university . Then the report would be submitted to the university president , who now is Charles Hitch , successor to Dr. Clark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would go to the Board of Regents . Professor Foote agree &; Thal it could be " knocked lithe head at any step . " But - ffeAhi sisted that " the process Ofrde ? centralization is absOlitte , IX critical . " Emphasizing a need for student participation in Policy* making all over the coiintry , he commented : " Tokenism is evideriP , PA campuses across the nation . They slap a few studentgqin committees and that 's the , end of it . " The report was signed by 10 of the 12 members of the : tom7. : : mission . Two faculty members , who were on leave during.several months of the studyfs progress , expect to file a minority report in about a month .                     