@@726547

txt Cleveland , Aug. 24 ? A polluted lake dies violently . It suffocates fish , tosses un- pleasant vegetable growths onto ! its beaches and fills the air along its shorelines with the stench of untreated wastes . Lake Erie is in the final throes1 of a premature death , slowly choking on its heavily polluted ! tributaries and shoreline . There is little relief in sight , water experts warn , and Erie now is dying so fast that it may become America 's Dead sea . All lakes eventually die thru a normal process called eutrophication . Man Speeds Up Process But Erie would have lived for thousands of years and perhaps even survived the human race if man had not settled on its shores and began his methodic execution . By speeding up the aging process with industrial and municipal wastes , man has polluted Erie to the point where today it is like a child with progeria ? that rare disease that accelerates the i life cycle so the victim may die of old age at 10 . Erie is not alone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be next . What has happened - and is happening - can be studied in two categories . They are Erie 's tributaries and its open waters . Nearly all the lake 's major tributaries are so heavily polluted that in many areas they support no biological life . The Detroit river flows into Erie at its western end carrying pile-nets , acids , iron and oil wastes from industry . Poor Sewage System Combined with the outpour from this great industrial complex is the flow of municipal wastes from 3 million persons that is treated in a horse and buggy sewage system . Detroit gives its sewage only " primary " treatment , which means only certain solids are removed . On the southern shore of the lake , in and around Cleveland . a series of polluted tributaries carry the same wastes plus poi. luted runoffs from Ohio farmlands into Erie . The Cuyahoga river , which enters Erie here , is a huge gutter for industry and the city . Similar conditions are repeated in Toledo , Erie , and Buf falo and no one knows ho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these nutrients enter the water , they overenrich the lake to the point where microscopic plant growths called algae pro- , liferate . Some wash ashore to I rot and ruin swimming areas . The rest settles to the bottom , to provide food for plant life which in turn robs the water of oxygen . Acquatic life becomes more and more the anerobic non-oxygen type such as blood worms . They are the primeval forms of life that will continue to inhabit a lake after weed growth has reduced it to a swamp . A mass of algae measuring ROO square miles and 2 feet deep now lies in the western basin of Erie . It represents a tragic preview of what may lie ahead . Erie , in some ways , is more susceptible to a premature death from pollution . It is only the fourth largest of the five Great Lakes and is a puddle when its depths are compared to the gulfs that form Lakes Michigan , Superior , Huron , and Ontario . Polluted by Detroit This same shallowness , how-1 ever , could help the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water experts . Erie receives a cleansing flow from both Superior and Huron . but the flow now is polluted by Detroit . Lake Michigan , which now is showing some of the symptoms Erie displayed 15 years ago , . would not be as fortunate . It is the isolated Great Lake and receives no assistance from the others in cleansing its waters . " If Michigan goes , it 's gone forever , " predicted a federal water pollution expert here . " It 's as simple as that . " Even with the potential of Erie 's cleansing flow , federal ' officials here are not optimistic about its chances for recovery . Too much has happened in the last 50 years . The blue pike and whitefish are gone . The flesh of other fish has an undesirable taste and such scavengers as carp are thriving . Swimming and water skiing have been curtailed because of high bacterial counts and dead plants and fish on the beaches . Miles of sandy beaches on each side of Cleveland now are posted with signs reading " if you must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The word " must " is under-1 lined , a reminder that Erie 's filthy water may well result in an upset stomach , ear ache , or even vorse if it is used for swimming . Cleveland residents drive 35 miles to find swimming areas where the bacterial count is low enough for safe swimming . Boat owners refuse to take their crafts in certain areas because of the oily material that clings to the sides . Beach Is Closed A beach in the pleasant middle class Cleveland suburb of Euclid has been closed for Paragraph missing The owner of a small fishing ? bait and boat rental business on the other side of the sewer pipes has been told the city-owned property he leases soon will be used for an addition to the community 's sewage treatment plant . " It 's just as well , " said Forest Woody Dadlow , who has operated the boat rental business since 1959 . " Fishermen do n't come here any more because the pike and whitefish are gone . I 'm selling my boats one by one this summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ashore moments after brackish yellow water gushes into the lake from the pipes . Lake Is Dying In 1960 , the federal government took action and ordered a comprehensive study of the lake . Some 200 experts took part in the investigation of Erie 's problem and concluded that the lake was indeed dying . Since then , more sewage nlants have been planned and built and some industries are installing filters in an attempt I to stop using Erie and its tributaries as a convenient waste ) disposal area . The present program will not reverse the damage already done , water experts say . They I merely hope it will slow down the present rate of deterioration . The nutrient cycle may be so well established , they point out , that nothing can be done to return Erie to its condition at the beginning of the century . If this is the case , then Erie ' is as good as dead .                     