@@721789

txt James P. Mitchell , Secretary of Labor in the Eisenhower Administration , came from behind last night to capture the Republican nomination for Governor in New Jersey . He had trailed State Senator Walter H. Jones of Bergen County , his principal rival , until the half-way mark in the tabulation of the results in the spirited primary . Thereafter he sLeadily increased his lead . With returns tabulated from 4,173 of the state 's 4,395 election districts , Mr. Mitchell had 190,883 votes to 151,509 for Senator Jones . Former Vice President Richard M. Nixon telephoned his congratulations to Mr. Mitchell at 11:30 P. M. , when the victory , which had seemed wobbly earlier , was assured . Meyner Backed Hughes Mr. Mitchell will face former Superior Court Judge Richard J. Hughes of Trenton in the November election . Judge Hughes had only token opposition from two little-known rivals in the Democratic primary . He had the backing of Gov . Robert B. Meyner and all twenty-one of the Democratic county organizations . Both Mr. Mitchell and Judge Hughes are Roman Catholics . This means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic Governor , will choose one in November . Mr. Mitchell 's primary victory was a major gain for Senator Clifford P. Case and former Senator H. Alexander Smith , who had persuaded him to enter the race . Twelve of the twenty-one Republican county organizations , in the state had backed Senator Jones , three had backed Mr. Mitchell and three , Senator Wayne Dumont Jr . of Warren County , the third major entry . The three remaining were neutral . Although all but lost sight of in the campaign , Mr. Mitchell had a third rival . He was Louis Berns of Oradel , who is almost unknown politically and never had any substantial party support . Mr. Mitchell received returns in , his private suite at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark with his wife , mother , sister , Senator Cases and a few , political friends . Shorly after midnight he made an appearance in the ballroom . The crowd cheered his announcement that Mr. Nixon had called to offer congratulations and help in the campaign . Mr. Mitchell also said he had received assurances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he planned to meet immediately with the leaders of all twentyone Republican county organization . Thereafter , he would take a short vacation to plan the campaign . Senator Jones , who had counted on a 3-to-1 margin in Bergen , his home county , to offset expected losses in Union and Essex , got- less than a 2-to-i margin there . Mr. Mitchell piled up big leads , as expected , in Union , the home of Senator Case , in Essex , where he swept Newark as well as the suburban area , and in Mercer , Middlesex , Monmouth and Morris Counties . One of the surprising aspects of the primary was Senator Dumont 's total , which was larger than had been expected . He had based his campaign on the premise that New Jersey needed a broad-based state tax to relieve home owners and industry of a heavy property tax burden . Senator Dumont carried five counties , including his home county of Warren , and ran second to Mr. Mitchell in four others . The incomplete tally gave him 88,305 votes . Jones Seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the State House at Trenton , had been generally regarded as the front runner in the Republican contest . Judge Hughes , as expected , swamped both his rivals to win the Democratic nomination for Governor . His adversaries were Weldon R. Sheets , an Essex County Supervisor , and Eugene E. Demarest , a Hackensack Councilman . Besides choosing Republican and Democratic candidates for Governor , New Jersey 's voters nominated major party candidates for all sixty seats in the State Assembly and for ten of the twenty-one seats in the State Senate . In all contests for legislative nominations , the candidates backed by their party organizations scored relatively easy victories over insurgent rivals . There were nine contests for Senate nominations and fourteen for Assembly nominations . Weather Bail All - Day During most of the day , it appeared that bad weather would cut the turnout . But there was an unusually large outpouring between 6 P. M. and the closing of the polls at 8 P.M. Mr. Mitchell and his wife were among the first to cast ballots yesterday . They arrived together at the polling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Silver , near Red Bank , at 6:30 A. M. , a half-hour before the polls opened . Senator Dumont voted at the Phillipsburg High School at 8 A. M. Senator Jones did not vote until nearly 11 A. M. It was snowing when he arrived at the Norwood Public School with Mrs. Jones . Nominated in New Jersey Primaries                     