@@722994

txt The Congo has asked for assistance from six nations in retraining and reorganizing its military forces . In a letter to the United Nations , Premier Cyrille Adoula has requested help from the United States . Belgium . Italy . I Israel , Canada and Norway . Under the proposal , the United States would provide only " logistical " support , including transport and training equipment . No United States personnel would participate in the retraining program . The request is being studied by officials of the United Nations . The plan calls for the United Nations to provide a unit to coordinate and supervise the program . If the plan is approved , U Thant , Secretary General of the United Nations , would then formally request the six nations to provide the assistance . Approach Is Indirect The request is being passed through this indirect channel to emphasize that the program will be carried out under a United Nations " umbrella . " Although no formal request has yet been transmitted to any of the countries , the matter has been discussed with representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Informed sources said today that the United States , Belgium , Italy and Israel had already indicated their willingness to participate in the program . Israel and Italy have had military missions here within the last few weeks to confer with Congolese military leaders . Under the plan presented by Mr. Adoula , each of the six nations would have its own sphere of responsibility in the , program . Belgium would be assigned responsibility for retraining the army 's officers and noncommissioned . officers . This would include direction of a new military academy to be established in Luluabourg or Kamina .. Italy would " reorganize " the Congolese air force . This would mean starting virtually from scratch since the country now has only a handful of pilots in training and five light planes . Norway would be assigned the navy . The Congo at the moment has no navy . Several hundred soldiers were designated some months ago for naval training , but this has never begun . , The only ships available are four or five 40-foot launches . Mr. Adoula 's plan calls for Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train Congolese paratroopers . Brig . Gen. Yitzhak Rabin , deputy chief of staff of the Israeli army , spent some days here this week discussing the paratrooper program with Congolese officials . Four Italian air force colonels have been here for almost eight weeks . Army Studied by U.S. The United States has had several missions here over the last year that have looked into the needs of the Congolese army . The latest headed by Harlan Cleveland , Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs , was not concerned specifically with military matters . However , after a two-week study of the Congo 's problems , the mission concluded that the military retraining program should be given top priority . Mr. Cleveland 's group reported that the Congo 's military establishment , though relatively costly , was failing to meet the country 's needs for internal security . Without such security , it said , the economy could never be expected to function properly . United States officials here believe that one of the army 's chief problems is that it is too big . It already boasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced his intention to integrate about 15,000 Katangese gendarmes into the army . United States officials believe that the 20,000 man army that Belgium maintained in the Congo before independence would be more than adequate . The army 's basic problem goes back to the Belgian failure to train Congolese officers before independence . U.N . Confirms Receipt Special to The New York Times . NEW YORK . UNITED NATIONS , N.Y. , March ** sources confirmed today that the Congo Republic had sent a communication to Secretary General U Thant concerning future help in retraining the Congolese Army . An earlier request for this assistance had been made by the Congo last December and the new letter was understood to be a follow-up measure .                     