@@726702

txt An Indiana judge issued an injunction yesterday to prevent the calling of national guard troops into the Gary area for Tuesday 's mayoral election . However , the state 's attorney general , John F. Dillon , indicated the move was illegal , and said he will ask a state high court to dissolve the order , and that the guardsmen will be in Gary anyway . The legal snarl began when Superior Court Judge Nobel Lit-tell of Martinsville issued an injunction and an emergency restraining order to prevent Gov . Roger Branigin and Adjt . Gen. John S. Anderson of the Indiana guard from sending the troops to Gary to preserve peace during the city 's racially-tense election . Based on Old Law He based the order on an 1895 state law barring the mustering of the guard within five days of an election " except in the case of riot . " Judge Littell said he could find no indication that any riot has occurred . The restraining order made the injunction valid whether or not Branigin and Anderson receive copies of it before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the troops will go to Gary des . We the injunction . " I know of no authority in any court in the United States . let alone the Morgan county Superior court , to enjoin the governor when he is acting as commander in chief of the militia under the Indiana constitution , " Dillon said . Will Make Appeal He said he will ask either the Indiana Supreme court or Appellate court to set aside the lower court order tomorrow . On Friday , Branigin ordered the guard to be on alert in the Gary area because of the tensions which have arisen in the mayoral battle between Richard G. Hatcher , a Negro Democrat , and Republican Joseph B. Radigan . Meanwhile , the n a tion al guard yesterday moved three tanks and 40 armored personnel carriers into the . Lake county fairgrounds at Crown Point , the Lake county seat . About 5,000 guardsmen are expected to assemble at armories in Hammond , Valparaiso , and La Porte prior to Tuesday 's election . The injunction was granted on petition at Ralph Left , a Mooresville @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of several guardmen from Martinsville , where one of the guard units ordered for duty in Lake county is based . U. S. Suit Filed The justice department filed suit Friday in Hammond federal District court seeking a halt to alleged discrimination in registration of voters for the Gary election . That action came after an earlier suit by Hatcher to postpone the balloting unless election officials are restrained from allegedly conducting " a conspiracy and scheme " to defeat him . The main defendant in both suits is John G. Krupa , Lake county Democratic chairman and secretary of the county election board , who is charged with padding voter registration lists with white ghost voters and purging eligible Negroes . Krupa leveled another blast at the Democratic administration yesterday , charging the federal suit is " part of a nationwide effort to put the Negro voting solidly behind them administration Democrats . Fraudulent Negro Voters " The justice department is saying there are 200 fraudulent white registrations , but is ignoring the fact that 3,000 fraudulent Negro voters are on the pollbooks , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrants in question , about 3,000 were returned unclaimed . " The federal government is abusing its tremendous power to elect Ha tche r , " Krupa charged . " It 's part of a power play because of the forthcoming Presidential election . " Krupa , who has opposed Hatcher since he defeated organization - backed incumbent Mayor A. Martin Katz in the primary , restored some 5,000 names , mostly Negroes , to the voting rolls after the initial suit was filed . Tim TRIBUNE learned , however , that the names were placed in the back of the poll book and not returned to their previous positions . A panel of three federal judges was appointed to hear Hatcher 's charges in Hammond tomorrow morning . THE TRIBUNE has learned that justice department attorneys probably will appear before the panel along with Hatcher 's lawyers . Because the charges in both actions are similar , the federal suit probably will preempt Hatcher's.                     