@@727821

txt Washington , May 9 ? Secretary of State William P. Rogers said today that the Viet Cong 's new peace plan for Viet Nam " contains some clearly unacceptable proposals , but there are elements in it which may offer a possibility for exploration . " The cautious statement , issued in advance of Rogers ' 17-day tour of the far east , did not specify which portions of the 10-point plan were unacceptable to the United States . Other officials said , however , that the communist demand for an unconditional withdrawal of American troops without a mutual pullback of North Vietnamese troops could not be accepted . Hits Imposed Coalition They also expressed the opinion that the . Viet Cong 's call for replacement of the present Saigon government with a provisional government constituted an attempt to impose a coalition ? a demand that the Nixon administration rejects . " No other objective is of more compelling importance to this administration than the achievement of a peace in Viet Nam under which the people of South Viet Nam will be able to determine their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rogers . " We believe that the right of self-determination for the people of South Viet Nam must be respected unconditionally . This is the core of the issue in Viet Nam . " Plans to Consult The secretary said it must still be determined whether the Viet Cong plan represents " a serious response " to allied proposals , He said he would consult closely with Vietnamese leaders  --  who already have rejected the demand for a coalition government but agreed to discuss other parts of the proposal . Rogers appeared to be taking a harder line on the plan than some other officials , who said they were encouraged that the Viet Cong finally had issued a serious proposal with new , flexible language . While hesitating to predict that substantive progress can emerge from discussions of the proposal in Paris , they said that at least the two sides in the negotiations have something new to talk about seriously after a long period of delivering mutual propaganda broadsides . Rogers said that in his tour of the far east , which begins Monday , he will elicit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they themselves plan to achieve their goals . He said that his talks with United States Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker and President Nguyen Van Thieu in Saigon will furnish the basis for his later talks in Bangkok with representatives of other countries contributing troops to the war effort , and at the Southeast Asia Treaty organization ministerial meeting . Rogers later will see government leaders in India , Pakistan , and Afghanistan , and attend the ministerial meeting of the Central Treaty organization CENTO in Iran .                     