@@722874

txt The Kennedy Administration plans to mount soon a massive national offensive against the twin evils of mental illness , striking any time in life , , and mental retardation , usually arising from brain damage at birth . Yesterday , in his State of the Union message , the President plainly stated his concern over the problems : " I believe that the abandonment of the mentally ill and the mentally retarded to the grim mercy of custodial institutions too often inflicts on them a needless cruelty which this nation should not endure . " While his new budget coming out Thursday will give advance inklings of the proposed remedies , Mr. Kennedy will unfold the full scope of this new program in a special message to Congress , probably late this month . This program will plunge Uncle Sam into new and deep commitments for prevention , treatment and rehabilitation ; these tasks in the past have been left largely to state and local agencies . A Federal Bankroll What the Administration envisions is 50 separate campaigns , one in each state of the union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bankrolled with copious new Federal funds . In part because of budget limitations , but also because months of planning will be required , the first-year cost may come to a relatively modest $50 million or so . But over a five-year span , some authorities forecast , the total tab could run well over $500 million . Although existing Federal spending to combat mental illness and retardation is now estimated at $1.1 billion yearly , much is in such . restricted fields as veterans ' hospitalization and is deemed to offer little hope of broad national solutions . The major aim of the new approach will be to reverse state - policies stressing long-term isolation of the mentally ill and retarded in bisioinstitntions . Instead , treatment would be centered in local coatMitnities with the express goal - of preventing prolonged hospitalization anti restoring patients as rapidly as possible to a useful role in society . " Community Centers " a Possibility As the key to this dramatic switch , the President is likely to propose a Federal program of assistance for planning , construction and initial operation of " community centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the retarded . The concept is similar in both fields : Provision of a broad array of medical and social services , ranging from early detection and prevention through post-hospital care , within easy reach of every major community . Most experts argue that major strides are possible only when the ill and retarded are not isolated , but are treated within the context of home , friends , school and work . The potential economic gains from any improvement in the prevention and treatment of mental illness are sizable : It 's estimated that lifetime hospital care for amentally retarded patient costs $100,000 . With Federal leadershit , proponents of the new approach hope that many of the 535,000 mentally ill and 160 , - 000 retarded ( mostly youngsters ) currently committed to over-crowded , subsistence-level state , hospitals , could ultimately be transerred to modern facilities near their ' homes . Within decades , it 's believed the antiquated chain of 108 state institutions for the retarded and 277 hospitals for the mentally ill no longer would be needed ; many might be converted to chronic disease facilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration is contemplating a battery of other new programs to aid the ill and retarded . These probably will include intensive-treatment wards for patients in state mental hospitals ; development of university-run medical research centers devoted specifically to the problems of the retarded ; Federal training grants to improve the skills and increase the numbers of psychiatrists , psychologists and non-medical personnel now serving patients : and extra outlays for research and training of teachers for the retarded  --  an estimated 55,000 are zieeded hr the next decade . Separate Problems Although in many states the same agency Is charged with responsibility for both retardation and mental illness , experts believe that reforms in each field should be pursued independently . The problems of mental health , ranging from mild emotional disturbance to total breakdown , are considered the province of the psychiatrist ; treatment and cure are frequently possible through psychotherapy or drugs . Retardation , however , may spring from hundreds of poorly understood physical , chemical or biological causes ; prevention calls for major new research efforts , and treatment is often a matter of education and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort will be the Government 's National Institute of Mental Health , which enjoys a broad charter for mental health research and improvement of patient care . The institute 's budget is likely to climb from $144 million in the fiscal Year end ng in June to more than $180 million proposed for next year , with about half the increase directly related to the new mental health programs . Some projections suggest the institute 's budget may top $400 million within five years . ' Mental illness and retardation reforms appear slated for a major Presidential push for both medical and political reasons . Officials argue that concentrated Federal efforts are long past due in both fields and that problems involved are clearly beyond state and local ' resources . In addition ; the new program has.an enviable political allure . " Many families in the nation are deeply involved one way or another with the mentally ill or retarded , " says one plarier . The Kennedy family itself has had a long-standing interest in retardation ; the President 's sister Rosemary has been institutionalized for this reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem . The program has the added appeal , for Mr. Kennedy . of raising minimum legislative difficulty , far less than such a controversial idea as medical care financed under Social Security . Much can be put into effect without new legislation . What 's required is merely that bigger budget requests be approved for various Health , Education and Welfare Department units and that some existing appropriation ceilings be raised . And research in these fields has lohg been a special favorite of Congress ' appropriations committees . The only major new bill required would provide specific authority for construction of facilities . Possible Protests Nonetheless , conservatives in Congress may raise some protest , especially since Mr. Kennedy has promised to hold down non-defense spending to win support for tax cuts . Some , already questioning rising health research spending . might warn that the Government is v-nturing into a huge job that could turn out far more costly than the Administration realizes . Others may protest that the Kennedy regime is exaggerating the newness of its approach : they may stress that a sizable effort in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case , the direction of the Kennedy mental health program was previewed in a 1961 report of the Joint Commission of Mental Illness and Health , a Congress-sponsored study group representing 36 Government and private health organizations . A task force from the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , the Labor Department and Veterans Admin ? istration has selected specific proposals for inclusion in the Administration 's program . But some changes will be made in these plans . While the joint commission urged that the program for construction of community facilities be run by the Institute of Mental Health . which would use the grant money to compel other state reforms , it 's more likely that the Hill-Burton hospital conatmction program , administered by ' another arm of the Health . Education and Welfare Department , will be chosen as the vehicle . Hill-Burton , long popular in Congress and due for extension anyway . now provides $220 million a year in Federal funds for state and local construction of general hospitals , nursing homes , chronic-disease hospitals , and diagnostic . treatment and rehabilitation facilities Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-thirds of state outlays for a given project , favors low-income states , the program gets particular support from influential Southern legislators . If funds for mental health facilities are included in Hill-Burton , the new Federal construction spending is expected to start at a level of about 540 million in fiscal 1964-65 and climb within a few years to nearly $100 million annually . The one-year delay at the start , besides easing budget problems , would give states time to survey building needs . Expansion of Clinics While there would be no rigid Federal standards for the community mental health centers. what 's generally envisioned is expansion of psychiatric wards in general hospitals or conversion of existing out-patient mental illness clinics into full-fledged mental hospital facilities . The emphasis would be on such relatively new concepts as " open wards . " which afford mental patients freedom of movement , and day-ornight hospitals , which provide intensive treatment for limited periods while patients hold down jobs in the community . The goal is a network of 500 such facilities within five years . As a further impetus . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of staffing the new centers for the first few years . Total expenditures of this sort might run up to $150 million for - three years . But some experts argue that once the Federal Government takes on the responsibility of directly financing mental patient care , it will not be able to drop the burden and ultimate Costs would be far higher . Other proposals will be designed to improve patient care at state mental hospitals . Training grants could be made available for improvtag the professional competence of staffs ; other Federal funds might finance demonstration projects in intensive treatment or rehabilitation . The cost of such items is estimated initially at $20 million annually , but it might double in a few years .                     