@@721096

txt Bar Group Upholds Committee Report Rejecting Mahoney By PETER KIHSS An overflow meeting of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York last night overwhelmingly upheld a committee report finding former Magistrate Robert F. Mahoney not qualified for reappointment . Proponents of reappointment polled only about thirty-four votes among 800 persons attending the unprecedented meeting . Instead , members rallied overwhelmingly in support of a resolution . to maintain the confidential character of bar reports to the Mayor , Governor or President on the qualifications of candidates for appointment as judges . Reason Is Cited Arthur H. Christy , chairman of the association 's criminal courts committee , had told , the session that an " intemperate way of handling defendants and lawyers " had been one reason why his committee had reported to Mayor Wagner that Mr. Mahoney was not qualified for reappointment . Mr. Mahoney , whose second ten-year term expired last Dec. 31 , is not a member of the association and was not present . But in a letter read on his behalf , the 59-year-old former magistrate protested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and an open trial , which he said " the worst criminal or even traitor to America is guaranteed . " Such proceedings , he charged , meant that " prejudice is presumed " and that " vindication by the association is my right . " Earlier , Daniel J. Reidy , organizer of a petition in favor of a review for Mr. Mahoney , in a forty-four-minute talk , // challenged the association 's procedures . " Is a judge to be beholden to lawyers who appear before him ? " he demanded . On the other hand , Louis Waldman , one of the petitioners , surprised the session when he urged that the committee be upheld . Mr. Waldman said that he had been " open-minded , " but that after the petition he had received calls from a dozen lawyers and letters from two oth- I ers . " The consensus of those who had been before Mahoney , " he said , was that " his conduct on the bench was a disgrace to the bench and the bar . " Another surprise blow to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assistant District Attorney , who said he had often appeared before the former magistrate . Mr. Nicoll told of the conviction of a 19-year-old youth for leaving the scene of an accident on " the uncorroborated testimony of a 14-year-old boy " who identified him . The 14-year-old , just after leaving the stand , said he was not sure of the identification , but Mr. Nicoll said the magistrate had refused his plea to reopen the case . Mr. Nicoll said Mr. Mahoney " lacks the humanity required of a magistrate . " 800 Lawyers Attend Eight hundred lawyers  --  more than four times the normal turnout for an association meeting  --  had flocked into the bar group 's building at 42 West Forty-fourth Street . About 650 wooden folding chairs were filled in the main auditorium and 150 members were forced to occupy seats in other rooms and listen to the debate over loudspeakers . Thirteen speakers took the floor during the two-hour debate . The resolution upholding the committee 's procedures and the action it had taken was introduced by Harris B. Steinberg , a member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the association as Louis M. Loeb and Harrison Tweed , past presidents ; Orison S. Marden , chairman of the executive committee , and former city Corporation Counsel William C. Chanler . Mr. Reidy 's unsuccessful resolution proposed finding Mr. Mahoney " qualified for reappointment . " On a standing vote , it drew about twenty-five supporters in the main hall and nine in the other room . The Steinberg resolution then was overwhelmingly carried by another standing vote . Mahoney Does Not Comment Reached by telephone after the meeting , Mr. Mahoney said he would decline comment until he learned more about what had gone on . It was only the third special meeting called by petition in the ninety-year history of the 6,800-member association , and , according to Dudley B. Bonsai , association president , it was the first membership meeting to review a committee action on an appointed judge . Mr. Bonsai noted that ' the membership , at the annual meeting each October , heard reports of committees on candidates for election to judgeships , and acted on them . But as to prospective judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the association 's advice is sought . Then they " report to the appointing authority on a confidential basis , " he added . " It would obviously be impracticable for a membership meeting to review each of these actions , " Mr. Bonsai said , " and in addition would be undesirable , since the recommendations are confidential and for the sole information of the appointing authority . " It is essential that names of persons consulted be kept in confidence , he went on , declaring that " to do otherwise would destroy our usefulness in advising on candidates . " In reporting on his committee 's action concerning Mr. Mahoney , Mr. Christy noted that a subcommittee had voted 2 to 1 against the former magistrate and that the full committee bad voted 12 to 4 , with one abstention . There was no reflection on Mr. Mahoney 's " integrity or honesty , " Mr. Christy said . He reported that he had told the former magistrate that the committee had received reports of his " intemperate " handling of defendants and lawyers . Mayor Asked Study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interviewed for an hour by the committee . Earlier , Mr. Christy said , the subcommittee had met with Mr. Mahoney for more than A hour , discussing some controversies and other matters . Mr. Christy said the association received a letter from Mayor Wagner on Jan. 14 , asking it to consider Mr. Mahoney 's reappointment . The subcommittee , he went on , interviewed about forty lawyers whose practice brought them into contact with Magistrates ' Court . Others interviewed were representatives of the offices of the Police Commissioner , District Attorney and Corporation Counsel and of the Legal Aid Society , as well as persons suggested by Mr. Mahoney as references and anyone who wrote offering an opinion . The committee also reviewed 171 newspaper clippings since June 18 , 1931 , and trial transcripts and appeal records on controversies involving Mr. Mahoney . A sharp conflict of fact arose over earlier association actions concerning Mr. Mahoney . Mr. Christy said the former magistrate had first been appointed in 1939 by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia , who did not submit candidates to the association . But Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Mahoney , said Mayor La Guardia had submitted Mr. Mahoney 's name as the first such prospective appointee he ever cleared with the association , A committee headed by William B. Herlands endorsed the appointment , he added . O'Dwyer Action Disputed Mr. Christy said Mayor William O'Dwyer had submitted Mr. Mahoney 's name to the association in 1949 and then did not reappoint him after a committee reported Mr. Mahoney not qualified . But Mr. Reidy asserted that Mayor O'Dwyer had not submitted names of candidates . On the contrary , he said , the association had tried to revive such a procedure and on its own had invited Magistrate Mahoney and other judges to come before it . Mr. Mahoney , Mr. Reidy went on , was shocked to have the committee confront him with the story of a slander suit by a lawyer against him , which had been thrown out by the Appellate Division . He was not reappointed . In 1951 , Mr. Christy related , Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri asked the association to consider Mr. Mahoney when an unexpired term was to be filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adversely , " stating that Judge Mahoney tended to be impatient , quick-tempered and arbitrary . " Mr. Reidy said Magistrate Mahoney had told Mayor Impellitteri that the city bar group had never called him , and he could not understand the finding . The Mayor , Mr. Reidy said , called in the chairman , who admitted this , but said his group had worked with a New York County Lawyers Association committee that had found against Mr. Mahoney . Appointed by Impellitterl Mayor Impellitteri , Mr. Reidy went on , said he knew . Mr. Mahoney as a man of integrity , and appointed him then . and reappointed him in 1952 . Mr. Reidy ascribed much of Mr. Mahoney 's difficulties to recurring arguments about the slander case . He also cited four other cases in which the former magistrate had held lawyers in contempt , and two others in which lawyers complained about the handling of traffic cases against them . On all , he defended Mr. Mahoney 's actions . Nowhere during the debate was there a mention of the Housing Court , in which Magistrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1954 . Before the session , Mr. Reidy had praised Mr. Mahoney for such actions there as putting " slum landlords on probation , so that if they come back again with these rat-bite cases , filth and dirt , they can be sentenced for the previous probationary case . "                     