@@724488

txt Washington , Jan. 14 . ? President Johnson asked Congress today to vote 3 billion 380 million dollars in foreign military and economic aid  --  the smallest request since the Marshall plan was launched 17 years ago . The President said in a special message to the Senate and House that his proposed overseas aid program for the 1966 fiscal year starting next July 1 was a minimum request reflecting his determination to keep this spending at the lowest figure consistent with national interest . For a Congress which in recent years has shown mounting opposition to foreign aid , the President emphasized that the 3.38 billion dollars he wants is the smallest sum since the Marshall plan to rebuild Europe was started in 1948 and is 136 million dollars less than he had requested a year ago for the current 1965 fiscal year . " Can not . . . Do Less " President Johnson proposed 2 billion 210 million dollars in economic aid and 1 billion 170 million in military assistance to foreign countries in fiscal 1966 . " I believe that in carrying out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their money , " he told Congress . " Indeed , we can not afford to do less . " Russia and Red China have tripled their promises of aid in the past year . They are doing more than they have ever done before . The competition between them has led to increased efforts by each to influence the course of events in the developing nations . " Asks Blank Check The President asked Congress to give him a special stand-by authorization for additional money to help South Viet Nam fight the Communists if the need arises . He said the 500 million dollars in military and related aid . he was requesting in the new fiscal year " to meet the frontal attack " in South Viet Nam and Laos may not be enough . Administration officials conceded that despite what the President considers a " rock bottom " foreign aid request , congressional sentiment toward overseas assistance still is dombated by skepticism as to the necessity for such programs . Cites Doable Talk Many legislators have been Irritated by the recently-expressed " go to hell " attitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. R. Gross R. , Ia. , a member of the House foreign affairs committee , commented that on one hand , the Johnson administration says the United States is " wallowing in poverty , " and on the other , says the nation is so prosperous it can afford another multi-billion dollar foreign giveaway . Several Senate Democrats today withheld support of the President 's foreign aid request pending close examination . Sen. J. William Fulbright D. , Ark. , foreign relations committee chairman , said he wants the President to " spell out the details . " " Billion Too Much " Sen. Wayne Morse D. , Ore. , a ranking member of the foreign relations committee , asserted that the funds requested by the President were a billion dollars or more too much . Sen. John J. Sparkman Ala . , No. 2 Democrat on the committee , joined Fulbright in saying they were more interested in improving the foreign aid program than in the amount of money sought by the President . President Johnson said in his special foreign aid message that " we live in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm to its primary goal of achieving a free , peaceful , and stable world of independent nations . He said the Communists are bard at work to dominate the less-developed countries . The United States , he asserted , must help these nations resist communism by offering them military and economic aid . He said the foreign aid program he proposed for fiscal 1966 reflected continuing improvement in management ; is " selective and concentrated ; " emphasizes self-help among recipient nations and the fastest possible termination of dependence American aid , and provides an increasing role for private enterprise . Military Aid Rises The President said the 1 billion 170 million dollars in military assistance he wanted for the coming fiscal year was 115 million higher than the military aid appropriation in the current year . Ile went on to say that In order to meet urgent requirements in southeast Asia in fiscal 1965 , it was necessary to reduce military aid programs in other countries . Some of the fiscal 1966 military aid appropriation requested " will be needed to make up what we have left undone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is spending 1 billion dollars less on overseas military aid and related assistance programs than it did in 1960 and 1961 . This type of aid , he said , has paid big dividends and is vital to United States security because it stops communist aggression and enables independent nations to survive . Ring Soviet Sphere He called the proposed fiscal 1966 military aid program " highly concentrated , " with nearly 75 per cent of the money requested designated for 11 countries around the geographic arc from Greece to Korea . He said a sizeable amount of this military aid and supporting economic assistance would go to South Viet Nam . A year ago , President Johnson asked Congress for 3 billion 516 million dollars in foreign aid . Congress appropriated 3 billion 250 million dollars .                     