@@722466

txt Letters to The Times Letters to The Times To Preserve Fire Island Author Protests Superimposing Highway on Erosion Control To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : On June 29 the newly appointed State Commission for Protection of the Atlantic Shoreline will hold its first public hearing on New York 's response to the challenge of coastal erosion by the hostile ocean . , Inevitably , much of the hearing will focus on the future of Fire Island  --  and if past history of the long debate about this famous island is any guide , the hearings will produce such a Murk of claim , counterclaim and purple rhetoric that a confused executive authority and public will wash its hands of the entire matter . To begin with , nature , ages ago , threw up a long barrier- reef , due east of the mouth of the Hudson . This barrier reef is a natural playground , blessed with some of the finest remaining virginal stands of coastal shrubbery and trees , sheltering in the Great South Bay some of the world 's finest fishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  from Rockaway Point through Jones Beach , through Fire Island to Moriches Inlet  --  approximately forty have been . developed for public use by a superb road system of access largely created under the far-sighted leadership of Robert Moses . The barrier reef has , however , another value , . in addition to its priceless recreational offerings . As its name indicates , it is a protective sandbar . It protects the entire southern coast of Long Island from the buffeting of the elements . Importance of Reef It is here that confusion and crisis interlock . Over the generations the beaches from Fire Island to Montauk Point have been eaten away ? by hurricane and tide until now , within a measurable period of time , it seems certain that great chunks of the narrow reef will be washed away to sea , exposing Long Island to danger , and wiping out the inland fisheries as well as the summer colonies on Fire Island . To preserve the reef and its beaches , Army engineers have said , a system of groins or jetties had to be built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed a ten-year , $40-million project , for which the Federal Government appropriated 51 per cent in 1960 , with the balance to be shared by state and localities . What is at issue now is whether state and local communities should go forward with their share of the project  --  and whether there should be superimposed on erosion control a vaguely defined highway costing an estimated additional $19 million . Sooner or later , to protect Long Island , the barrier reef must be saved from the sea . The question is whether the present crisis should be made the pretext for an unneeded and extravagantly expensive road . The central fact , as Fire Islanders see it , is whether there should be wiped out the last refuge from the automobile in the immediate coastal area . Can there be preserved one small accessible section of this yast stretch for people who wish to spend a day , a week or a month with their toddlers and children where there is no danger of hurt to them and they can run free ? Can one sanctuary of quiet be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretch of Fire Island is already in public hands and under public development . And all the rest of the supposedly " closed " island is open to the public . Availability of Island One bridge already reaches the island from the mainland ; a second is under construction . Railway and roads bring New Yorkers to half a dozen ferries that carry anyone to the island in twenty or twenty-five minutes . No part of the shore is restricted ; restaurants are available up and down the beach . The present proposal of the . Long Island planners that no action be taken for erosion control unless a ribbon of concrete be superimposed on Fire Island is a fascinating episode in the development of this metropolitan area . The proposed road serves no erosion control purpose . The Army engineers ' study ignores completely the romantic thesis of road protagonists that a road must be put down on the sand to hold the sand in place like a concrete paperweight . No popular or political pressure insists on , or clamors for , such a road except for that from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fire Island residents , whose property . will soar in value , are unanimously against it . The idea seems to rise from the charts and blueprints of the metropolitan area 's planning bureaucracy , whose spokesman is Robert Moses . They see Fire Island on a map ? more than half of it , in their eyes , virgin , hence unimproved . They see Jones Beach magnificently harnessed , as it should have been . They see two bridges to the island . And an almost irresistible compulsion makes them draw their pencil down from Jones Beach , across Fire Island Inlet , down finally to link the two bridges by a concrete ribbon through the narrow spine of Fire Island . One can sympathize with the Long Island planners ; their achievements over thirty years in the area have been spectacular ; now they are almost at the end of their job ; and some sense of tidiness , some intellectual desire for climax , will not let them rest until they push their concrete through Fire Island as far as it will go . One can sympathize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What we at Fire Island hope is that Mr. Moses and his staff will recognize that this patch of quiet , left free by his bulldozers , will , by contrast , make an even greater monument of his past achievements than an unbroken stretch of sixty or seventy miles of concrete along the shore . THEODORE H. WHITE . New York , June 4 , 1962 . Federal Spending Backed Public Works Wanted to Provide Jobs , Meet Social Needs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is a pleasure to read your position expressed on June 3 that a Federal budget deficit is not bad when spending by consumers , and by corporations for capital expansion , is likely to decline . A deficit would tend to counteract that decline in spending and thus ward off a recession . As you truly observe , a deficit under such circumstances is likely to correct itself , because the increase in business activity over what would otherwise be likely would tend to offset the loss in revenues by increasing the personal income and corporation profits tax receipts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary deficit would be good if caused by a tax reduction but bad if caused by an increase in Government spending . If we have important unmet social needs , increased Government spending to meet such needs is at least as good a way to get a temporary Government deficit as is a tax cut . We need more money spent on school buildings and college dormitories , on slum clearance and urban renewal , on highways , on hospital facilities and nursing homes for the aged , on retraining for the long term unemployed , on sewage disposal plants , and on irrigation and flood control . These are projects that would tend to employ the hardcore jobless and be socially useful in their results . Surely a temporary budget deficit resulting from increased spending for such purposes is even better than a temporary deficit resulting from a tax cut . To the extent that the increased individual spending resulting from a tax cut meant more spending for liquor or cosmetics , that would not be socially useful . If it meant more spending for vacations abroad , that would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payments deficit , while increased Government spending on useful public works would not have that ill effect . ALFRED BAKER LEWIS . New York , June 4 , 1962 . Support of Chiang Queried TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We are distressed by the report of the death sentence pronounced by the Nationalist Government against Su Tung-ch'i , a prominent local Taiwanese politician , and two other Taiwanese , reported in The Times on May 28. 0 This sentence seems to be the result of Mr. Su 's activities in connection with the attempted formation of a non-Communist opposition to the Chiang regime . It seems to be a continuation of the practice of , star-chamber proceedings against all articulate political opposition on Taiwan , of which the arrest and imprisonment of Lei Chen , the editor of the liberal Free China Fortnightly , was the most flagrant recent example . Coming when the United States has just named a new Ambassador to Taipei , these " judicial " proceedings should give us cause to reconsider the grounds of our support of Free China . Can we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very aims which we are trying to achieve in East and Southeast Asia makes it . ever more difficult for us to continue our support ? This is a particularly compelling question at a time when the situations in Laos , and Vietnam make it obvious that anti-communism alone does not invest a regime with democratic virtues . MARK MANCALL . HAROLD L. KAHN . Cambridge , Mass ? May 28 , 1962 . Aims , Record Disputed U. S. Control and Monopoly of Atom Bomb Pointed Out TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK min : Your editorial of June 1 " ' Obsession With the Past ' deals with a subject of such overwhelming importance to the entire world that I would feel remiss in my duties as a citizen if I did not do my best to contribute some little clarification to the matter . It seems to me that your editorial was seriously remises in its responsibility to provide Intelligent guidance to the responsible and influential readers whom you certainly reach . You repeat the familiar stereotype that after the second World War " . . the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Such a statement , left unqualified by reference to conventional weapons , is worse than a half-truth ; it is a simple misstatement of facts . We kept a strict and sharp control and monopoly of what was then an " absolute " weapon ; the atom bomb . If we offered to vest the control of that weapon in the United Nations at that time it was simply that we , with our allies , had a clear and unquestioned control of that body . And we were taking every possible step to assure such continued control by excluding a China that we did not like from her seat in the Security Council , Making Foreign Policy One might well ignore such a repetition of the assertion that we had unilaterally disarmed if it appeared as an " idiotorial " in some Daily Snooze . But The Times is read , by the men who are responsible for the making of our foreign policy . They must have before them a clear *and realistic view of the true state of affairs , undistorted by the " moral " brickbats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solid popular support for our foreign policies . Successful diplomacy demands of the diplomat that he be adept at putting himself into the other fellow 's ' place . . It demands , as George Kennan so effectively put it , that we abandon our attempts at diplomacy by moral judgments . Without such approaches to objectivity in dealing with states too powerful to be bluffed the cause of peace is hopeless from the beginning , and we have indeed put ourselves into the hands of what President Eisenhower called the unholy alliance of the military and big defense industrialists . Judgment of History Papers like The Times have here a great responsibility . History will judge them by how well and courageously , if sometimes unpopularly , they lived up to it . At times such as this , for example , it demands that along with our denunciations of Russia 's atomic tests and apologies for ours , we keep reporting , as does The Times , the box score on just how many fission and fusion blasts each side has fired ; even if , as will now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series , the record will show that we have fired about twice as many as have the Russians . That is journalism worthy *of a free world . It can provide sound guidance for intelligent social action . GEORGE B. VETTER , Professor of Psychology , New York University . New York , June 4 , 1962 . Under the Baruch plan the United States proposed to turn over ownership , management and development of all atomic activities and facilities potentially dangerous to world security to an International Atomic Development Agency with power of inspection and control , free of any United Nations veto. ? Editor , The Times . ? Music Festival 's Passing To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was most disappointed to read recently of the canceling. of the Empire State Music Festival 's sixtysecond summer season with its fine performances of opera and symphony . What a loss not only to New Yorkers but to visitors to New York and residents of Connecticut , New Jersey and Massachusetts who would have taken advantage of this remarkable musical idea . It is beyond me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a music and opera center in Saratoga Springs , and yet none can be found to give a helping hand to an excellent enterprise which has already proved itself a unique cultural center . Surely our state must realize that no cultural cause is completely self-supporting . What a shame to permit New York 's finest opera festival to close because of lack of sufficient funds . LYNN OWEN . New York , May 25 , 1962.                     