@@726901

txt This is the second of a three-part series appraising the view in Saigon of developments following the Communist three-day . blitzkrieg in South Vietnam . This article assesses the impact on the South Vietnamese Government and Army and people . The Communists ' blitz war into major cities , towns , and military installations is regarded here at this time as a political-psychological setback of unprecedented magnitude for the American-supported South Vietnamese regime . The initial assessment of the political damage is of such an order of magnitude that it has changed the entire complexion and character of this many-faced war in the South . The war in the South , formerly viewed mainly in terms of allied armies contesting Communist forces , now has been extended to the political arena which now is considered the heart of this war within a war . The Communist military rampage has definitely surfaced , accelerated , and emphasized the political character of this conflict as it never has been before  --  and has opened the possibility it may become the decisive dimension of the war . Limited damage seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a full-scale catastrophe however , and with decisive leadership and swift ' action the Vietnamese Government could at least cushion and possibly even reverse the initial trends , American sources here believe . The Communist military offensive is regarded here as a crucial launching pad for a prolonged attack designed to destroy the // *Viet Cong raids take high political toll // constitutional government of President Nguyen Van Thieu  --  to which the American Government is so closely linked . Clearly , if the Thieu government is destroyed the American Government would be considered on the verge of a politico-military defeat or else forced to negotiate on Communist terms which would include an ungracious exit of American troops and political power . The blitz war marked the beginning , militarily , of the " general offensive " in Viet Cong parlance or of the " counteroffensive " in Mao Tse-tung terminology , by carrying armed attacks from the top of the republic to its southernmost tip and sideways from the countryside into the cities . But the parallel chain reaction of this blitz is considered here to launch politically the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would apparently mean the Vietnamese population overthrowing the current anti-Communist-elected President and entire governmental apparatus in a manner described by Western-educated Vietnamese as reminescent of the blood bath of the French revolution of 1789 . Only the beginning ? While the American officialdom here has publicly said the Communists have failed to receive the support of the Vietnamese people in order to launch their " general uprising , " knowledgeable Vietnamese sources see the blitz as only the beginning of several phases leading to the climax of an all-out popular insurrection . Claims made by the American command here that more than 10,000 Communists have been killed has initially brought little consolation to the Saigon citizenry , who simply looked out their balconies to see a Vietnamese military compound in the city in flames , Vietnamese sky raiders rocketing a Buddhist pagoda . And they heard the Communist machine-gun fire hitting a , police precinct in the city limits where seven Vietnamese Government policemen were besieged by the Viet Cong , and attempts by the Vietnamese airborne to rescue them failed . In many ways the Vietnamese people sat on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helicopter and airplane rocketing , and fighting forced them to evacuate . The traditional Vietnamese lunar new year had closed all shops , theaters , government offices , and is the time when the families stay at home or else journey to visit relatives . The initial impact of the Communist blitz was to spread a blanket of sheer terror and fright countrywide among both the Vietnamese population and government employees . The initial reaction was summed up by one anti-Communist Roman Catholic who said : " At first everyone in Saigon thought it was another coup d'e'tat , with Ky Vice-President Nguyen Cao Ky trying to overthrow Thieu the President . " Then they realized it was the Communists . The typical reaction among the working-class people was , " The VC are much stronger than we thought . " And the typical reaction of the upper-class people was , " This government of President Thieu is incapable of protecting us anymore . " A Vietnamese-speaking American , living with a Vietnamese shopkeeper family , explained : " These Vietnamese friends are terrified and think the government is weak and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city , the more frightened they become . " Gate secured Even five days after the initial commando raids into the city to terrify the population which saw the billowing mushrooms of flames and smoke over the city and heard reports of pitched battles on the fringes of the airport . Upper-class Vietnamese were especially terrified of developments . One Vietnamese lawyer personally acted as his own doorkeeper to be sure the grilled gate leading to his home was constantly locked . A Vietnamese lawyer , during the first day of attacks in Saigon , talked of where he should take his family if they needed to evacuate Saigon . Two days later , as rumors of a coalition government swirled through the city , he wondered where he could go to evacuate from Vietnam . The initial reports filtering into Saigon from the suburbs jettisoned far over the American-termed credibility gap into a realm of macaber incredibility . One housewife in a Saigon suburb told of hearing a noise in her kitchen during the night , and thinking it was rats , she investigated , only to see a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her kitchen stove . Another housewife told her neiehors of her fright when the Viet Cong guerrillas first entered her surburban quarter . " But , the Viet Cong reassured me they would n't come into my house , " she muttered in sobs to her neighbor . " They went into my front yard  --  and then an American helicopter started firing into my house and killed three of my children . " One Vietnamese intellectual told of evacuating his suburban house in Gia Dinh Province , the doughnut surrounding Saigon , and then decided to return to his home to recover his television set . He found two Viet Cong soldiers in foxholes by his front lane  --  and beside them two dead Viet Cong with bandoliers of antiaircraft ammunition around their chests . Lectured by Viet Cong In the Chinese twin city of Cholon , one woman told friends of her watering her new year 's chrysanthemums on her front balcony  --  only to peer over and see Viet Cong guerrillas drinking coffee and eating breakfast in the caf ? below . The Viet Cong had stacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saigon , a Vietnamese Government employee at the Defense Department recalled to a friend that he was eating breakfast in a cafe with a dozen Vietnamese soldiers . " I felt a tap on my shoulder and thought it was a friend , " he said . " I looked up and there were six Viet Cong who held up a banner and started to give us a propaganda lecture . None of the government soldiers moved . Fortunately a police whistle blew and the guerrillas left . " From the provinces , the fragmentary , initial reports are even more fantastic . In the resort city of Nhatrang , American sources reported that the Communists infiltrated the provincial headquarters in Vietnamese Government Army uniforms and killed the Vietnamese and American night duty officers before anyone knew what was happening . Koreans under attack American planes later rocketed the government headquarters to shambles . In a large allied compound , the Communists entered the house of a Korean general  --  presumably through the sewer  --  and were later decimated by Korean troops . The general was reportedly uninjured , but bands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The province chief there was reportedly startled to find the Communists in his private home , dived into a bunker and held them off for a while and then escaped . Also , American sources reported that the Viet Cong in Nhatrang fired indiscriminately at both the civilian population and military personnel  --  at anything that moved . In Ban me thuot , the whole city was reported engulfed in flames , with hundreds of the civilian population decimated by both Communist firing and allied air power .                     