@@727873

txt Mayor Lindsay will return $6,000 in campaign funds raised by the President of the City Tax Commission , if the Board of Ethics finds that his fundraising was improper , the Mayor 's press spokesman said yesterday . The funds were obtained by Benjamin G. Browdy from 18 contributors , some of whom may be lawyers who practice before the commission , according to Mr. Browdy . The tax agency . official , wile said that he saw nothing unethical in this fund-raising , formally requested a ruling yesterday from the Board of Ethics . The Mayor 's spokesman said : " We will be guided by the ruling of the Ethics Board . If there 's the slightest question of any impropriety , the money will be returned . " Last week Richard R. Aurelio , the Mayor 's campaign manager , said that the funds would not be returned because the contributors could not be identified , among other reasons . He said yesterday that he had not asked Mr. Browdy to name contributors and that a separate list of these contributors would not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that the campaign contributions had not been solicited but , rather , that they had been pressed upon the tax official . Mr. Browdy , however , had Acknowledged to the New York Times that he sought the campaign contributions in the form of tickets to a Madison Square Garden rally for Mr. Lindsay . " I organized a party of 18 people , " Mr. Browdy said last week . Request for Ruling Delayed Mr. Browdy , who could not be reached for comment yesterday , ' said last week that he had asked the Board of Ethics for a ruling . Board officials disputed this , however , and said that Mr. Browdy had merely advised them last week of a reporter 's inquiry . So Stanley Kreutzer , counsel to the Ethics Board , . said yesterday : " We probably will take jurisdiction . We feel that there 's an important public issue , involved . " The board is expected to meet ? with Mr. Browdy on Friday , and an opinion , which will be made public , is expected early next week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administrative Code , which empowers it to render advisory opinions with respect to the Code of Ethics . Any violation of this code is punishable by fine , suspension or dismissal , although these penalties are imposed by the Mayor and the administrative agencies , and not by the board itself . Earlier Ruling Recalled In a previous ' case , the board advised that " the solicitation of funds for political purposes by a public official from those whose matters come before him or his agency for official action is offensive to proper ethical standards . " That case involved solicitations of real estate men by Abraham N. Lindenbaum , then a member of the City Planning Commission , on behalf of forbier Mayor Robert F. Wagner during the 1961 mayoral campaign . Mr. Lindenbaum raised $25 , - 000 in campaign contributions from 43 real estate men at a luncheon attended by Mr. Wagner and his running mates , Paul R. Screvane and Abraham D. Beame . Mr. . Lindenbaum resigned his city post following widespread criticism of his fund-raising , and Mayor Wagner returned the funds to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The board then ruled that the solicitation of contributions was " offensive to proper ethical standards . " Frederick W. Richmond , cochairman of the finance committee for the current Wagner drive , said yesterday that the former Mayor 's present campaign aides had not solicited persons who did business with the city . " We have received . not one dime from any city employe or appointee , " he added. ? Mr. Wagner said in 1961 that he would never " accept any contributions from anyone seeking favors from the city or from any city employe . " Mr , Browdy , a Brooklyn Democrat , was reappointed by Mayor Lindsay last September as President of the Tax Commission . He was originally appointed to the commission in 1962 by former Mayor Wagner . The seven-member commission hears appeals from assessed valuations of real property . The commissioners have no fixed term of office , serving at the pleasure of the Mayor . Vitoc.P . Battista yesterday asked the District Attorney 's office to look into the campaign contributions raised by Mr. Browdy . " Browdy has admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Battista , who is the running mate of State Senator John Marchi an opponent of Mr. Lindsay in the Republican primary . " Such conduct is immoral . and unethical , if not illegal . " Mr , Battista said that the money should be returned and that the Mayor should dismiss Mr. Browdy . Mr. Marchi called Mr. Browdy 's action an " incredible brazen misuse of his office . "                     