@@728049

txt Leaders of the black coalition demanding more jobs in Chicago 's building trades industry walked out on talks yesterday with union officials and contractors after rejecting industry proposals to settle the dispute . The labor organizations and building contractors earlier had turned down the demands of the Coalition for United Cornmunity , Action and countered with an offer to provide 4,000 jobs and training for blacks . Plan Is Offered " This is not a response to our proposals , " said the Rev. C. T. Vivian , coalition coordinator . " They have given us a piece of paper that does n't deal realistically with our problem We want control over training and the program : " The labor officials and contvctors had presrted the coalition with a plan to employ 1,000 qualified journeymen from minority ' groups and accept up to 1,000 persons with some skills in a 30-day probationary period with promotion to apprentice rating . A spokesman for the building trades industry said the program would put 25 million dollars a year into the economy of the black community in Chicago . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 and 23 for particular crafts and to launch an on-the-job training program for 1,000 persons in certain trades . The industry offered to establish further programs , which , if general business conditions permit , will in five years provide a level of minority group employes at least propOrtionate ' to their numbers in the community . Called a Mistake The black coalition had ' presented demands to the industry that at least 30 per cent of construction jobs be filled by blacks ; that unions and management provide funds to the coalition to operate recruiting and placement programs , and allow ' the coalition to set standards . for recruits into labor unions ; and that trainees be included without testing ; experience , and regardless of police records . The refusal of the coalition to continue talks was termed a " regrettable mistake " by Arthur F. O'Neil of the Building Construction Employers ' association . " They have walked out on us for the third time at a time when we thought we were making a constructive breakthru and they falsely said we were unresponsive to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions and contractors to reject the coalition 's demands was presented at the outset of yesterday 's meeting . O'Neil described the demands as " totally unworkable and totally unreasonable . " O'Neil said blacks in the construction trades are more than the 3 per cent asserted by the coalition . He said the figure is between 5 and 8 per cent of the estimated 100,000 construction workers . Thomas J. Murray , president of the Chicago Building Trades council , indorsed the plan and said Chicago trade unions are " willing and ready " to accept any qualified journeymen . Had the coalition accepted the plan , it still needed the approval of the memberships of the 19 craft unions , Murray said . He added the council would seek its passage and with government funds it would join with contractors in financially supporting training . The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People filed suit in federal Distirct court yesterday asking for an injunction to bar the state from entering into contracts , for construction projects , in which state or federal funds are involved . The suit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be members of craft unions . It ' charges the state has allowed race discrimination in work by contractors who hire only members of craft unions which systematically bar Negroes.                     