@@723858

txt The New York Legislature now begins its final week , with adjournment set for Wednesday . As is almost habitually the case , it has left to the final hours the decision on issues by which it . will be judged by the public . , The most crucial of these is the question Whether members will be able to bring them'selves to adopt the stronger code of ethics that will represent enlightened self-interest . The great majority of the members can not afford to be persuaded by the recalcitrant few fighting adoption of a high-principled ethics standard . A second test issue is repeal of the full-crew laws that have long required overmanning of the railroads . The Legislature itself long ago ordered a Public Service Commission inquiry into the need for these laws , and the P.S.C. urged repeal . But , despite several calls from the Governor , the Legislature has refused to budge . It now faces an inescapable test of whether it is a captive of the labor lobby . Then there are the bills for reform of liquor licensing and price-fixing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreland Act study should have made legislative revision easy . But Senator Marchi suddenly discovered that gradualism in reform was the way to protect the public interest , and his joint committee is trying to sabotage the Moreland Commission 's program . Here again the question is whether the Legislature is stronger than the lobby , this time the liquor lobby . These are the yardstick issues . They are not necessarily the most important , but they test political courage . Tile aid-to-education controversy is settled , somewhat unhappily and only for- this year . The Legislature should leave behind it a task force , in which it would cooperate with the Governor and the Regents in working on ' a state aid revision to be put into the Rockefeller budget next January . This session needs to rectify some recent mistakes  --  and there may still be time . One such mistake was rejection of the Rockefeller bondissue housing program and corollary housing policy . Another was the defeat of custodial pay reform for New York City schools , a shocking event , as was the move to undo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes at race tracks . Action to restore grand jury presentment powers must be completed . The responsibility lies chiefly with Governor Rockefeller to turn back , by veto , the pension raids by civil service unions to which the Legislature ignominiously surrendered , at a continuing cost of many millions a year to New York City alone . Passage of these bills was not only a politically crafty violation of the home rule principle . It also revealed the sleepy weakness of , the Democratic minority leadership , whose silence  --  until after the fact  --  was deafening . Fiscal independence for big-city schools , statewide permanent personal registration of voters , a permanent spring primary , state aid to public museums , abolition of jury trials in civil cases , divorce law revision , abolition of prizefighting and capital punishment , appointment of all judges ? these are a few of the undone jobs on which interim study should be put under way .                     