@@726383

txt TEL AVIV , June 10 ? Israeli sources said today that after Less than 30 hours of fierce fighting , Israel 's armed forces had won a major victory over Syria . It has been a bloody and bitter fight in the north up onto high ground unlike the rolling terrain that the Israelis faced in their lightning advance earlier in the week against the forces of the United Arab Republic and Jordan . The fighting ended at 6:30 P.M. Israeli time with the acceptance by both sides of the cease-fire demanded by the United Nations Security Council . The Israeli forces at that time , according to the state radio here , were on a line running through Masadah , El Quneitra and Butmiyah , with the deepest point about 12 miles into Syria . Settlements Protected This was far enough east for the Israelis to feel assured that the st ore of settlements under heavy bombardment all week now are safe from further harassment . The end of the fighting on the third front of the six-day war came with every one of Israel 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sinai Peninsula and from the Gaza Strip , taking control of the waterways leading from the Red Sea to Elath , the southern port ; " liberated " the northern settlements , united the two halves of Jerusalem and destroyed whatever may have lingered of the myth of Arab military strength , particularly that of the United Arab Republic . Maj. Gen. Moshe Dayan , Israel 's Defense Minister , and Lieut . Gen. Odd Bull , the United Nations representative , met // Israelis ClaimVictory Over the Syrians After Seizing High Ground Near the Border 30 HOURS BATTLE IS ENDED BY TRUCE here early this afternoon on arrangements for the ceasefire . The Israelis offered their full cooperation , according to sources here . United Nations observers on both sides are scheduled to go to forward positions tomorrow in an attempt to make arrangements for the supervision of the cease-fire . The observers from the Syrian side will come from Damascus and those from the Israeli side from the Daughters of Jacob Bridge north of Lake Tiberias ( the Sea of Galilee ) . Russian-speaking foreign correspondents on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indicating the presence of Soviet advisers with the Syrian troops . The Israelis would not comment on the possible presence of the Russians . Soviet army officers have been known to advise and train Syrian units , particularly tank and artillery forces . A great deal of Syria 's military equipment is Soviet . The Israelis regretted the break in relations announced by the Soviet Union today but were undeterred by it . The Syrians , in Israeli eyes , have been the main pawns of the Russians in the Middle East , the ones on whom the Russians could rely more steadily than on President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic , with his ambitions of Arab leadership and pre - eminence in the socalled nonaligned world . All the southwestern corner of Syria is in Israeli hands , including the steeply rising high ground that extends from below sea level around Lake Tiberias to 3,000 feet around El Quneitra . Terrain Posed Problem The Syrians took a brutal pounding from the Israeli air force all through yesterday and today . The Israelis had gained air superiority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the first few hours of the war . This superiority told in the Syrian fighting just as it had in the Sinai Peninsula against the Egyptians and in the fighting against Jordan . But the terrain on the Syrian frontier posed a problem . The border heights were vital to the Israelis . From these heights settlements in the northeastern part of Israel had been shelled incessantly since the war started . Heavy damage has been inflicted on the border settlements of Kfar Szold , Shamir , Gonen and Notera in the Hula Valley north of the Sea of Galilee . The major objective of the Israeli attack on Syria was to silence the guns on the high Syrian ground , some dug into emplacements that Israeli soldiers said were five stories deep into the earth . Air Action Ineffective Because of the terrain , Israeli air action sought to silence Syrian guns , but was not as effective as it had been in the Sinai and Jordanian fighting . The southern and eastern fronts were quiet . Mopping-up operations continued on the Sinai front . The Israelis made public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Sinai . Col. Moshe Pearlman , an army spokesman , said 500 abandoned or damaged tanks had been counted . The Israelis now find that there were 900 to 1,000 tanks in the Sinai at the opening of hostilities . There may be as many as 600 or 700 still in the desert , Colonel Pearlman said . The Israelis now believe there were at least 100,000 Egyptian soldiers in the Sinai Peninsula when fighting started last Monday , plus at least 50,000 administrative and service troops . Colonel Pearlman identified five Egyptian infantry divisions in Sinai  --  the First Palestinian Division and the Second , Third , Sixth and Seventh Divisions of the Egyptian Army proper . The seventh was strengthened with an armored brigade , he said . There were two armored divisions available to the Egyptians in Sinai . Colonel Pearlman reiterated that Israeli policy was " to let anyone get back to Cairo as fast as they can . " Thousands of Egyptian soldiers are walking west to cross the Suez Canal , where Israel 's forces stand along the east bank , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 ( Reuters ) ? Before the ceasefire agreement today , the jubi. lant Israeli army moved a long column of heavy armor and support vehicles northward through lush wheat fields and jilive groves north of the Sea of Galilee . Girls waved and threw kisses to the grinning troops , and the troops threw sweets to children and waved captured portraits of Arab leaders . Smoke rose from Israeli farmlands where , on both sides of the twisting road through the hills , huge areas had beer blasted by Syrian gunfire . Whole fields and hillsides had been reduced to short bled ; stubble and shell holes pitted some stretches of the road . Villagers cheered as the tanks moved on . The Israelis , some it camouflaged battle dress , many tank drivers stripped to the Uphill Drive Near Frontier Posed Difficult Problem for Attacking Force // waist in the broiling sun , gave the thumbs-up sign . The village of Gadot , a few hundred yards on the Israeli side of the border , is a group of white walled houses standing in the middle of fertile farmland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with shell holes . The villagers were huddled in sandbagged shelters . They said they had been there for the last six days . Some were killed , they said . One house was reduced to a mass of rubble . A shell had gone straight through another , piercing both walls . A nearby soccer field had been hit by shells . One of them had snapped a goalpost in half . All around the village Israeli troops were dug in . The valley echoed to the sound of threeinch Israeli guns and the staccato rattle of machine gun fire from forward positions . Bursts of smoke arose from the Syrian positions on a rocky escarpment on the other side of the river as the Israeli shells landed . Then the firing died down . An Israeli helicopter droned up to investigate . There were cheers as the word got around that the Syrians had abandoned this point of the Golan ridge . From behind the ridge the noise and smoke of bombing and shelling continued . An Israeli officer said the tanks had broken through and were moving to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 10 ( UPI ) ? Informed sources said that after having seized El Quneitra the Israelis split into two columns , one moving northeast toward Damascus , the other southeast toward Dere , near the SyrianJordanian border , Israeli sources said the aim of striking at Dora was to knock out a camp of Palestinian guerrillas , believed responsible for terrorist activities along Israel 's borders . Battle at El Quneltra TEL AVIV , June ' 10 ( Agence France  --  Presse ) ? There were reports that Israeli troops , which , according to foreign sources , were in El Quneitra , had also occupied all fortified Syrian positions on hills north of that city . Syrian positions south of El Quneitra have not been attacked by the Israelis and are still in Syrian hands , according to these reports , High Point Reported Seized TEL AVIV , June 10 ( Reuters ) ? Israeli soldiers back from the battle zone identified a key point captured by the Israelis as Tel Azaziyat , which towers over Israeli border settlements . Syrians Report Fighting By HEDRICK SMITH s , cciai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 ? The Syrian Government charged tonight that a formation of Israeli planes flew over Damascus at 7:35 P.M. local time , five minutes after the latest ceasefire was supposed to take effect , A Syrian communique , broadcast over the Damascus radio , said two of the Israeli planes had been shot down by Syrian antiaircraft fire . Later , the Cairo radio said Israeli forces were still attacking Syrian positions 25 minutes after the cease-fire deadline . At 10:30 P.M. , three hours after the cease-fire was scheduled to start , the Damascus radio broadcast a news report from New York quoting Secretary General Thant of the United Nations as having said that , both sides were observing the cease-fire , Earlier in the day the Damascus radio said that after 24 hours of fighting , Israeli forces had occupied El Quneitra , 10 miles inside Syria and about 40 miles from Damascus . But shortly after noon , another Syrian military communiqu ? , broadcast from Damascus , said Syrian forces were " still fighting inside El Quneitra and its outskirts to stop the enemy from gaining control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syrian Government said its anti-aircraft batteries shot down four Israeli planes today . The Syrian radio , which said that Israeli planes flew 550 to 600 sorties over Syrian cities last night , made public military communiques at a frantic pace all morning until 12:30 P.M. Early this afternoon it broadcast an appeal , in the name of the Syrian Federation of Labor , to labor federations in " socialist countries " calling on them " to pressure their governments to intervene militarily to stop this aggression , " The Damascus radio said the Syrian battle could prove to be the turning point in the Arab war , observing that Hitler had once occupied Paris and at one time knocked on Moscow 's doors . " But where is Hitler now ? " asked one Syrian announcer . " By Hitler , we do not mean the coward Jews , but we mean the new Hitlersilson of Britain and Johnson of the United States . " The radio said the Syrian Government decided last night to release all political detainees to permit them to take part in the battle with Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jail on political grounds , about 250 of them as a result of the coup d'etat of February , 1966 , that overthrew former President Amin El Hafez and brought the present rulers of the Baath Socialist party to power . - Damascus Reported Calm ON THE SYRIAN-LEBANESE BORDER , June 10 ( Agence France-Presse ) ? The streets of Damascus have been entirely deserted by a strict curfew enforced since early yester. day . The city was calm , Regular patrols by the army and the people 's militia were the only traffic . An air alert sounded at 12:15 P.M. and continued till 3 P.M , The only sign that fighting was still going on was the distant report of cannon ,                     