@@721841

txt Officials in Washington were hopeful today that political authority In South Korea would quickly be returned to civilian hands . The White House and the State Department , however , avoided formal comment on Korean developments . The only explanation given for the capital 's studied silence on Korean affairs was that officials were waiting for further , detailed reports from Seoul . The flow of reports , detailed and interpretive , from the South Korean capital has been virtually ) unbroken for- three days . In Seoul , Gen. Chang Do Young , head of the junta , reported a stepping up of anti-Communist efforts with the arrest of 930 persons on suspicion since the military group seized power Tuesday . The new regime also began economic reforms . Resignation Approved The news that Premier John M. Chang and his Cabinet had resigned reached Washington in the early hours today . The Premier 's mo-e was regarded lyre as probably the best of several possible developments , none of then particularly good from Washington 's standpoint . At least the withdrawal of Mr. Chang from office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ junta , officials said . It also reduced the possibility of continued and possibly increasingly serious internal dissensions in South Korea , they believed . With Mr.1 Chang out of the picture , it was considered possible that the ruling military group might be encouraged to install a new group of officials of recognized ability and integrity , This is regarded here as one of the present objectives of United States policy . Bowles Expresses Concern The biggest worry here is that the intrusion of military ' men into civilian affairs may become an established pattern in South Korea . The tradition of separation of the army from politics had been cultivated assiduously in South Korea by every United States military ' commander there since the ' establishment of the republic in 1948 . It is feared that this rule , now broken , may prove doubly hard to re-establish . South Korea 's military leaders , having tasted political power , may find it pleasant , and difficult to forgo . Chester Bowles , acting Secretary of State in the absence of Dean Rusk , reflected the Administration 's concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Af- : fairs Committee . He said later that he considered the leaders1 of the Korean military junta " strongly anti-Communist and pro-American . " Then he added : " Of course , when you upset constitutional governments any time and anywhere , there is bound to be concern about it . " Mr. Bowles said he assumed that the United States would recognize the new military leadership in South Korea . But he said any quick decision would be " premature . " Actually , there is no technical question of recognition . The United States Ambassador in Seoul is accredited to the office of the President , not to the Premier or Cabinet . The embassy in Seoul was dealing with the military junta on an informal basis even before Premier Chang 's resignation , and apparently is continuing to do . U. S. Aides in Seoul Criticized There was a tendency in some Administration circles to criticize the action of the United States Embassy , in Seoul and Gen. Carter B. ' Magruder , the United States military commander there , for having issued statements . Tuesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military officers who seized power . The main question appeared to be not what they had said so much as why they had issued statements without clearing them first with Washington . The statements were made public only a few hours after the coup . The criticism of General Magruder and the embassy Charg ? d'Affaires , Marshall Green , runs as follows : They made a quick decision and it failed to produce the desired results and the statements involved the prestige I of the United States in an internal South Korean affair . There is some feeling that the two officials are being unfairly criticized for having tried to do their job under trying circumstances . Their defenders cite the folloving : They spoke out in favor of legally established authority and against a clearly illegal seizure of power ; they apparently decided that a clga.r statetient of the United States ttitude would strengthen the Chang Government and discourage undecided military officers from supporting the ' coup ; and getting clearance from Washington might have . required long and possibly decisive hours . Long Delay Likely It is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether a prompt and strong statement of policy from Washington , along the lines set forth in the statements by General Magruder and Mr. Green , might not have proved decisive in blocking the Chang Government 's overthrow . The men on the scene may have counted on such support . They did not get it . The judgment of officials here was that such a statement would be ineffective and might increase the damage . Observers here , analyzing the apparent ineffectiveness of the , statements issued in Seoul , felt that the authority and determination of Premier Chang apparently had been overestimated . They also believed that evidence of indecision on the part of high-ranking Korean officers was relied on too heavily . One thing that now worries career diplomats here is that the  --  kind of initiative displayed by the embassy in Seoul will be discouraged . They feel this could put a premium on caution and " passing the buck , " stifling imaginative conduct of diplomacy . There is another worry in official circles . This is that the " reform " program of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of arrests of " Left-wing " and " progressive " editors and of " spies " have come from Seoul . There is concern here that this trend could produce a clampdown on all criticism and all deabte.                     