@@727051

txt Two hundred detectives will go back into uniform today to help patrol the streets in riot-torn areas of the city . They will form a mobile task force to provide saturation patrols of the areas where some of the worst outbreaks of arson and looting took place . The task force was formed at an emergency meeting in police headquarters yesterday in an effort to prevent further outbreaks of violence by placing more uniformed policemen on the streets . U. S. Troops Leave The plans were made after the last of the federal and national guard troops were withdrawn from the city . In addition to the detectives , 72 traffic policemen are being assigned thruout the day to duty in a number of police districts on a temporary basis . Police officials said last night that the special assignments will last for two weeks . There was speculation , however , that they will continue thru the summer  --  at least until after the Democratic national convention in late August . Otto Kreuzer , chief of detectives , issued the order assigning detectives to the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the order assigning traffic policemen to the districts . Name Unit Leaders The reassigned traffic men will work directly under the district commanders and watch commanders . The detective task force men will be under the command of Earl Johnson , regularly commander of the robbery unit . The patrols will be heaviest in the Wabash , Grand Crossing , South Chicago , Englewood , Marquette , Fillmore , and Monroe street districts . Six police lieutenants and 12 sergeants were taken off their regular assignments to assume supervisory roles with the detective task force . One of them is Lt. Stanley Bazarek , regularly a field lieutenant in the Central district . He said that he will command 50 uniformed detectives and three sergeants working out of the area 1 detective headquarters , 756 E. 56th pl. 575 on Regular Force The men will work from 9 a. m. to-5 p. m. seven days a week  --  at least for the first two weeks . Their work will supplement the regular 575 ; man task force which will continue to concentrate its efforts on the hours of 6 p. m. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the day will be used by the detective task force . Traffic unit cars will also be ' assigned to the patrol division , while the stepped up patrols are in action . Kreuzer said last night that detectives have been drawn from all investigative units  --  homicide , robbery , burglary , auto theft , and general assignment . 20% of Detectives Kremer said that the special task force will cut the 1,000-man detective division by 20 per cent . ' He said this will require the men still assigned to the detective division to work longer hours , but added that he did not believe that crime investigation work would suffer . Police officials said that all detectives are expected to have a full police uniform ready for wear at all times , tho they normally work in plain clothes .                     