@@724763

txt London The two latest trouble spots in the world appear to be quieting down , but not from any action by an international organization . In the Dominican Republic the worst would seem to be over because the United States Marines moved in with decisive force and broke the military opposition . India and Pakistan have sidled into a tacit cease-fire in the Rann of Kutch because neither government really wants to let the affair get out of hand . And because the United States and Britain have been busy behind the scenes using words of wisdom and caution supported by the bargaining power of the major suppliers of economic and military survival to both . Action unrelated The United Nations has been invoked by the Soviets as a routine propaganda maneuver over the Dominican affair . And the United States has attempted , after the event , to obtain the blessing of the Organization of American States upon the presence of the marines . But this was all routine maneuvering by individual nations to score propaganda gain . It had nothing to do with the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , applies to the action of President de Gaulle of France who sought to extract some plum  --  not readily understandable to others  --  for himself by siding with the Soviets against the Americans in the UN over the Dominican affair . SEATO conflict Presumably his unhelpful action  --  from the American point of view  --  was for the purpose of position in Moscow . He currently is playing what to others seems a gay but irresponsible game . It was surprising in that he has not before criticized the United States for protect ing its national interests in the Caribbean . He was quick to approve when former President Kennedy told the Russians to take their strategic missiles out of Cuba . Another current example of nations behaving in 18th-century style occurred at the SEATO conference in London . For three days several scores of important and expensive diplomats maneuvered around a contest between the United States delegation and the Pakistan delegation over the wording of the annual paragraph in the communiqu ? on Vietnam . Accord lacking The men from Washington wanted the Pakistanis to subscribe this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a strong paragraph asserting the importance of freedom for South Vietnam . The Pakistan delegation was not interested in Vietnam . It was interested in persuading the United States to guarantee Pakistan frontiers against India . The tussle ended in nonagreement . WashThe pattern of diplomacy ington would not guarantee Pakistan frontiers against anyone but Communists . Pakistan would not support the United States in Vietnam . The organizations set up so hopefully after World War II for bringing the millennium to mankind continue to exist . Forum provided The United Nations goes about its various forms of activity as before . The Organization of American States has a secretariat which continues to perform many useful services . But the postwar theory that such institutions might take over the management of affairs and themselves keep the peace is now a memory . They can and do continue to provide the forum in which the various nations do meet . Sometimes useful business is conducted in such a forum . But usually useful business happens off stage and privately , not as a formal action by the institution . Independent action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national diplomacy . Alliances form , break up , and reform almost from day to day . This is as it was in the 18th century . One feature of the 18th century was the absence of ideological issues . The nations of that century did not go to war for any grand or noble purpose of for any religious or social cause . They were clearly interested in plain matters of narrow national interest . Another feature of the 18th century was that wars were conducted by small professional armies and fought for limi ' cl objectives . And the mass of the plain ci . zenry went about their daily business largely untouched and undisturbed .                     