@@722122

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 ? The choice of their Mayor by the voters of New York City is always of great intrinsic importance . The municipal problems are the same as those which burden other American cities . But because the community is the metropolis and the most diversified cosmopolis of this country , the civic problems there attract general attention in the United States . New York City local elections also carry more potential weight in the subsequent choice of the President than those in other cities . That is because New York City can produce majorities for national candidates big enough to overcome majorities for their opponents upstate , and the prize to the winner is still the largest electoral bloc of any state in the Union . Chicago , Philadelphia , Los Angeles or any other city in the million-plus range that exists in a state divided on urban-rural lines can furnish majorities which will reverse those elsewhere . But , though California soon will equal or surpass New York in its number of Presidentiat electors , no state has as many as New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special importance to the election of a Mayor of New York City and a special significance to the size of the majority of the winning Democratic candidate . They explain why the actual victory of the Democratic candidate in a city which is 4 to 1 Democratic is almost a secondary consideration to the state and national organizations of the two major parties and to the oracles who report on politics in the press . These will be concentrating on Mayor Wagner 's lead in the poll if he is re-elected tomorrow . And then the great political game of speculating on its bearing on the election results of 1962 and 1964 will officially begin its regularly recurring three-year term . Sometimes those who engage in this speculation have a clear crystal ball for their purpose . This occurs whenever the Mayor , who with only three exceptions in a hundred years has been a Democrat , has not experienced any bad breaks in his party organization line of support or an embarrassing revelation of administrative weakness in the heat of the campaign . But divination has normally been clouded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current situation in New York City . Nevertheless , if Mayor Wag ' ner wins by a relatively small majority , the fact that this will be largely attributable to the local situation will not impede the rush to apply the result to over-all Democratic and Republican party prospects ? in the state in 1962 and in the nation in 1964 . And if Louis Lefkowitz miraculously should win , to the dope-proof shelters ! Everybody ! The Dope From Delphi Hence the voters of New York City seldom go to the mayoralty polls without previous admonition that their division among the candidates will provide reliable indications to the outcome of the oncoming state and national elections . This year is not among the few exceptions . Experts , to the highly limited degree that there is real expertise in political forecasting , are saying these things about tomorrow 's balloting : 1 . The prospects of Governor Rockefeller for re-election in 1962 , and therefore to win the Republican Presidential nomination and the Presidency in 1964 , depend in large measure on the showing made by Mayor Wagner . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has enlarged this factor . 2 . The same is true of the Mayor 's prospects if he plans to run either for Governor against Rockefeller or for the Senate against Jacob K. Javits next year . These speculations may be proved out by the subsequent events . But the prudent , before relying on them too much , will recall years when they did n't prove out  --  most notably in 1945 . If , the oracles then agreed , William O'Dwyer got a majority of 500,000 or more in the Mayor 's race , it would mean that the Democratic-affiliates alliance formed by President Roosevelt continued to be effective , and this would indicate the election of a Democratic Governor of New York in 1946 ; also that the party Presidential nominee in 1948 would carry the state . O'Dwyer 's majority was 685,175 . In 1946 , Governor Dewey , Republican , was re-elected by 650,000 . In 1948 , as his party 's Presidential candidate he carried the state over President Truman by 61,000 . The oracles had failed to see , in their crystal ball of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But such are the defects of long-range political divination .                     