@@725147

txt Governor Rockefeller has proposed that the state establish five four-year colleges in New York City ? one in each borough ? with a total of 50,000 students , He said the city , " in this period of financial ' crisis , " was clearly incapable of providing higher education to meet the needs of its rapidly growing college-age population . In a letter sent Friday to Dr. Samuel B. Gould , president of the State University of New York , the Governor urged that the university 's board of trustees give his proposal " careful study . " The letter was made public by Mr. Rockefeller 's office yesterday . The Governor 's proposal came at a time of a dispute between the city 's Board of Higher Education and the administrators of the city colleges over where to find funds to accommodate the expected deluge of college students in the next few years . Tuition Charge Proposed Several state and city educators speculated yesterday that the Governor 's proposal might have been the opening move , timed to take advantage of the local dispute , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State University . The chancellor of the City University , Di , Albert H. Bowher , urged last week that tuition fees be established in the city 's colleges . He said this recommendation had the support of the college presidents . The tuition plan is vigorously opposed by the board 's chairman , Gustave G. Rosenberg , chairman of the Board of Higher Education , even though there would be no cost to the students ; under Dr. Bowker 's proposal , state scholar incentive funds would offset the tuition charges . These funds are not available to institutions that charge no tuition . State Charges Fees Tuition fees have been charged at state colleges since 1961 , when the Legislature repealed a free-education law . At the same time public colleges in New York City were authorized to institute tuition fees ; they have not done so . The city 's four-year colleges are City , Hunter , Brooklyn and Queens Colleges . State aid to the City University is now about $35 million a year . This would be doubled under the Bowker plan . Yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Higher Education for Wednesday at 5 P.M. to consider Dr. Bowker 's action in publicizing his tuition plan . Mr. Rockefeller 's proposal brought expressions of astonishment yesterday from both Mr. Rosenberg and Dr. Bowker . " Incredible , " said Mr. Rosenberg . " Good heavens ! " exclaimed Dr. Bowker . Under the Governor 's plan , the new colleges would charge a tuition fee of $400 a year , the same as now charged in all colleges of the State University system . Rather than build new state institutions , Mr. Rosenberg said , " it would be the easiest matter to put the money into the existing colleges . " He added " I do n't see any reason to cry ' Wolf ! ' " Mr. Rosenberg said the State Education Law placed responsibility on his board for higher education in the city . He asserted that the Governor 's proposal would require an amendment to the law . Dr. Bowker commented : " Our feeling is that the City University could do the job . The purpose of my proposals has been to get the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the city was facing a crisis in higher education . " Either the City University will have to be in a position to expand dramatically , " he said , " or something like this the Rockefeller pro- ; posal will have to happen . " 1 Dr. Gould , who is attending a convention in Minneapolis , said yesterday he had not received the Governor 's letter . He said in a telephone interview that Mr. Rockefeller had never discussed with him the possi'bility of establishing state colleges in New York City . Dr. Gould said that he had talked with the Governor as recently as last Tuesday , but that the matter had not come up . " I would judge , " Dr. Gould ; commented , " that this would need a considerable amount of ; study . A lot will depend on ; what the City University intends to do . " In general . our responsibility is to see to it that young Fabian Bachrach OPPOSES PLAN : Gustave G. Rosenberg , chairman of Board of Higher Education , disputes program of tuition for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college . If it 's not pro ; vided by anyone else , then the state must meet the need . " Dr. Gould said he would present the Governor 's proposal to the State University 's board of trustees as soon as possible . The next regular meeting of the trustees is Dec. 9 . In making public his letter Governor Rockefeller attached a statement that said : " Expanding the higher educational facilities in New York City involves heavy capital expenditures which the city is not in a position to make aid which the state has available through the State University Construction Fund , which can only be used for construction of State University facilities . " The announcement said this was " the first in a series ofl proposals whereby the state can help directly in meeting some of the needs and problems of the people of the City of New York and thus help the city in this period-of financial crisis . " A. spokesman declined to say what the future proposals would involve , He said they would be made before the Legislature convened in January @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had conferences with Mayor-elect John V. Lindsay and with President of the City Council-elect Frank D. O'Connor and told them I would do everything possible within my powers as Governor to use state facilities to help the people of the city . " The Governor 's letter to . Dr. Gould also called for acceleration of two other projects . Those were a study begun early this year of the need for twoyear institutions , technically oriented , for high-school graduates in Harlem and in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn ; and the establishment of four-year State University colleges in Westchester and Nassau Counties . On the new type of two-year schools , Dr. Gould commented yesterday : " Sometime around March we ought to have the answer . " On the Westchester and Nassau colleges , he said : " We 're moving as quickly as we can . " Among other things , he said , a search was under way for presidents of the new suburban colleges .                     