@@725601

txt The nation 's police can learn to live with the new confessions limitations set by the Supreme Court , a check of law enforcement officials indicated today . Reaction across the nation to yesterday 's decision was regarded in legal circles here as mild . It was said that possibly the officials had steeled themselves for it . Some said they had already warned all suspects of their right to a lawyer and to remain silent , as the new ruling requires , Others predicted that the number of confessions and convictions would decline . Change Not Expected James Vorenberg , executive director of the National Crime Commission , said the present standard for deciding the admissibility of confessions ? whether they were voluntarily given  --  might not be substantially changed . Because the decision holds that a suspect may waive his right to be questioned with a lawyer present , he said , " it just moves the battleground from the voluntariness of the confession back to the voluntariness of the waiver . " This would mean that courts will still decide on a case-by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth about the waiver , Mr. Vorenberg said , declaring : " The police have done pretty well with these swearing contests over the years . " He also said the National Crime Commission would probably drop its plans to recomment post-arrest procedures to the police because the detailed ruling had settled many of the questions . No decision has been made as to the future of the American Law Institute 's proposed model code of prearraignment procedure , he said . Mr. Vorenberg was the principal draftsman of the model code , which would have allowed four hours of Interrogation without a lawyer , a provision that appears unconstitutional under yesterday 's ruling , except when suspects waive their rights . Before the high court 's decision yesterday , the Supreme Courts of only three states ? California , Oregon and Rhode Island  --  had interpreted the Supreme Court 's decision in Escobedo v. Illinois in 1964 as requiring a warning before any interrogation . However , none of those courts limited interrogation as rigidly as the high court did yesterday in its elaboration of the Escobedo case . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his state 's police had " apparently accommodated themselves " to the confessions limitation . He said suspects were frequently persuaded to waive their right to counsel before interrogation . ' The resulting confessions are accepted by the courts when the suspects are found to have knowingly and intelligently waived their rights , he said . However , Duane E. R. Nedrud , executive director of the National District Attorney 's Association , said in a telephone interview from Chicago that the decision " will effectively prevent any worthwhile interrogation . " Fewer crimes will be solved , even fewer crimes will be prosecuted , " he declared . On the other hand , State 's Attorney Charles E. Moyland Jr . of Baltimore said that " in the long run " the decision " will be good for law enforcement and make for a better brand of justice . " Police officials in Oklahoma City , Minneapolis , Albuquerque , N. M. , Denver and Sacramento said their practices generally followed the new guidelines . The Supreme Court is expected to announce Monday whether the new doctrine will be applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the officials would hazard a guess as to how many prisoners it would set free . In Washington , United States Attorney David G. Bress and Police Chief John B. Layton have begun to revise interrogation procedures . Mr. Bress said that they might cause " some impairment of law enforcement in Washington . " But he also said that " eventually the changes have to sharpen police investigations in other areas and the public will benefit . " Chief Layton said that the men of the force " must abide " by the rules even though " we will not have the same freedom as before . "                     