@@723798

txt The island of Cyprus is less than one-tenth the size of Cuba and in terms of population is among the half-dozen smallest nations in the U.N . Yet last week this tiny piece of territory occupied the attention of the world 's great powers and its fate was a matter of grave international concern . Efforts to resolve the conflict between Cyprus ' 450,000 inhabitants of Greek extraction and 100 , - 000 inhabitants of Turkish extraction centered on the Security Council . On the outcome hinged the chances for settling an issue that could tear NATO apart and make the eastern Mediterranean a new area of East-West contention . The danger to NATO lies in the fact that two members of the alliance  --  Greece . and Turkey ? have been threatening to intervene militarily on opposite sides of the Cyprus conflict . The mere threat of war and the mutual recriminations between the two NATO partners have already damaged the strength and stability of the eastern flank of the alliance . An actual outbreak of fighting between the two would shatter NATO 's position in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance . The danger of Cyprus 's becoming an East-West issue stems from U. N. entry into the dispute ? something Britain and the United States had hoped to prevent . Moscow 's opportunity for maneuver in the Cyprus crisis has now greatly increased . Russia has long sought to establish a focus of power and influence in the eastern Mediterranean : in the Cyprus issue she apparently sees a chance of doing so while injecting herself into the middle of a NATO dispute . Communist strength in the Greek labor unions on Cyprus poses the threat of a left-wing bid for power  --  with Moscow 's aid ? if turmoil on the island continues . Last week this interplay of pressures shaped the debate and maneuver in the U. N. Security Council . The principal issue was the composition and terms of authorization of a force to keep peace on Cyprus where at least 250 persons have perished in the communal strife since last December . Britain , which has troops on the island under the terms of the 1960 independence treaty , has been augmenting its force , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December . But Britain 's military reserves are badly strained . She wants an international force of about 10,000 ? preferably drawn from NATO countries  --  to maintain peace on Cyprus so efforts can go forward for a political settlement . Stands of Parties These were the positions taken by the major parties to the controversy in the Security Council last week : Greek Cypriotes . They asked the Council to take full responsibility for the peace-keeping force and also sought a formal commitment from the Council to the " independence and territorial integrity " of the island . The Cyprus Government , headed by Archbishop Markarios. a Greek , apparently believes that such a commitment by the Council would nullify the 1960 treaty . That treaty gave Britain , Greece and Turkey the right to intervene militarily in Cyprus to uphold the terms of the country 's Constitution and preserve the status quo . The Archbishop wants to prevent such intervention by Turkey . He hopes to carry out constitutional reforms that , among other things , would eliminate the Turkish Cypriotes ' power to veto some legislation . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that led to the communal violence Turkish Demands Turkey . The Turkish representative sought from the Security Council a resolution specifically endorsing the Cypriote Constitution and the 1960 treaty of guarantee . He warned against a resolution and authorization for a peacekeeping force which the Greek . Cypriotes " could pretend to interpret as though international treaties have been abrogated . " Britain and United States . They concentrated mainly on trying to limit any connection between the U.N . and the peace-keeping force , and also to limit the degree of intervention by the organization in Cyprus 's affairs . Their fear is that the larger the authority and role of the U.N. , the more meddlesome the Soviets will be , thus further complicating chances for a compromise solution . Soviet Union . Russia 's role last week tended to substantiate the Western fears . The Soviet representative fully supported the Greek Cypriote position and said a resolution by the Security Council would supersede the 1960 treaty . Wednesday evening , ? Security Council debate was suspended until this Tuesday . The action was taken at the request of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work out a ? compromise on the composition and terms of reference of the peace - keeping force . Mr , Thant was said to be trying to achieve agreement on a formula that would put the force under the Security Council " umbrella " without making it exclusively a U. N. responsibility . Sonic form of endorsement of the territorial integrity and independence of Cyprus , might be expressed , but not so as to abrogate the 1960 treaty . The Secretary General would also appoint a mediator ivhd would seek a permanent solution of the communal conflict . At the weekend , Mr. Thant was in virtually continuous conference with the interested parties in the effort to obtain a compromise agreement . Assuming agreement is eventually reached on the composition and authorization of a peace-keeping force , what kind of political settlement is possible ? The Greek Cypriotes have made plain they will never accept the extreme Turkish demand  --  taksim , or partition of the island . In response to such pressures , in fact , they raise an extreme demand of their own  --  enosis , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about " idministrative partition " of Cyprus , a partial division of authority over the two communities without actually establishing separate autonomies . But there are serious difficulties in the way of such- a solution , even if it were acceptable in principle to the two sides . - Greek and Turkish communities are geographically intermixed throughout the island and in many cases occupy the same villages . Of 634 villages on Cyprus , 395 Are Greek , 121 are Turkish , and 114 are mixed ( there are four villages of other nationalities ) . In many areas , the economies of the two communities are interdependent . Thus even an administrative division ? let alone full partition ? might involve uprooting and relocating thousands of people . Conceivably Archbishop Makarios might modify his proposed constitutional reforms to the point where they would be acceptable to the Turks . Thus far , however ; he has rejected any such course and the Turks have stated that they want new and stronger guarantees now , not a. . rethiction of their rights . But the trouble is that the " bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until the violence is halted , the Cyprus conflict will continue to raise the threat of major international repercussions .                     