@@728110

txt West Germany 's currency exchanges are expected to reopen Monday , a day after the federal elections to the Bundestag , or lower house of Parliament . This prospect followed assurances this morning by Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger and his campaign opponent , Vice Chancellor and Foreign Min , ister Willy Brandt , that they would not meddle with the parity of the Deutsche mark " for the time being . " Both Mr. Kiesinger , who heads the ticket of his Christian Democratic Union , and Mr. Brandt , the Social Democratic leader , said their declarations on the mark were aimed at discouraging " hot money " purchases of marks by foreign investors speculating on the possibility of upward revaluation shortly after the election . The Economics Minister , Karl Schiller , a Social Democrat , has repeatedly said during the last three weeks of the campaign that , , upward valuation of the mark would be one of the more desirable ways of combating inflation . The Social Democratic party has been viewed by poll-1 takers as a possible winner Sunday . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schiller was " stirring speculation , " and ordered him to close the country 's money markets yesterday and today . Last night the Economics Minister refused an order to close the exchanges Monday as well . With only 48 hours to go until the polls close at 6 P.M. Sunday , the West German electorate has been confronted with a bewildering sequence of spectacles by the two major political parties in their lastminute efforts to wring voting advantage out of the complex and confusing revaluation issue . Following weeks of hard campaigning against each other , during which Mr. Kiesinger steadfastly refused to appear on television with Mr. Brandt for debate , the Chancellor suddenly turned up on the screen late yesterday evening sitting not far from the Foreign Minister . For most of the two-hour program they and their fellow candidates , Franz Josef Strauss , leader of the Christian Social Union , the Bavarian sister party of the Christian Democrats , and Walter Scheel , leader of the Free Democrats , tossed the hot potato of revaluation around . According to a Christian Democratic source , Mr. Kiesinger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , at 5 P.M. yesterday when he made up his mind to fly back for the television debate on the program " Journalists Ask , Politicians Answer " four hours later . " I decided that because of the heated-up debate over the mark I should take part , " Mr. Kiesinger explained later . During the debate , Mr. Brandt proposed that he and the Chancellor agree not to take up the revaluation issue until quieter times . Mr. Kiesinger , who has blocked Mr. Schiller 's revaluation requests since last March , said there should be a Christian Democratic-Social Democratic " truce " on the issue for the next six months . Mr. Brandt demurred , saying it would be dangerous to set a time limit . This morning , Mr. Kiesinger reversed earlier plans again and appeared for his first public news conference in 18 months at the Tulpenfeld Plaza Hall near his Chancellery . He announced that Mr. Brandt had written him a letter reiterating his position that consideration of revaluation be postponed . The Chancellor interpreted this as a mutual " standstill agreement . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Brandt appeared with Mr. Schiller for a news conference in which he said " there is no standstia agreement , " on fevaluation . He also charged that Mr. Kiesinger had lied by stating that only Mr. Schiller 's campaign and not recommendations of the Bundesbank ( Central bank ) had prompted his order to close the money markets . The two contenders did not meet today , but Mr. Brandt said he had spoken on the telephone with Mr. Kiesinger this noon to prepare for a Cabinet meeting on the economic situation Monday morning . At that time the Social Democratic party is expected to present once again Mr. Schiller 's months-old program for curbing inflation . The general puzzlement over Mr. Kiesinger 's 11th-hour television and news conference appearances was heightened by several statements he made today praising " certain officials of the Social Democratic leadership " for allegedly " sharing my views " on economic and foreign policy matters . These statements were interpreted by many German political reporters as hints by the Chancellor that he would like to continue the coalition of the Christian Democrats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and an indication that he is worried about the outcome of Sunday 's balloting .                     