@@724866

txt Alex Rose , vice chairman of the Liberal party , said yesterday there was strong sentiment for Representative John V. Lindsay , the Republican candidate for Mayor , among delegates to the party 's forthcoming convention . But he said the ma ' jority had not decided whom to support , " They are waiting for the convention and the discussion and deliberation that will take place , " he declared . He dismissed as purely spec ! ulative recurrent reports that the party had already decided to back Mr. Lindsay . The convention will be held at the Astor Hotel tomorrow and Tuesday evenings . The delegates are expected to decide tomorrow whether to hack a " fusion slate , which would mean the nomination of Mr. Lindsay , to nominate a Democrat , or to put up a Liberal party ticket . Designation Due Tuesday The actual designation is due to be made on Tuesday . Other sources said that some of the delegates wanted the party to continue its alliance with the Democratic party , and to nominate a Democrat for Mayor . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lindsay , these delegates are expected to fight for a postponement of the decision or for the designation of a Liberal who could he replaced later by a Democrat . It appeared yesterday that such tactics would not he successful . Mr. Rose , who was interviewed by telephone at his home , predicted that the party would not postpone a decision . ' When asked if the party would ! name a candidate who could be withdrawn later , he said it would not use " any devious or contrived methods when dealing with an issue as important as a nomination for Mayor . " " The party will handle the issue with the utmost dignity , " he added . Another group in the party , understood to be relatively small , believes that it should not be tied to either the Democrats or the Republicans , but should name and run its own slate of Liberals . The other citywide posts at stake in the November election are President of the City Council and Controller . Mr. Lindsay has stressed that he is running as a fusion candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat on his ticket . The reports that the party has already decided on Mr. Lindsay have caused its leaders some embarrassment , but many ! observers believe the odds strongly favor the Representative . With four major candidates already in the race and others poised in the wings , the Democratic contest for the Mayoralty nomination seems wide open . The Liberals have no assurance that if they name a Democrat at the convention , he would win the nomination of his own party in the primary . Little Enthusiasm So Far The Democrats actively seeking their party 's nomination for Mayor are City Council President Paul R. Screvane , Representative William F. Ryan , Queens District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor and Councilman Paul O'Dwyer , Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , 1 who heads the Federal Government 's Equal Employment Opportunity Commission , is considering entering the fight . Another believed to be a possible entry ! is Controller Abraham D. ' Hearne . Liberal sources say that even among those who believe the . party should continue the alliance it has had with Mayor ! Wagner and other city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been mentioned for Mayor thus far . - Whoever is named by the Liberal party convention will become the party 's official designee , but a dissident Liberal who received enough voters ' signatures on his petitions could enter the party primary on Sept. 14 and try to obtain the nomination . The decision confronting the Liberals is of vital importance for the party 's future role in politics here , and many members are deeply concerned . Some believe that if the Liberals support Mr. Lindsay and he loses , the party will forfeit the access it has had to City Hall and the White House , and be dead as a political force . Others believe that party backing will assure Mr. Lindsay 's victory and prove once again that the Liberals represent the balance of power here . Continued adherence to the Democratic standard would , in their opinion , mean that the party could be regarded simply as an appendage to the Democratic party . David Dubinsky , first vice chairman of the Liberal party , who has been recovering from a minor operation , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also is president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , and like Mr. Rose one of the party 's founding fathers . Harry Van Arsdale Tr. , president of the Central Labor Council of New York , said yesterday that a statement attributed to a high official of the council that it definitely would not support Mr. Lindsay was not correct . He said he had been in touch with Mr. Lindsay and had offered , at the candidate 's convenience , to clarify the council 's position . But he declined to say what that position was . At a meeting of the United Council of Harlem Organizations , Representative Adam Clayton Powell , the Harlem ! leader , declared that Mr. Roosevelt was the only man who , could beat Mr. Lindsay . He said ! Negroes had 30 per cent of the Democratic votes here and would not be told by the Liberals whom to support . In a letter to the Board of Elections , Mr. Screvane called on it tr reconsider its decision not to use city firehouses for registration of voters this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this purpose in the past , that the public was aware of them as points of registration , and that any change would mean a needless and costly program of re-education . Moynihan Not Decided ? The board is planning to use schools and public buildings for registration . Daniel P. Moynihan , an Assistant Secretary of Labor who has been mentioned as another possible Democratic nominee , ! said yesterday he had not had , time to think about what he would do . He noted in a telephone interview from his home in Washington that he had just returned . from Yugoslavia , where he participated in a UNESCO conference and had " the usual accumulatio not things that have to be done . " " Any New York Democrat is intensely concerned with what is going to be done within the party , " he added .                     