@@723120

txt Letters to The Times JOACHIM PRINZ , President , American Jewish Congress.J . R. KILLIAN Jr.DOROTHY N ... pg . E10 Letters to The Times U.A.R. Aggression Feared United States Urged to Act to Protect Middle East Peace TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recent developments in the Middle East editorial May 10 make it plain that the United Arab Republic is bent upon a campaign , of territorial and political aggrandizement . Thus far three governments have fallen , at least in part because of the - intervention of Egyptian troops or political agitators . What has emerged is a new federation pledged to the annihilation of Israel - and other sovereign states in that area . This program has been encourged by the passivity of those governments , including our own , that have a clear national interest in preserving peace in the Middle East and that carry a special responsibility to end the continued political and economic aggressionby the U.A.R. so that it shall not lead to war . if hostilities do break out , responsibility will rest with those who foment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable . Everyone must welcome genuine efforts by the deprived peoples of the Middle East to re-form their political and economic systems and to begin the hard task of national and regional rehabilitation . It is , tragic that many of these populations should continue to live in backwardness and proverty while the despots who lead them squander ( national resources on personal or Military extravagances . War , Not Industries There is little reason to believe that recent political changes in the area are directed toward constructive ends . The very first communiqu ? s issued by the new federation of the U.A.R. held out the prospect of new wars , not new industries . The sums recently expended by Egypt to import West German and other scientists and to manufacture new weapons ( using moneys released as a result of aid programs provided by the United States ) indicate clearly the temper and objective of U.A.R. leadership . These developments make imperative the rethinking of fundamental precepts of American foreign policy . Recent statements by high United States officials appear to suggest that the United States must purchase Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunizing that area from Soviet influence . Such a position can be described as not only shortsighted but counterproductive . The blackmailer is never satisfied with his last payment . The compliant disposition of the State Department invites ever more stringent demands , without any assurance or even likelihood that our country will thereby gain steadfast allies . On the contrary , the Arab states have freely proclaimed their decision to play both sides of the cold war against the middle . To the extent that President Kennedy 's press conference statement means that America is committed to protect the independence of Israel and those countries in the Middle East that are not within the United Arab Republic , it is a gratifying reassurance . But this intention must be stated plainly and unambiguously to be effective . Mutual Defense Pact The bipartisan Senate resolution introduced May 8 calling for a mutual defense agreement between Israel and the United States and its Western allies seeks exactly this concrete expression of our country 's determination . Along the same lines is the bipartisan effort in the House of Representatives to incorporate into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American economic aid to Arab governments for the purpose of preparing for an offensive war . United States policy in the Middle East must seek to substitute economic cooperation for arms competition . Only then can the national interests of the United States be promoted , the security of all the nations of the area protected and the redemption of the masses of underprivileged and deprived peoples of the . Middle East begin in earnest . JOACHIM PRINZ , President , American Jewish Congress . New York , May 9 , ' 1963 . Clark Clifford Endorsed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have just had the opportunity to read the editorial in your issue of April 29 entitled " Cloudy Intelligence . " I can not share your view that . Clark Clifford is an inappropriate chairman for the President 's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board . As retiring chairman , I joined with other members of the board in recommending him to the President for this post after observing his effective participation asa mem. ber for two years . He has consistently and ably supported the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has stanchly supported the independence of the board and its toughminded insistence that it be , fully informed and free of political or policy influence ? an insistence that has been unfailingly honored . I am sure that the other seven members of the board would not remain associated with it if they did not have full confidence that as chairman he would adhere completely to these high standards . They gladly remain , and I , too , would be happy to serve under his chairmanship were I able to be a continuing member . J. R. KILLIAN Jr . Cambridge , Mass. , May 8 , 1963 . Issues in Alabama Conduct of Officials Toward Negroes Protested TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES It is bewildering , in view of your excellent photographic and news coverage , to note that The Times ( editorial May 6 ) should have joined the United States Attorney General in missing certain basic issues raised by the provocative conduct of the governments of ' Alabama and Birmingham , against those citizens who chose to protest , by nonviolent means , against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear:1 A city which but two years ago held its breath when a handful of " outsiders " rode into the bus depot to preach and practice equality and freedom , today teems with men , women and children who have courageously proclaimed their discovery of freedom within themselves . The governments of Alabama end Birmingham are not only continuing to deprive free Americans ? in the words of the ' Attorney General ? " of their most basic rights , " but they have been pursuing this policy by violent means . Curious Stands The Attorney General , instead of employing all of his powers to uphold the Constitution against those who defy it  --  and instead of hailing citizens who insist upon their legal rights as his natural allies  --  has taken the curious position that " the timing of the present demonstrations is open to question . " His position is based on the assumption that a new city , administration " which is moderate , at least by Alabama standards , " Recording to The Arkansas Gazette of Little Rock , is probably about to take office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present government . The Attorney General 's statement would therefore seem to be both an endorsement of Alabama standards of moderation and a suggestion that there are times when resistance to oppression is out of season . The Attorney General has declared his hope that the injustices to the Negro residents of Birmingham can be removed " in meetings , ' in good faith negotiations , and not in the streets . " Is it not doubtful , however , to say the least , whether negotiations would even have been mentioned at this time , save for the demonstrations themselves ? And is not the very presence of thousands of people in Birmingham 's streets , willing  --  without practicing violence themselves  --  to risk the brutal attacks of policemen , police dogs and fire hoses , in order to bring democracy to their city , in itself more significant and promising , than any partial retreat that a group of officials , moderate by Alabama stand- ? ards , is likely to make ? Positive Expression The Birmingham nonviolent demonstrations have been more than " understandable expressions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of abuse and deprivations of their most basic rights for many years , " as described by the Attorney General . The very essence of these demonstrations has by no means been negative , but positive . They have been expressions of hope and faith in democracy by people who have discovered that they need no longer be victims . They deserve the support and gratitude of the entire nation and its government . DOROTHY NORMAN , MARIAN WILLARD , ALFRED BARR , STANLEY KUNITZ , ROBERT LOWELL , ANDREW E. NORMAN , MARK ROTHKO . New York , May 8 , 1963 . U.N . Police for Laos To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Possibly a solution in Laos might be another United Nations Police Force , if it could be passed by the Security Council or the General Assembly . CHESTER D. PUGSLEY . New York , April 25 , 1963.                     