@@722298

txt Washington , Feb. 19-President Kennedy today asked Congress for standby power to spend up to 2 billion dollars a year on public works projects in the early stage of any economic recession . In identical letters to the Senate and House presiding officers the President said the proposed bill would " provide the federal government with an invaluable recession tool . " The measure , mentioned by the President in his January state of the Union message but not spelled out until now , got a lukewarm reception in Congress . Faces Strong Opposition It faces strong opposition from Republican legislators and conservative Democrats on the ground that Congress can act quickly in an economic emergency and that standby executive Dowers are unnecessary . Senate Republican Leader Dirksen 111.1 predicted most Republicans in Congress will oppose the Kennedy public works plan for the same reason they opposed his earlier request for standby authority to cut personal income taxes to fight recessions . " Congress has the feeling that it is accessible , " Dirksen told reporters . " If the need develops to take action to ward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Kennedy works bill , sent in draft form to Congress , sets forth a precise formula whereby the President would be empowered to tap the federal treasury for public works outlays . The formula would give him this power whenever the national unemployment rate , seasonally adjusted , increased in three out of four or four out of six consecutive months by a total of 1 per cent for either period . 41/2 Million Unemployed There are about 41/2 million unemployed persons , or with seasonal adjustments slightly less than 6 per cent of the labor force of about 65 million . Under the Kennedy formula the President could begin works ' spending if the seasonally adjusted jobless rate rose steadily in four to six months to 7 per cent , or by about 650,000 persons . The President 's authority would run ' for one year , unless extended by Congress .                     