@@724520

txt Senator Jack E. Bronston , who has been the front-running candidate fors Senate majority leader , has concluded that he no longer has any real chance of election . A source in a position to know the Queens Senator 's thinking said today that he had no plans to withdraw from the contest . The source added , however , that Mr. Bronston 's prospects of amassing the q0 votes needed for victory appeared remote . Mr. Bronston 's principal opponent , Senator Thomas J. Mackell , also of Queens , seemed to have dropped from serious contention . These developments , together with the increasing restlessness of the Republican legislators , gave rise to a fragile hope that a settlement of the leadership deadlock might be within sight . The deadlock will be three weeks old tomorrow . The Senate took one futile ballot this afternoon , its 23d , and the Assembly took five , making the total in that house 21 . Not a single vote was changed by the all-night rump session staged by the opponents of Mayor Wagner in the lower house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roll-calls , renewed efforts to arrange a compromise were under way at the De Witt Clinton Hotel near the Capitol . At one of several informal meetings , William H. , the Democratic state chairman , and John F. English , the party leader in Nassau County , conferred with Assemblyman Moses Weinstein of Queens , an ally of the Mayor . Both Mr. and Mr , English are members of thel anti-Wagner coalition that has ; been backing Mr. Bronston in ! the Senate and Stanley Steingutl of Brooklyn for Assembly Speaker . The Mayor 's candidates on recent ballots have . been Mr. Mackell and Anthony . J. Travia of Brooklyn . The formulas under discus- , sion at the Capitol and else-I where today generally centered around the selection of Mr.1 Steingut in the Assembly and a : Wagner man in the upper house . Jones Offers Compromise J. Raymond Jones , the leader of the Manhattan organization , said in New York City that he had proposed to the Manhattan delegation that the stalemate be resolved by choosing Mr. Steingut and either Mr. Mackell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority . , leader until Jan. 1 . Mr. Jones said the Manhattan Assemblymen " could take " such an arrangement in the interests of party harmony and described it as " an honorable solution . " He added ' that he would prefer Mr. Zaretzki . because he was from Manhattan . Although he was unwilling to ' commit himself , Mr. Weinstein indicated that he would give the proposal serious study . Several anti-Wagner Senators said privately that they would ' he willing to throw their sup- , port to Mr. Zaretzki as part of a compromise , but they insisted that they could not back Mr. Mackell . This attitude . they said , was based on the conviction that a vote for the former leader could be rationalized in part as a reward for past service . It was also reported that other names were under consideration , including that of Senator Manfred Ohrenstein. of Manhattan , a Reform Democrat whom Mayor Wagner has described as acceptable to him . Mr. Ohrenstein would presumably have difficulty , however , in winning the support of old-line leaders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in earnest for a compromise was the unrest among the upstate Republicans , who are under pressure from newspapers in their areas to intervene to break the deadlock immedi. : ately . Either by absenting themselves or by voting for one of the Democratic candidates , the G.O.P. legislators could do so . Republican sources said that such a move seemed possible by early next week if the Legislature were still unorganized . The first move would come in the Senate . A. consensus that actions should be taken seemed to be developing there today and one Senator , Bernard Gordon of Westchester , said - he was ready to step in-now . The major questions remaining , it was said , were those of timing and strategy . The situation was discussed during an hour-long conference of Senate Republicans in the finance committee room , Participants said that if they decided to vote for one Democrat it would probably be . Mr. Zaretzki or possibly Senator Jeremiah B. Bloom of Brooklyn , a Wagner loyalist . Democrats of all factions agreed that intervention by the opposition party would be a humiliating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two houses  --  in contrast to those of yesterday ? were matter-of-fact . When a motion to adjourn was offered in the Senate shortly after it met , no one bothered to discuss it or vote against it , George L. Ingalls of Binghamton , the prospective Assembly minority leader , was in no mood for speculation . Someone asked during the 20th ballot when the House would adjourn , and he replied : " I do n't know . I have n't had a concussion of opinion from the other side . "                     