@@725981

txt Arms control is moving again .. For two years it has been largely forgotten , drummed out of headlines by the Vietnam war . But the nuclear arms race has steadily and silently become worse in the meantime . The national security of the United States and the Soviet Union has grown steadily less . This neglect , admitted to be very dangerous by both sides , now appears to have been reversed . Latest signs are four : ? A draft treaty banning nuclear weapons from outer space has been approved by the United States and the Soviet Union and others . It was prepared by the Outer Space Committee of the United Nations , following a request of President Johnson last May . It guarantees ' free access to all nations and bars military activity from the moon and other celestial bodies . It opens the way to cooperative instead of competitive peaceful and scientific use of space . ? Statements by leaders of the two big nuclear powers foreshadow a treaty against nuclear proliferation . A shift of opinion in Germany away from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paved the way . ? Probably most important , Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara has resolutely opposed the demand to construct a huge defense system against nuclear missiles . A powerful offense , he has insisted , is a better protection . He has stuck to this position despite intelligence reports that the Soviet Union is building an antimissile system , and more offensive missiles , in an effort to balance the three-to-one lead of the United States . ? Both big powers have been progressively opening their peaceful nuclear establishmentsfor general inspection . These are only the beginnings of a trend back toward arms control , as the President 's advisers in this field here are quick to point out . But it looks promising because the Gromyko-Johnson talks at the White House , and public statements by the Soviet leaders , show readiness for agreements in the West even though antagonism over the Vietnam war continues . . Time is still short . The public does not generally realize that // *Arms-control barriers lower // an incalculably sharp spurt in the nuclear arms race , marked by grave and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed . Thaw ' threatened For such a system of missile defense would have required both sides to build many times more offensive nuclear missiles than at present , in an effort to saturate the new defenses . Any thought of a renewed " thaw " in the West , or of steps toward arms control , would have gone out the window in this case , it is frankly said here . The restraint adopted by Mr. McNamara was strongly recommended by the President 's advisers in this field , and by a panel of distinguished citizens led by Dr. Jerome " B. Wiesner of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology last winter . This held the line until the Soviet Union seemed ready to talk agreements again . But the pressures for an American defense system are mounting still . Therefore the hope of , arms-control specialists here is that something much ' larger than either a space treaty or one on proliferation will soon be scheduled for discussion . Concrete steps needed ? Actual limiting , freezing , and then reducing the numbers of missiles on both sides is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vastly enlarged offense are to be headed off . Unless positive reduction of arms is within grasp , and progressively achieved , there is a lively question here as to whether the arms race can be kePt from exploding upward and exploding the renewed " thaw " along with it . The quiet resumption of steps toward arms control , therefore , is greeted hungrily by those here who felt that both countries were drifting into catastrophe without their peoples even knowing it . " But the leaders do , " one official said . " And they appear to be starting to act . "                     