@@728171

txt More than 1,000 notables from music , politics , the arts , business and society attended formal dedication ceremonies last night for the Juilliard School 's lavish new home at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts . The building , which actually opened its door for classes earlier this month , is the last building to be erected in the Lincoln Center cultural complex . The ceremonies , which included a 90-minute concert that was televised nationally by the Columbia Broadcasting System , went off with military precision , but there was one minor mishap afterward . Mrs. Richard M. Nixon and her entourage , which included her daughter Julie and her son-inlaw , David Eisenhower , were inspecting the new facilities when their elevator became stuck between the fourth and fifth floors . While a Secret Service // man on the fourth floor paced nervously and talked into a walkie-talkie , Mrs. Nixon and her group - remained calm , according to witnesses . Finally , after six minutes , the elevator became unstuck ' and descended ' to the fourth floor . " We Made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as she stepped from the elevator . Otherwise , the event was . one of those gala occasions New Yorkers love at this time of year . The ' men wore black - ties and the women were in evening gowns and fur coats and capes . Among those attending were Governor and Mrs. Rockefeller , Lauritz ? Melchior , William Schuman , Jennie Tourel , Isaac Stern , Martha Graham , Aaron Copland , Rise Stevens , Sol Hurok , August Heckscher , Thomas Schippers , Andre Previn and Mia Farrow . An Interaction Predicted Leading the dedication ceremonies were John D. Rockefeller 3d , chairman of Lincoln Center , and Peter Mennin , president of Juilliard . In a brief address , Mr. Rockefeller noted that Juilli. and students " will benefit from proximity to the greatest professionals " gathered at Lincoln Center , just as the professionals " will be stimulated by their interaction with young aspiring artists . " " With the completion of Lincoln Center , " he said , " it is now the time of the artist and his audience , for only they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of life . " The concert itself was performed by the Juilliard - Orchestra ? in Alice Tully ' Hall and was conducted by Leopold Stokowski and Jean Morel . It included works . by Paganini , Mozart , Donizetti , Ravel and Liszt . The soloists were Shirley Verrett , mezzo-soprano ; Van Cliburn , pianist , and Itzhak Perlman , violinist , all , of whom are alumni of the school . In his role as C.B.S . narrator , Leonard Bernstein said the new Juilliard fulfilled the Socratic ideal in that here " teachers learn and students teach . " The completion of Juilliard , he said , brought a unity to the Lincoln Center complex , transforming it from merely an expensive piece of real estate . Built at a cost of about $29,500,000 , the new Juilliard School was designed by Pietro Belluschi , who was in the audience , in association with Eduardo Catalano and Helge Westermann . The large modern structure , sheathed in Roman travertine marble donated by the Republic of Italy , has six floors above ground and four below and contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its 780 students . 3 Times as Much Room With eight million cubic feet of space the new building has three times as much room as the old building at 120 Claremont Avenue ; which has been taken over by the Manhattan School of Music . The building is ; air-conditioned and has " free floating " walls and floors to minimize sound interference . It has four major performance halls for opera , dance , drama and instrumental music ; rehearsal halls for orchestra and chorus as large as basketball courts ; 15. major studios for ballet , modern dance , opera and drama ; 3 organ studios ; 84 practice rooms ; 27 classrooms and ensemble studios ; 30 private instruction studios ; 2 libraries ; an acoustics studio ; audio , film and recording facilities , and a student-faculty lounge and snack bar . Founded Through Legacy Juilliard was founded as the Institute of Musical Art in 1905 by James Loeb and Frank Damrosch , its first director . Its location then was at the corner of 5th Avenue and 12th Street . It moved to Claremont Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was established through the I . gacy of Augustus D. Juilliard , a wellknown textile manufacturer , who sought the advancement of music in America . In 1926 the forerlation taok ere g the Institute and a year later the two were incorporated under the title of the Juilliard School of Music . The name was shortened to the Juilliard School in 1968 to reflect the conservatory 's expanded activities . Some of the school 's famous alumni are Irving Kolodin , Leontyne Price , Richard Rodgers , Rise Stevens , Rosalyn Tureck , Leonard Rose , Jane Morgan . Edie Adams and John Browning .                     