@@724430

txt Defense Minister Denis W. Healey said today he believed it " extremely unlikely " that Britain would participate in a mixed-manned , nuclear-armed surface fleet if the project went through . Mr. Healey 's comment was made at London Airport before he flew to Paris for the meetings this week of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 's Ministerial Council . Secretary of State Dean Rusk , meeting in Paris with President de Gaulle . sought to assure the French leader that the fleet proposal %v-as not an attempt to isolate France . Page 2.1 Side Talks ' Expected Britain has opposed the project and- has made an alterna-1 tive proposal . The British would establish a nuclear command . separate from NATO and coinposed mainly of British and ' United States Polaris submarines and most of Britain 's V- ? bombers . Foreign Secretary Patrick . Gordon Walker went with Mr. Healey to Paris . He said he expected the British ideas to be discussed in " side talks " among the foreign ministers at the NATO conference . Britain 's leaders came back ' from last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet project was , as , one of them put it privately , " dead duck . " They believe there ' // is growing Congressional opposition to the project and that President Johnson 's support for it is fading . Even if the fleet project dies , as the British leaders expect , they are not optimistic that their own proposals ' will be realized , whether or not they are eventually broadened to include a mixed-manned element . Prime Minister Harold Wilson and Mr. Healey are reliably reported to believe that French opposition to any form of allied nuclear force will prevent agreement among the othjers concerned . They apparently believe that Belgium and Italy , if not others , will finally elect not to risk an open breach in the alliance over nuclear policy . In the end , British officials believe , West Germany may be as happy as the others if Ian the controversial ideas on nuclear policy are shelved . But if they are shelved a new problem will face Mr. Wilson . He will then be left with a national nuclear deterrent that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Labor Party is determined shall be given up , unilaterally if necessary . Mr. Wilson is unlikely to do this . At the moment , nuclear policy is the only shadow over the radiant picture of party unity achieved by the Prime Minister . Because they are not sure of the Prime Minister 's intentions , members of Labor 's left wing outside the Government have been chary of criticizing Mr. Wilson too strongly . At the party 's victory con ' ference in Brighton over the weekend , the left wing held its traditional meeting outside the conference proper . Though its disquiet was evident , so was its reluctance to do anything that might send Labor back to the political wilderness .                     