@@723784

txt Aviation Officials Deny Knowing Of Contractual Link to Baker Associated Press Wirephoto John L. Atwood. at hearing of Senate Rules Committee . Senate Inquiry Told Concern Learned of Its Connection From Newspapers By CABELL PHILLIPS Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , Feb. 18 ? Officials of the North American Aviation Company never knew that they were in a business deal with Robert G. Baker until they . began to read about it in the newspapers a few months ago , testimony before the Senate Rules Committee indicated today . John L. Atwood , president , and other officials of the big aviation , missile and electronics enterprise , appeared before the committee today . They described the negotiations by which a contract in force with one vending-machine company for a number of years had been abruptly reduced by half in January , 1962 , for the benefit of another vending company , . Serv-U , in which Mr. Baker had a substantial interest . The activities of Mr. Baker have been under investigation about four months . At issue is whether his outside business dealings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from which he resigned Oct. 7 . North American , the Senate inquiry was told today , was urged to alter its contract by its Washington consultant , Fred B. Black Jr . Mr. Atwood said he was surprised to learn not long ago that Mr. Black was also a big stockholder in Seri-U . It was an even bigger surprise , he said , to learn that // Serv-U was only a letterheati company , without equipment orl personnel , when North Ameri can signed what ultimately amounted to a $2.5 million con- , tract with it two years ago . According to testimony in the hearing to date , the large profits from Serv-U-were one of the most important factors in Mr. Baker 's financial operations . Mr. Baker himself is under subpoena to appear at a closed session of the committee tomorrow with some of his business records . Whether he will appear in person , or whether he will produce the requested records at all , is uncertain . His attorney , Edward Bennett Williams , cast doubt on the prospect yesterday because Mr. Baker is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same facts desired by the committee are in dispute before the court . L. P. , the committee counsel , has said that he would waive a personal appearance by Mr. Baker provided the required business records are produced . If Mr. Baker elects to plead the Fifth Amendment , against self-incrimination , however , there is little that the rules committee can do to enforce compliance with its request . May Testify in Public Mr. also said today that the committee probably would call Mr. Baker to testif3 , in public next week , and that Carole Tyler , his former Capital secretary , would also be called about the same time . Both have declined so far to answer questions voluntarily . During the rest of this week , the committee plans to take public testimony from Jos ? Benitez , United States Deputy High Commissioner for Trust Territories , who is believed to have collaborated with Mr. Baker in the importation of Haitian meat ; Robert R. Miller , senior vice president of the Northrup Corporation of Los Angeles , where Serv-U also has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the District of Columbia National Bank , in which Mr. Baker was an original stockholder , and L. H. Drinan Jr. , an accountant on the committee 's investigative staff . In a three-hour public session today , Mr. Atwood described Mr. Black , who testified yesterday , as " an astute and reliable observer " of Washington affairs . He said that he had met Mr. Baker through Mr. Black four or five years ago , and that he frequently saw the two together on visits to the capital . In October , 1961 , Mr. Atwood said , Mr. Black told him of a company interested in the vending-machine rights in the plants of North American . Mr. Atwood and other North American officials later received a visit from Eugene Hancock , who identified himself as president of the Automatic Vending Company of Miami . He looked over the plants and filed a proposal for supplying them with vending machines early in January , 1962 . The North American officials thought they were dealing with Automatic Vending . When the time came to sign a contract , on Jan. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Serv-U and it was Serv-U with which they had the contract for the food-vending machines . The connections of Mr. Baker and Mr. Black with Serv-U were never revealed to him , Mr. Atwood said . He also told the committee that after the first contract was signed in January , 1962 , he authorized two extensions of the contract to cover other California plants of North American . These Serv-U contracts now gross about $2.5 million , the officials said , and returns about $600,000 in commissions annually to the employes ' welfare and recreation fund of North American . Others who testified with Mr. Atwood were L. R. Taylor , a vice president , and Kenneth L. Kellough , an official of North American Aid , Inc. , which operates the recreation and welfare programs for the parent company .                     