@@722194

txt Adolf Eichmann was sentenced today to death by hanging for the killing of 6,000,000 Jews . " This court sentences you , Adolf Eichmann , to death for crimes against the Jewish people , crimes against humanity and war crimes for which you were convicted , " were the words of the Presiding Judge . The three judges of the Jerusalem District Court delivered the sentence at 9:20 A. M. ( 2:20 A. M. , Eastern Standard Time ) . The 55-year-old Eichmann was convicted in a judgment delivered by the court Monday and Tuesday . Eichmann , looking very pale , was led to his glass cage at one minute to 9 . He remained standing stiffly and arrogantly while Presiding Judge Moshe Landau accused him of the premeditated murder of millions of Jews . The session of  --  the court was brief , lasting about fifteen minutes . Then Eichmann was taken away and the crowd departed quietly . There were no ! demonstrations at the expected ' sentence . The doom was pro-I London Daily Express Adolf Eichmann pounced a year and a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death penalty , Judge Landau said that each train of 1,000 deportees that Eichmann shipped to the death camps was " the same as 1,000 premeditated murders . " The judge said that Eichmann 's major responsibility was not less than that of those who shoved the people into the gas chambers with their own hands . Judge Landau said that the intent of the Israeli lawmakers had been that the maximum penalty should be mandatory , but this was changed in 1954 when capital punishment was abolished . Judge Landau went on to say that , even if the court accepted the defense plea of blind obedience to orders , it would not affect the sentencing . He said that the terrible suffering of the Jewish people , even to this day , as a result of Eichmann 's crimes must be taken into account . The judge told Eichmann that he could appeal and that he should submit notification of appeal to the office of the District Court within ten days , and the reason within fifteen days . Ten Days for Appeal Then the judge turned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enough time , the law would provide him an extension . Attorney General Gideon Hausner.on Wednesday demanded the death penalty under Israeli law . The Israeli law for punishment of Nazis and Nazi collaborators , under which Eichmann was tried , permits mitigation only if it is proved that the accused tried to lessen the consequence of his crime . The judges appeared to have ruled out mitigation by stating that Eichmann had done nothing to lighten the martyrdom he inflicted on Jews , but , on the contrary , had acted with fanatical zeal in rounding up Jews for shipment to death camps . The former Nazi officer has informed his defense counsel , Dr. Robert Servatius of West Germany , that he is preparing his last will and testament . Dr. Servatius plans to appeal to the Supreme Court . Such a move would delay confirmation of the sentence for several months . As a last resort a plea for clemency to the Israeli President , Itzhak Ben-Zvi , is planned . Prof. Martin Buber , Israeli philosopher , says he will make a personal appeal to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contends that where there is no possible punishment to fit the crime and where the imagination can not envisage a suitable punishment a death penalty would be meaningless . Memoirs Warn Youth But few Israelis seem as perturbed as Dr. Buber and it seems unlikely that President Ben-Zvi will come under heavy pressure to commute Eichmann 's death sentence . Under Israeli law , an intention to appeal must be filed in the Supreme Court within ten days after sentencing . The Supreme Court would hear the appeal some time next year , probably in March . By that time Eichmann should have completed tha manuscript to which his defense counsel made reference in court Wednesday . Dr. Servatius said Eichmann 's memoirs contained a chapter warning youth of the dangers of anti-Semitism and offered this as proof that Eichmann had " changed " and was truly repentant . But Eichmann in his cold : manner failed in his final statement to indicate remorse . In the opinion of many Israelis his manner negated the plea for his life that Dr. Servatius had just presented . Dr. Servatius had taken issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no choice but to sentence Eichmann to death . " The spirit of our times is against the death penalty , " Dr. Servatius said . " And especially against a mandatory one . " The West German counsel went on to say that Eichmann was a mere Nazi underling , powerless to alleviate the suffering of Jews whom he was obliged to round up for deportation . Superior Orders Pleaded Dr. Servatius ' position was based on the same plea of superior orders that was advanced by Nazi leaders at the post-war Nuremberg trials . The accused was powerless against the dynamics of the state ; his personal feelings were as chaff before the wind , Dr. Servatius said . Eichmann yielded to the general state of hypnosis that gripped Nazi Germany , the counsel went on . Officials believed they were implementing historical necessity fulfilling the holy work- of the Fuehrer who was acting under divine guidance . " It has been said that history is not made with silk gloves , ' Dr. Servatius added , " and that when trees are felled the chips fly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government for having failed to demand Eichmann 's extradition after his abduction from Argentina by Israeli agents . " The accused stands here as a scapegoat , abandoned by his people , " Dr. Servatius contended . Attorney General Hausner , declaring that the death sentence was mandatory once the accused had been found guilty of crimes against the Jewish people and humanity cited the only other case tried under the 1950 law . In that case , the Tel Aviv District Court found Yehezkiel Ingster , a former Jewish trusty in a German concentration camp , guilty of a crime against humanity . The court emphasized that it would not have sentenced Ingster to death in the particular circumstances of the case , but that it found the law left it no alternative . The death sentence for ordinary murder was abolished in Israel in 1954 , but the capital sentence was retained in the law for the punishment of Nazis and Nazi criminals .                     