@@727511

txt Chief Judge William J. Campbell of federal District court yesterday called Daniel Walker 's conclusions on police violence at the Democratic national convention his " personal opinions " and suggested that a special grand jury may investigate " the timing and the motivation " behind the release of the controversial report . " The Walker report , according to all I have read , is just the report of one individual , not of the commission , " he said . Holds Press Parley Campbell , who appointed the jury now looking into convention week disorders in Chicago last August , challenged the qualifications of both Walker and his 212-member team to conduct " a criminal investigation " into the disturbances . The report to the National Commission on Violence , charges that some Chicago policemen made " plainly deliberate " assaults and used " unrestrained and indiscriminate " force in handling convention demonstrations . Praised , Then Criticized In a press conference in his office , Campbell praised Walker as an able attorney , then commented : " Tho I value his friendship highly , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of criminal investigation . " Walker declined to comment on Campbell 's remarks immediately , saying he wanted first to see a text of the judge 's comments . But he sent the following telegram to Campbell : " I wish to clarify the situation with respect to release of the report . I was given a deadline of mid-November by the President 's National Commission on Violence . I met that deadline . I was informed that the commission needed my report in time to make their interim report to President Johnson . The commission decided to release the report because of its great public interest . I concurred in that decision because I felt that to have the completed report withheld from the public would not be in the tradition of full disclosure which is expected of governmental operations . I want you to know that I have the highest respect for you and for the grand jury . This telegram is being made public . " Campbell said the grand jury will complete its deliberations in January , " and then make the only official report possible on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " will be the one correct , definitive , objective story . " The judge said release of the report Sunday was followed by " almost hysterical coverage by national television newscasters and replay of many of the disgusting scenes of convention week . " Questions the Motives " I question both the timing and the motivation behind the timing , " he said . " If it was timed now to attempt to influence their the special grand jury 's findings , it could very well become the subject of their own investigation . " Campbell sharply attacked the thoroness of the report . which was completed in 53 days , and the veracity of Walker 's resulting conclusions . " It presents Mr. Walker 's personal opinions on what he finds from a limited investigation of what happened in Chicago the week of the convention , " Campbell said . " As I read it , it was made up by 200 young lawyers who reviewed Federal Bureau of Investigation reports made available by the justice department . " Needs More Time By comparison , the grand jury " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monumental task in such a short period of time . " he said . Campbell also challenged the objectivity of the report , com-menting : " I do n't know why anyone wanting an objective investigation would set a time limit . This is no way to conduct a criminal investigation . " Asked whether release of the report could be grounds for a contempt citation , Campbell said he would " take action in this area only if it were requested by the grand jury . " Campbell told reporters that Walker , Chicago Crime commission president , called him at his home Saturday just before the report was distributed to the press . Wo n't Harm Jury He did not ask Walker to hold back the report , he said , but remarked : " Personally , I feel it should have been placed in the hands of the grand jury before it was released  --  but I do n't think it will harm the grand jury investigation . " Campbell said he understood that release of the report was authorized by " someone in the attorney general 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Walker report was its reliance on second-hand information . " No one could make a complete report without fully reading all of the very excellent FBI reports on the matter and interviewing those who made the reports and those named in the reports , " he said . " That is a task that would take much longer time than Mr. Walker and his associates took before releasing their report . " " Best in the World " Campbell expressed some surprise that federal records were made available to the Chicago study group , terming it " unusual for the justice department to release reports to a private group when it already has given such reports to a duly-constituted investigative body . " Noting it might be argued that Walker 's group is more expert than the 23 citizens who make up the grand jury , he emphasized that the court-appointed body has at its disposal " the best criminal investigators in the world  --  the FBI . " Campbell 's criticism of the Walker report swelled the list of prominent Chicagoans who have challenged the conclusions that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daley said the charges in the report lacked substantiation . " There were no police riots , " Daley said . " The riots were created by people , the policemen surely did n't create them . " Police Supt. James B. Conlisk Jr . rejected the report 's summary , which contained the most stinging indictment of police . " To speak of a ' police riot ' is to destroy the history of those days in August , " Conlisk said .                     