@@724539

txt Indonesia : Looking Toward China United Press International INDONESIAN PROTEST : Angry Indonesian students staging an anti-American demonstration last December to protest United States action in the Congo . They attached the United States Information Service library building , tore down the American flag and replaced it with the Indonesian . By NEIL SHEEHAN Special to The New York Times JAKARTA , Indonesia , Feb. 6 ? Although the United States has given Indonesia approximately $700 million in aid since this country achieved independence in 1949 , the current American aid program has almost no importance for the Indonesian Government . From a peak of roughly $120 million in the fiscal year 1963 , the United States aid program here has now been reduced to an estimated $10 minion for the current fiscal year . It is possible that not all of this amount may be spent because of the deterioration in relations between the two countries and , the unwillingness of the Indonesian Government to carry out part of the program . The United States has made it clear to President Sukarno that it will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he persists in his policy of attempting to destroy the neighboring federation of Malaysia and does not develop sound economic policies to curb the inflation which is ruining Indonesia 's economy . In the summer of 1963 , the United States offered Dr. Sukarno lavish American aid if he would concentrate on long-range economic development . Washington also began organizing a fund of $250 million in foreign grants and loans , more than half of which was to be provided by the United States , to stabilize Indonesia 's currency . 1963 Turning Point But plans for this large-scale United States aid program and stabilization fund were canceled when Dr. Sukarno stepped up his confrontation policy against Malaysia in September of that year . The already existing United States aid programs here were also drastically reduced . Western diplomatic observers believe President Sukarno decided deliberately to sacrifice American aid because of his ambition to make Indonesia the dominant power in this part of the world and because he has never shown much interest in long-range economic development . The confrontation against Malaysia also fits into the pattern that Dr. Sukarno developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy in order to keep the country unified and to give Indonesian 's an issue that may help them to forget their own economic difficulties . President Sukarno has publicly told the United States to " go to hell " with its aid program because of conditions attatched to it . With large-scale American aid denied him because of his foreign policies , Dr. Sukarno has shown scant interest in preserving what little remains . Anti-US . Activities As evidence of its attitude toward American aid , the Indonesian Government has joined in an antiAmerican campaign being pressed by the Indonesian Communist party and has either aided or al- , lowed increasing Communist attacks and harassment against American installations and businesses here . The Governmentcontrolled information media and newspapers have also adopted a strongly anti-American attitude . The United States Information Service 's library in Jogjakarta was seized by the Government-controlled National Front last August and the U.S.I.S. library in Surabaya was closed by Government order in December after it had been attacked and damaged by ' s Communist mob . The consulate In Surabaya and the United States Information Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by mobs in December and United States flags were desecrated - IT . Diplomatic observers believe that the Indonesian Government finds this anti-American campaign a convenient means of showing it ? displeasure with United States policies , creating an additional target for the frustrations of : the Indonesian people and partly satisfying internal Communist pressure . These observers feel that the Government simply is not concerned with the consequences to the remaining American aid programs .                     