@@723571

txt Chicago Urban renewal wipes out rickety buildings , but what happens to the craftsmen and small merchants who have stayed in busineSs only because they could get cheap rent in these substandard structures ? Generally , these people disappear either because they go out of business or move to other areas . But is this neces-sary ? Residents of the Hyde ParkKenwood renewal area near the University of Chicago arc out to prove that the answer is " no . " Organized as the nonprofit Harper Court Foundat ion , they have launched a plan for building a square of low-rent shops which they hope will keep valued craftsmen in the community and attract some new small enterprises which the community needs . ' Target Date Set Under the enthusiastic chairmanship of Mrs. George Beadle , wife of the president of the University of Chicago , a drive for the sale of bonds to the community is well under way . Target date for completion is Dec. 1 . The plan is a self-help one which involves the negotiation of a $500,000 25-year loan from the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary for the foundation to raise $120,000 in bonds to buy the land . The Chicago Urban Renewal Department has offered a suitable area of 66,000 square feet . ( Old Brownstone " The zeal of the Hyde Park-Kellwood people is inspired in part by the knowledge that they are engaged in a pathfinding enterprise . This is the first time , so far as they know , that a community has devised a plan for saving the small concerns and craftsmen that go out under urban renewal . It is the first such loan requested of the Small Business Administration , they have been told . They feel also that the Han . ' per Court project will be a community asset . Completed architect 's drawings show a mall surrounded by some 25 ' shops of harmonious " old brownstone " design . The shops are bilevel with ground floor a few steps down from the street . The plan is to rent two-1 thirds of the shops to crafts- ? men and other small operators at a price well below the going rate for space in new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates to larger enterprises , such as a gourmet restaurant or a book store . The rentals will go to pay off the loan . Hyde Park would not be the same without its small merchants and craftsmen , Mrs. Beadle told a press conference when the plan was announced . " For example , there 's our picture framer . What other . com community has so many prints to be framed ? And where would we take them if we lose this shop ? There arc many services we need and are accustomed to get from the little shops . We do not want them to go . " Even shoe repairmen are essential . If those on the renewed 55th Street do n't come back , 6,500 people will be left with only six repair shops , the Chicago Maroon , University of Chicago newspaper , points out .                     