@@727110

txt The leaders of the Legislature , acting Linder pressure from Governor Rockefeller and the State Board of Regents have agreed , to Istrengthen their plan for . decentralization ' of the . New York City school system . Their agreement to amend their plan , which- ? in , essence would have deferred a resoluz Ition of the . racially sensitive lissue for at least a year , came after a day of . closed meetings , here involving legislative officials , the Governor and Dr.I James E. Allen Jr. , the State Education Commissioner , representing the Regents . However , it remained unclear tonight whether the leaders would go far enough in revising , their legislation to satisfy the Regents and other advocates of , a sweeping overhaul of the school system that would give local residents a substantial voice in running their school ) The Governor himself indi-I cated that he had backed off somewhat from his original support of the Regents ' strong decentralization bill by saying he did not want to remove the city 's present Board of Education.Mr . Rockefeller said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be pretty careful here of how often we just toss out civilian boards which are established ? whose members are giving of their time and energy . " The bill submitted by the Board of Regents , the state 's highest educational authority , would replace the present nineman board of education with a less powerful five-man board . The new board would be required to have in operation by July 1 , 1970 , a decentralized system made up of eight to 20 locally governed community school districts . The near-'utonomous boards of these districts would replace the system 's 30 existing local school districts and their boards , which ire largely advisory and have tow powers . On the other hand , the legislative leaders ' plan , which is an adoption of legislation introduced by Senator John J. Marchi , Staten Island Republican , would retain the present Board of Education and simply direct it to restudy the matter and come up with another plan for next year 's Legislature to consider . The board 's plan would have to conform to guidelines , but these guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would the Regents ' plan . Moreover , the Legislature would not be required to enact enact th ' board 's plan ; it could , if it chose , put the matter off for still another year . The leaders ' measure provides further that during the time while the Board of Education was formulating its plan for the 1969 Legislature , it would delegate some enhanced powers to the advisory boards of the existing districts . The Regents and Dr. Allen were reported today to be firmly against retaining the present board of education should be removed . They reason that the board is opposed to any substantial decentralization and that it would therefore be selfdefeating to put it in charge of formulating and carrying out a decentralization plan . However , it was understood that one compromise being weighed would enlarge the Board of Education , at least during the period of decentralization , so that Mayor Lindsay , could appoint some new member hers sympathetic to decentralization . Moreover , the terms of soy- ' eral members of the present , board are due to expire within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board were eventually reduced to its original ninemember size , the Mayor could by his appointments insure a sizable pro-decentralization bloc . It was understood that at the final meeting on the measure today , which was held in Mr. Rockefeller 's office and lasted two hours , Dr. Allen and the Governor were able to convince the legislators that the original bill was too " half-hearted " and that the racially touchy issue required the " urgent " , passage of a much stronger plan . Attending that meeting were , in addition to the Governor and Dr. Allen , Lieut . Gov . Malcolm Wilson , Secretary to the Governor Alton G. Marshall , Senator Marchi , and representatives of the legislative leaders . Another compromise measure being considered , in addition to enlarging the Board of Education , would be to make the law " self-executing , " as it is in the Regents ' proposal , instead of putting it over for action by a later Legislature . Under this suggestion , however , the local districts would not have as much power as they would under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubles in the city 's present experimental local districts , such as last week 's dismissal of teachers in the Ocean HillBrownsville Demonstration District in Brooklyn , warn that a strong decentralization plan would put many city schools in the hands of black power advocates . Dr. Allen and other educators , on the other hand , argue that local participation in running the schools is the only way to save the school system from decay .                     