@@722283

txt Responding to criticism , Presi- , dent Kennedy said today he was being as frank as possible ' about United States involvement in the war in Vietnam . He asked that such sensitive matters be left to " responsible leaders " of both parties . The President countered charges of excessive secrecy with a statement that no American combat troops " in the generally understood sense of the word " had been sent into Vietnam . Yet he conceded , without giving statistics , that military support had been increased to match increased Communist activity . Questions 13 and 14 , page 14.1 That support , Mr. Kennedy said at his news conference , is consistent with a ten-year policy of trying to keep South Vietnam out of Communist hands . He disagreed with complaints that Congress had not been properly briefed on the situation and he expressed hope that he could maintain the present " very strong bipartisan consensus . " Uses Notes in Replying The President came prepared with notes to answer criticism in the press and from the Republican National Committee that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the developing warfare in South Vietnam . Mr. Kennedy did not comment on the progress of that war  --  which the Administration expects to continue for years ? but he displayed i new uneasiness about the situation in neighboring Laos . The cease-fire between royal Laotian and Leftist rebel forces was " becoming increasingly frayed , " the President said . He noted that renewed fighting at Nam Tha was close to the border of Communist China  --  it is about fifteen miles away  --  and by implication expressed concern about Chinese intervention . If the cease-fire breaks down , the President added , " we would be faced with the most serious decision . " Question 27 . Soviet Held to Promise It was to avoid the painful choice between surrender of Laos to the Communists and intervention by United States troops that Mr. Kennedy has tried to keep the Soviet leaders to their promise of turning Laos into a neutral and independent buffer state . Thus far the President feels the Russians have kept their word , but he has been unable to persuade the royalist Rightwing forces in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince Souvanna Phouina . Progress in the negotiations among the three rival Laotian princes has been very slow over the last month , Mr. Kennedy said , noting that the dangers increased with every passing day . Editorial questioning of the President 's handling of both Laos and Vietnam has been seized upon recently by a number of Republicans and developed into major criticism . The Republican National Committee 's bulletin , Battle Line , summarized some of the charges yesterday . It said the Administration was " forcing the legitimate Government of Laos into a perilous coalition with the Reds " and promoting " the pretense that the United States is merely acting as military adviser to South Vietnam . " The people should not have to wait until the casualty lists arrive to learn of the country 's commitments , Battle Line asserted . It asked whether the country was " moving toward another Korea which might embroil the entire Far East . " When asked to comment , the President was ready with a list sf previous commitments to Vietnam by the Administra tions of Presidents Truman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , the United States increased its support in South Vietnam for the Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem , especially so in recent months , Mr. Kennedy said . Repeating earlier statements on the extent of the United States build-up , the President said : " We are supplying logistic assistance , transportation assistance , training , and we have a number of Americans who ape taking part in that effort . " Recent reports from Saigon have said that as many as 4,000 United States troops were now serving with the South Vietnam forces , but the President did not go beyond " some . " No Americans are combat troops , ' Mr. Kennedy explained , " although the training missions that we have there have been instructed that if they are fired upon they are , of course , to fire back , to protect themselves . Casualty List Supplied A list of American casualties in South Vietnam in recent months , supplied later by the Pentagon , showed no fatalities , in any such exchange of fire . ) The Defense Department listed thirteen deaths and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed in the crash of a C-123 plane on a practice run Feb. 2 . Six airmen and two members of the Army were killed in the crash of a C-47 last Sunday . An Army driver was killed when his truck struck a mine and two soldiers were killed by a grenade hurled into their barracks . The President said he had fully briefed Congressional leaders on the Vietnam situation at a White House review of foreign affairs in early January . Further information had been given Congressional committees by Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Robert S. , Secretary of Defense .                     