@@727055

txt . Austin , Tex. , April 14-President Johnson today observed Easter at two church services near his Texas ranch and prepared for a trip to Hawaii . Johnson was scheduled to leave tomorrow morning on a flight to Honolulu . During a three-day visit there he will confer with Adm . U. S. Grant Sharp , United States commander in the Pacific , on Tuesday , and with President Chung Hee Park of South Korea on Wednesday . The President also kept in touch with state department officials preparing the next move in efforts to find a site for preliminary talks with North Viet Nam . Attends Catholic Mass Johnson attended a 9 a. m. mass at the St. Francis Xavier Catholic church in Stonewall , Tex . ' His daughter , Luci , and her 9-month-old son , Patrick Lyndon , accompanied him . President and Mrs. Johnson and Luci then attended an 11 a. in. service at the St. Barnabas Episcopal church in Fredericksburg ; 20 miles west of the ranch ; Mrs. Johnson is a communicant of St. Barnabas . They took communion there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pastor of St. Francis , welcomed Johnson before starting his sermon . He expressed his regret over the " bad news " that Johnson is not seeking reelection . The priest remarked that " the national loss is our gain " because the President would be returning to Texas at the end of his term in the White House . Father " Schneider also commented that he and the congregation were sorry that Luci 's husband , Pat Nugent , was not with them this Easter . Nugent , an airman first class , reported for duty in Viet Nam two days ago . Asks Divine Guida , nce The vicar of St. Barnabas church , the Rev. William E. Campbell , offered a prayer for world peace and asked divine guidance for President Johnson and " leaders of the world engaged in conversations to bring peace . " The clergyman asked special blessings for the United States servicemen , in particular those fighting in Viet Nam . Johnson 's conference with Park was intended to reassure South Korea that the United States has not lost interest in combatting communism in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arose from three factors : the United States willingness to negotiate for months over the re , lease of the 82 surviving crew members of the seized U. S. S. Pueblo , the President 's partial bombing halt over North Viet Nam and maneuvering between the United States and Hanoi on a site for preliminary talks on North Viet Nam 's demands thatthe United States end " all acts of war " as a condition for peace talks . State department officials believed that North Viet Nam sought to draw a propaganda advantage over Washington 's rejection of Warsaw and Pnom Penh , the capital of Cambodia , as a site for the talks . They noted that while North Viet Nam 's latest radio statement on the subject was laced with invective against the United States , it repeated Hanoi 's willingness to meet Unite d States representatives and did not close any doors to such a meeting . The statement was broadcast last night . Officials were uncertain whether Secretary of State Dean Rusk would join Johnson in Hawaii . They noted he had a heavy schedule of engage= @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with following his recent hospitalization. 14 Meetings Cited The difficulties with South Korea officials arose from the 14 private meetings the United States has held with North Korean representatives since Jan. 23 in an effort to negotiate the release of the Pueblo crewmen . The South Koreans felt the United States talks accorded undeserved recognition of the North Korean government and that United States interest in the Pueblo was exaggerated in contrast with its interest in the infiltration by North Koren agents into Seoul with the intent of assassinating Park .                     