@@727140

txt Reports that Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz plans to resign appear to be just talk , nothing more . Mr. Wirtz appears to be happy in his job , and in the Johnson administration . A close adviser and political aide to the late Adlai E. Stevenson , Mr. Wirtz now is a friend and ally of Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey . If he quits ( Cabinet officers are n't supposed to take sides with presidential contenders ) , it probably will be to help Mr. Humphrey 's drive for the Democratic nomination . But no one close to Mr. Wirtz expects this to happen . Steel bargaining is getting under way in a " cautiously optimistic " atmosphere . Local negotiations were more successful than most anyone had imagined they would be . More than half ( about 51 percent ) of the local issues in United States . Steel plants have already been settled at the plant level . e The United Steelworkers of America and 11 major steel firms have smoothed the way for wider employment of hard-core jobless . An agreement signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basic steel contract by extending the normal 30-day probationary period to six months for new employees hired despite " basic educational deficiencies . " The companies now will drop minimum hiring standards ( usually a high-school diploma ) for a limited number of the hard-core group . Those so employed must pledge to " pursue a course of study approved by the company " to raise their educational level . If they fail to do so ? presumably on their own time  --  the company is free to discharge them at the end of the extended probationary period . If they are studying , the period can be extended further . Auto unions are steering toward equivalent wages the world around . As a step in this direction , they have been meeting in Turin , Italy , to discuss ways to attain standardized auto wages regionally= as between the United States and Canada now . The Turin conferees encouraged unions in Peru and Colombia to go after wage parity with higher-paying Venezuela . They urged Italian workers to demand parity with those in the rest of Europe . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to boost their wages to levels prevailing in Australia , New Zealand , and Japan . Trends .. . There 's something in a name  --  when it 's changed . The Building Service Employees International Union has now become the Service Employees International Union . The switch was made at a convention in May because the 372,000-member union is expanding its membership into other fields . For the same reason the Hod Carriers ' earlier became the Laborers ' International Union . It 's a sign of the times : Because of labor-force changes , unions are looking into new fields for growth  --  and names are being altered to reflect this expansion . 0 Now Negro workers are playing a major role in the auto industry . This finding appears in a study by the Department of Industry of the Wharton School , University of Pennsylvania . The study , first of a series to be made under a Ford Foundation grant , traces gains by Negroes in the industry since pre-World War II years . It notes , however , that despite his progress , the Negro worker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because many Negroes are still in low-seniority jobs . Other reports are due in the series on " The Racial Policies of American Industry . " How and why .. . Clothes make the woman  --  work . In Japan 's tight labor market , Toyo Elecxonics Industry Corporation in Kyoto , a manufacturer of resistors , was finding it difficult to get women workers . Realizing the universal feminine interest in good styling , the firm paid a Paris couturier 012,000 for a modish uniform design . Then t spent $36 each for summer and winter Iresser , to be made for 750 employees  --  a , otal outlay of $66,000 . Now Toyo reports that morale has imnoved . And in the first four months of this rear , 135 women have been recruited .                     