@@722248

txt A group of persons here who have never faced the electorate or wondered when their nest Civil Service promotion is coming nonetheless are giving ? big and little nudges to Government policy . They 're from the . Brookings Institution , a non-partisan. non-profit corporation here engaged in research and education in the social sciences . Consider some examples of their varied and influential activities : A controversial Commerce Department proposal for new transportation policies . now being reviewed by the While House . was directed by Wilfred Owen . on leave from Brookings . The Administration 's arguments for President Kennedy 's plan to widen Social Security coverage to finance medical care for the aged will rely heavily on a lengthy academic appraisal of various financing schemes made by Brookings . The problems involved in possible Federal taxation of state and local bonds will be discussed today and tomorrow at a Brookings-. sponsored meeting attended by some 35 munittpal bond dealers , commercial bankers ? state and local government officials and economists : the Treasury Department will be watching with interest . Tendency for Impartiality The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assess . While the inebriation tended to the conservative point of view during the 1930s and 19405 it has attempted more ' recently to be strictly impartial . Yet the general nature of its influence seems pretty clear . Amid Washington 's highly pblitical. often emotioncharged atmosphere . Brookings ' work tends to encourage reasoned consideration of economic and other hard facts bearing on major Jaques of the day . Brookings shies from any description of being a power behind the throne in the Kennedy or any other AdministratiOn , and obvj. ously such a description would be overdrawn . Many of its studies gather dust on university I library " shelves : many of its specialists ' ree Hmmendations to Government are flouted or ignored : many other universities and nonGovernment groups perform research for Federal agencies . But Brookings ' complete emphasis on Government affairs ( it does no contract work for non-Government organizations+ , its top-flight ' staff with . Washington know-how and contacts in both Republican and Democratic camps . and its location in Washington combine to give It special prominence . If the average citizen has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a picture of an ivory.towered academic group publishing , abstruse , long-hair economic studies . Brookings does publish learned studies on economics , government and foreign policy , but it does a lot more . Some of the Institution 's studies are made under contract for ' Government agencies or after special coordination with . Government officials to make sure the information gathered is helpful to them . Members of its highly regarded professional staff frequently take leave to work in the Government on special projects . ' and are in heavy demand as members of Government task forces , as expert witnesses at Government hearings , and as private advisers to members of Congress and executive branch policy makers . Teaching Federal Officials The Institution runs a wide variety of courses at which Government officials can bone up on broad academic subjects or spe dile matters related to their jobs . The rooms at its eight-story ultra-modern Center . for Advanced Study building , on Massachusetts Avenue near Du Pont Circle , are constantly used as neutral meeting ground for academic , labor-management and other groups : late in 1980. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Paul Samuelson met there several times to work up its anti-recession program . Brookings was set up in 1927 bymerge three previous research organizations : It has far outgrown Its early dimensions . The present president is 59-year-old Robert D. Calkins , former professor of business economics and dean of the Columbia University School of Business . The Institution has a staff of 130 , including 85 research and administrative officials , in addition to some 30 outside scholars doing work under contract . Its annual budget now runs over S. ? million , of which about two-thirds comes from grants and contracts from the Federal and other governments and the rest from endowments . The Brookings influence on Federal policy Is neither limited to any one area nor is It new . In 1947 , the Irate Sen. Vandenberg , then chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , asked Brookings experts to study three alternatives for organizing a European recovery progrim : the Brookings report helped Congress reach agreement on the administrative structure of the Marshall Plan . Problems of Changing Presidents More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Administrations in Washington helped focus attention early in 1960 on the problems of transition from one President to another . Representatives of both Kennedy and Nixon met at Brookings during the summer and fall of 1960 with a panel of former Government officials to discuss problems of a new President A series of nine confidential papers spotlighted for the potential President some of the questions he would have to deal with early after his election in picking his top aides , using the Budget Bureau , dealing with the press , overhauling regulatory agencies , and other matters . A recent Brookings volume , providing estimates of likely short-run changes in U.S. employment due to rising imports is certain to figure repeatedly in the coming foreign trade debate in Congress : it concludes that while particular industries may be hard-hit , the total harm to the national economy would be slight . A Brookings report near completion will probably shape new Government recruiting and personnel policies : it analyzes the views of some 5.500 students , teachers , businessmen and other citizens on the appeal and prestige of Government careers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a permanent basis a series of seminars like those Brookings ran from 1956 to 1960 to educate young Government careerists on broad public problems outside their own particular agencies . Early last year a Brookings study of India 's economic problems was circulated widely among foreign aid officials taking a new look at the U.S. foreign aid program . Brookings is about to deliver to the Government 's Office of Education an analysis of the extent to which Federal aid to colleges and universities may distort academic patterns . A recent exhaustive Brookings survey , widely read in Washington , proposes ways to improve American planning for arms control and possible areas of agreement with Rum ; la . A project just getting under way will examine the possibility of using new Treasury Department electronic computers , designed for processing tax returns , to get instantaneous accurate estimates of how changing economic conditions or new tax laws would affect Treasury revenues . Sizing Up Communist Congress - A recent Brookings-sponsored get-together gave State Department Soviet experts the benefit of the thinking of university and foundation specialists on the implications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month 25 top Federal officials met under Brookings auspices in Williamsburg , Va .. for 12 days of listening to lectures , taking part in seminars , and doing outside reading on such academic items as " the individual , government , and society , " and on subjects like " Innovations in Administration " that tie in more closely with their jobs . The idea is to give these men a broader view of government than they 're likely to get in their daily jobs . In February . a small group of young businessmen will start 25 weeks of " internship " In Washington  --  two weeks of orientation lectures by Government officials , and 23 weeks of actual service in some agency job . Arranged by Brookings , the program is supposed to acquaint non  --  Government leaders with Government problems and at the same time build up a reservoir of promising young men available for future Governemnt jobs in an emergency or for service on advisory committees . Though most of the Institution 's contract work is done for the Federal Government , It does occasionally serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Is In the midst of an 16-month-long study for New York City 's government , trying to figure out ways New York and other cities can fill their needs for social workers , engineers , laboratory technicians and other skilled men and women . A five-man Brookings task force has been In South Vietnam for the past 16 months advising that government how to improve its tax , tariff , budget and foreign exchange systems .                     