@@723273

txt Letters to The Times Urban League on Schools Official Disputes Agnes Meyer on Its Position on Desegregation TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Urban League of Greater New York has suggested the transfer of numbers of white children to schools in Harlem as one means of desegregating our schools . Our chief spokesman on this matter has been Ethel Schwabacher , chairman of our city-wide education committee . Mrs. Schwabacher has not stated that the league views this as the only means of desegregating Harlem schools , nor has she Indicated the league has worked up a timetable for achieving this . The facts are : The league has vigorously supported efforts by the Board of Education to build schools in fringe areas , It has supported the rezoning of school boundaries to allow for more integration and it has supported the " open enrollment " program which in effect gives Negro parents the option of sending their children outside Harlem and other ghetto areas in the city for their schooling . In one year alone the league , in promoting the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its representatives appear before 75 parent groups to explain the advantages of open enrollment . Statements by Agnes Meyer in her letter published July 2 pertaining to the league 's position on this matter as an example of irresponsible Negro leadership " among a few rival national organizations " are misleading and grossly unfair , not only to the league , but to countless local citizens who have joined with the league to work for general improvement of our schools . Washington Imbalance Since Mrs. Meyer suggests that she is unprepared to comment on the problem in New York City without further study or investigation , it is interesting that in her letter she sought to equate the racial imbalance in Manhattan schools ? representing only one of five boroughs of New York City  --  with the whole metropolis of Washington , where we understand 84 per cent of the students are Negroes . Mrs. Meyer also takes a swipe at us unfairly w'aen she erroneously suggests that the Urban League of Greater New York was " formerly one of the most conservative of the national Negro organizations . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization , nor has it in my opinion earned during its 53-year history the dubious distinction of being " conservative . " There may be others who will disagree with the latter point , but certainly not to the extent that the league is or ever has been a " status quo " organization . So for Mrs. Meyer 's information and for those countless readers whom she has misinformed , let it be said that the Urban League of Greater New York is a professional social work agency serving the five boroughs of New York City . As a community service agency , it seeks advancement of Negroes and other minorities in areas of housing , education , employment and social services . It is one of 63 Urban Leagues around the country affiliated with the National Urban League . As a local unit , it develops its own policy through its own governing body , which , incidentally , is composed of both white and Negro members . EDWARD S. LEWIS , Executive Director , Urban League of Greater New York . New York , July 3 , 1963 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ YORK TIMES : The disdain for even their own welfare manifested by the building trades unions , as pointed out in your editorial of July 2 , is another illustration of the hopelessness of the so-called collective bargaining process under existing labor laws . These unions and their weakkneed employers , between them , have not only socialized middle-class multiple housing , but with the teamsters and other overpowerful and selfish unions that make collective bargaining a sham have set a level of wages beyond the power of government to meet in the case of schoolteachers and others . The result has been rising prices and proportionate weakening of the purchasing power of the dollar , with consequent hardship on the mass of the people , including the majority of the working class , pensioners and everyone else who has denied himself in the interest of thrift . As the Administration hopes to enforce civil rights by withholding subsidies , why should it not establish wage scales when subsidizing housing , road construction , etc. ? Perhaps before Mr. Hoffa adds to the cataclysm this fall , the Administration will awaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include the right of all of us to be protected from the rapacities of the moles who are undermining our economic structure in their blind scramble for more . PERCIVAL E. JACKSON . Sea Cliff , L. July 2 , 1963 . Against a Park Cafe Preservation of Scarce Greenery Now in City Is Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I know of no effort by the city , Park Commissioner Morris , Robert Moses or the Huntington Hartford Family Foundation to discover what the presumed beneficiaries of the proposed cafe in Central Park think about the gift . But I would like Justice Markowitz , who has been hearing the case against the cafe , to know the desires of one middle-class family living on the West Side of Manhattan who frequently use the park in general and the zoo in particular . At first it was claimed that the cafe Would give the ordinary citizen a glorious place to enjoy a reasonably priced meal on an especially attractive piece of city real estate . This argument is not very persuasive when one considers that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site of the new cafe and that anybody with a picnic hamper already enjoys this opportunity . Now it is suggested that the cafe is needed as part of a plan to create " islands of light " in the park to make it safe at night . Since the cafe would front on the already well lighted Central Park South , this argument has no merit . The lighting of the lake to the north is not dependent on the existence of the cafe . As Commissioner Morris has noted often in the past , there is a pitiful shortage of just plain greenery in this city . It seems criminal to encroach on the relatively small patches that exist . The Hartford Foundation might better contribute the $862,000 le a system of lighting the entire park or , better yet , to initiating construction of several small outdoor cafes on the European order in various parts of the city . This would spread the pleasure around and eliminate the traffic congestion created by a large cafe on a corner presently crowded . It would leave our great Central Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MIMI S. NiCiioLsoN . New York , July 3 , 1963 . Recognition of Angolan Rebels To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your July 1 editorial " The Congo 's Consolidation " rightly commends Premier Adoula of the central Congolese Government for his wise II etion in cracking down ' ' on Angolan rebel groups in Leopoldville to keep them from carrying out threats to sack Portuguese enterprises and the Portuguese Embassy . " Curiously enough  --  but this other aspect of Premier Adoula 's wisdom was not commented on in your great newspaper  --  the editorial appeared a day after the same central Congolese Government conferred official recognition on the so-called " Angola Government-in-Exile . " This is the very same irresponsible tribal-terrorist group , the Union of the Populations of Angola , headed by Holden Roberto , the members of which were the subject of the " crack down " raforrod in in vntir wiftnrial B. TEIXEIRA , Press Officer , Embassy of Portugal . Washington , July 3 , 1983 . Cooper Union 's Art School To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of your readers in a letter published July 3 . The Cooper Union School of Art and Architecture is not " being discontinued , " but on the contrary has recently expanded into its new degree program with considerable success . We value highly the quality and reputation of our educational programs and our efforts are steadfastly directed towards their continuous imnravpmott not their dissolution . RICHARD F. HUMPHREYS , President , The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art . New York , July 8 , 1963 , Beer Can Opener Queried TOME EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Here is one vote against Alcoa 's hope that nine billion beer cans will be fitted wih Ermal Fraze 's ingenious , sharp-cornered tab-opener . Hidden in the grass and in the sand , these bits of metal are a new menace to the barefooted . At least the unsightly beer can is visible . Oh , beer drinkers , please pop the tab in the can before hurling it upon the greensward . This is the litter bit that really hurts . ROBERT MAITLAND . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  