@@723436

txt The Christian Science Monitor asked nine of Its correspondents in major cities for a spot check on what changes in curriculum were impending in their high schools . They report a variety of experiments designed to make the educational process more rigorous and efficient : New York : ' Scientific Literacy ' High school students here will spend more time on the physical sciences this coming school year than in the past . Six periods a week instead of the former live periods will be required . This is part of a campaign to develop " scientific literacy in all students , " said Dr. Seelig Lester , assistant superintendent of the high school division . The increased clasSroom and laboratory experience will enable students to go more deeply into such areas as nuclear physics , meteorology , and space travel . A series of meetings by a curriculum revision committee on natural science is being planned . In the important field of the humanities , Dr. Lester noted that there will be a greater move to develop writing skills , this in an effort to overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get to college . More emphasis on original writing by students will be given , more careful reading of what they have done , and more conferences with them are being urged . To keep students in high school until they graduate , there will be intensification of various programs during the - 1963- 64 school year . Paul Driscoll , principal of Wingate High School in Brooklyn , has been named coordinator of these efforts to spot the potential early school leaver ( the dropout ) and to stimulate his interest in education . Every year marks an increase in the number of students qualifying for advanced placement  --  college preparatory courses . This fall will see about 10 percent more of these students in the high schools here , which necessitate special Preplanning of courses for them , Dr. Lester said . Mary Kelly Portland : Quality Upgraded The curricular and instructional programs of Oregon high schools will be in the process of marked change in the 1963-64 academic year  --  the result of the Oregon Program , for which the Ford Foundation has pledged a grant of $3.5 million over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight Oregon colleges are cooperating in an extensive program designed to upgrade the quality of teaching in Oregon classrooms and to enrich the content of courses . Some examples among a great variety of programs : . In Portland 's Marshall High School , the entire enrollment of more than 2,000 students will participate in a program of flexible scheduling . Instead of the usual 50- or 55-minute periods , students will be assigned to classrooms for varying lengths , depending on the content and importance of the course . A Stanford University computer will be used to make the complicated calculations for such scheduling . In Lake Oswego High School , programs of team teaching will be expanded in ? social studies , biology , and language arts . Eugene high schools are among many in the state that will employ additional " intern " teachers for on-the-job training in instruction . Malcolm Bauer Los Angeles : Specialization Trend Los Angeles city schools this year will put the finishing flourishes to a three-year program of high school curriculum reform . School administrators say these changes , in sum , sharply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and continue a trend to greater specialization . High school graduates with academic and business , majors next year for the first time will need 170 semester credits to graduate instead of 150 . The high schools have added a semester of required laboratory science , a semester of fine arts , a semester of practical arts , and a semester of social studies  --  government ( at the 12th-grade level ) . They have added a 10-week group guidance course to help 10th-grade students narrow down future careers earlier . The changes also start students out in foreign language a year sooner  --  in the 6th grade instead of the 9th . Geometry also has been moved back a year , from the 10th to the 9th grade . This will let students tackle more advanced mathematics courses in the upper grades . A mathematics major in city high schools now will require four years instead of three . Another change , effective in February , will require each diploma to state the major sequence of study of each student , lending a heightened emphasis to fields of specialization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of experimentation at one high school , the Dade County school system is extending the use of visual and audio educational aids throughout the upper grades this year . Emphasis will be in the increasingly popular business education courses . Classes in stenography will get dictation from prerecorded tapes fed through earphones . These will be available at three levels of speed and difficulty in each class , and each student will progress at his own pace without interrupting class routine . The instructors will he free to work closely with students on an individual basis and keep each student moving at his maximum capability . Bert Collier Reports on five other cities will be published tomorrow .                     