@@725984

txt Mayor Daley left little doubt in the minds of City hall reporters at his press conference yesterday that lie will run for an unprecedented fourth term , the he did n't say so in so many words . On Thursday members of a Democratic slate-making committee unanimously asked the mayor to seek reelection . He did n't give them a " yes " or " no " answer , either . At yesterday 's conference , he told reporters that he has been urged to ? run again by a number of civic and business leaders , He declined to ' name them , but indicated he will do so later . Forming Citizen 's Group A top aid , meanwhile , acknowledged that a nonpartisan citizens ' committee for the mayor is being organized . Such committees have been a feature of his past election campaigns . Without hesitation , Daley told his press conference of plans to confer with state legislative leaders on the financial problems of Chicago and other Ellnois cities when the General Assembly meets next month . " The big problem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate funds to obtain vital services , " Daley said . ' " I believe legislation to accomplish this is inevitable , " he added . More than a ? month ago the mayor indicated that a mai1 principal revenue program similar to that sought from the legislature two years ago will bo submitted again . Such a program would inelude raising the cities ' per cent share of the state sales tax to 1 per cent , increasing the cities ' licensing power for general revenue and granting permission to cities to levy a tobacco and alcohol beverage tax . Hopes to Ease Taxes Sponsors of the program hope that the revenue raised by these means would enable property taxes to be eased somewhat . Daley said he has discussed the program with mayors of other Illinois cities and found many of them in favor o ? it . He said that in the past such proposals have run into opposition because downstate legislators believed that only Chicago would benefit . He said it Is becoming clear other cities also have revenue problems that can only be solved , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announce.his plans on seeking reelection thinl after he diseases the matteewith his wife . ' Daley said that no other names have bcen.suggested . to Democratic slate-makers as possible alternative mayoral candidates ; ? should he decide not to run . Petitions for mayoral. candidates must bp ' filed between Jan. 4 ' and 14 . The ? Mayoral primary is in February and the election Is April 4.                     