@@722899

txt Rome There was a third man around the Macmillan-Fanfani conference table  --  the invisible presence of President Kennedy . Not only did Premier Amintore Fanfani receive a personal letter from President Kennedy during his talks with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , reportedly promising United States support in bringing about European unity and security , but also the one positive result of three days of Anglo-Italian talks in Rome was emphasized in the last paragraph of the communiqu ? issued at the end of the Macmillan visit . This said : " As the strength , security , and cohesion of the free world depends now more than ever on the North Atlantic Alliance , the two Prime Ministers have affirmed their determination to maintain existing collaboration with the United States and welcomed an opportunity to establish the NATO multilateral nuclear force in order to enable the Alliance to maintain peace in security . " Talking to the press at the end of his visit , Mr. Macmillan said he was impressed with the harmony between the British and the Italian viewpoint over a wide range of present-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the East-West conflict . As far as his own thinking was concerned , Mr. Macmillan said that European unity was a constructive and idealistic movement and the present setback was not the end of the journey . Agreement Wide . He emphasized that it was folly and ingratitude on the part of Europeans to set themselves up as a small , inward-looking group . Though he was happy at French-German reconciliation he insisted that European unity , to be valid , must be real and not sham unity . He added that it should be built upon the basis of honorable partnership . He denied that there was any substance to the charge often made that Britain must choose between the United Sates and Europe ; " having one friend , " he said , " did not preclude one from having others . " In substance he advocated a wider basis for European unity . With all these attitudes Mr. Macmillan said he found the Italians in full agreement , The Italians went " to town " over the Macmillan visit , far beyond the demands of protocol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find a way out of the present impasse , a situation blocking the real unity within Europe which they consider should extend to cover the Atlantic Alliance . Rivalry Shunned Both sides apparently turned down any idea of a special Anglo-Italian understanding , or for that matter any special accommodation between Britain and the five Common Market members excluding France . What they both agreed was that future moves should be made through existing organizations , such as NATO and the Western European Union , in which France is present . This conclusion was arrived at on the basis of agreement that the aim of European unity can only be established in partnersnip and not in rivalry and that French cooperation is essential . Although nothing concrete was achieved at these meetings , as Mr. Macmillan admitted to the press , " I have nothing very novel or arresting to tell you , " the ball has been set rolling slowly toward the goal of European unity . Reportedly Mr. Fanfani told Mr. Macmillan that following the example of Britain 's giving RAF V-bombers to NATO , Italy was offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrier under NATO command .                     