@@724740

txt Washington 's war of words over Vietnam was esclating today , with critics sharpening their language and the Johnson Administration expanding its efforts to win public and Congressional support . Two Senators , one on each side of the issue , made the most forthright declarations . Senator Wayne Morse charged that President John . son 's policy in Vietnam would send him " out of office the most discredited President in the history of this nation . " The Oregon Democrat , who has repeatedly criticized the ' Administration 's policies in // Vietnam , also called for the removal of Secretary of Defense Robert S. and Secretary of State Dean Rusk . Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana , the Democratic whip , hammered away in the other direction . Addressing the annual meeting of the United States Chamber of Commerce here , he said " modern-day appeasers and isolationists " were undermining Mr. Johnson 's policy in Vietnam . Senator Long said such criticism led the Communists to believe that the United States would ' ' surrended all of Asia . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losses in Vietnam will increase so long as anyone suspects that the handful of Senators and Congressmen and the bearded beatniks with the peace-at-anyprice placards represent anything more than a small , poorly regarded fragment of American thinking . " The Johnson Administration itself was moving forcefully but not entirely successfully to sidetrack its critics and to win solid backing for its policy . Private polls and one published today have encouraged the White House but have not made it completely happy . The published poll , by Louis Harris Associates , indicated that 57 per cent of the public supported Mr. Johnson 's handling of the Vietnamese war and that 43 per cent opposed it . Among Republicans , the supporting percentage rose to 80 per cent . In Congress , too , Mr. Johnson 's strongest supporters have been members of the opposition party . Despite these signs of approval , however , the Administration appeared to have origanized a strong campaign to Tally public opinion . The State Department stepped up its efforts to send speakers to take part in campus forum and discussions of the Viet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background ' meetings with reporters . The , officials could not be quoted by The New York Times ASSAILS PRESIDENT : Senator Wayne Morse , Oregon Democrat , criticized policy on South Vietnam . name but most of their remarks were published . Mr. held a nationally televised news conference this morning . Mr. Johnson has scheduled one for 4 P. M. tomorrow  --  one of the few instances in which he has announced a news conference as much as two days in advance . Under Secretary of Defense Cyrus R. Vance will make what the Pentagon calls a " rhajor policy speech " tomorrow night in St. Louis . He will attempt to document the Administration thesis that war in South Vietnam Is a result of external aggression controlled and directed by the North Vietnamese Communist regime . Much of Mr. 's news conference was devoted to the same effort . The Administration began to hit back at its critics Friday night when Mr. Rusk , in a speech to the American Society of International Law , criticized " the gullibility , of educated men and the disregard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least one anti-Administration speech that had been scheduled for the Senate . He sent Under Secretary of State George W. Ball to " reason together " with the Senator in question , and the speech was ca : : After almost every dissenting Congressional speech , except those by such confirmed critics as Senators Morse and Ernest Gruening , Democrat of Alaska , Mr. Johnson has sent an Administration official to try to bring the critic around . He has had varying success . Twice , Mr. Johnson has invited all members of the Senate to the White House for detailed briefings on the war and his policy . He is reported to be planning another such briefing soon . Even so , such influential Senators as J. W. Fulbright of Arkansas , the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee ; Mike Mansfield of Montana , the majority leader , and George D. Aiken of Vermont , the secondranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee , have expressed varying degrees of criticism . Senate sources say the unrest  --  particularly over the bombing of North Vietnamese military targets  --  is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason the criticism has been relatively muted is the pressure and persuasion Mr. Johnson has exerted . Another is a reluctance to attack the President during a foreign crisis . A third reason is that some Senators are reluctant to be associated with Mr. Morse and Mr. Gruening , who have used what these Senators regard as extreme language and overly harsh strictures . Finally , the most influential among the critics prefer to discuss the matter privately with Mr. Johnson , in the hope of persuading him to their views , rather than engaging in public debate . President Johnson is reported to believe that much of the criticism represents the opinion of men without access to necessary information , but that it is presented as fact coming from informed legislators . He also has complained to visitors that the critics are free with advice but not with concrete proposals . It was Mr. Rusk 's speech Friday night that brought Senator Morse to his feet today , on a point of personal privilege . Senator Morse called the speech " shocking " and said it was an insult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , was opposed to United States policy in South Vietnam .                     