@@728195

txt Explosive devices went off in three major office buildings in midtown and downtown Manhattan early this morning . The explosives , described by the Fire Department as devices " that could cause extensive damage , " injured at least one person , though not seriously , according to first reports . The bombs went off in the R.C.A. Building in Rockefeller Center , General Motors Building at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street , and at 1 rhacg . Manhattan Plaza , the headquarters of the Chase Manhattan Bank in the financial district . A$ Police Department and Fire Department units raced through otherwise hushed and darkened streets , night workers and , in the case of the R.C.A. Building , early morning diners in the 65th-floor Rainbow Room hurried to the streets . The injury occurred in the General Motors Building and was said not to have been serious . The victim was identified as Joseph Brando , who was said to have been operating a freight elevator when the explosion oc-curred : The blast was said to have occurred on the 19th floor of the marble-and-glass-faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the General Motors Build- ing , Deputy Fire Chief Chris Matkovic said : " It was a forceful explosion . It was no child 's toy . It blew in four directions . It blew in walls and doors . There was no fire . " The bomb had been planted between two soft-drink vending machines in a service corridor . Damage to two service ; elevators nearby was heavy . " I though an elevator had broken loose , " a maintenance worker from the 15th floor said . Heavy damage was reported at the eight-year-old Chase Manhattan Building , which is bounded by Pine , Nassau , Liberty and William Streets . The explosion there occurred at about 1 A.M. , about the time of the blasts in the other buildings . It ripped through an elevator shaft at the 16th floor , sending debris tumbling into the shaft and causing damage also to the 15th and 17th floors . First hint of the coming blasts came at 12:35 A.M. when a ' security guard at the Chase Manhattan Building received a call from a marl who warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombs which will go off at about the same time in three different buildings . " The guard called the police , who joined in a fruitless search of the building . Just as they were about to leave the blast went off on the 16th floor near the elevator hank . The police were called and were making a unsuccessful search of the structure when the explosion occurred . Early reports said the explosion at the R.C.A. Building , had occurred on the 20th floor and had also followed calls that warned of the impending blast. , A maintenance man in the ' building , William Lynch , who was on the fourth floor , said that the explosion " was one hell of a big noise and it scared me to death . " In the 65th floor Rainbow Room , where a dinner party was taking place , many tuxedoclad guests were taken down to the main floor in a freight ele- , vator , though a small number walked down rather than wait for the elevator . Still another bomb , one that did not detonate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of WMCA radio at 415 Madison Avenue , according to the Fire Department . The damage at Rockefeller Center was worse than at the General Motors building , according to Deputy Fire Chief Anthony Costa , who inspected both sites . " There is extensive damage to an area 30 feet by 100 feet , " I he said at Rockefeller Center . ' " Almost.the entire suite of offices was damaged . There is extensive damage to a whole bank of six elevators . Walls are blown in . Doors and partitions , too , and all the window glass was blown out . " Some damage was also re ported one floor above , on the 21st floor of the 69-story build- , ing . There were no injuries this blast . There have been a number of , bomb and firebomb incidents , here this summer and fall . ' Among them were : An explosion with the force of 24 sticks of dynamite that ripped through the Marine Midland Building in the financial district on Aug. 20 , injuring 19 persons in the bank 's . corporate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small incendiary devices that went off on four floors of Macy 's at Herald Square at night on Oct. 11 . An explosion on the fifth floor of the Armed Forces Induction Center at 39 Whitehall Street at night on Oct. 17 , shattering more than 40 , windows . On Nov. 9 , two incendiary devices were found on the third floor of Alexander 's Department store at 2952 Third Avenue , the Bronx , but they did not go off . A similar device set a small fire in Everyone 's Bargain Store at 2976 Third Avenue on Nov. 7.                     