@@728161

txt Perhaps the most uncomfortable seat in the convention disorders conspiracy trial is the witness chair . This reporter occupied it for nearly two hours yesterday , testifying for the prosecution against Thomas Hayden , one of the defendants . Testimony would seem to be only a simple retelling of fact as one remembers it . Yesterday it was a rather terrible ordeal . Only one side can be right , therefore both sides try to prove the other wrong . As much as the defendants , I felt I was on trial . - Ws Superman ' ' Some of the spectators had already made up their minds . As I was led down the corridor to the court room , a young man said : " Who are they bringing to tie about us next ? " " It 's Superman ! ! " said another . " No , " said another . " It 's John Wayne . " There was laughter . The doors to the courtroom opened and all of the spectators turned to see , some of the faces curious , others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somber expanse of the courtroom , leered and booed . There was even , in low voices , a grumbling from a few colleagues in the press box . It is a very sweaty matter to take the stand , and the oath . Any contradiction , anything construed as untruth , is perjury , a crime . There is no one to help you . Form Begins Questioning United States Atty . Thomas Foran , a man who much resembles the prosecutors portrayed on television , began the direct questioning . It was impersonal and matter of fact . It took five minutes . The purpose of cross-examination is to prove you wrong . William Kunstler , the coolly elegant defense attorney , attempted this ably . The testimony regarded an incident a year and a half ago , and in the searchings of my memory I was traveling along the edge of an abyss . There was a reprieve as the court recessed for lunch , which I and another witness spent in silence . We were instructed not to discuss the testimony with anyone , and with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was little else on my mind . The Attack Resumes With the court back in session , Atty . Leonard Weinglass took up the attack for the defense , asking more general and sometimes very emotional questions , including whether I was afraid of being " swept up in the rev olutio n ? " This prompt ed laughter , but no reply . It was one of many questions I wanted to answer but to which Foran objected , objections which Judge Julius Hoffman very quietly and repeatedly sustained . The agony ended shortly before 3 p. m . As I stepped down from the stand to walk from the courtroom , I glanced at the defendants . As I could not have before , I knew something of how they must feel .                     