@@726424

txt Letters : High-Flying Bars Letters : High-Flying Bars To THE EDITOR : THE airline passenger has trouble enough on the ground , but pause a moment to consider what is happening to him in the blue yonder . The airlines are becoming nothing more than high-flying bars and cafes . Hostesses hustle drinks before the airplanes are off the ground . ' The airlines make a great show of trying to imitate the great and near great ground-chained restaurants , even to boasting about their " chefs " and " special flight kitchens . " Yet , somehow , the food all comes out the same , standardized in flavor and appearance , whether it is prepared in a kitchen in Atlanta , San Francisco or Hastings , Neb . The stewardesses are " bar girls , " plain and simple . Whatever happened to the pretty girls , with the glinting gold hair or the burnished brown or black locks , who had time to answer such questions as " Where are we ? " or to serve a cup of coffee or hot chocolate ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bar and food business must be a costly operation and the passenger pays , of course . But he pays more than money ; he pays dearly in the loss of his individuality ( we are so many heads to be fed and watered before we set down ) and in loss of his comfort ( " I 'll take your coat after I serve the drinks . " ) On a recent flight from Cleveland to Washington , the hostesses were serving liquor to first-class passengers 15 minutes before the engines were started . The flight took less than an hour , and the time went like this : 4:20 P.M. : Pilot-captain announced estimated time of arrival . 4:22 P.M. : Hostess , " Would you like a sandwich ? " 4:34 P.M. : Sandwich and beverage served . 4:45 P.M. : Tray is picked up , and announcement is made to fasten seat belts and prepare for landing . ' Take the Bottle ' I have been asked to drink champagne in mid-morning on flights out of the Northwest . I have been offered beer or wine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with you . " On another recent flight , a spy movie was shut down before its denouement because we had to land in Baltimore . The flying bar and cafe service had used up too much of our flight time . Now comes the Civil Aeronautics Board with a proposal to end free drinks aboard airliners . This means that everyone , not just the coach passengers , will pay $1 a drink . The C.A.B . bas given the industry until July 24 to respond to its proposal that the airlines file in-flight liquor charges , just as they file passenger fares . Separate Services The C.A.B . observed that drinks , movies and similar " services " are separate from transportation functions and that , therefore , the cost should be borne by the passengers receiving such services . The C.A.B . might well . go a step further . The " in-flight services " seem to be too costly for the passenger , for the airlines and for the girls who must hustle drinks and food . Instead , the girls should be permitted to concentrate on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . SPEED IS NOT NEW To THE EDITOR : My compliments on the fact-filled and hopeful presentation , " Speeding Up the New York - Washington Train , " by Paul J. C. FriedLander in the Travel Section of June 25 . , Although this represents one ' of the first bright spots in the otherwise dim rail passenger picture , I respectfully suggest that the questions posed in the last two paragraphs are far more important and timely than all the speed one can achieve . The two paragraphs re ? ferred to read : Mow will the railroad managements that can not keep their present cars in repair , nay , not even clean nor properly lighted nor airconditioned , be able to cope with the intricacies of highspeed operation ? " A less costly way of making Northeast Corridor railroads immediately more attractive to passengers might be the expenditure of a little effort , and some soap and water , on the so-called sanitary facilities at railroad terminals , including the big city ones and way stations , and in the cars themselves . " Speed is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enthusiasm is what must be applied everywhere  --  to main-line station and branch washrooms alike . I was overly optimistic about rail travel last winter ? when I set out , but not when I returned . The situation is just too sad . The handwriting is on the wall , on the faces and in the minds of train personnel . RICHARD A. SNYDER . West Cornwall , Conn . D. &; H. WELDED RAILS To THE EDITOR : I read with great interest the article , " Speeding Up the New York - Washington Train . " However , I do take some exception to the implication that continuous welded rail is something of a recent development , and that it apparently was first used in this country on the Pennsylvania Railroad in the 1950 's . When I was a senior at the New University . York Universi College of Engineering in 1937 , I did some research on this subject in the preparation of a paper on welding . I recall at that time that the Delaware &; Hudson Railroad had already welded long continuous sections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rail on flatcars in continuoussections ' in excess of 1,000 feet . It had also worked out a method for installing the ' ties directly from the flatcar trains and pulling the trains out from under the long sections of rail as it installed the rail . E. V. TAIT , Vice President , Nichols Engineering and Research Corp . New York . According to C. E. R. Haight , chief engineer of the Delaware &; Hudson Railroad , the first welded rail to be used in open trackage in the United States was installed by the D. &; H. in 1933 . Prior to that , welded rail had been used by streetcar lines. ? Ed . EXPANDING RAILS To THE EDITOR : The article , " Speeding Up the New York-Washington Train , " was both interesting and comforting to one who retains his boyhood fondness for the Iron Horse . Concerning one point : The conventional " clickety-clack " track is designed for the expansion or contraction of the rails as changes in tem-. perature occur . Just how does the welded type extensively used by Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the BostonWashington corridor , overcome this problem ? Is there not some danger that buckling will result ? THOMAS G. MORGANSEN . Jackson Heights , N. Y. The Pennsylvania Railroad explains that its 1,400-foot sections of continuous , welded track are held together , every 1,400 feet by bolted joints . These are similar to the joints linking the conventional 39-foot rails , and they allow for contraction and expansion with temperature changes . Pennsylvania Railroad engineers in Altoona , Pa. , have determined that the 1,400-foot rail conveniently and safely expands and contracts sideways , rather than lengthwise , with temperature changes. ? Ed . CLEAN UP THE TRAINS To THE EDITOR : The article , " Speeding Up the New York-Washington Train , " offered fascinating possibilities for speed . However , I would suggest that the railroads , if they are really interested in attracting customers , should attend to such elementary things as clean trains , windows , lavatories , etc . While a resident of Bucks County , Pa. , from 1952 to 1961 , I rode many of the socalled crack New YorkWashington trains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Speed will not help to overcome such callous neglect of the health and comfort of the passengers . ( Mrs. ) L. Z. TAYLOR . Los Angeles . ABOUT CUSTOMS TO THE EDITOR : Some time ago , there was considerable correspondence concerning the attitudes and problems that many incoming travelers had with United States Customs officials in New York . After three trips to Bermuda , I would like to express my appreciation to the United States and Bermuda Customs people stationed there . They have been unfailingly , polite , helpful , cheerful , exceptionally friendly and very efficient . I am sure many people would agree with this evaluation , and I hope that this small . pat on the back may come to the attention of these delightful officials . MARJORIE MAPELSDEN . Easton , Conn . THE ABBOT 'S KITCHEN To THE EDITOR : In the comment on Thomas C. Gerety 's letter , published on June 25 , you identify the Glastonbury structure in England as Glastonbury Abbey . Actually , the building shown in the comparison photograph is not Glastonbury Abbey . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the abbey grounds . This structure is in an almost perfect state of preservation . The walls and the roof , which probably date from the 14th century , are still intact , as can be seen from your photograph . The abbey itself , which is 582 feet long , is in complete ruin . JOHN A. CORNELIUS . Manchester , Conn . TEN TIMES TALLER To THE EDITOR : The Abbot 's Kitchen was formerly a corner of the refectory of the old abbey . /t is practically the only portion of the abbey left , except some free-standing walls . I was intrigued by Mr. Gerety 's having noticed the similarity in shape between the Glastonbury structure and the new cathedral in Liverpool . The pictures , however , do not make it obvious that the Abbot 's Kitchen is about 30 feet high and that the cathedral is close to 10 times that . ANDREW GLAZE , Press Department , British Travel Association . New York .                     