@@727298

txt President Johnson and his key foreign policy advisers gave Richard M. Nixon and Gov . Spiro T. Agnew a " general review of the international situation " today . The Republican Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates received the briefing this afternoon at the LBJ Ranch 65 miles northwest of here during a two-and-a-half-hour visit one day after Vice President Humphrey discussed foreign affairs with the President there . Mr. Nixon and Governor Agnew flew here- from Miami Beach , where they were nominated Thursday . The President had been advised on the briefings by Secretary of State Dean Rusk ; Cyrus R. Vance , No. 2 negotiator in the Vietnam talks in Paris , and Richard Helms , Director of Central Intelligence . Later , at a news conference at the San Antonio Airport , Mr. Nixon said the briefing had been " full " and " very candid . " He said Mr. Johnson had pledged to be " absolutely fair " in his briefings to the major Presidential candidates . Bombing Pause Noted " He said he would make the same information available to me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon declared . The Republican nominee said the briefing centered on the question of Vietnam , but also covered the problems of Eastern Europe , Latin America and the " general world situation , " He added that the two men , accompanied by Mr. Helms and Mr. Vance , had reviewed the Paris peace negotiations . Mr. Nixon said he came away from the briefing with the impression that there had been " no significant new developments to report " in the peace negotiations ; but that a chance for peace remained . On the question of a possible bombing pause , Mr. Nixon said he supported what he understood to be Mr. Johnson 's basic position . He said he agreed with the President that any " unilateral action " would be " highly irresponsible " if the North Vietnamese failed to respond with some kind of meaningful " quid pro quo . " Mr. Nixon said the two men did not discuss reports that  --  the President would take a trip to Moscow . However , Mr. Nixon went on , " 1 would not be critical of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He pointed out that the President has a " right " to do whatever he can , including overseas travel , to improve the prospects for a settlement in Vietnam and world peace . After the news conference , Mr. Nixon boarded a jet and headed for San Diego where he will spend the next week or so conferring with aides and mapping strategy for the national campaign . George Christian , White House press secretary , said the President , his advisers and the two Republican candidates " covered both foreign policy matters and special situations of a national security importance . " Mr. Christian declined to elaborate beyond a formal statement he said was based on " more or less agreed guidelines " between the White House and Mr. Nixon , but he had said earlier in the day that the meeting was not the result of any important development in the talks on Vietnam . He said the President made some opening remarks , then Mr. Helms gave about a 15-minute " general briefing on major developments with special attention to Czechoslovakia , the Middle East and Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full review of the ' Paris talks , including the suggestions that have been made by the United States in these talks and the reaction of the other side , " Mr. Christian said . Mr. Rusk " then reviewed the situation in this hemisphere , East Asia , Africa , Western Europe and East-West relations for about 30 minutes , " Mr. Christian said . Both Raise Questions " Mr. Nixon and Governor Agnew participated actively in the discussion and raised questions which were on their minds , " Mr. Christian said . " The President told his guests that it was his desire to keep the candidates fully informed in the weeks ahead , indicating that he and the Secretary of State and Mr. Helms were always available for that purpose . " Mr. Christian said in response to a question that the President had not specifically offered a foreign policy briefing to Senator George S. , who today announced his candidacy for the Democratic Presidential nomination . But " if Senator is an active candidate , " he said , the South Dakotan would be covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon and Mr. Agnew , fresh from their nominations at the Republican convention , flew into San Antonio and took military helicopters to the LBJ Ranch around noon . It was their first visit to the ranch . The President and Mrs. Johnson took the two Republicans on a brief tour in an open Lincoln Continental convertible and returned to the house at 12:25 P.M. The President , his advisers and the two candidates then went into the yellow sitting room adjacent to the living room where about an hour was spent on the briefing . The conversation continued for an hour over lunch , where the men were joined by Mrs. Johnson , two Presidential aides and four Republican staff men . Mr. Christian said steak was served for lunch but that the President did not have any because " he is on a liquid diet . " Mr. Johnson will return to Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio for further medical examinations to assess the status of a chronic intestinal condition that he has had since 1960 . This has been described by his doctors as diverticulosis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wall of the colon . When these pouches become clogged , they can become inflamed in a condition known as diverticulitis.                     