@@722335

txt The United Nations-sponsored disarmament conference opened today after a chilling Big Three foreign ministers ' meeting where the Soviet Union said " no " to the idea of international inspection . As far as the United States and Britain are concerned , it is essential that any agreement on disarmament and , particularly , , on a prohibition of tests of nu-I clear weapons be subject to inspection to insure that its terms . are observed . Secretary of State Dean Rusk and the Earl of Home , British Foreign Secretary , reiterated the Western position to Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister , at their meeting in the British villa just outside Geneva . No Gaps Are Closed The three ministers took two turns each in speaking about the problem of inspection without , as United States officials put it later , " closing any gaps . " Nevertheless , everyone was ' determined to appear optimistic as another start In man 's long search for a means to disarm began in the green and gold council chamber of the Palais des Nations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva . The same United States sources who disclosed that the Russians were sticking hard to their oppostion to international inspection Said that " no final , frozen positions were taken . " A British spokesman said the Big Three meeting " seemed to set a reasonable atmosphere " for the disarmament conference . U. S.-Soviet Accord Noted In the council chamber , Omar Loutfi of the United Arab Re- , public , opened the conference of seventeen nations on behalf of U Thant , Acting Secretary General of the United Nations . Mr. Loutfi stressed the " positive and hopeful elements " that existed for the negotiations . He singled , out . the Soviet , United States agreement on disarmament principles reached in September , 1961 , which , along with United States and Soviet disarmament proposals to be made tomorrow , will form the basis of the negotiations . Nothing startlingly new will be ' in the Soviet or American ' proposals . Reliable sources said they would repeat the essen- : tials of the Soviet disarmament , plan of 1960 and the three stage United States plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly by President Kennedy last September . Chairs for France had been , brought to the felt-covered , rec. ' tanguiar conference table , buti they remained empty . President ; de Gaulle decided that France would boycott the conference because he felt eighteen nations were too many for successful negotiations . The last negotiations , in 1960 , were conducted by ten countries representing the Western and Communist worlds . They were broken off when the Communists walked out after a deadlock quickly developed on the issues of inspection and control and the timetable for disarmament . The participation for the first time of eight representatives of the nonaligned or neutral bloc was one of the " hopeful and positive elements " referred to by Mr. Loutfi . ' Views of Different Regions ' " The new composition of the negotiating body insures that the views of different regions of the world and that different political approaches will be given full expression , " he said . " A new opportunity is provided for bringing to bear influences which might help to bridge the chasm of mutual fear and distrust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in itself a ' ' valuable step toward the relaxation of international tensions and toward a solution of the formidable task of how to achieve general and complete disarmament under effective international control . " This time the West is represented by the United States , Britain , Canada and Italy and the Communists bloc by the Soviet Union , Poland , Rumania , Cechoslovakia and Bulgaria . Te neutrals are India , Sweden , Burma , Brazil , Mexico , Nigeria , Ethiopia and the United Arab Republic . The Big Three foreign ministers ' meeting , which lasted ninety minutes , was the first working session on nuclear testing and disarmament . In addition to restating views on inspection , the ministers went over the technical arrangements for the conference that were later adopted by the full session . Previous Efforts Failed The immediate job of the United States delegation , according to American officials , is to overcome the Soviet suspicion that inspection is a disguised form of espionage . Every attempt to convince the Russians that this is not so has failed , and nothing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be any easier . in the current negotiations . Although Secretary Rusk will return to Washington at the end of next week , the United Slates , its officials were saying , is prepared for a long , patient exercise to show that " it is possible to set up inspection that on its face " is not espionage . "                     