@@721231

txt Washington , May 14 ? President Eisenhower left by air Saturday night for the summit conference in Paris and a face to face meeting with Russia ' , Premier Nikita Khrushchev . The Presidential Jet took off from nearby Andrews air force base at 8:20 p. m. , 25 minutes earlier than scheduled because of adverse weather conditions . The President smiled and waved to officials on hand to see him off as he stepped aboard , but he remained pubes tidy silent on his hopes for the meeting , which is to start Monday under tensions heightened by the downing May 1 of an American spy plane over Russia . President Eisenhower bypassed a battery of microphones set up near the plane . The President is due to arrive in Paris at 9:30 a. m . Paris time Sunday . A 48 minute refueling stop was made at Goose Bay , Labrador , a last minute switch from Newfoundli.nd due to bad weather . The President 's plane landed at Goose Bay at 9:03 p. m . Chicago time and took off again at 9:51 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes a f ter leaving Andrews air force base near Washington . The chief executive already had retired for the night . Works on Speech . During the flight from Washington , President Eisenhower spent part of the time working on the brief speech he is scheduled to make on arrival in Paris . The President flew to the air base by helicopter from the White House . Church bells pealed in Washington to wish him go ds p e e d . Earlier the President had asked all Americans to Join in a prayer for permanent peace on Memorial day , May 30 . The Memorial day proclamation replaced a TV - radio farewell message which the President had intended to deliver to the nation prior to leaving for the east-west meeting . In addition to President Eisenhower and Khruslichev , British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and French Presi- the satellite ship 's system , dent Charles de Gaulle will take part . Designating 11 a. m . Memorial day as the time for nation-wide prayer , he requested the American people to unite in beseeching God 's aid " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whore all men may live in friendship and war shall be no more . " The President worked Friday night and Saturday on 47 bills sent him by the Molise and Senate and conferred with staff aids . There was no official clew to the President 's mood about the forthcoming conference except in his past public expressions . Less than 15 months ago , he said that it repetition of the zero progress at the 1955 Geneva meeting would increase feeling of pessimism and .. . hopelessness after another summit meeting ; The President has repeatedly said that he would not attend a summit conference unless prior developments justified his going in the assurance that progress would be made .                     