@@725965

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times Dearth of Democrats To the Editor : Much has been written about the results of the recent election in New York State and city , but whether we wish to admit it or not the Democrats have not won a major victory since they deposed Carmine G. De Sapio as County Chairman and National Committeeman . The last Democratic Governor was Averell Harriman , who was nominated and elected under Mr. De Sapio 's state leadership , and the last Democratic Mayor was Robert F. Wagner , who was selected to run for Manhattan Borough President and subsequently for Mayor under Mr. De Sapio 's leadership . Robert F. Kennedy 's election to the United States Senate was a " political exception " based upon his famous name and sympathy for his martyred brother , the President . The fact remains that the liberal State of New York now has . a Republican Governor , a Republican Attorney General and a Republican United States Senator , while the more liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ K. HUNTER ' Jersey City , N. J. , Dec. 5 , 1966 ? City Control of Legal Aid to Poor To the Editor : Advocates of legal services to the poor , including the undersigned who are associated with organizations anxious to begin neighborhood law office operations , were dismayed by a decision handed down Nov. 16 by the Appellate Division ( First Department ) of the Supreme Court which may have enormous consequences for the fu- , ture course of such services in New York City . - The court rejected certificates of incorporation for two organizations proposed by the city and another for Central Harlem , essentially on the grounds that their operations would not be subject to exclusive control by lawyers , who themselves would be subject to the discipline of the courts . Court Standards Met We strongly endorse the principles of control by lawyers and the inviolability of the attorney-client relationship . We had thought that the city had provided for this in its two proposed organizations , the one known as C.A.L.S. ( Community Action for Legal Services ) , intended to be the umbrella @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local organizations , the other known as N.Y.L.A.C. ( New York Legal Assistance Corporation ) intended to be the local city organization and one of three choices for poverty communities to choose from . The other choices were the Legal Aid Society and/ or local neighborhood units like ours . According to our understanding all were to be under the umbrella of C.A.L.S. , which would have appeared to meet the standards of the court . Yet both city organizations , umbrella and local , were rejected . by the . court . In the light of their complexity and multiplicity ( " the thicket , " in the court 's language ) of corporations involved , as listed in the court 's opinion , it is difficult to understand why the court rejected all requests for an informal pre-decision conference . The decision also issued in the face of advice from the city that , as of Nov. 1 , the delays attendant upon this litigation might have cost the city over $850,000 in Federal funds earmarked for legal services . While it is true that the court asked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it would ratify only one legal services organization in one county or " at least one-half a county . " This would appear to conflict squarely with Office of Economic Opportunity insistence on free choice by poor communities . In addition , the court commented on " indiscriminate mingling of social goals and legitimate legal practice " and criticized the over-involvement of laymen , neither of which we believe was the intention of the drafters . Depriving the Poor ? The court also suggested that it might prohibit lawyers for the poor from representing " organizations of social and economic protest , however worthy . " Since any lawyer in the city can do this now , it would seem tragic to consider depriving the poor of advice available to everybody else . These comments conflict with the views of an overwhelming number of responsible legal commentators on the subject of neighborhood legal services . Other passages in the decision give us hope , however , that the court will not insist upon legal practice in the ghettos solely in the traditional , charity-based manner of the past but will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Economic Opportunity Act has opened to our view . Whatever the merits of the decision , in the meantime while lawyers resolve their differences , the poor , as usual , must wait . DOROTHY KENYON Lower West Side Community Progress Committee ( Manhattan ) JAMES J. GRAHAM Christians and Jews United for Social Action ( Brownsville-East New York ) New York , Nov. 29 , 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Anti-Apartheid Move To the Editor : The content of A. Philip Randolph 's letter to The Times ( Dec. 1 ) is a clear example of the bankruptcy of modern liberalism . Mr. Randolph 's Committee of Conscience Against Apartheid has organized a boycott against certain New York banks . The purpose of the boycott as I understand it is to bring pressure on the banks to withdraw financial support from United States corporations that now do business in South Africa . In that way , C.C.A.A. assumes it is striking a blow against South Africa 's reprehensible policy of apartheid But behind that assumption must stand a number of " inarticulate major premises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported since Herbert Croly used the phrase more than fifty years ago . Two of these illiberal premises are especially obvious . One . is that private economic power should play an important role in establishing United States foreign policy ; the other is that there is no correlation between poverty in a country lacking the democratic tradition and the attractiveness of Communism for that country . These assumptions are of course nonsense . They are nonsense in terms of the liberal litany , in terms of history and in terms of an understanding of the determinative forces that operate in American democracy as it has developed over the years . The facts are that ultimately the pressures that shape national goals and policies are political pressures expressed at the polling place , despite lobbying or any other expression of private economic power . A considerable element in the President 's current political problems can be attributed to a growing opposition to the Administration 's Vietnam policies . And apparently no lobby alive could have saved the automobile companies from Ralph Nader . Moreover , as one of the nation 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' impact of politics . In short , apartheid anywhere in the world is an unspeakable affront to human dignity : And I would hope that Mr. Randolph 's committee would redirect its efforts toward the traditional uses of political pressure . In that event , liberals would be happy to support him . DONALD J. COLEN New York , Dec. 2 , 1966 ? Selection of School Principals To the Editor : The Times of Nov. 21 printed a thought-provoking article on its editorial page by Fred M. Hechinger , education editor , entitled " Reforming the Schools . " Some of his comments need to be clarified if we are to obtain a balanced view of the selection and the role of the principal in the New York City schools . The heart of Mr. Hechinger 's discussion relates to the manner in which principals are selected . His statement " principals are chosen by an examinatianmost of it a written test " ? is not correct . The examination includes an interview test and an evaluation of record . The former supervision test has been replaced by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the candidate to guide and direct a group of teachers in discussing a lesson they have all observed . In the case of candidates for the junior and senior high school principalship , an exhaustive field test is included , during which a panel of examiners visits the applicant in his own school and spends a full day in evaluating all aspects of his service in his present . school . The article further states that principals should be selected by , " a process which calls for the , identification of executive talents and a flair for independentleadership . " Herein lies the nub ' of the problem . Who shall select ' . the teachers who show " execu- , tive qualities " ? How shall we . identify " a flair for independent leadership " ? It is quite possi -- . ble that candidates for promotion  --  will seek to curry favor ' with those in charge of the iden -- z tification process in a variety of. , ways ? through personal con- tact , by conformity to the rules. ; of the establishment , by identi-. fying with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indi viduals will discover that the ' surest path to educational advancement may well be activi .. " . ties in political , fraternal . and religious organizations rattier than in the field of education . The present examination system , imperfect though it may , be , does avoid most of these pit- : falls . Mr. Hechinger 's use of quotation marks around " merit system " constitutes an unfair derogation of the present meth- ' ods of selection . Public Image It would be pointless to com- , ment on the many denigrating references to principals in the , . article . I do n't see that Mr. Hech-a inger 's slurs contributed to the , understanding of a serious ques-. tion . I wonder whether these comments helped your readers : gain a deeper insight into a dif- , ficult situation . I have no doubt that these derogatory remarks did not contribute to the public , image of the principal , nor do .. they serve to gain him the respect of the community which ' he must have if he is to provide educational leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city schools . Mr. Hechinger has visited before reaching his conclusions concerning the performance of their principals , whom he calls " certified mediocrities . " How many principals has he spoken to before arriving at his judgments ? Possibly the time is now ripe for an exchange of ideas by al/ concerned with improving edu- , cation and in finding the best method for selecting the best possible personnel and leader- , ship for our schools . JOSEPH H. AARON President , junior " Principals Association Middle Village , L. I .. ? Nov. 24,1.966 , ? Luminous Street Signs : To the Editor : The street signs in New Yokk City may be attractive , but as far as utility is concerned they are useless . At night they ; arc scarcely discernible . And one is riding in a bus and atr ? tempts to find out what street ? is approaching , one needs " more , , than ordinary eyesight . ? ? ? . I suggest that the present signs be replaced by luminous ones , so that they can be . gaiilY read both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs are now in existence in - ether cities and there is no reason why New York should not pcia ? secs this convenience . JOSEPH LENV:IS New York , Dec. 1 , 1968 , STARLIGHT SUNDRY It is not loss that follows love , but calm ; from the light corners of the room a slow radiance , without thought of its own , or search for a lost possession . And is , in good accord , a lasting thing that effects not mirrors of a sad darkening , from unseen time , unsteady elongations . But lives warm , as in the first imagination . JANE MAYHALL                     