@@727732

txt Future historians may well conclude that this present mnnth , March 1969 , was the point of no return in the history of world Communism , the time when it became evident beyond argument that the old monolithic international movement of Stalin 's day could never be put together again . Three events above all these past few weeks have shown how irreversibly far modern Communist " polycentrism " ? to use the word introduced by the late Italian Communist leader Palmiro Togliatti  --  has come , and how little Moscow has retained of its once complete authority over world Communism . The month began with the public announcement of the Soviet-Chinese mini-war in the Far East . The lives that have been lost in these battles on the frozen Ussurl River have transformed what began seemingly as an ideological struggle into a conflict that the Russians see as a reprise of their war with the Mongols almost a millenium ago . Moscow 's fury that it does not enjoy the automatic support of all Communists in this territorial battle was underlined by the Soviet weekly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking a neutralist stance on the dispute . Right Wing Almost simultaneously , Soviet relations with the right wing of world Communism reached their lowest point in years . This was evidenced at the Yugoslav Communist Congress in Belgrade which the Soviet Union boycotted and forced its Eastern European satellites ? including Czechoslovakia ? to boycott . The Soviet action turned the Belgrade meeting into a kind of referendum on Communist independence . In that " referendum " more than a dozen Communist parties voted against Moscow by sending their delegates . Among those who chose this means of demonstrating their independence were such important Communist parties as those of Italy , France , Rumania , Finland , and Chile as well as the Communist parties of Austria , Belgium , Norway , Britain , Venezuela , Spain and several others . Moreover a number of Communist parties that stayed away sent warm messages of greetings to the Yugoslav conclave . Warsaw Pact Then last week , at the Budapest meeting of the Warsaw Pact , came a development that Moscow may have considered the most galling event of the month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European satellites , the Soviet Union was unable to incorporate into the communique a single word of support for its position in the Chinese struggle . The Rumanians , in addition , blocked all of Moscow 's far-reaching plans for turning the Warsaw Pact and its associated institutions into a far more integrated military , political and economic force . But even the recital above does not exhaust the disorder , confusion and internal bickering that are now the dominant feature of Communist politics . For example , by no means all the countries that failed to show up at the Yugoslav Congress support Moscow . Thus the Albanian , New Zealand , Thai , Malaysian , and some other parties are pro-Chinese . Others , like the Japanese , the North Koreans , and the Cuhans have tense and far from fully smooth relations with both Moscow and Peking . And in some countries , such as India and Israel , there are several Communist parties , each claiming to he the only legitimate Marxist-Leninist group and each enjoying varying degrees of recognition from foreign Communist parties . Party Line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no agreed party line to which all or almost all Communist parties subscribe . Two decades ago , in Stalin 's heyday , all Communist parties automatically accepted whatever position the Soviet Union took , with only Yugoslavia dissenting . In 1957 and again in 1960 fragile compromises were patched up in international Communist party meetings in Moscow and these served temporarily as unifying doctrines . Now , except . for opposition to the United States in Vietnam and verhal denunciation of capitalism , there is nothing approaching a Communist consensus on a wide range of world political and ideological issues . Moscow continues to hope it can repair the disarray . It looks forward to the scheduled- international Communist meeting in May as the occasion on which it can win support for a common position from at least a numerical majority of the world 's Communist parties . But already it is evident that to persuade enough parties to attend Moscow is having to accept to compromises . The possibility looms therefore that if and when that May meeting takes place , its final result may be fairly platitudinous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a get-together may prove to have borne little valuab1e organizational or ideological fruit . FRIENDS : Threatened by China in the Far East , Russia last week sought support from her Warsaw Pact allies at a Budapest summit meeting . Presiding over the talks was Czech party leader Alexander Dubcek , right , being welcomed by Hungary 's Janos Kadar , left foreground . Hungarian Premier Jeno Fock , left rear , greets Czech President Ludvik Svoboda , center . East and West Crossroads for - World Communism Tess from Associated Press ENEMIES : Crowds of more than 50,000 demonstrated before the Chinese Communist Embassy in Moscow last week after a new clash on Sino-Soviet border . The placard above says , " Shame on the Chinese Provocateurs. "                     