@@725821

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 42 Letters to the Editor of The Times G.E . Defends Offer To the Editor : In his Oct. 11 letter Paul Jennings , president of the International Union of Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers , takes issue with your editorial of Oct. 3 and has raised some old accusations against General Electric which , while familiar enough to us , may stand in need of correction with those of your readers who have not closely followed G.E.-I.U.E. negotiations . Mr. Jennings brings up the old and discredited ploy of contending that past G.E . contracts fell short of what G.E . workers should have received . The facts are that since 1955 General Electric hourly employe earnings rose more than- the comparable increases in most of the eleven major industries in which the company 's businesses are classified . Where G.E . wages were 22 cents ahead of the manufacturing average in 1955 , they now stand some 33 cents ahead , even before this extremely substantial new wage and benefit offer . Record of Increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract negotiations falls short of what he chooses to call " justice . " The company 's offer , viewed through any perspective , except that of Mr. Jennings and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. " coalition , " is so attractive as to be right up to the limit of what is reasonable and not excessive in terms of the public interest in avoiding inflation . Without reviewing details let it merely be pointed out that the three wage increases totaling over 12 per cent in three years , plus extensive benefit improvements , run well ahead of average industry settlements reported so far in 1966 , ahead of average increases negotiated by eleven major companies in our industry and ahead of the average in 108 significant settlements negotiated with either I.U.E. or other " coalition " unions or in communities where we compete for labor . To go beyond our proposals would raise serious questions . It seems clear that we have already met any fair and reasonable expectations of employes . To incur higher cost burdens would seriously jeopardize the company 's ability to serve customers , including the U.S. Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible settlement , with minimum inflationary impact , raises grave doubts about any move that would increase the already high cost of this offer . Mr. Jennings seeks to justify the experiment in " coalition bargaining " under which some eleven unions are combining their economic power against one company , on the grounds that in the past his I.U.E. union alone has been too weak to get good contracts from G.E . There are at least three things seriously wrong with this : The facts as reviewed briefly above show that G.E . workers have done very well under past contracts , so that G.E . jobs today are among the best in industry . If only signed those contracts because it was weak , why did locals of some of the strongest unions in industry ? auto workers , machinists , etc. , sign these contracts before I.U.E. on several occasions ? If this " coalition bargaining " is allowed to force an excessive settlement in the electrical industry this year , it will only be the prelude to more extravagant settlements elsewhere next year , as news accounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern for the public interest in the coalition 's approach was evident in an Oct. 2 mass meeting speech by a top union official , who boasted that this was the best company offer in history , but still was n't good enough for them . The Times editorial to which Mr. Jennings takes exception expressed fear that " the price of peace . . . will be a further upthrust of the inflationary spiral . " We at G.E . sincerely hope that , with an eminently fair offer now on the table , the country may be spared that terrible price . WILLIAM K. REED Manager , Employe Relations Research and Planning Service General Electric Company Washington , Oct. 12. 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Educating Physicians To the Editor : Your Oct. 11 editorial " Reshaping Medical Education " will give added impetus to medical educators to revise the curriculum . Having just graduated from medical school , I can state that the attempt to turn out physicians who are " jacks-of-alltrades " is an impractical goal . Since over 50 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training , allowing the medical student a greater degree of flexibility superimposed on a core curriculum would indeed be a worthwhile contribution to better medical education . ARNOLD CHAROW , M.D. Interne Beth Israel Medical Center New York , Oct. 11 , 1966 ? Review Board 's Role To the Editor : Your Oct. 10 editorial " The Right of Civilians " states that " The concept of an ombudsman -- -a sort of super grievancecommitteeman to act for citizens who feel they have been pushed around by public agencies- - is well established in the Scandinavian countries and t-Asewhere . " The editorial tends to equate the Civilian Complaint Review Board with the OMbudsman . Now no agency , including the police , can or should be free from public scrutiny in a democratic country . However , the function of the ombudsman , as it operates in Scandinavia , is to scrutinize the functioning of a public agency and to make recommendations to the agency 's chief executive , or to his superiors , so as to improve the performance level of the agency . That is not what the police review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the ombudsman concept . The review board 's purpose is to investigate complaints and to dismiss them or to file charges recommending action against a specific police officer . Its action is personally punitive in concept and not generally remedial . It is therefore more likely to impede the performance level of the department than to improve it . The public should act accordingly . MILTON L. MAIER New York , Oct. 10 , 1966 ? Noisy Motorcycles To the Editor : In your newspaper recently there has been some comment on the parking problem of motorcycles and motorbikes . ' I wish the police would spend a little less time on these parking problems and a little bit more effort in suppressing the excessively noisy motorcycles , especially those which operate in residential areas after 9 o'clock at night . It seems that the motorcycle industry tunes the engines of various products in order to get the greatest volume of sound possible . A motorcycle can be fairly quiet . However , even the smallest bikes now sound like ** taking off . JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : It makes no difference whether I favor Pat Brown or Ronald Reagan . nor does it matter whether you are right or wrong as to who would make the better Governor of California editorial Oct. 6 " California ; Man vs . Image " . What is important , however , is that it is not your business to tell me for whom to vote . Our newspapers do not suggest to the people of New York whom they should vote for . I hope you will henceforth limit your reporting of California politics to the news . BERYL J. ALCORN Burbank , Calif. , Oct. 6 , 1966                     