@@721340

txt United Nations intervention in the chaotic Congo may be successful in restoring order . temporarily at least , in the new nation 's larger cities and more accessible rural areas But the action runs the risk of angering much of free Black Africa to the point of vengeful , and perhaps bloody reprisals against Europeans living there . An equally frightening prospect is that the Congo 's difficulties may develop into a new and more virulent episode of the cold war , cleaving the United Nations into an organization permanently divided along racial as well as political lines . The black and yellow nations may line up with the Communist bloc , car , thus end Western dominance in the U.N These are the fears that are shaded by many African-affairs specialists here in Europe as the U N Security Council hastily dig : patches a military force to curb the disorders in the new Congo republic . Although Secretary General Rammarskjold has declared that the U N force should not be drawn from the big powers , indicating that he does n't intend to send white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the possibility of further trouble . Unpredictable Actions " The actions of the Congolese ca n't be predicted even by their own leaders , " argues one embittered Belgian refugee . " Thousands of rifles and revolvers have been confiscated from whites in recent days . Most of these now are in the hands of the general population . " Moreover , so vast is the Congo . with its 910,000 square miles , that any patrolling force of the size contemplated by the U N. could only concentrate at key points . In between would be great stretches of territory which would have to be left unguarded . With the breakdown of order , tribal wars have flared again throughout the country . In Leopoldville , even as some Africans were molesting whites on the streets , groups of Balionga tribesmen were attacking members of other tribes Near Lulunbourg , once a pleasant , restful little town in the Kasai Province , Lulua war parties are making sporadic raids on the villages of their bitter enemies , the Baluba . In Katanga Province , where Provincial Prime Minister Moise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and set up a separate nation , tribal differences are continuing to aggravate the local political disorders . Tribal Rivalry Mr. Tshombe Is a member of the royal family of the Lunda tribe , one of the biggest In central Africa , and his Conakat Party draws heavily on this tribe for support . A rump government has been established in the northern part of Katanga by Jason Sendwe , leader of the Balubakat Party , built around the Baluba and related tribes . The enmity between the Tshombe and the Sendwe tribal groups is deadly . What any U N. force would do if it found one of its battalions in the middle of a tribal war is a question mark . Africans in the Congo are not apt to put aside centuries-old-rivalies merely because of the presence of a handful of troops in strange uniforms . The possibility of such embarrassing situations probably is one of the reasons for the reluctance of the U.S. Government to have American troops in the Congo , say some Belgians . Few countries In the world would be more difficult to patrol than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with any intervening force On the five-day trip up the Congo River by boat from Leopoldville to Stanleyville , the traveler sees little but a towering wall of jungle growth on each bank of the river Tiny trails disappear into the mangrove forests , which could hide guerrilla hands even though they were within a few feet of shore . in the Jivu Province of the cast , there is open country among rolling hills . But even here the grass grows tall enough to hide an elephant In Brussels , the angry public mood supports any action by Belgian troops in the Congo that may he necessary to protect the lives and property of Belgians remaining there . But from the capitals of Africa 's many new black nations come reports that even the protective military steps taken in the last two days to protect white lives in the Congo have aroused resentment . The Belgian government 's intention , apparently . is to withdraw its troops in the Congo as the United Nations troops arrive , pulling them out on a man-for-man basis so that its citizens will continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undersecretary now in Leopoldsville , says the first of the United Nations troops are expected to arrive in a matter of hours . By early next week , Mr. Bunche said he expects at least four batallions to be on the scene . The first arrivals of this force of 2,400 or more soldiers are likely to be drawn from the armies of five African nations ? Ghana , Guinea , Mali , Morocco and Tunisia What will happen if these Africans are called on to fire on their fellow Africans to restore order remains to be seen . Also , many of the officers of the special task force will be white and it will be under the general command of Swedish General Karl Van Horn , which also may cause resentment not only in the Congo but throughout the African continent . Meanwhile . Provincial Premier Tshombe of Katanga Province , which has seceded from the Republic of the Congo , declared yesterday , in his capital city , Elisabethville , that he wanted no U.N troops in Katanga , but instead wished the Belgian troops now there to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and chaos which is happening in the Congo Republic . " Mr. Tshombe said . Katanga earlier had asked armed aid from neighboring white-ruled Rhodesia . The declaration by Congolese Premier Patrice Lumumba this week that his nation is severing diplomatic relations with Belgium is expected to speed the taking of sides by the nations of Africa Such nearby nations as Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa . ruled by whites . hardly can be expected to suppoit the Congolese position , while the newly independent Africa nations such as Ghana already have offered aid , both military and economic , to the embattled nation . African specialists here fear that bad feeling and possibly violence against whites will erupt in those lands whose peoples  --  regardless of their government 's position  --  share the Congolese 's resentment against intervention in Africa by white troops . To the average African native , it matters little whether the intervening troops are Belgian , American , Swedish or even Just European officers at the head of Negro troops from other African lands . White troops manhandling or shooting Negroes probably will provoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Rare Opportunity To Ghana 's ambitious Prime Minister Nkrumah , the Congolese troubles seem to offer a rare opportunity to achieve the continentwide influence he seeks . Eaiher this week , he offered to send his nation 's ' troops to the Congo . independently He followed this with an offer to dispatch a cadre of civil servants who would replace key Belgians who already halve fled the Congo Also hungering for a chance to play a part in Congo 's affairs are Russia and Red China , who have made vague promises of aid , with only too obvious motives . Many Belgians . e , , pecially businessmen who have an intere , , t , in the Congo , are hoping that a U N protectorate will be established over the Congo . since it seems unable to govern itself Envisioned at this time is an arrangement similar to those which existed in the Cameroons , Somaliland and in Tanganyika , before political rights were granted to Africans in those states In those instances , the U.N exercised no direct control , but entrusted the administration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , respectively . If such an arrangement is worked out for the Congo , Belgium would be the logical candidate to be the trustee . " No other country is in a better position to do the job , " says an official of the Belgium Ministry of Economic Affairs . However , such an arrangement probably would be bitterly opposed by the present free nations of Africa .                     