@@721040

txt The six Roman Catholic Bishops of the Dominican Republic have intervened with Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina , head of the country 's regime , on behalf of the thousands of Dominican . citizens imprisoned as revolutionary plotters . This was disclosed in a joint pastoral letter the bishops orText of the bishops ' letter is printed on Page 16. dered read Sunday in all Roman Catholic churches of the republic . A copy of the letter was smuggled out of the country and brought to New York yesterday . In their pastoral , the bishops declared th &; solidarity with the " many families " bereaved by the arrests of their loved ones . They declared that Catholic Christianity must defend the rights of individuals , which , they said , came before the rights of any state . Signers of the pastoral were Archbishop Ricardo Pittini , primate , who bears the historic title , Primate of the Americas ; the Most Rev. Octavio A. Beras , Coadjutor Archbishop of Santo Domingo ; and Bishops Francisco Panal of La Vega Real , klugo E. Polanco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Altagracia and Thomas F. Reilly of San Juan de la Maguana . Individual Rights Defined An extensive section of the pastoral was devoted to asserting the rights the individual derived from natural law , including the democratic rights of freedom of conscience , of the press and of assembly . These rights do not exist in the Dominican Republic under the Trujillo regime . To suppress these rights , the bishops warned , is " a grave offense against God . " The pastoral says that before finishing the letter to the faithful , the bishops worked out a plan for mutual understanding so that " excesses might be avoided . " They sent this , they said , to the highest authority in the land , meaning General Trujillo . General Trujillo 's reply was to suppress news of the issuance of the pastoral letter . The bish // ops said in the letter that they issued the pastoral so that the plan might be carried out as quickly as possible . The outcome was not indicated , although the letter to General Trujillo was sent before Jan. 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishops did not anticipate that their representation would be accepted at once was indicated in the pastoral 's exhortation to . the faithful to pray for the successful outcome of the representations . The move indicated that the Roman Catholic Church was at the point of breaking with the Trujillo regime . Previously the church had kept aloof . since only in recent years had Generalissimo Trujillo returned to the practice of the Roman Catholic faith . Few Clergy Responded In 1958 the regime introduced the practice of making a public event of baptisms in church , with a member of the Trujillo family or of the Government acting as honorary sponsor of the baptized child . Only a few clergy responded to the regime 's overtures for religious support . As a whole the clergy , like most of the citizens , kept aloof from politics . The pastoral served to confirm reports received by Dominican revolutionary organizations in New York of a serious uprising in the republic recently . As a result of the rising , thousands of Dominicans in business and the professions , including at least one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Government admitted making a small number of arrests , denied others and said the cases against others had not made clear whether the suspects were guilty of conspiracy . The pastoral letter , however , indicates that the fate of the thousands arrested is not known and that it is feared that many will die from torture . Most Dominicans are at least nominally Roman Catholics . Church and state and separated , but the republic has a concordat with the Holy See guaranteeing freedom of worship , Several Protestant denominations maintain churches and missions and have thousands of members .                     