@@725197

txt Council approved an amendment to the City charter giving it the additional budget power . The amendment now goes to ? Mayor Wagner for signature . From the council floor Councilmen Theodore R , Kupferman , ! Manhattan Republican-Liberal , and Joseph Modugno , Queens Republican , assailed the amend- ! ment as ' ' the first shot in this Council 's war against incoming Mayor John V. Lindsay . " One effect of the step will be to facilitate the financing of : ! investigations the Democraticcontrolled Council might want to make under the administrail tion of Mr. Lindsay , a RepubliI can-Liberal . Explaining the budget move , Councilman David Ross , Bronx Democrat and majority leader , declared that its principal pur1 pose was not to get more ready ! cash for inquiries . ! He said it was to give the Council some of the ' svide : ? f autonomy it had long been demanding , and to make the Council 's authorii y equal to that of city department heads over budget funds within their own agencies . The Council action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions ' on budget modifications . Under the amendment , which is ex- ' pected to be signed by Mayor Wagner soon , the Council could transfer any of its own budget . funds , however allocated . to " any other programs or projects or for any other purpose. - " Each such transfer , " the amendment provides , " shall bei published in The City Record and written notice thereof shall be given to the Mayor and the ' Controller not less than 10 days before the effective date there. ; of . " Under the present system the Council must get a recom- , mendation from the Mayor to transfer its own funds and also , get approval of the Board of ' Estimate . More Inquiries Seen Despite disclaimers of any intent to use the new budget pro-. cedure to facilitate investigations , it was recalled at City . Hall that at a joint press conference last week Frank D. O'Connor , the Democratic president-elect of the Council , and Mr. Ross predicted that Council investigations would be stepped up in the next four years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charter took effect in 1963. the Council , with vastly more power to wield , nevertheless had a long and cumbersome process , to follow if it wanted to reshuffle its own funds . This meant , he said . unavoidable delays in using the Council 's own money for ' purposes ! it considered necessary . Councilman Edward L. Sadowsky , Queens Democrat-Liberal , said he would introduce ' a bill ' after Jan. 1 to give the Council power it now shares with the ; Board of Estimate to review 1 the expense and capital budgets proposed by the Mayor . The measure also would transfer from the Board of Estimate to the Council the power . to review changes proposed by the City Planning Commission.i The Councilman 's proposal also ; would authorize the borough ; presidents to share with the , Mayor the power to propose ; capital and expense program affecting their boroughs .                     