@@723443

txt A new articulation has been made of Kennedy administration policy on Cuba which until now has been considered vague or in a state of limbo by many , and interpreted as highly vulnerable by high Republican Party officials . John Crimmins , Coordinator of Cuban Affairs in the State Department , told the American Legion National Convention in Miami Beach Sunday that the United States has a two-front policy toward Cuba . " On the one hand , we are moving to weaken Castro with a view to his eventual collapse ; on the other we arc strengthening the Latin - American countries which he mid his Soviet masters are intent upon capturing . " Deflection of Aid ? Mr. Crimmins told the Legionnaires that the fundamental premise in the objective of a free Cuba is " that the Cuban people themselves will decide how they will achieve and organize their freedom , and that those within Cuba must have the major share of this responsibility . " This statement would seem to indicate even more of a Kennedy administration deflection from the policy of giving direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months ago , the administration withdrew funds of $85.000 per month from the Cuban Revolutionary Council in Miami . Premier Fidel Castro does not believe the United States has withdrawn any aid from Cuban exiles . Contrariwise , he is of the opinion that recent . sporadic raids emanating from Central America on Cuban territory , are fully sponsored by the Central Intelligence Agency . In fact , Premier Castro seems quite disturbed that these exile attacks are resuming . Now , Premier Castro is holding the recent raids on Cuba as responsible for his not signing the test-ban treaty . There has been speculation Premier Castro might be holding out for more Soviet aid , and threatening to czst his lot with the Chinese Communists . Off-Cuff Interview Premier Castro , In an off- the-cuff ' interview at a Bra- ' zilian Embassy party in Havana Saturday night said to Associated Press Correspondent Daniel Harker a% ) out the test-ban treaty : " We are taking into account the current world situation , which of course involves the Caribbean situation , which has been deteriorating in the last few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban people . " World affairs , he said , had " seemed to be entering a more peaceful climate a few days ago ( at the time of test-ban treaty signings by the United States and the Soviet Union ) but now this trend has changed with attacks . " Colombia and Venezuela , the target of vicious Castro-Communist subversion attacks in recent weeks , were excoriated by Premier Castro .                     