@@726090

txt Britain took a first cautious step today toward relaxing the economic squeeze adopted last July to rescue the pound . The Bank of England reduced the bank rate to 6% per cent from the crisis level of 7 per cent put into effect July 14 , 1966 . The cut also was an invitation to other countries , notably West Germany and the United States , to continue their recent moves toward easier credit . A cut of a full point , to 6 per cent , had been widely expected . The belief in the financial community tonight was that 6 per cent would be achieved within a few weeks if the pound remained as steady as it did today after the announcement . Expression of Confidence The cut was an expression of confidence by the British Government that the pound had been restored , at least for the next year , to solid footing that it is ' unlikely to come under renewed speculative attack . In financial circles , here and abroad , there is little discernible dissent from that assessment . The Government-induced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain 's trade balance is improved . The reduction in the bank rate was confined to a halfpoint as a " cautious approach , " sources close to the bank ? said . In other words , a full point might have created the false impression in Britain and elsewhere that the squeeze was over , that the Labor Government had begun to reflate the economy and that it considered the pound no longer a problem , Moreover , the authorities wanted to test the market 's reaction . The market took it well , After softening ever so slightly for no more than a few minutes , the pound moved above the pre-announcement level . It closed at $2.7912 . A Bank of England spokesman said : " Today 's reduction in the bank rate to 61/2 per cent has been made possible by the recent reductions in interest rates and monetary pressures in other important centers , and by the lessening of pressures on the domestic economy . It also reflects the aim of achieving a lower pattern of interest rates which was adopted by the finance ministers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , France , West Germany , Italy and the United States , in a conference at Prime Minister Wilson 's country residence , pledged to work together to bring interest rates down . The need for coordinated action arises from the ease with which investors are able to shift money from one country to another in search of the highest return . The half-point reduction in the bank rate was clearly a demonstration of goodwill by Britain intended to elicit similar action elsewhere . In light of other technical actions , the Bank of England has taken recently to ease credit  --  actions which created expectations in London that the Bank Rate would come down by a full point  --  there was a tacit hint in the size of today 's move that it would be repeated if other countries responded in kind . The United States appeared to be preparing for new crediteasing steps yesterday , when the Administration asked Congress to double the tax on purchases by Americans of foreign securities . The increase was meant as a further deterrent to investments abroad for the sake of a higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit policy tighter than it otherwise would have been . Effect on Consumers The bank rate reduction was expected to have little immediate effect on consumer-installment and mortgage-credit costs in Britain . The first impact , as is usual , was expected to be on bank loans to companies and financial institutions . The six months and 12 days during which the bank rate stood at 7 per cent was the longest such period it held at that level since the 13-month period in 1920-21 . The 7 per cent level has been employed several times in the last decade to discourage selling of sterling when the pound was under acute pressure . One important element that entered into today 's action was the relatively light demand for loans that British banks have been experiencing . The Government would like to see business investment , which may be off as much as 10 per cent this year , pick up . But it has still given no sign that it is ready to encourage more consumer spending , which has a higher propensity to pull in imports . U. S. Lauds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States Treasury praised the reduction in the British Bank rate today and said it was a step in the direction of lower interest rates throughout the world . In response to inquiries , the United States Treasury issued the following statement : " The Treasury welcomes the cut in the British Bank rate announced today , both as a move in the direction of deescalating interest rates internationally and as evidence of improvement in Britain 's international economic situation . "                     