@@727913

txt The politicians have had their innings on state revenue . The income tax bill  --  only acceptable shelter from financial chaos that would injure all the citizens of Illinois  --  is trapped in partisan rivalries . Time is running out Democratic leaders want a state income tax of 2 per cent on individuals and 4 per cent on corporations . Gov . Ogilvie 's program calls for a 3 per cent tax on both individuals and corporations . Since deals have failed . THE TRIBUNx offers a solution which neither Mayor Daley nor Gov . Ogilvie wants . It has no political motivation . We think that . tho far from perfect . it has a reasonableness that will commend it to Illinois citizens who place the public interest above political interest . Here is our program : 1 . A 2 per cent tax on individuals and corporations alike . A uniform rate stands a much better chance of being declared constitutional by the Illinois Supreme court . Disparate rates for individuals and corporations would greatly complicate the issue of constitutionality and , even if such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to the United States Supreme court would delay a decision for a ' year or more . Approval of a law fixing a uniform rate probably could be obtained by September . a An increase of 2 or 21.2 cents a gallon in the motor fuel tax , with a provision that if Cook county wished to do so it could use part of its share of the new revenue to support the Chicago transit authority . 3 . A sharp increase in tobacco and liquor taxes . 4 . An increase in the cities share of the state sales tax from r.4 cent to a full cent . 5 . Approval of bills to maintain the fiscal stability of the Cook county government . THE TRIBUNE.S program falls short of meeting the spending demands of all the pressure groups . It would force the state government and all its beneficiary governments to adopt regimes of austerity . It would require the governor and legislature to make hard decisions on how the available funds are to be allocated . But it would supply the state with more revenue than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money should meet ail essential needs and should take some of the pressure off local property taxes . This is a program for the economic health of the whole state  --  the city of Chicago . the suburban area . and all downstate communities . The welfare of each of these areas depends on the health of the others . No time is left for sectional squabbling or for political wheeling and dealing .                     