@@723643

txt Moscow Premier Nilcita S. Khrushchev has compared the Soviet Union 's recent grain purchases from the West with the policy of the Stalin regime which let people starve . He told a meeting of the Communist Party 's Central Committee Monday the Soviet Union could have sold grain this year despite severe shortages if it followed the policies of disgraced former Prime Minister Stalin . " This was to sell grain abroad and in several areas people became distended with hunger from lack of bread , and even died , " he told the committee 's plenary session in the Kremlin 's Palace of Congresses . Plans Outlined Outlining the country 's agricultural problems and his plans to combat them , Mr. Khrushchev said this year 's harvest was smaller than 1962 because of bad weather . There was a shortage of grain , particularly wheat . Mr. Khrushchev said the production of artificial fibers would be raised to about 1,350 , - 000 tons by 1970 . This would allow a big increase in the production of textiles , knitwear , and other consumer goods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " even exceeding it substantially in knitwear and hosiery . " He said the expansion of the chemical industry , which envisaged a threefold increase in output , was " unprecedented in world practice . " It would be naive , he said , to think that fine words on the blessings and advantages of socialism had a greater effect on the masses than practical successes . Foes Attacked " To go on proclaiming only general slogans . . . without tackling in earnest the practical tasks of building socialism and communism would mean creating a gap between noble appeals to the people and the practical activity of the party . " What we need in this case is not slogans ; it is concrete material content , practical work in the construction of a new society , of its economy and culture , that becomes decisively important . " Mr. Khrushchev said the Soviet Union 's enemies gloated over the fact that it had suffered an adverse agricultural year and was therefore open to political demands . " This is what the most reactionary and embittered enemies of socialism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are calling for , " he said . " They say outright that before selling wheat or supplying chemical equipment to the Soviet Union , political demands must be presented to it . " Messrs . Imperialists , by such statements you only betray your impotence against the new world . " The Soviet socialist system was born without your blessing , we are living and developing without your support , and we expect to carry out the plans for the coming seven years also without your support , . . . " he declared . " Your malicious plans will come to nothing , " he added . " Do not try to dictate political terms to the Soviet Union ; as the saying goes , you do n't know whom you are dealing with ! " Fair Price Pledged He said the government favored extending business ties with capitalist countries . " We will willingly place orders with the companies of these countries for a whole complex of chemical plants and a number of other enterprises , and will pay them what is due by commercial standards . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappointed will be those who expect to make fabulous profits out of that , taking advantage of the seemingly advantageous situation , who expect that the Soviet Union would be compelled to accept any agreements because it allegedly has no other way out . "                     