@@723117

txt Letters to The Times JOHN D. EUSDEN , T.E . HOOSON.PETER C. GOULDING , RUSSELL D. HEMENWAY , B. GARRISON ... Letters to The Times Involving Negro Children Educational Benefits Seen in the Struggle for ' Equality To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : From May 7 to . May 10 I was in Birmingham to help support the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in its efforts to pin a longoverdue , small ? " package deal " of civil rights . Along with other Northerners-17 Jewish rabbis , a law professor , the chaplain of Yale University ( the Rev. William S. Coffin Jr. ) and college students  --  I spoke at mass meetings in churches , conferred with S.C.L.C. leaders , and was ready to demonstrate and go to jail if necessary . At all times the nonviolent character of the movement was main-. tained . Dr. King , the Rev. Fred L. Shuttleworth and the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy and their associates continually reminded their people that those who. could not control themselves were not welcome . On a higher plane , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act in love and Order in the face of hatred and disorder on the part of white authorities . The prudence of the leaders was seen in the decision on one occasion to use a limited demonstration of Northern rabbis and ministers , if a mass demonstration was thought to be conducive to violence from bystanders . Few Under 15 The involvement of Negro children has been questioned ( Prof. Paul Ramsey 's letter published May 10 ) . An answer from my recent experience in Birmingham would make these points : Very few children under 15 were involved ( in my visit as a pastor to the Birmingham jail I noted that the few children of junior high age and below who were arrested by the authorities were not long detained ) . Participating in the instruction sessions for Negro youth , I observed the long-range stress ? staying out of school to demonstrate now would produce better job opportunities when school was finished later . The young people were urged to put pressure on their parents for voter registration . There is no question that hundreds of high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights struggle . Of course there are problems . The young can get out of control , and outstrip the movement . As Gandhi once said : " There go my people , I must run after them . " But some of this may be a good thing ; at least it is worth the risk , given the general discipline of the movement 's " unit system . " Lastly , who can dispute the genuine educational benefits of being personally involved in a struggle for freedom and equality ? JOHN D. EUSDEN , Chaplain and Associate Professor of Religion , Williams College . Williamstown , Mass. , May 10 , 1963 . What Tories Stand For To THE EDITOR OF TIM NEW YORK TIMES : No British Tory can stand by in silence to see his party identified , in Virgil Hart 's letter published May 8 , with Goldwater conservatism . The only possible meeting point is in name . But the Conservative party in Britain is a pretty progressive party in reality . Suffice it to say that British conservatives approve of social security and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. E. HODSON . New York , May 9 , 1963 . No Harm in Fluoridated Water To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Edwin G. Langrock , M.D. , in a letter published April 29 makes the statement that the American Dental Association had reported that the use of fluoride tablets compares favorably with fluoridation . This loosely phrased sentence is quite misleading . The association has stated emphatically that the simplest , most economical , most effective , and by far the safest method of obtaining the benefits of fluorides is through controlled water fluoridation . The use of fluoride tablets is recommended only under the conscientious supervision of an adult . Needless to say , it is not necessary to supervise your child 's drinking of fluoridated water . The gentleman also goes on to cite the usual , vaguely stated fears that fluoride in drinking water may oe related somehow to various diseases . But he ignores the undeniable fact that today , this morning , more than 50 million Americans have fluoridated water in their homes , millions , of individuals have been drinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one single case of harm proved when the water contained fluoride at one part per million . It is strange indeed that this handful of opponents of fluoridation have information about the " dangers " of fluorides which is apparently unavailable to the American Medical Association , the United States Public Health Service , the scientific community generally and even the personnel Ao guard the health of President Kennedy and his family , all of whom drink fluoridated water . PETER C. GOULDING , Director , Bureau of Public Information , American Dental Association . Chicago . May 1 . 1963 . Housing on Armory Site Property 's Return to City Urged for Middle-Income FBuilding To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : ? I would like to comment on Phyllis Robinson 's excellent letter published April 9 regarding the use of the armory site on 94th Street and Madison Avenue . This community has lost a major portion of its middle-income residents in recent years , due to the massive demolition for new buildings . Third Avenue , once a largely middle-income area , has emerged as an almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ours have been seeking to prevent the East Side from becoming a place only for the rich . The membership of the Lexington Democratic Club , a reform Democratic club vitally concerned with its community , after careful study and extensive discussion passed a resolution on April 10 , 1962 , regarding the future use of this site . We urged that the state return to the city the 94th Street armory at a cost low enough to facilitate the construction of middleincome housing and that a portion of the site be used for community facilities . The membership also urged that the club solicit the support of public officials , other organizations and individuals to further its position . The economics of middle-income housing precludes the possibility of condemnation of any privately owned land in our area for this purpose . This site represents the only opportunity for the construction of a substantial amount of such housing in this area now dominated by luxury buildings . We regard middleincome housing as a necessity for the health of our community and for the welfare of our city . We are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we will fight for the utilization of the air rights above any such school for middle-income housing . This armory was turned over to the State National Guard in 1942 . They have said they no longer have any further use for this building . We therefore urge Mayor Wagner to request the return of this property co the city for public purposes . We call upon Governor Rockefeller to demonstrate his often expressed belief in providing middle-income housing and better schools by seeing to it that this site is released to New York City for these Purposes . RUSSELL D. HEMENWAY , President , Lexington Democratic Club . New York , May 8 , 1963 . Cuba and Communism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Philip Siekevitz ( Times May 7 ) , disagreeing with Senator Barry Goldwater , declares " Cuba is not worth a nuclear war . " Of course not . What Dr. Siekevitz adroitly evades in his fervid bid for peace is Communist penetration into Cuba and the Western Hemisphere . If Cuba is abandoned now for the sake of peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears and abhors becomes inevitable . Has he so soon forgotten the lessons of Neville Chamberlain ( " peace in our times " ) and the Hitlerian ( " drive to the East " ) ? Does he choose to ignore Khrushchev 's rodomontade of peace cynically flung at a credulous and suffering humanity eager to avoid war ? If , according to Dr. Siekevitz , Senator Goldwater does not know the " facts of present-day international life , " surely another writer to the Times ( May 7 ) , Stanley Hornbeck , Special Assistant to the Secretary of State , and experienced in Far Eastern Affairs , knows the facts too well when he declares that " Communism is a definite menace to us and to all free lands . . . and to the very concept of freedom . " His advice to study Communist personnel , their behavior , their deeds and openly declared future purpose is more factual and realistic than Dr. Siekevitz 's plea to abandon Cuba and avoid war . B. GARRISON LIPTON . M.D New York , May 7 , 1963.   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         