@@722772

txt BY GEORGE TAGGE Springfield , Ill. , Nov. 14-Killing all of Gov . Kerner 's proposed fund transfers , the Republicancontrolcd Senate today passed a bill giving him only 20 per cent of his requested additional relief appropriation . House economy leaders , including William E. Pollack R. , Chicago and G. William Horsley IR .. Springfield . said they will accept the Senate appropriation of $27,979,800 . Yesterday the House had reduced the requested $130,989,000 appropriation to $50,000,000 , but today agreement was reached in the House to reduce this tomorrow to the amount of the Senate bill . At Lowest Figure After passing a bill with the lowest figure discussed , the Senate today proceeded to defeat Kerner 's measures for fund transfers . These sere to borrow for relief 15 million dollars from the road fund , 14 millions from the veterans ' bonus bond retirement fund , and 4 millions from the public employes ' pension fund . And in the House today , Democrats fell far short of mustering the required two-thirds majorities for the Kerner fund transfers . They even failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shift in road funds . Thus the expected result of Kerner 's special session will be to compel the lawmakers  --  and the taxpayers  --  to take another hard look at the relief problem before the Chicago mayoral election April 2 . Up to Review Jan. 9 Gov . Kerner wanted appropriations to last thru the end of the two-year financial period next June 30 . As things stand now , the relief situation must be reviewed with new legislative action at the regular session opening Jan. 9 . Arthur 1 Bidwill of River Forest , Senate majority leader , and George E. Drach of Springfield , majority whip , said the relief operations can run until March with what the G. 0 . P. is providing . Republicans said that relief requirements are so unpredictable that they should be reexamined by lawmakers as often as is feasible . Actually there was no urgent reason for Gov . Kerner to summon them to a special session , they said . Democrats Angry " You will be coming back here and will have to swallow your actions and your words in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago , Senate minority leader , protested . Even angrier was Sen. A. L. Whitey Cronin , a Democrat from Chicago 's far south side 's 15th district . He made a motion to reconsider the vote by which the Senate had passed the bill to pay legislators on the usual mileage basis for coming to the special session . Cronin said they deserved nothing . As muttering from the floor indicated Cronin 's move was unpopular on both sides of the party aisle , Lieut . Gov . Samuel H. Shapiro ruled the motion was out of order . The bill for session expenses had already gone to the House and therefore was beyond further action by the Senate , he said . Mrs. O'Neill Speaks But the most fiery speech was that of the senator with the longest record of service ? Mrs. Lottie Holman O'Neill R. , Downers Grove . Forty years ago she became the first woman ever elected to the Illinois legislature and has been a member ever since . It may have been her last speech here because she declined to run for reelection this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should dp something drastic about the Illinois Public Aid commission , " she said . " It is completely out of control . It is a bottomless pit for the taxpayers ' dollars . No one can say what we will pay if we do n't reorganize the relief system . " The IPAC should be liquidated and relief operations placed under a code department directly responsible to the governor . We must do away forever with cheaters , tricksters , whether they be relief clients or ? doctors , druggists , and nursing homes . " Only One Dissenter The drastically reduced relief appropriation bill was passed in the Senate by a vote of 53 to 1 . Sen. John A. Graham R. , Barrington was the sole dissenter . The milder House version which will be trimmed in the Senate won House approval by a score of 133 to 32 . All of the " no " votes came from G. 0 . P. members . State Rep. John William Carroll 11 . , Park Ridge , chairman of a between-sessions advisory commission on public aid , said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before we are bankrupt . " In the Senate the Kerner fund transfers were blocked by 25 to 29 tallies . The affirmative list of 25 each time was 14 short of the required two-thirds I majority . Short in the House In the House the bills to jug ) gle funds needed 118 votes . The gasoline tax transfer missed by 43 votes . The bonus bond fund ' transfer was 35 votes short . The pension fund transfer fell 33 votes short of passage . House Minority Leader Pollack warned that he foresees the possibility of an increase in the 5 cents a gallon gasoline tax . He said ye resented oppo , rents of the road fund transfer being labelled spokesmen for special interests such as contractors . The tax imposed for ' streets and highways and revenue must be guarded for all motorists , he said . Sen. Edward C. Eberspacher D. , Shelbyville replied to a question of how the funds would be re-filled if they were depleted by this special session . Republicans said Gov . Kerner has been silent on that question . Up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive branch , but of the legislative branch , " Eberspacher said . " The question is where will we get the money . " So he was asked by Sen. Dwight Friedrich R. , Centrals where he proposed to , get fresh revenue . " From such laws as the legislature chooses to provide , " was Eberspacher 's only reply to the last thrust . Sen. Arthur Gottschalk R. , Park Forest said Gov . Kerner 's plan was to replenish the road , pension , and bonus bond funds with new taxes . " If there is to be a sacred cow , it had better be the taxpayer back home , " Gottschalk said .                     