@@722416

txt deleted page might recommend a wage increase of 25 cents an hour for the non-operating employes . Mr. Wolfe said many railroads would be unable to pay any recommended pay increase , and that others were having problems paying the current rate and remaining solvent . The non-operating unions , served wage notices to the railroads on their " open contracts " last Sept. 1 . Bargaining talks collapsed and the National Mediation Board took over . The board notified the President that a strike was imminent and recommended the formation of an emergency board to seek a solution . In March the board took testimony in Chicago from the railroads and unions . The board was granted one extension to consider its findings . The extension expires next Thursday . Building Talks Offer Problem Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , April 26 ? Across the country with the coming of spring , labor contract negotiations in the construction industry are beginning . And the Kennedy Administration is worried about the outcome . These negotiations present the Administration , in the words of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most troublesome , if not the most troublesome , problems " it faces in terms of its policy of encouraging noninflationary wage bargains . The principal difficulty is that the building trades negotiations are almost entirely decentralized . They are not like the steel industry , where both labor negotiations and price decisions are highly visible . In the construction industry , the Administration would have a hard time finding a target at which to shoot were it prone to do so . Employs About 2,250,000 A few figures indicate the extent of decentralization in the construction industry . Construction employment runs about 2,250,000 , which makes the industry vitally important in the economy . The thirteen international unions that represent the bulk of the men on the construction sites have between them a total of about 11,500 locals . The locals for the most part negotiate their own contracts with their opposite numbers  --  the local building contractors ' associations . Although Administration economists think that in recent years the rate of advance of wages in the construction industry has been slow , they still regard them as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trades wage scales , is- ' sued today by the Labor Department , showed that the average advance for all trades in the year that ended April 2 was 3.8 per cent . The significance of the figure is diminished by the fact that the year 's most important building trades contract talks are yet to come . Even so , it reflects a pattern of wage increases far . in excess of the Administration 's guidelines for noninflationary settlements . The Presidential Yardstick The President 's Council of Economic Advisers has suggested generally that settlements , to be noninflationary , should fall withing the range of increase in output per man hour in the over-all economy . That figure varies , depending on the time period involved . For the total private economy in the post-war period , the growth rate in output per man hour has been about 3 per cent a year . Construction wages increased 4 per cent last year , according to Labor Department figures . They rose 4.1 per cent in 1960 , 4.9 per cent in 1959 , 4.5 per cent in 1958 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include fringe benefits , which have been an important factor in building trades labor negotiations . Members of the Council of Economic Advisers met here last month with construction labor and industry leader ; . The meeting was under auspices of the construction industry joint conference . Prof. John T. Dunlop . chairman of the Economic Department at Harvari University ; Who directs the activities of ' the conference , invited the council . ' members to the meeting betanse he felt both groups might . beneflt from a clearer understanding of each , other 's problems . The economic situation was discussed , but the council members did not make a specific plea for wage restraint . Actually , even if they had , there.would have been very little that the top construction union officials could have done about it even if they had wanted to . Local Agents Are . Independent Local building trades union business agents are notably independent . They do not welcome Mvolvement of their international unions in local bargaining . And they are likely to be more responsible to pressure from Washington , What may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ad. ministration economists feel , is the present high level of unemployment in the construction industry . Joblessness in the industry , the economists think , has been the main factor behind what seems to be a slowing down in the rate of increase of construction wages in recent years . The unemployment rate in the construction industry last year averaged 14.1 per cent and it remains at high levels . Construction union leaders say that there appears-to be stiff opposition throughout the country this year to big settlements . But the pressure they feel the most comes not from the White House , they say , but from investors in new plants , shopping centers and office buildings .                     