@@721221

txt It was just too bad that we got caught . " That comment comes from Helen Pandergast. a Boston elevator operator . A Wall Street Journal nation-wide survey indicates Miss Pendergast 's remark typifies the reaction of most Americans to their Government 's admission that the U.S. plane brought down in Russia last week was on a spying mission . Those interviewed appear to regard espionage As a necessary evil . especially when Russia pursues a policy of such extreme internal secrecy . Other views turned up by the survey : Moat Americans are annoyed that the Administration first identified the plane as a weather research craft and then backtracked . But few indicate that their annoyance is great enough to influence their vote in this fall 's Presidential election . - Americans by and large think President Eisenhower should go to next week 's summit meeting in Paris , as planned . A somewhat groaner majority say the President also Sboald keep his scheduled date to visit Russia in June . A majority of the interviewees argue that Mr. Eisenhower should take a strong line at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier Khrushchev over the incident . " They spy on us , so why should n't we spy on them ? " asks a Boston secretary . " We Had to Do What . We Did " While I 'm sorry we got caught . I think we had to do what we did just to protect ourselves. - says Robert K. Clark . who runs an insurance agency in Cleveland . " I was much impressed by the comment by the Administration that the Free World is open to investigation by the Russians but we are blocked from knowing what is going on behind the Iron Curtain . " " Sure . I approve of spying on Russia with planes . " says William Smallwood . vice president of First Southwest Co. in Dallas . " Granted . getting caught last week was bad timing . just a few days before the summit . But how else can we find out what the Russians are doing ? " Although almost all the interviewees agree that the timing of the flight and the Administration 's handling of the news of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . even individuals who identify themselves as staunch Democrats tend to minimize inc importance of the event in the domestic political scene . Alfred H. Kelly . professor of history at Detroit 's Wayne State University and a Democrat , comments , " Someone down the line in the bureaucracy blundered in the timing and method . If you 're going to use that kind of method you do n't get caught . But whichever party is in power is going to have to maintain intelligence activities . " " Washington 's handling was inept and embarrassing just before thesummit meetIng. - says a Jacksonville stock broker who calls himself a " registered Democrat with Republican leanings . " But he adds that the event wo n't influence his vote : " It was a normal risk of espionage . " The Government 's Lie Most of the persons interviewed seem to take calmly the fact that the Government first insisted the plane was engaged in weather research and only later admitted it was on a spy mission . The Government thus had lied . both to the American public and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a visitor to Philadelphia from Los Angeles . argues that the Government was " mighty honest to admit its Mistake . " He thinks , however . that the Government should never have made its first announcement . " We should have kept quiet . " he says . " until we found out bow much Russia knew . " " I do n't think we should ever have announced it was a spy plane . " says Roy R. Evans , president of a United Auto Workers local in Dallas . " All we were doing was observing them , and we should n't apologize for it But . I ca n't see why the incident has been blown up so big . " Ralph B. Rogers , president of Texas Induritries , Inc. , in Dallas , says the Administration probably made mistakes in its handling of the situation , " ' but everyone makes mistakes : We put these people to office and we 've got to let them make the decisions . " Americans generally seem to agree that the plane incident erases whatever chances the summit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other issues dividing the East and West . But chantss for each agreement bad appeared to be slight , even before the plans was downed . And few Interviewers think the incident should lead Mr. Eisenhower to skip the Paris session . " Sum it will ruin chances for agreement at the summit meeting . " says Mike Mickelman. a 21-year-old student at Villanova University , Philadelphia . " But I did n't think we had a chance in the first place . It would be worse if he did n't go at all . " " I should think that the wisest thing we could do in the circumstances Is to utilize the I summit meeting for making clear to the world what the Russians would like to obscure  --  a need to know what one 's adversary is up to Is an indispensable element of national defense . " says Jack Perlis , New York City pubIle relations consultant . W. W. Overton , chairman of Texas Bank &; Trust Co. of Dallas . says he thinks Mr. Eisenhower at next week 's summit meeting should " tell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information about his country . as Russia certainly has free access to inforrna  --  on about us . We certainly ca n't agree to any kind of disarmament or nuclear test ban without aerial observation , and I think President Elms-bower should make this clear at the summit " While ? majority of the persona interviewed believe Mr. Eisenhower should travel to Rue sia. as scheduled . in June . some persons believe he should wait until after the summit meeting to settle his travel plans . " Whether Mr. Eisenhower should go to Russia , I think . should depend on what comes out of the summit meeting . " says Albert Greenfield , a wealthy Philadelphian who will be a Pennsylvania delegate to the Democratic National Convention . " I do n't think this incident means anything except the Russians have stretched it as an aggressive act . "                     