@@726010

txt Millions of dollars in truck license fees and other taxes have been lost to the state because the secretary of state 's office has failed to make follow - up investigations of cheating trucking companies caught in the crackdown in the multi-million dollar truck license scandal , it was charged yesterday . At the same time , officials of the secretary of state 's office in Springfield admitted that they have been unable to locate key records covering the forced registrations of truck license violators . Earlier Records Missing Joe C. Wheeler , director of investigations for Secretary of State Paul Powell , said that Investigators have sold more than 1,000 truck plates for a total of more than $300,000 by forced registration since he directed the drive against the trucking companies from May 1 to Nov. 7 . But Wheeler said he can not compare the number of forced registrations this year with the years of 1965 and 1964 because he does n't have the records . He said he does n't know if some of the same violators caught this year were repeaters from previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were instructed two months ago by Powell to get the records , said they have been unable to locate them . Get Plates at a Bargain George E. Mahin , executive director of the Better Government association , said that almost all the truckers reqiiired to buy Illinois plates in the forced registration after they were found in violation were sold plates at half price , for the last six months of the year . " We have admissions from state officials that no effort has been made to determine if the truckers were in violation for the first part of the year or for previous years , " Mahin said . " They also adtnitted that they never audited the specific companies to find out how many other trucks they were operating in violation which were not stopped at the roadblocks . " Mahin pointed out that millions of dollars in back license fees and other taxes , such as personal property , use tax , commerce commission fees , vehicle stickers , could be collected under proper procedures . He recalled that Powell and his aids had promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principally the large companies t h a t have been carrying phony registrations . Sees No Way to Fotce Them Nicholas D. Ciaccio , administrative assistant to Powell , angrily insisted that there was no way in which the state could check and force the truckers caught in the roadblocks and sold half-year plates on the spot to pay previous taxes owed the state . Mahin pointed out , however , that other state officials said the secretary of state 's office has the authority to examine the books and records of any trucking company operating here . He also recalled that the state has forced trucking companies in the past to pay taxes after audits were made . According to records compiled by Wheeler , from Jan. 1 to May 1 before the crackdown began , only five truck plates , for a total of $2,551 were sold in the Chicago area by forced registration , in contrast to the 1,000 sold after disclosures by the TRIBUNE . Ciaccio insisted that the $300 , - 000 in additional plates sold included all sales of truck plates and not by forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chief of Powell 's investigators in the downstate areas , replied that he and Wheeler made a careful compilation of the forced registrations and that Wheeler 's figures were correc t . Gordon and Wheeler said that there is no way of knowing how many additional plates the trucking companies bought after the initial arrest of their drivers . More Plates Sold Wheeler agreed that the crackdowns have resulted in many more truck plates being , sold . He said that some of the companies that had been under investigation purchased up to 40 additional plates to avoid more arrests . R. B. Morris , chief clerk of the accounting revenue section , reported that the income for truck sales up to Oct. 1 this year was $58,694,941 , or $3,710 , - 847 over the complete year of 1965 . The grand total sales in units for 1965 were 530,530 and up to Oct. 1 this year were 549 , - 965 , an increase of 19,435 . Wheeler , a former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent , was appointed by Powell as di-1 rector of investigations after disclosures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a former chief investigator for Powell . Porcaro is in Stateville penitentiary serving sentences for theft of states funds and bigamy . The crackdown by Wheeler and sheriff 's police began on June 16 when THE TRIBUNE detailed accounts of how more than 50 trucking companies were cheating the state on license and other taxes . Teamster union officials and heads of Illinois trucking firms estimated that Illinois has been losing up to 250 million dollars a year in taxes , wages , and business because of the lack of enforcement of motor carrier laws .                     