@@725056

txt The company car has long been a " tin can -- typically , a stripped-down , sixcylinder job with no pizazz . But now there are hints that the traveling salesman tooling around in such a sexless heap may eventually become as rare as the Yankee peddler hawking his wares from the back of a wagon . Companies across the country are culling these spartan sedans and compacts out of their fleets , replacing them with bigger , higherpriced models laden with extras . The growing taste for auto luxury exhibited by Individual auto buyers is pushing them into it ; companies say they 're unwilling to risk depressing a salesman 's morale and tarnishing the corporate image by giving him a car he 'd be embarrassed to park between his neighbors ' flashy new autos . There 's a hard economic reason too . The higher resale value of these bigger , more lux. urious cars can more than offset the extra cost of buying or leasing them for the corporate fleet . And companies are finding it possible to keep them on the road longer than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey of 82 companies by the National Association of Fleet Administrators , a trade group . shows that fleets plan to buy 10% more cars than they did a year ago . Most of the companies involved said they 've decided on top and middle-line 1966 cars with V.8 engines , automatic transmissions and power equipment . Some companies are going sporty with Mustang , and others have their orders in already for a batch of Oldsmobile 's sleek , ' new front-wheel-drive Toronados ? which officially went on sale only yesterday at a list price of $4,600 . The auto makers , eyeing the fatter profits made on bigger cars equipped with plenty of optional accessories , are doing all they can to whip up more demand , " Why not put your hot- I test salesman in America 's hottest-selling car ? " asks a Mu tang ad aimed at fleet buyers and other eKeentives . Pontiac similarly asks : " Why does a fleet car have to look like a fleet car ? " in an ad directed to the same group . " Why ca n't a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good reason for courting fleet buyers . They bought more than $00,000 cars last year compared with less than 400,000 in 1963 . Five years hence , the auto makers expect 1,000,000 fleet sales annually . Significantly , the sportier or more luxurious cars are enjoying particularly good demand . For example , in the three years since it reorganized sales operations to put more stress on fleet customers , Buick 's sales to company buyers have increased to 23,000 cars in the 1965 model year from 10.000 in the 1963 model year . Auto men also see some fringe benefits arising from the push for sales of fancier fleet cars . " We have a great deal better chance to sell a salesman or his wife a Pontiac after they 've become accustomed to driving a company car that 's bigger and more luxurious than the family car , " says E. R. Pcttengill , Pontiac 's general sales manager . Revlon Eyes Buicks It 's the salesman , in fact , who has had much to do with the corporate switch to bigger . more luxurious models . Revlon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small cars this year with big Fords , Plymouths , and Chevrolets ; now it is " investigating the possibility of going to a little better car , like a Buick , " says Louis J. Delauro. manager of sales administration . The reason : Revlon salesmen keep bump . ing into their counterparts from other companies while on sales trips  --  and they ca n't help but notice that many of their rivals have flashier cars . " They come back to the office and they want them , too , " says Mr. Delauro . " Chevys and Fords do the job just as well , but it 's a matter of company appearance and staff morale . " Keeping up with the corporate Joneses is apparently the aim of some fleet buyers who have been purchasing the new Toronados . It 's understood that Olds dealers have ordered some 600 of the expensive new cars for fleet customers . " It 's going to be a terrific VIP calling-card for them , " says a Los Angeles dealer who 's sold several of the cars to fleets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort -- and , it is hoped . efficiency ? of employes who drive them . Qua-I her Oats Co. , which had been using compacts . drew complaints from its salesmen . " They felt the cars were too small and too light , and they said they got too tired driving them on long trips , " says William A. Bales , fleet manager . Now Quaker Oats uses full-sized cars , and is adding air-conditioning arfd power equipment to more of them every . year . Similar considerations influenced Arnibur &; Co. ' s decision to Maki life on the road easier for its men . The company is adding power steering , power brakes and radios to its 1066 fleet purchases , and is ordering factory airconditioning for cars driven in 11 ' Southern and Western states . Some fleet purchasers are finding that luxury more than pays for itself . Dow Chet:Meal Co. figures to save money by putting its salesmen into hardtop Plymouth Furies , Ford Galaxies and Chevrolet Impalas with big engines , power equipment , push-button radios and airconditioning . " About the only thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ windows . " says Dwight W. Olsen , manager . of purchasesequipment leasing . But he estimates that Dow 's average cost of operating these fancy hardtops  --  taking into account initial cost , fuel , taxes , license plates , depreciation and other factors  --  will be 7r cents a mile . This is 1 , . i-cent to i : ? - cent a mile cheaper than the cost of operating stripped sedans in a lower line of the same make : the difference lies in the lower resale value of the cheaper car , says Mr. Olsen . Xerox Corp. , switching from smaller cars to fullsized , higher:powered ones . calculates that it will come out about 0200 ahead on the total costs of each of these cars compared with the smaller ones  --  thanks to higher value at tradein time . The bigger , more powerful cars often last longer . giving fleet buyers more mileage for their money and offsetting higher initial costs somewhat . Hunt Foods &; Industries . Inc. , is " phasing out " its smaller cars : the company found it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has discovered that its fullsize autos equipped with V-8 engines will easily run for 60.000 miles . Not every company is rushing full-tilt into more luxurious transport  --  for reasons many executives might want to ponder . One big corporation with large plants scattered around the country is actually downgrading its fleet . switching from high-priced hardtops to stripped sedans , pickup trucks , and even threewheeled motor scooters for some personnel who use company vehicles only within plant complexes . - We ran into some psychological problems when all of our people were driving fancy cars for short hops , " the fleet manager confesses . " It 's pretty hard to convince people they should hold the line on wages and make more effort to cut down production costs when every supervisor , foreman and messenger is driving a car that looks a lot bigger and nicer than what he needs for basic transportation . "                     