@@723740

txt Six persons were hurt when Negroes , and restaurant bouncers clashed , three times tonight , after the arrest earlier today of 84 antisegregation demonstrators . The arrests came shortly belore an unofficial United Nations panel left the city following a study of race relations . Four Negro girls , a bouncer ' and a policeman were injured in the disturbances at the entrance of Leb 's Restaurant , in the heart of the business section , The violence followed efforts by antisegregation pickets to force their way into the establishment . There were no arrests in these I encounters . Accord Reached in Meeting All those arrested earlier , on charges of disturbing the peace , were later released on their own signatures . The action came after an official of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee had promised that it would obey city picketing regulations to walk single file and to keep moving . The agreement was made in a meeting between Chief of Police Herbert T. Jenkins and James Forman , executive secretary of the student committee , and Donald L. Hollowell , a Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Ivan Allen Jr . contended in a statement that the racial tension here had resulted from efforts by civil rights groups to " seek national publicity at local expense . " He said the city was making progress in efforts to eliminate discrimination and pointed out that " all laws and ordinances on the city 's books creating segregated practices have been re , yoked . " The Atlanta Restaurant Association , in a full-page advertisement in the Monday edition of The Atlanta Constitution , accused the police of denying protection to restaurant operators . " The ever-increasing trend toward centralized control and regulations must stop before , socialism is an accomplished fact , " the advertisement said . The key issue in the Atlanta discrimination dispute is the refusal of most downtown restaurant operators to go along with the 15 that have dropped all racial barriers . Padded Chain is Weapon In the fighting tonight at Leb 's Restaurant , one bouncer flailed away at demonstrators with a padded chain . Others engaged them in a flurry of swinging fists , kicking and shoving . H. A. Wagner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after . an unidentified assailant had struck him on the head . Three of the girls were taken to hospitals , but two later returned to the scene of the demonstration . As one hobbled to a waiting ambulance assisted by two men , some of the white patrons in the restaurant watched laughing from the restaurant 's windows . A small group of Ku Klux Klansmen , who were not wearing their robes , rushed across the intersection of Luckie and Forsyth Streets during one outburst but were held back by the police . In demonstrations yesterday , Klansmen and Negro students clashed in brief fist- ! fights . The 12 visiting members of the United Nations human rights panel had left Atlanta , for New York before the ' violence tonight . They had spent two days here . The 84 arrests were made this afternoon as the police invoked a new , tough policy against demonstrators who refused to clear the lobby of the Downtown Motel and the sidewalk in front of Leb 's . The restaurant was the scene yesterday and last night of demonstrations led by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Committee oh Appeal for Human Rights . Negro and white demonstrators traded taunts with robed and hooded Ku Klux Klansmen ! ' and then moved to the Down- , town Motel , where the fist- ' fighting broke out . It was stopped by the police . The stepped-up demonstrations here were only indirectly connected with the two-day visit of the United Nations group , the Subcommission on ' the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities . Members of the subcommission serve as individuals and not as official representatives of their nations . Their visit here was not an official one , nor was it in any sense an investigation . The visit was seized upon by the civil rights demonstrators as an opportunity to dramatize their cause . Also , yesterday was the deadline set . by a coalition of 86 civil rights organizations for major progress toward their goal of forcing other restaurants to drop racial bars , in addition to those that have done so . Failure to achieve this goal is expected to sharpen greatly , the city 's racial controversy . Those arrested this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago comedian . A student committee spokesman said Mr. Forman had been taken from the city jail to Grady Hospital with a back injury . A group of some 25 demon- , strators , including a few whites , entered the motel shortly be- ! fore 4 P.M. and sat down in the lobby , which 75 of them had blocked during the demonstration last night . Police Lieut . Howard Baugh , a Negro , ordered them to leave . When they declined , he told them they were under arrest . All refused to walk out of the motel to waiting patrol b waaons . Some struggled with patrolmen who carried them out . Others , holding onto pillars , coat racks or other objects in the lobby , had to be pried loose . As the prisoners were being placed in the wagons , Lester Maddox , a restaurant operator , unsuccessful segregationist candidate for Lieutenant Governor ! and Mayor , walked up with a , smile . " I sure am glad to see this , " ! he said . Crowd Watches Arrests A few blocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ syth Streets , a crowd of 1,000 white persons and a few , Negroes watched as uniformed , policemen and plainclothes men began to arrest demonstrators , outside Leb 's . As one Negro youth fought to free himself from the grasp of four patrolmen who were carrying him to a wagon , a few whites yelled , " Kill ' em , kill ' ern . " When officers placed Mr. Forman under arrest , he began shouting , " You 'll bust what open ? I 'll bust yours open ! Bust it open ! Bust it open ! " He clung to a patrol wagon door and had to be pried loose before the Negro and white policemen could get him into the vehicle . The United Nations group heard sharply differing opinions of racial problems and proposed solutions from . the city 's Nearo leaders before departing for New York . A discussion session at the Butler Street Y.M.C.A. was arranged hastily after some panel members had complained they were being shielded from controversy . One of the Negroes who participated was Mr. Gregory . He told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country has a callus around his soul " and is anxious to be rid of it .                     