@@727542

txt The 91st Congress convenes tomorrow with the Democratic majority divided between young and old as well as between liberals and conservatives over how to organize its opposition to a Republican administration . The new Congress will be preoccupied with the same problems as its predecessors ? urban poverty , the war in Vietnam , inflation and taxes . To these problems there has been added a new partisan complication . For the first time in eight years the Democratic majority in Congress will not have a Democratic President in the White House . With the Democratic majority thus thrust into a new opposition role , liberals in both the House and Senate were challenging the established Democratic leadership for a greater voice in party policy over the next two years . Challenge Is Defeated In the House , Speaker John W. McCormack beat back a challenge to his leadership from a group of young liberals , headed by Morris K. Udall , a 46-year-old Representative from Arizona . The 77-year-old Speaker defeated the challenge by a vote of 178 to 58 , a margin that disappointed liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic leadership in the House . In the Senate , Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts has challenged Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana , a powerful member of the Senate establishment , for the post of whip , or assistant Democratic leader . The unexpectedly close race will be decided at a Democratic caucus tomorrow . Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Long were each reported with 26 or 27 firm commitments for votes . Senator Kennedy and Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota met today to discuss the race , but it still appeared unlikely that the Minnesotan would support Mr. Kennedy . Observers noted that Mr. McCarthy , a member of the Finance Committee , probably felt a strong obligation to Mr. Long , the committee 's chairman . The Republican minority was working out its leadership problems in relative amity . In the House , Representative John B. Anderson , a moderate conservative from Illinois , was elected to succeed Representative Melvin R. Laird , of Wisconsin , who has been named Secretary of Defense , as chairman of the House Republican Conference . The only real Republican leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a liberal from Pennsylvania , was vying with Senator Roman L. Hruska , a conservative from Nebraska , for the post of assistant Republican leader . The extremely close race will be decided at a Republican caucus tomorrow . For the moment , the Democratic leadership was promising constructive cooperation with the Nixon Administration . Although there is little personal love within Democratic ranks for the new Republican President , Congress is expected to steer a little to right of center and Mr. Nixon might enjoy a relatively prolonged period of tolerance from Congress . For the next two weeks , Congress will mark time , waiting for the inauguration of the Nixon Administration Jan. 20 and the presentation of its legislative program . There had been some consideration of calling up the treaty to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons , negotiated by the Johnson Administration , immediately in the Senate . But with the Senate preoccupied by organizational problems , the likelihood was that consideration of the treaty would be delayed until after the inauguration . Instead , the Senate is expected to become bogged down in another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cut off debate . The Liberals go through their biennial exercise of seeking to modify the rule and are expected to be just as unsuccessful as in the past . When he takes office , Mr. Nixon will confront a Congress increasingly assertive on foreign policy but inclined to be cooperative on the domestic front so long as he revamps rather than dismantles the Great Society programs of the Johnson Administration . Inevitably , however , partisan jockeying will develop between a Democratic Congress and a Republican administration , par-1 ticularly as the 1970 Congres-1 sional elections approach . Working from a minority position in Congress , Mr. Nixon must find allies in the Democratic ranks , probably among the Southern conservatives . With an Albamian , Winton M. Blount , as Postmaster General , the suspicion in Democratic circles was that Mr. Nixon 's first ploy will be an attempt to cut into the Southern flank of the Democratic party through dispensing of postmasterships . With the electorate apparent-1 ly turning more conservative , I Democratic liberals and moderates were not expected to be in any hurry to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats , traditionally the more aggressive investigators , will certain ly revive their watchdog role , seeking to find soft spots in the Nixon Administration . Questioning of Hickel Perhaps the first manifesta-I tion of this watchdog attitude may come when Walter J. Hickel appears before the Senate Interior Committee for confirmation as Secretary of Interior . If only in retaliation for the Republican treatment of Justice Abe Fortas when he was nominated by President Johnson to be Chief Justice . Democrats may subject the Alaska Governor to lengthy examination about his views on conservation and the use of public lands . Other than Mr. Hickel , Mr. Nixon 's Cabinet appointments are expected to he quickly approved by the Senate in time for the Cabinet officers to take office when the new Administration is inaugurated . In political complexion , the new Congress is basically unchanged from its predecessor , which became progressively conservative , particularly when it came to spending for domestic programs . In the last election , Republicans gained six scats in the Senate plus one through the recent death of Senator F. L. Bartlett , Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was the largest Republican gain in the Senate since 1950 . The Senate , however , remains firmly in Democratic control , with 57 Democrats and 43 Republicans . The Senate , in recent years the more liberal of the two bodies , will perhaps be slightly more conservative in the new Congress . But basically it remains under the control of a shifting coalition of moderates and liberals opposed to a hard core of some 34 conservatives . Probably the most important factor influencing the direction of the new Senate is the fact that 25 Democrats ? including many forming the liberal-moderate core of the Democratic party ? are up for re-election in 1970 . This fact tends to pull the Democratic opposition in contrary directions . Establishing a Position On one side there will be a desire to establish a partisan position differentiating the Democrats in the Senate from the Republican administration . But on the other , given the conservative temperament of the electorate as illustrated in the election of a Republican administration , the Democrats will be reluctant to assume too liberal a stance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained only four seats , leaving the Democrats still firmly in control , with 243 members compared with 192 for the Republicans . But with 35 new members , the new House may be slightly more moderate and receptive to liberal domestic legislation than the last House was to the Great Society programs of the Johnson Administration . More than in the past , the House may he prepared to go along with innovations proposed by the Nixon Administration on the domestic front . But when it comes to appropriating funds for domestic programs , the conservative coalition of Republicans and Democrats , with their power base in the House Appropriations and Ways and Means committees , are expected to remain as powerful as in the past . Much of the imprint of the new Congress is expected ? to be made with the appropriations it approves rather than with new legislative programs its adopts . The widespread presumption is that the Nixon Administration will offer few major new legislative proposals and will concentrate on reorganizing the Great Society structure inherited from the Johnson Administration . If so , the Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress , which is talking more in terms of improving existing domestic programs rather than starting new programs . Both Congress and the Nixon Administration face some major legislative decisions that can not be avoided . Probably the most important and controversial is whether to extend the 10 per cent income surtax that ' otherwise would expire on June 30 . Other Major Decisions Congress must also decide whether to extend the authorization for the Office of Economic Opportunity or reoganize the antipoverty agency created by the Johnson Administration ; whether to extend the Appalachian Regional Development Act , the first Great Society program enacted during the Johnson Administration , and where to go with a foreign aid program that has been pared to the lowest level in 20 years . Other major decisions facing Congress are what levels of spending to approve to existing domestic programs ? such as urban renewal , housing , education and model cities ? few of which have ever been funded to their authorized level . When it comes to appropriations , Mr. Nixon may be able to seize a partisan advantage over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Johnson Administration in its closing days , Mr. Nixon can let the conservatively oriented Congress work over the domestic appropriations . If Congress then cuts the appropriations , as can be expected , it will be difficult for the Democratic liberals and moderates in Congress to draw a partisan issue with the Republican administration . In defense spending , Congress will almost certainly go along with any move by the Nixon Administration to embark on major new strategic weapons programs to close what Mr. Nixon has described as the " security gap " developing with the Soviet Union . This will run into protests from a small band of liberal Democrats and Republicans in the Senate . But the Nixon Administration will find itself supported by influential Southern Democrats , who control the . Appropriations and Armed Services committees and who dictate Congressional policies on military affairs .                     