@@722541

txt VATICAN CITY , July 14 A time bomb exploded tonight in the heart of St. Peter 's basilica , the largest church in the world . The famed Roman Catholic church was empty and no one was injured . A Vatican spokesman said damage to the ancient basilica was confined to the marble facing of one wall . Authorities speculated that the bomb had been set by a mentally deranged person . Workers Rush to Basilica The blast echoed thru Vatican City and caused widespread alarm . Vatican workers rushed to the 700-foot-long basilica . The explosion occurred an hour and 10 minutes after the church 's huge bronze central doors had been closed for the day . The charge had been placed to the right of the throne of St. Peter near the end of the basilica that Michelangelo and other artists designed in the 16th century . It was not the first bomb incident in St. Peter 's history . There have been at least four other blasts over the years . In the last previous incident , a bomb was placed inside the basilica @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not explode . The noise of the blast reverberated thruout this tiny papal state housing the central goveminent of the Roman Catholic church . There was no word on whether the sound had disturbed , Pope John XXIII at his residence in the apostolic palace , 1,000 feet northeast of St. Peter 's . It was assumed he had retired . The bomb exploded behind an organ the late Pope Pius XII had ordered built near the tomb of Pope Clement X. Architect Francesco Vacchini said fragments of a timing device were found . He speculated that the charge itself may have been a plastic explosive , of the type recently used by European terrorists in Algeria . Thousands Pass Thru The blast shattered the cool , dark silence of the Mammoth church after thousands of worshipers and tourists had passed thru in the course of a normal summer day . Porters at the entrance of St. Peter 's are always en watci for packages and cameras , ordering visitors to deposit them before entering . The bomber apparently somehow slipped by with his explosive device concealed . The entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Roman Catholic Ecumenical council that opens Oct . II , bringing together thousands of churchmen from all over the world . Special seating stands , lighting arrangements , rest rooms , and telephone and press facilities are being prepared for the event .                     