@@723580

txt CITY CONSIDERING METERING WATER Study Under Way 8 Months Affects All Consumers ? Conservation Stressed Hy MARTIN ARNOLD The city is studying the possibility of metering its entire ) water supply . Commissioner Armand D'Angelo of the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity re- ' vealed yesterday that such a ! study has been under way for about eight months . Only about 25 per cent of the city 's water is now supplied to consumers on a metered basis . This water is for industrial and commercial use . The city supplies water at low rates for home consumption . The owners of apartment buildings , for example , pay the city about $10 a year for each apartment for water . This money is added to the landlord 's tax bill , and is passed on to the tenant in his rent . Private homeowners pay an average of $24 on their tax bills for water , the Commissioner said . This sum is worked out on a formula involving the footage of the homeowner 's property and the number of water producing units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study to determine whether all the city 's water should be metered was being conducted by the City Administrator 's office , in cooperation with his department . He said that similar studies had been undertaken before he became Commissioner in 1957 . Mr. D'Angelo estimated In an interview that it would cost about ' $40 million over a fiveto-eight-year period to meter all residences in the city . One of the problems under study is how to raise the money . Conservation a Factor One of the arguments in favor of metering all water is that of conservation . " If people know they are paying for the water they use , every drop of it , they 'll be less careless , ' he said , There are a number of problems involved , however . Water is now supplied to city residents as a service , not as a money-making proposition . The Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity operates on a $12 million-a-year deficit so far as its water-supply program is concerned , the Commissioner said . It has been estimated that if water were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year for water . This would not wipe out the deficit , the Commissioner said , and the city would have to decide whether to continue to supply water as a service or whether the water-supply system should support itself , The city now owns about 6,000 miles of water pipe , much of it connecting main lines to residences . Under study is who would own these connecting lines and who would maintain them and the meters  --  the city or a private utility company ? Mr. D'Angelo said that he did not know when the study would be completed by the City Administrator 's office . Delaware Charge Denied The Commissioner also described as " nonsense " a charge that New York had failed to cooperate in maintaining water levels in the Delaware River . New York City gets a third of its water supply from its five Delaware River reservoirs , Mr. D'Angelo said that the city had " honored all its commitments " regarding the release of dammed waters to help maintain the normal flow of the river during periods of drought , Gov . Elbert N. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Supreme Court in which he says that New York has refused to release water from its reservoirs to allow the river to flow normally during water shortages . New York , Delaware , Pennsylvania and New Jersey entered into a Delaware River compact , approved by the Supreme Court in 1953 . Under the compact a River Master 's office was set up to control the amount of water that each state could take from the river and the amount each had to put back into it in times of need . Delaware has contended that last May during a water shortage New York City diverted as much as 900 million gallons a day from the river . Mr. D'Angelo said that under the compact New York was allowed to average 490 million gallons a day from the river ? on approval by the River Master  --  and that while it was true the city took the 900 million gallons in May , on other ocassions " we have taken much less , to maintain the average . " Formal Approval Cited " Also we had the approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angelo said . " It was n't until Oct. 18 that we were told to stop taking water from the river , and we did . " He said that since Oct. 18 the city had released water from its reservoirs back into the river to maintain its normal flow . Mr. D'Angelo said that before the city built its five Delaware River reservoirs , the Delaware River basin was a flood area . " It 's the city 's reservoirs that keep the river under control , " he said . " The other states have n't spent the money to do the job and could n't use the river for water if New York did n't . " The compact actually was made between New York State and the other states , not between the states and New York City . However , it was made by New York State to supply water , to the city and to more than 70 upstate communities .                     