@@727580

txt President Johnson did not sign today , as had been expected , proclamations that would add 7.5 million acres of Federal land to the national park system as a final gesture toward conservation of natural resources . Under the proclamations , he would create new Federal preserves in Arizona , Alaska and Utah . Members of Congress from the three states and key members of the Senate and House Interior Committees had been briefed and had expected the signing to be announced today . The White House said Mr. Johnson had delayed signing the documents because of a crowded schedule . He had an appointment with Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall this afternoon , but it was canceled . Mr. Udall said the Presi- , dent was still considering the proclamations . George Christian , White House press secretary , also said that Mr. Johnson still had the documents under consideration . There was no further explanation of the holding up of , the proclamations , which , id was learned , were prepared at least a week ago . The preservation of additional land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to take up the nomi nation of a new Secretary of the Interior , Gov . Walter J. Hickel of Alaska , whose state would have more than 1.5 million acres withdrawn by the President 's action . The Governor has strongly protested the withdrawal of more Federal lands from the the public domain because the state has not yet selected all of the 103 million acres it is entitled to under the Statehood Act of 1958 . The Johnson Administration also has clamped a freeze on selection of lands by the state until Congress settles the land claims of Indians , Aleuts and Eskimos . The transfer of the 7.5 million acres to the park system r would be one of the largest land actions undertaken by al President . It would increase the total national park area by , one-fourth to a total of 35.51 million acres . The 7.5 million figure is double the 3.6 million acres of new park lands set aside by Congressional action during the five years of the Johnson Administration , according to the Interior Department . As presently planned , the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gates of the Arctic in Alaska and Marble Canyon and Sonoran Desert in Arizona . tlEnlarge three existing national monuments  --  Arches and Capitol Reef in Utah and Katmai in Alaska . clAdd more than 1.2 million acres to the national wildlife refuge system , including a 1.1 million-acre addition to the Clarence Rhode National Wildlife Range in Alaska and a new 365,000-acre Cape Newenham Wildlife Refuge , also in Alaska . President Johnson also was said to be considering asking Congress to make a national wilderness area of the Big Thicket of southeast Texas . The President also was considering sending separate messages to Congress recommending that seven new national parks be established . Five of these now are national monumerit s . The President can establish national monuments and lesser land preserves but Congress must approve national parks . Mr. Johnson 's message to Congress would suggest two new , national parks . These would be Death Valley in California with 1.9 million acres , and Nevada and Glacier Bay in Alaska with 2.8 million acres . They are now designated national monuments . In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national monuments that he would enlarge by the delayed proclamations . These are Arches and Capitol Reef in Utah and Katmai in Alaska . The proposed 2.2 millionacre Mount National Monument would adjoin the national park of the same name . Gates of the Arctic National Monument would stretch over 4.1 million acres of northern Alaska in the rugged Brooks Range . The area is regarded as superlative wilderness and would be the first park system unit located above the Arctic Circle . Making Marble Canyon a national monument in Arizona would preserve an area once proposed as a dam site by the Interior Department before conservationists defeated proposals to built giant power dams in the ' Grand Canyon of the Colorado .                     