@@721478

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 10 ? A once-discarded process for , producing atomic weapon materials is threatening to com- , plicate efforts to control the atomic arms race as well as to ' stir up the test ban issue in the Presidential campaign.The process , based on the principle of a cream separator , uses a centrifuge to separate enriched uranium for manufac-1 turing bombs . Rejected as impractical in World War II , the process hasl now been developed to the point where it may permit any technologically advanced nation to ' become a member of the " atomic club " without a large financial outlay . The potentiality of this recently revived uranium separation process for spreading the membership in the atomic club is causing increasing concern within the administration . Factor In Kennedy Stand ' It also figured largely in shaping Senator John F. Kennedy 's position on the atomic test ban issue . This was digclosed today by Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee , who assisted in drafting the Democratic Presidential candidate 's statement yesterday urging that the United States make a renewed effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This development concerns the gas centrifuge process for producing uranium 235  --  the fissionable material used to make atomic bombs or to fuel nuclear reactors . The centrifuge process was studied during World War II but discarded in favor of the gaseous diffusion process . Both processes depend upon the fact that the uranium 235 atom is slightl : , lighter Opp then far more abundant but non-fissionable uranium 23C atom , both found in uranium ore . In the gaseous diffusion process the uranium , in a gaseous form , is pumped through thou // If there was any dispute with the Kennedy statement , it was with the implication that the administration has not been pursuing the Geneva negotiations with sufficient vigor . If has issued his statement , Ad- no new treaty article has been A-BOMB PROCESS PERIL TO CONTROL // sands of tiny sieves that separate the two isotopes . In the centrifuge process , the isotopes are isolated by the same principle as that of the separator that takes cream from milk . In recent years , particularly as a result of work by West German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producing appreciable amounts of fissionable uranium at an acceptable cost . It was to this that Senator Kennedy was referring when he said in his statement that conclusion of a test ban agreement was of " extreme importance " because " new advances in technology have brought atomic weapons within reach of several additional nations . " This development also lay behind Senator Kennedy 's pledge that if elected President he would " invite leading nations having industrial capacity for production of nuclear weapons to a conference to seek and , if possible , to agree upon means of international control of both the producing and use of weapons grade fissionable material and also the production of atomic weapons . " Senator - Gore , a member of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy , pointed out today in a statement that these recent advances in centrifuge technology " have now brought the capability of producing weapons-grade material within the reach of not just a few but many nations . " " It is possible , if not probable , " he said , " that within the tenure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producing nuclear weapons will be within the reach of as many as twenty or more nations . " Development of the centrifuge process would mean that any technologically advanced nation could produce fissionable uranium without the almost prohibitive capital and operating costs of a gaseous diffusion plant . The expense of the gaseous diffusion process , which thus far has been an inhibiting factor against a nation entering the atomic weapons field , is indicated by the fact that the United States has more than $3,000,000,000 invested in the three plants at Oak Ridge , Tem. ; Paducah , Ky. , and Portsmouth , Ohio , and each plant requires as much electricity as New York City . 8 Centrifuges Sold Three early models of the centrifuge , according to Atomic Energy Commission sources , have already been sold by West German concerns  --  two in Brazil and one in the United States . In addition , the West German companies have applied for patents in several countries , according to Senator Gore . The potentiality of the centrifuge process for proliferating the membership in the atomic weapons club  --  either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  has been realized within the Administration . Early this year , for example , John A. McCone , chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , gave a secret briefing to the Congressional committee on the new type of hazard presented by the centrifuge process in the atomic arms race . Development Expected The appraisal of commission officials is that a feasible , economical centrifuge process is only a few years away . The centrifuge , it is believed , will probably produce the fissionable material in sufficient quantity and at low enough cost to be attractive for any nation desiring to become an atomic power . Because of the weapons implications , the commission has clamped the tightest secrecy on centrifuge technology . The secrecy , however , does not necessarily apply In other nations , some of which seem interested in selling the centrifuges on a commercial basis . Now that Senator Kennedy ministration officials believe that Vice President Nixon will have to state his position on the issue . There has been some reluctance on , both sides to introduce the issue into the campaign debate while diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In objectives , Administration officials see no basic difference between the position enunciated by Senator Kennedy and that taken in the past by the Administration . Officials , therefore , did not foresee that the test ban question will develop into d. divisive partisan issue , such as in 1956 when Adlai E. Stevenson proposed that the United States unilaterally halt its hydrogen bomb tests . agreed to since last November , Administration officials said , it has been because of Soviet intransigence , not the United States position . Furthermore , there was some puzzlement and concern over Senator Kennedy 's pledge that he would direct the Atomic Energy Commission to proceed with preliminary preparations for holding underground nuclear tests to improve methods of detection . Actually , these preparations have already been completed and only await a go-ahead from the President  --  a fact that Administration officials believe Senator Kennedy , or at least his atomic advisers in Congress , should know .                     