@@725506

txt Letters Letters to the Editor , of The Times Two Routes to Health Insurance To the Editor : You may be wrong in your editorial of May 1 " Forward Step in Health " in assuming that the passage in Albany of the bill implementing Title XIX ( Medical Assistance Programs to the Needy ) is an inevitable step on the way - to universal health insurance . One could easily argue the opposite conclusion  --  that passage of this bill offers an alternative course to universal insurance . Compare and contrast the two major pieces of health legislation passed by the Federal Government last year . The Most widely known is Title XVIII , Medical Care for the Aged , which is a Social Security mechanism , is operated in the Social Security division of Health , Education and Welfare , is applicable to all the people regardless of need , is precisely regulated at the Federal level ( although administered through local fiscal intermediaries ) . It has the potential , by a simple change in the age limitation , of spreading to universal health insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; is a welfare mechanism , is operated in the Welfare division of H.E.W. , is applicable only to those in need of assistance , is loosely regulated Federally with precise regulations being determined at the state level . By 1975 maximum implementation will . involve comprehensive medical care for all needy and medically needy individuals . ? It is perhaps not fanciful to imagine that a giant experiment involving two opposing social philosophies is taking place in this country . One approach , a Social Security program with Federal controls , has the potential of going all the way to some form of universal socialized medicine . The other , a welfare program implemented through the states , cares for the needy and leaves the nonneedy to get health insurance in the private sector . Which of these two routes will best serve the American people remains to be seen . WILLIAM C. FELCH , M.D. Chairman , Health Insurance Committee American Society of Internal Medicine Rye , N.Y. , May 4 , 1966 ? Appropriation for Missile System Opposed To the Editor : Avoiding proliferation of nuclear weapons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year and perhaps next may be a really decisive time , beyond which it may be too late . Yet Vietnam and election-year stresses obscure this vital issue from the vision of the public and of Washington . Senator Robert Kennedy and others have tried to focus attention on it , and negotiations in Geneva seem to be progressing slowly toward a limited agreement between the United States and the U.S.S.R. , the " nuclear giants . " But beyond that the other nations must be induced not to develop weapons that the giants have and they do not . They can not be expected to agree to this unless the giants themselves show restraint . Show of Restraint ? The present strategic nuclear stand-off now seems to provide about as much East-West stability as can be hoped for in the nuclear age , and the nuclear giants can afford to cease the expansion of , their missile systems on both sides , or perhaps even to reduce them gradually on a reciprocal basis . Thus they are in a position to agree to show some of the restraint needed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) system ( NikeX and beyond ) has peculiar characteristics . It is not expected to be able to stop a massive H-missile attack , but only to blunt it by some modest percentage , an example of the long-accepted fact that against the hydrogen weapons there can be no really effective defense ( except a " political defense " ) . While in its immediate effect it is purely defensive the A.B.M . system encourages the other side to strengthen its offensive capabilities to overcome the A.B.M . ' s unknown partial effectiveness . The A.B.M . thus becomes an ' element in the upward spiral of the nuclear arms race . It will presumably explode incoming missiles , or let them explode , high in the atmosphere , whence the blast can reach cities , so A.B.M . deployment implies a commitment to future construction of extensive blast shelters and an adverse change ' of our way of life . Increase Authorized At the intiative of the Senate Armed Services Committee chaired by Senator Richard Rus ' sell , the Senate recently passed an authorization bill which goes beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procurement of the beginnings of an A.B.M . system to the tune of about $150 million for the first year , and envisioning $8.5 to $10 billion over a five-year period . This represents a big increase in the future military " empire " and the Joint chiefs of Staff want ' it , ' while Secretary rightly says that it does n't make sense at this time . What the military wants the Armed Services Committee tries to shove down the Administration 's throat , perhaps playing in an election year a little political game of showing who 's boss or at least who 's for gravy . The tragedy is that the committee is hereby playing not with a toy but with fire on an international nuclear scale . For it is showing the world that the appropriations machinery of the United States Senate knows no restraint and welcomes a new loop in the upward spiral . If Congress follows through with the appropriation as authorized , . this may kill all hope of nonproliferation and doom , us to , an increasingly dangerous , manysided-nuclear arma race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement and for further stabilizing measures of arms restraint is a challenge to diplomacy from which we must not shrink for fear of the many thorny problems involved . The A.B.M . authorization tacked on by the committee is opposed by the President and Mr. for the good reason of economy . But it should be opposed and stricken from the appropriation also on the much more important grounds of the future nuclear stability of ? the world . DAVID R. INGLIS Western Springs , Ill. , May 8 , 1966 ' The writer , a physicist at the Argonne National Laboratory , was formerly chairman of the Federation of American . Scientists . ? Freedom to Protest War To the Editor : The questions raised by Dr. James S. Shinn 's letter published May 1 ( International Edition May 3 ) merit the posing of further questions . How can those who , like Dr. Shinn , support our war in Vietnam equate " anti-Vietnam demonstrators " and " college teachins " with " flag desecrators " and " blood donors for Vietcongs ? " Is there no avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who object to this nation 's Asian policy ? Dr. Shinn maintains that to protest " is to shame and humiliate . . . this great nation . " Is not democracy that system ' of government which encourages discussion and debate ? Is not advocacy of blindly following the leader dangerously close to totalitarian doctrine ? If we are indeed fighting for " freedom " in Vietnam , as we are told , it would be comforting to see on the part of those who support the war a greater understanding of what freedom is all about . GUY MACMILLIN Le Vesinet , France , May 4 , 1966 ? Electric Autos ? To the Editor : Instead of badgering auto= makers to build " safer " cars ( the only safe car is one without a motor ) , Congress and the public should press for development of an all-electric car , Growing air pollution makes this imperative . Moreover , the electric car , once perfected , p.:esents enormous advantages over the gasoline auto , which , despite improvements , remains overly complicated , subject to too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrast , the electric auto is aim . pler to operate and , maintain , more dependable , more economical , smoother riding , noiseless and , of course , fumeless . Motors could be geared individually to each wheel , thus giving four-wheel traction and eliminating drive shaft and differential and making for more interior room . If one motor breaks down , it would be possible to continue on three or even two motors . Full reverse power could be had at the flick of a switch . , The big problem , of course . is development . of- a powerful , long-lasting , easily rechargeable battery . Science , which put the astronauts in space , could do the job if it really wants to . One possible : solution might be the fuel cells used in the space capsules themselves . Conventional submarines have operated quite efficiently for half a century on canned electric power . Why not automobiles ? DE SABATINO ? Rome , May 2 , 1966 ? . C.I.A . in Academic Areas To the Editor : It is fashionable at the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as an untouchable , unclean thing with which no self - respecting and ethically pure academic institution should have any contact . I submit that , on the contrary , for these institutions to refuse C.I.A . research contracts is self-defeating nonsense that is , disadvantageous both to the academic world and to the C.I.A . If the C.I.A . ' were to control the academic curricula or to report on the private lives and opinions of the students , or even the professors , one can see certain unpleasant and harmful consequences . But if the C.I.A . contracts ' to have a university report with complete independence on a question requiring research , we should welcome and encourage , not deny , the C.I.A . ' s access to the source of objective information . Use of Experts We ' should likewise welcome , rather than discourage , the opportunity offered to universities of applying to serious public questions ? which presumably the C.I.A . staff can not answer  --  the specialized talents of their available experts . In most academic areas experts become experts by working in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts solely through study and reflection . Indeed , we have only to read the headlines  --  whether they involve automotive safety or foreign affairs to realize that often only the practical result will tell us which is the duffer and which the expert . What we need is more , not fewer , tests of academic theory , and the C.I.A . - ( or any other source ) does ? the universities a service  --  as well as vice versa ? in arranging for research on current problems . ALFRED E. DAVIDSON Paris , May 10 , 1966 ? For Government Financing of Campaigns To the Editor : The recent disclosures about Senator Thomas Dodd have again brought to national attention the financial realities of achieving and holding - elective public office . Here in San Francisco the trial now in progress of Assessor Russell Wolden will determine whether substantial sums he received over the years as campaign contributions were also bribes for lowered assessments . Speaker Jesse Unruh of the California Assembly has frankly said that the lobbyists who contribute the great bulk of campaign funds expect something in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lies in giving such contributors as little as possible for their money , and thereby reserving maximum scope for the legislator to serve the public interest as he sees it . When one considers on the one hand the tremendous sums necessary for statewide , national and even local campaigns in this era of large constituencies , . air travel and television advertising , and observes on the other hand ' that the primary donors are businessmen not ac'customed to giving away money without value received , it is obvious that favors by elected officials to their big contributors are inherent in - the system . The ? political candidate who is n't willing to cooperate usually finds he ca n't ' raise enough money to win or hold office . Unless he is personally sufficiently wealthy to finance the bulk of his campaign expenses , a dedicated and talented aspirant to public office will often prefer to forgo a political career rather than sell part of hissoul to raise the necessary campaign funds . Actual Expense Government financing of political campaigns , suggested by President Kennedy ' after his experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costly as it may sound . As matters stand , the government and general public pay for most campaigns many times over , through administrative and legislative actions which serve the private interests of the . big contributors at their expense . . Because so little is ever brought to light of the nature of such favors , we 'll never know what the total expense actually is or has been . But from occasional revelations , it must be staggering . The answer is not disclosure of contributors , as is often urged . Disclosure will not change the basic. realities which make the system function ? candidates will still ' need campaign money and contributors will still want favors . Only direct government financing of campaigns will-make it possible for candidates to get their campaign message across to the public without having to take money from private contributors seeking favors at public expense . ALAN S. MAREMONT San Francisco , May 7 , 1966 ? Parent Calls for Campus Clean-up ' To the Editor : " Relaxed Campus Rules Reflect Liberalized Attitudes on Sex " is the caption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an admirable summary of what college administrators think about the situation , but drawing the conclusion from one cited example that " the greater tolerance by university officials reflects changing parental attitudes. : .. " For the information of Mr. Randal and many other writers on the subject who - are quick to draw the conclusion that parents are unconcerned about relaxed campus rules , here is one parent who is not only not happy , but desperate . No writer , so far as I have been able to discover , has asked parents how they feel . It is time the parents ' side of the sordid story be heard . How many of us have sent --  our children off to college  --  after the ordeal of getting them through high school with sufficiently high standards to be accepted by colleges ? only to have them dropped into an ambience of permissiveness about sex , drugs and general rebellion that approaches degeneracy . Federal narcotics investigators have recently pointed to administrative laxness in combating the drug scandal on campuses . Who , except us parents , has the courage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your article calls " parietal rules " ? And who , besides parents , has a greater stake in what is happening to our children in colleges ? We parents are paying an enormous price in money and anxiety for what passes as " edu- ? cation " in our colleges . A parents ' crusade to clean up the campuses is surely in the offing . Many of us think it ca n't come too soon . SALLIE M. BRUTTO New York , May 9 , 1966 ? Legal Challenge to Mrs. Wallace ? To the Editor : Now that Mrs. George C Wallace 's election as a stand-in Governor seems likely , I hope there will be a legal challenge to her action : Mrs. Wallace is admittedly running only as a stand-in and the governorship of a state is not designed as a figurehead position . New Yorkers , of course , should remember that a- not entirely different situation occurred here in.1964 . At that time I expected the election as . a Senator of someone not qualified to vote in the state would be challenged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West , we " get the kind of representation we ask for . - BOB HERBISON Sidney , N. Y. , May 4 , 1966 Graves in France To the Editor : When at the request of our whilom , ally . France the United States removes its troops and materiel from that country , is it not to be hoped that our departure will be accompanied by an official expression of regret that we can not remove the many thousands of young men now resting in the soil of that country . V.ihose life they helped to save in the two great wars of our title . SAMUEL F. BEMIS New Haven , Conn. , May 9 , 1966 Hon Haynie , Louisville Courier-Journal The President 's Vietnam policy has stirred debate .                     