@@724824

txt Judge Julius J. Hoffman refused yesterday to set aside an injunction banning a public school boycott today and tomorrow , sponsored by civil rights groups . The injunction was issued Tuesday by Judge Cornelius J. Herrington in Circuit court . In declining to accept jurisdiction , Judge Hoffman told the civil rights attorneys in federal District court that they had not exhausted their remedies in the state courts . Agree to Injunction Al Raby , convenor- of the Ca ordinating Council of Community Organizations , one of the civil rights groups involved , said : " We are under an injunction which prevents us from advocating ' or inducing children to participate in the boycott . We will abide by the injunction . Our lawyers have advised us against inducing anyone to boycott . " He said , however , that civil rights groups plan to proceed with a scheduled march on City hall today from the south parking lot at Soldiers ' field . He said that Roy Wilkins , national director of the National Association for the Avancement of Colored People , will participate He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther King , inviting him to attend . Raymond E. Harth , one of the attorneys for the petitioners , said , " These are not the only days the schools are in session . " Harth said he will appear before the United States Court of Appeals today in an effort to appeal Judge Hoffman 's decision . Attorney Is Rebuked Another ' civil rights attorney , Garland W. Watt , was rebuked by Judge Hoffman when he waved his finger and shouted , " Wait a second , wait a second " after the court announced that the decision was not appealable . Judge Hoffman told Watt he would be glad to hear him , but would not listen to Harth and Watt at the same time . During the hearing , whick , lasted an hour and a half , Judge Hoffman asked what the petitioners meant by the word boycott . " " It is the soliciting of persons to remain away from a given place , " replied Harth . " Children to remain away from school , is that it ? " the judge inquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to refrain from asserting their parental authority Do n't you think you have the right to go to the Appellate court of Illinois to decide this matter ? " Harth conceded the petitioners had the right , but said they had elected to seek a federal forum " as the best place to protect their rights . " Judge Hoffman said : " These defendants here , described as certain civil rights groups and individuals active in the civil rights movement ? I come less and less to know what that means  --  have been sued by the board of education . Shudders at ' Boycot ' " To me the word ' boycott ' has always been an ugly word . I shudder to think of the word in the same breath as the word school . " The court then observed that be could not understand the apparent rush of the petitioners to stage a boycott , when the conditions they were protesting had existed for many years . The petition asking the federal court to assume jurisdiction charged that the injunction had been issued by Judge Harrington without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harrington on the school board 's contention that it was a " public nuisance " and could result in local loss of more than a million dollars in state aid . Leaders Are Enjoined It forbids leadership of the boycott by the Chicago branches of the N. A. A. C. P. , Student Non-violent Coordinating committee , and Congress of Racial Equality ; A. C. T. ; the Coordinating Council of Community Organizations ; and officials of the groups . The N. A. A. C. P. scheduled the boycott to protest the 4-year contract given to School Supt. Benjamin C. Willis with the stipulation that he retire when he turns 65 in December of 1966 . Several Negro leaders added their names to the list of boycott opponents yesterday . Among those who commented were : Judge Edith Sampson of Circuit court : " It can only penalize the students . They will have given up two precious days of classwork uselessly . AId . George W. Collins 24th : " I do n't think the boycott will serve any useful purpose at this time . " Illinois Commerce Commissioner Cyrus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all our children and this end can not be served by their remaining out of school for any purposes . " Judge William S. White of Circuit court : " Education is one of the most important instruments of social change , and our children should not be deprived of it-even for one day . "                     