@@722436

txt column missing and a panel of seven widely known physicians . Dr. Ray E. Trussell , the school 's director who is on leave as the city Commissioner of Hospitals , directed the eighteen-month study for the Teamsters Joint Council 16 and Management Hospitalization Trust Fund . The major findings were the following : gOne-fifth of the patients had received " poor care . " performed , twenty were called unnecessary and a question was raised about the advisability of six others . Seven of the thirteen Caesarian sections reviewed were considered " questionable . " Medical care in nonaccredited hospitals was termed poor or fair in 65 per cent of the cases . The study showed that in hospitals with no approved training programs , 43 per cent of the patients received poor care . In the same hospitals , 71 per cent of the physicians were not certified specialists . As a result of the report , Dr. , Trussell announced plans yes terday to form a committee of medical leaders to advise the Hospitals Department and assist in minimizing unnecessary surgery . He reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the subject of public hearings after staff and Board of Hospitals review . Until the advisory committee has completed its work , and the , code is revised , the department will issue provisional thirty-toninety-day licenses to proprietaries , which are profit - making hospitals , rather than on an annual basis , the Commissioner said . The proprietaries have been advised , he noted , that their applications for expansion of bed capacity would not be approved , since added beds were deemed unnecessary . Upgrading of Standards " Those patients receiving poor or unnecessary care were not solely in unaccredited proprietary hospitals , " he commented . " In taking the steps outlined , " he added , " the Department of Hospitals has ' been carrying out the Mayor 's announced program of upgrading standards in institutions licensed by the city . " We have been doing a great deal about proprietary nursing homes , which has been less well publicized . In view of the medical audit just released , it is important that the public know we are equally concerned with proprietary hospitals and have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward to the cooperation of the leaders of medicine in these efforts . " The study did not name the hospitals in which problems of medical care appeared to be concentrated . It found that 92 per cent of the patients thought they had received " the best of modern medicine . " Professional judgment , however , rated good or excellent the care in 60 per cent of the cases . In the remaining 40 per cent it was called " not good . " The care in hospitals affiliated with medical schools was rated excellent or good in 80 per cent of the cases , and " poor or fair " in the remaining 20 per cent . Training Stressed The unfavorable ratings in the medical cases resulted primarily from " poor judgment " on the part of attending physicians . " Good medical care today results from a well-trained physician exercising his clinical judgment and having access to facilities and personnel that will implement the course of action on which he has determined , " the study said . " In a city such as New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a basic problem except for the uninformed patient who does not know how to select the competent physician and the good hospital . " An analysis of costs of medical care showed that the families had considerably higher non-insured expenses than groups previously studied by ' the Columbia school . In the three months prior to being interviewed , 48 per cant of the families paid physicians ' fees outside of the hospital . Hospital insurance covered a higher proportion of the total bill than did insurance for physicians ' charges . Extra charges were more common for surgical cases than for medical ones . The report also noted a higher proportion of unnecessary admissions of medical cases in the proprietary ( profit-making ) hospitals . It cited , as an example , a 66-year-old man who was hospitalized for a week with a complaint of stomach pains . No studies were made prior to admission . The interne noted that the patient had ' " come in for a check-up . " There was no final summary of the findings , nor were there any progress notes . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peptic ulcer and vomiting which was not substantiated or investigated by any tests or findings , " the report noted , adding : " This blatant diagnosis has nothing to back it up except the need to justify admission . " As an example of a case handled poorly , the study cited a 45-year-old woman who was hospitalized for an operation . But the physician refused to tell her the nature of the surgery because the charges he demanded ? $300 in addition to insurance ? payments of $150 ? were not paid . He also refused to sign her out of the hospital , and the patient finally , signed herself out . " This is a shocking case , " the report noted . " The patient had a small labial cyst and a ; mountain , including a laparotomy ( surgical incision through the flank ) , was made of it . The proper diagnosis could have been made if the patient had been examined pre-operatively under anesthesia . " Her pelvis was normal , and at operation no fibroids or cysts were found , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stay was scandalous . She should have been discharged twelve days earlier . " ' Gross Violation ' The study called this type of case " a gross violation of medical ethics , since the physician refused to sign the patient out until his bill was paid . " Another case was characterized by the writer of the report as " the worst case I ever saw . " It involved a Caesarian section performed in a method now considered outmoded . The details were not reported . ? The findings were made known by John Hoh and Joseph M. Adelizzi , the teamster fund 's labor and management co-chairmen . The fund represents thirty-six teamster welfare funds covering about 500,000 persons in the metropolitan area . In addition to the patientcare study , the fund conducted its own eight-month study of hospitals also under Columbia 's guidance . Management and labor trustees participated in tours and conferences at five hospitals and Blue Cross headquarters . Mr. Hoh and Mr. Adelizzi said management and labor were , coordinating their efforts with Columbia and Montefiore Hospital in a long-range program to improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for the community at large . They said the new program would involve a continuing audit and review of the quantity and quality of medical and hospital care and a comprehensive review of all the aspects of doctor-patient-hospital relationships . Details of this program will be discussed in a conference tomorrow and Sunday at Arden House in ? Harriman , N. Y. The physicians who evaluated the quality of medical care in their respective fields were : MEDICINE ? Dr. Ogden Woodruff , Professor Emeritus of Clinical Medicine , Columbia 's College of Physicians and Surgeons ; Dr. M. Irene Ferrer , Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine at P. &; S. and assistant attending physician , Presbyterian Hospital ; Dr. Harold Rifkin , Associate Professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and attending physician , Montefiore Hospital , and Dr. J. Frederick Eagle , Director of Pediatrics , St. Luke 's Hospital and Assistant Clinical Professor at P. &; S. OBSTETRICS and GYNECOLOGY ? Dr. Alan Guttmacher , director of the service at Mount Sinai Hospital and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at P. &; S. PATHOLOGY ? Dr. Stanley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhasset , L. I. , and Associate Clinical Professor , New York University College of Medicine . SURGERY ? Dr. Samuel Standard , associate surgeon at Beth Israel , Bellevue and University Hospitals ; Director of Surgery , Sydenham Hospital , and Associate Professor of Surgery , N. Y. U. College of Medicine .                     