@@724633

txt President Johnson asked Congress today for Federal aid to stimulate and encourage drama , dance , painting , music , literature , history and other cultural activities in the United States . The proposed legislation , I which already has strong support in the Senate and House , would establish a National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities . It would closely parallel the National Science Foundation , set up 15 years ago to support basic research in the natural sciences . If enacted into law , it would break old Congressional taboos against patronage of the arts . For the first time since the New Deal , the Federal Government would provide direct aid to creative artists . In the first year , fiscal 1966 , the bill would authorize go million in grants and loans to groups and individuals , plus additional Federal funds to match private contributions . Aided the Unemployed During the Depression , Congress gave President Franklin D. Roosevelt huge sums of money to spend largely as he saw fit , with the sole purpose of getting men back to work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Project and others for artists and writers . President Johnson 's proposals are aimed directly at the creative world . They would be the first , for example , to provide Federal matching grants to nonprofit private groups and individual artists and scholars . The definitions used in the bill for " arts " and " humanities " are sweeping . Arts includes not only such traditional fields as drama and creative writing but also photography , costume and fashion design , motion pictures , television and radio . The humanities , the measure says , includes but is not limited to " language , literature , history and philosophy ; archeology ; the history , criticism and theory of the arts .. . and those aspects of the social sciences which have humanistic content and employ humanistic methods . " " No Government can call artistic excellence into existence , " Mr. Johnson said in a message that accompanied the bill to Capitol Hill . But it can , he declared , " seek to create conditions " under which the artist and scholar can flourish . He said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruits of that achievement available to all its people , is also among the hallmarks of a great society . " The legislation would create what one of its drafters called a " two-headed " foundation composed of a National Endowment for the Arts and a National Endowment for the Humanities to process and administer aid applications . Each endowment would be provided with basic first-year funds of $5 In addition . each would be authorized to match private contributions of up to $5 million annually with Federal funds . White House sources could not predict whether the basic funds would be increased in future years . A Congressional source explained the separation of functions between the two endowments in this way : " The Humanities Endowment would emphasize the academic and scholarly humanistic studies : teaching , learning and research . The arts side would deal with symphony orchestras , opera societies and museums , for example . " You might have a university theater supported by the Humanities Endowment because it is part of the educational process . On the other side of the coin , a little theater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or actor . " A third and final group would be created within the foundation to prevent redundancy and correlate the activities of the two endowments and existing Government agencies . This would be called the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities . Sponsors File Measure This council would consist of the chairmen of the two endowments ; the Commissioner of Education ; the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution ; the Librarian of Congress ; the director of the National Science Foundation ( which in recent years has also supported research in the social sciences ) and a member designated by the Secretary of State , in whose department is an Assistant Secretary for Cultural Affairs . Today 's bill was introduced in the Senate by Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island and in the House by Frank Thompson Jr . of New Jersey . Mr. Pell noted that it was " the first time in our history " that " a President of the United States has given his administration support to such a comprehensive measure which combines the two areas most significant to our nation 's cultural advancement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Senate co-sponsors were Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , and Ernest Greening , Democrat of Alaska . There were at least a half-dozen cosponsors in the House , including Hugh L. Carey , and James H. Scheuer , both Democrats of New York . Representative Thompson said he was " reasonably sanguine " that the legislation would pass the House . " We have a big majority and the President says he 's going to push it , " he said . He added that a number of similar but less comprehensive bills introduced in Congress " will all in effect be abandoned to support this one . " The draft bill has the support of a Special House Subcommittee on Labor and a . Special Senate Subcommittee on the Arts and Humanities that have been holding hearings on Federal aid proposals . The measure was prepared after the subcommittees sought the Administration 's views . ' Freedom Is Essential ' Mr. Johnson was careful to say in his accompanying message that no Government should " seek to restrict the freedom of the artist to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freedom is an essential condition for the artist , and in proportion as freedom is diminished so is the prospect of artistic achievement , " he said . One section of the bill specifically forbids any department or employe of the United States from exercising the slightest control over any non-Federal group dealing with the foundation . However , the President said , the Government can recognize achievements in the arts , help " those who seek to enlarge creative understandings , " increase " the access of our people to the works of our artists " and establish the arts in the public mind " as part of the pursuit of American greatness . " The chairman of the two endowments would each receive a salary of $28,500 a year  --  the same amount now paid to the director of the National Science Foundation . They would be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate . In addition , the proposed measure would shift the existing National Council on the Arts , headed by Roger L. Stevens , from the Executive Office of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now President Johnson 's principal adviser on the arts and chairman of the board of the planned Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts .                     