@@727625

txt BERLIN , ' Feb. 14 ? Russia and East Germany have rescheduled military maneuvers in an effort to inject a new threat into- a war of nerves against isolated West Berlin , a West German spokesman indicated today . There were these other developments in a deepening crisis : 1 . The western allies rejected a soviet demand that West Germany cancel plans to hold a presidential election in Berlin March 5. 2 . West Germany predicted that the Communists would harass ground and air traffic into the city in retaliation for the election move . Wait at Checkpoints Motorists waited up to two hours in line at checkpoints on the roads to Berlin tonight and were handed Red propaganda leaflets warning of unspecified consequences if the elections are held . East German restrictions barring land travel to West Berlin for members of the electoral college go into effect tomorrow morning . 3 . Prime Minister Harold Wilson of Britain flew to Berlin and promised that the United States , France , and Britain would defend the city . The West German spokesman , Guenter Diehl , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face a new ordeal of harassment on the land , canal , and air access routes across East Germany . Berlin lies 110 miles inside that communist nation . Suspects a Threat The spokesman indicated belief that Warsaw pact spring maneuvers for East Germany were being rescheduled in order to add a specific threat to the protests against the election . Warsaw pact nations were represented this week in East Berlin consultations led by soviet Marshal Ivan Yakubovsky , commander - in - chief of pact forces . " We assume that the Soviet Union again will attempt to burden the situation with military maneuvers around Berlin , " said Diehl . Recalls 1965 Interference His " again " referred to communist interference with automobile traffic and disturbance of the Berlin air space at the time of a West German parliamentary gathering here in 1965 . The presidential election is conducted by the federal and state legislators , sitting as an electoral college . East Germany last Sunday banned ground travel to Berlin by members of this body . The Communists contend that Berlin is not part of West Germany and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials held consultations last summer before their forces invaded Czechoslovakia on Aug. 21 . The nations involved in that invasion were Russia , Poland , East Germany , Hungary , and Bulgaria . This week 's meeting in East Germany was attended , in addition , by Romania . " We have experienced this sort of thing before , " Diehl said . " We reckon they will attempt to interrupt overland traffic and harass air traffic to and from Berlin . " Expects No Air Blockade He was asked if West Germany expects actual interruption of traffic in the three air corridors . These have been left as the only way for the presidential electors to reach this city . " No , " he replied . " Otherwise I would not have used the word ' harassment . ' " Diehl confirmed that Semyon Tsarapkin , soviet ambassador to Bonn , had demanded cancelation of the summons to 1,000 legislators to ballot here . Tsarapkin called on Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger of West Germany in Bonn last night and handed him a note protesting the election . Wilson spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups of demonstrators against British pol1 icy in Nigeria . There was no violence . Relies on Allies At a luncheon in Charlottenburg castle Wilson told West Berliners : " I take this opportunity to renew once again the British commitment to guarantee the continued freedom of the city and its inhabitants . . . . We know that we can rely on the wholehearted cooperation of the governments of the United States and France , of the government in Bonn , and of the senate and house of representatives in Berlin . " Wilson returned to London tonight . Informed sources In Moscow said the embassies of the United States , Britain , and France delivered notes to the soviet foreign ministry replying to the soviet protest against the elections .                     