@@726114

txt New federal auto-safety standards are having a marked impact on the foreign-car market . Some overseas manufacturers are worried that even the recently modified standards may force some of them out of the United States market . Some of the smaller foreign makers particularly may shift their sales emphasis to such car-scarce countries as the Soviet Union . One large foreign producer is already in trouble trying to meet United States standards of windshield defogging . The car 's small engine does n't create enough heat volume at idling to meet the new American regulations . Recently published modifications give both American and foreign car manufacturers more lead time to make changes . But even with more time to experiment , some overseas manufacturers face serious problems . Adding safety features will increase production costs of foreign models . These in turn will result in higher prices . And importers fear this may depress sales . The Republican Party is launching a nationwide effort to invite American youth to " come aboard . " It hopes to convince young Americans that the party of Lincoln is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive opportunities to provide leadership and make important public-service contributions . The drive began with a conference at the University of Wisconsin called " Opportunities Unlimited . " It was the first of a series of programs to be held across the country . Trends ... Conscience money is pouring into the United States Treasury . Uneasy taxpayers , or rather nontaxpayers , have voluntarily sent in $6 million in the past five years . What the Internal Revenue Service could not do , the sharp-eyed computer has achieved . IRS Commissioner Sheldon S. Cohen says , " The new automatic data-processing system has helped ensure that all returns that should be filed are filed and that all taxes which should be paid are paid . " One delinquent recently sent in $300 . He said he had been " unable to sleep at night because of tax evasion . " His P.S. read : " If I still ca n't sleep , I will send more later . " 0 Freshmen Republican congressmen have been urged to look their best when on the House floor . That 's where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furniture , eating , sleeping , signaling to the galleries  --  they 're all taboo according to House rules . Still , some of the more senior members on both sides of the aisle are anything but good examples . They 're the worst offenders . Rep. Burt L. Talcott , a fastidious , well-groomed Republican from Salinas , Calif. , took upon himself to attempt a little reform . He sent out letters to all 186 of his GOP colleagues . He kept it positive . What he said was : " I am always proud of the appearance and conduct of most Republicans . . . . Most Republicans do not read newspapers , sign their mail , or play cards while on the floor . " It was subtle . But most got the message . Mr. Talcott reports a very favorable response . Now if someone will write to the Democrats . . . . How and why . . . The top job in the United States Department of Justice has been vacant now for more than four months . A lot of people wish the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicholas deB . Katzenbach left the post Oct. 1 to become Undersecretary of State . Since then the vacancy has hurt the department . Without a public spokesman it has been difficult for the department to take a position of leadership in civil rights , criminal justice , or antitrust matters . No one faults young Ramsey Clark 's service as Acting Attorney General . But during the interim he has had to avoid taking public positions . The assumption is that President Johnson has held off naming Mr. Clark to the Cabinet position until his father , Supreme Court Associate Justice Tom C. Clark , decides to retire . Mr. Johnson seems to be trying out Mr. Clark in the job , much as he did Mr. Katzenbach , whom he left as Acting Attorney General for more than five months .                     