@@721809

txt CAPE CANAVERAL , Fla. , May ** United States ' first man-in-space flight was postponed today because of bad weather . Another launching attempt probably will not be made before Friday at the earliest . Navy Comdr . Alan B. Shepard Jr. , the 37-year-old astronaut picked for the flight , spent several hours in space suit and helmet waiting for time to ride to the rocket launching pad . But a solid cloud deck here , and rain that pelted the landing area 290 miles cut at sea , forced a halt in the countdown 140 minutes before firing time . At 7:36 A.M. , Eastern standard time , after vainly waiting for some indication that the weather would abate , Project Mercury officials called off the // attempt . They indicated that Commander Shepard would still be the one to make the flight , if he felt all right . Spokesmen for the . National Aeronautics and Space Administration , which runs the project , announced that the minimum time required to prepare for another attempt was fortyeight hours . That would take them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bet . Thursday is the earliest rlaunching date because it is necessary to drain the liquid oxygen , or Lox , from the ! Redstone rocket . ! Lox , which must be kept at 292 degrees below zero Fahrenheit , is highly corrosive . Moisture a Problem Moisture formed in draining the Lox must be carefully removed . And chemical checks ' must be made to insure that air used in this drying process has not left any impurities . The entire procedure requires about forty-eight hours . Even if the tank could be cleaned by early Thursday , it appeared unlikely that another launching attempt would be made before Friday , if then . The crew was reported to have run into a little trouble with the system for transmitting data from the astronaut 's capsule to the ground . This apparently was not serious enough to have halted today 's firing if , the weather had cleared . But engineers were ex , pected to give the system a I minute.going over before starting another count-down . One positive aspect of today 's frustrated attempt was the official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Mercury capsule . The field had been boiled down several weeks ago from the seven original astronauts to ! three : Commander Shepard ; ! Marine Lieut . Cot John H. Glenn Jr. , 39 , and Air Force Capt . Virgil I. Grissom , 35 . Glenn Made Alternate Colonel Glenn had been the favorite . But he had to content himself with the post of alternate  --  ready to step in if Commander Shepard developed the slightest ailment . It was three weeks ago that the Navy flier was told he was the choice fpr the first flight , an altitude of 115 miles and a landing area 290 miles southeast of here . Commander Shepard and Colonel Glenn spent the night in their Hangar S bunks . They . are understood to have turned in about ten . They were up again at 2 A. M. Their breakfast was filet mignon wrapped in bacon . eggs and tea . Commander Shepard was given a thorough physical examination . Then technicians glued to tiny tattoo marks on his body an ? array of sensors to record data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then came the slow , difficult business of wiggling into his silver nylon space suit . There he stayed , getting oxygen from a tube through his helmet , while the countdown ticked haltingly along . Soon after the postponement he telephoned his wife in Virginia Beach to let her know . The Mercury plan provides for a maximum period of five days for attempting to accomplish a particular firing . The reason for the limit is that the five destroyers , which , with a small carrier , constitute the recovery fleet , have only about five days ' fuel . There was a chance the fleet would now put in for provisions , in which case a new five-day period would start with the next firing attempt .                     