@@728120

txt Nixort 's ** Palley President Nixon has now scheduled his long-awaited " major new pronouncement on Latin-American policy " for Oct. 31 , when he will address the Inter-American Press Association in Washington . The tone and content of his speech are bound to shape this country 's relations with the other Americas  --  for better or worse ? for some time to come . There is little evidence so far that the crucial importance of this statement is yet recognized at the White House . For example , Mr. Nixon accepted this date evidently unaware that the United States had agreed last June in Trinidad to begin negotiations on the nuts and bolts of economic cooperation with the Latin governments at the Organization of American States Oct. 20 . The O.A.S . meeting , which was to prepare recommendations for a full-dress conference of O.A.S . ministers in Venezuela in December , will now be postponed until early next month . The Latin Americans agreed that there would be little point in commencing their deliberations at the O.A.S . until they knew at least the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mixup on dates is only the latest in a series of indications of the lack of urgency and a lack of coordination on hemisphere policy in Washington . Some Latin-American delegates had gone to Trinidad in June hoping to negotiate realistically with the United States on at least some of the points raised in the Consensus of Viria del Mar , on which twenty-one governments had agreed in a rare show of unity in May . In Trinidad , however , Charles A. Meyer , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , won a four-month delay by arguing that the United States could not be expected to negotiate new policies until Governor Rockefeller had reported to Mr. Nixon on his Latin-American mission . The Latin Americans now know , however , that the White House kept the Rockefeller report secret even from Mr. Meyer  --  the man in charge of administering United States policy in the Americas  --  until about ten days ago . An interdepartmental task force , headed by Mr. Meyer , had to prepare for the scheduled O.A.S . negotiation without knowing how much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the American position . These delays and mixups are important only if they reflect the Administration 's true attitude toward the hemisphere . The President can repair much of the damage Oct. 31 if he shows willingness at last to tackle those United States policies and practices ? tariffs , quotas and other protectionist devices , tied aid , rigidities imposed by the Hickenlooper and Pelly amendments  --  that offend the Latins and handicap their development efforts . Above all , it is vital that Mr. Nixon indicate an open mind on the Vifia del Mar recommendations and a willingness to negotiate seriously about them . There are Latin governments spoiling for a political confrontation with the United States . Others are eager at least to abandon the painfully built collective machinery of the Organization of American States and create new hemisphere institutions from which the United States would be excluded . Still others will accept this " separatist " approach reluctantly and only if persuaded at last that Washington will not respond to their needs and their legitimate grievances . At the O.A.S . last April , President Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his Administration . On Oct. 31 , after more than nine months in office , he will be expected to say in practical terms what this means .                     