@@724135

txt Premier Fidel Castro ' tonight denounced the resolutions of the Organization of American States imposing sanctions on Cuba and declared that Cuba had the right to help revolutionary movements in all countries that practiced " acts " against her . The assertion came in a bitterly worded " Declaration of Santiago " read by the Premier at the end of a three and a half hour speech . The audience of Text of Castro 's dectar  --  tion appears oar Page 2. more than 200,000 was attending a celebration of the 11th ' anniversary of the start of Dr. ICastro 's fight against the Batista regime . At Dr. Castro 's request , everyone present raised his hand after the declaration had been read . The Premier then declared it adopted as Cuba 's answer to the O.A.S . resolution . Orders End of Ties The resolution , signed in Washington today , condemned Cuba for aggression in seeking to overthrow the Venezuelan Government and ordered Western Hemisphere governments to maintain no diplomatic or consular relations with Cuba . It also ordered a suspension of all trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment needed for humanitarian reasons . Dr. Castro did not specify the countries in which Cuba is now claiming the right to intervene . Earlier in his speech , however , he declared that Costa Rica , Colombia , tile Dominican Republic , Nicaragua and Guatemala would make their own revolutions . He also sent Cuba 's greetings to the revolutionary movement in Venezuela . Dr. Castro was violent in his denunciations both of Venezuela , which brought the charges of aggression in the 0 . A. S. , and the United States . The members that voted for the resolution , he said , either acted under United States pressure or had counterrevolutionary regimes . Fifteen countries backed the resolution . He praised the four countries that were opposed  --  Mexico , Bolivia , Uruguay and Chile . Mexico received special praise . Even if all members of the Organization of American States broke relations , Dr. Castro said , Cuba would still be able to trade with European countries . Later he specified that Cuba would be able to obtain factories from Britain , France , Communist China and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was said by Government officials to include , 100,000 campesinos , or farm , workers , waited for hours in the broiling sun to hear Dr. Castro speak . The Santiago celebration , which is held every year , con- ' attack by Dr. Castro 's small ' band of guerrillas against the ' Monoada army barracks here on July 26 , 1953 . His guerrilla campaign thus became known as the 26th of July Movement . Dr. Castro came to power Jan. 1 , 1959 . One of the crowd 's greatest ovations for the Premier today followed his warning that Cuban soldiers would shoot back if recent incidents between Cuban forces and American sentries at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo continued . A ' chant rose up to the effect that " Fidel " would " hit the Yankees hard ! " Cuba has charged that American marines shot and killed a Cuban sentry at Guantanamo July 19 . The United States has denied the charge . Crowd Mills Around Dr , Castro 's address was farranging . He discussed the accomplishments of his Government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oriente Province , of which Santiago is the capital . The crowd appeared to lose interest and began milling around , But interest picked up when Dr. Castro , waving a copy of the 0 . A. S. resolution , began his denunciations . He urged " the heroic " Venezuelan revolutionists not to forget the example of Cuba . Despite his strong language , Dr. Castro did not say whether Cuba had sent arms to Venezuela , as charged by Venezuela in its complaint to the OrganizaI tion of American States . Neither ( sendhe say whether Cuba would send arms to Venezuela in the future . Early in his speech he gave what appeared to be self-contradictory statements about Cuba 's attitude toward aiding revolutionary governments . He declared that his government liked " all revolutionary movements , " but he also said that it was necessary to maintain normal relations with countries ' possessing different social systems . At another point he declared that Cuba " can not negotiate " on the question of providing help to revolutionary movements , and at still another he said that Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if no one provided help to movements against his government in Cuba . Among the points in the declaration of Santiago , as read by Dr. Castro , were : ilVenezuela and other countries have been sending arms to Cuba to try to overthrow the Government . 01kfercenaries have been used in acts against Cuba . 4IAgents of the Central Intelligence Agency have been sent to Cuban territory . 9United States planes are invading Cuban air space without any respect for international law and it is cynical for the 0 . A. S. to condemn Cuba when Cuba is the real victim . Despite his denunciation of alleged actions against Cuba by the United States , Venezuela and other countries , Dr. Castro said that Cuba wanted all states to live together despite different social systems , At one point Dr. Castro asserted that The New York Times had refused to publish an interview he gave Herbert L. Matthews , a member of the newspaper 's Editorial Board , on a recent visit by Mr. Matthews to Cuba , He gave no other information about the interview .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        