@@726834

txt There is a concern among Indian leaders that the expected bumper harvest this year may have been oversold . During the past several months , government officials have forecast that there would be 95 or even 100 million tons of food grains . Because of the expected bumper crop , there has been a general feeling among Indians that this bountiful harvest would immediately solve the ? other problems besetting the country . The most serious one is the worst recession the country has faced since independence . Economists admit that more food , after two years of a severe drought , will help end the recession . It will cause the price of food to drop , thus releasing more money for consumer goods . It will also put more money into the hands of farmers who will be able to buy more equipment and supplies . But all this will take time before the effect on the recession will be noticed . Harvest played down Now the government is beginning to play down the expected bumper harvest , in case the hopes of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painted a discouraging picture of the country 's present financial position . Mr. Desai , who is also India 's Finance Minister , announced that revenue collections had fallen beldw expectations . As a result , he said , the government would have to resort to some deficit financing during the current financial year , and there would be budget cutbacks in various government departments . Mr. Desai also told Parliament that the nonproject assistance by the Aid India consortium for 1967-68 might turn out to be much less than the $900 million that had been promised . He forecast that foreign aid from the United States would be less than it was in 1966-67 if the expected cutback is made by the United States Congress . As for 1968-69 , much would depend on the World Bank 's assessment of India 's requirement for outside aid . This will be considered during the bank 's meeting next spring . Devaluation discussed Mr. Desai answered quickly when asked if there would be another devaluation of the rupee . " If I have to do it , " he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister said the rupee was devalued last year because the economy of India was in a serious condition . He said that the devaluation had not improved the situation . Meanwhile , the Prime Minister , Mrs. Indira Gandhi , warned Parliament that India still faces the threat of inflation . Despite expectations of a good harvest that have given , hope of improvement in the economy , she said , there remain elements of uncertainty and the threat of continuing inflationary pressure . Mrs. Gandhi said that during the next financial year , a number of measures would be needed to " tighten economic discipline " to assure the financial stability of the country .                     