@@726912

txt Just what is a boy ? That 's a big question ? especially during Boy Scout Week , Feb. 7.13 . Parents have varying answers . But a national study by the Boy Scouts of America ( BSA ) indicates that there are still a few safe generalizations to describe the 8- to 10-year-old category at least . Such as : Something that " squirms " ; never walks but runs ; shows signs of intellectual ability ; is often rowdy and noisy ; likes hamburgers ; fills pockets with stones , rocks , and shells ; " pretends " to fight ; is usually negative about chores ; chooses baseball as a first sport . The Boy Scout organization has revised its program for Cub Scouts , or the 8-to-10 group , in the light of this survey , made in cooperation with the University of Michigan . About 500 fathers and 1,000 mothers , in addition to the youngsters were , interviewed . " Microscopic " analysis of new trends in the growth and interests of boys in this age group has led to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cub Scouts , said to be about one-third of the nation 's boys in this age category . Vocabulary matures No longer are words like aquanaut , geologist , scholar , showman , and engineer " adult words , " says the BSA . They now are an active part of the vocabulary of the American boy . The enriched program offers new and challenging activity badges , provides male leadership for a boy of 10 , permits a 7-year-old to join a neighborhood pack , adds new meaning to conservation and to the practice of religion . " Now we can go on , overnight hikes for the first time ! " a 10-year-old told me . " With permission , and for one night only . " This youngster , Philip Duzant , was one of about 40 working on crafts in the basement of a West Side church in Manhattan . He told me he liked hiking best of all , mostly because it shows you how to become a Boy Scout . He likes being with other boys , he said . " What if you find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face , above the wolf-head clasp of his kerchief , sobered . " You have to know how to act when you 're alone . You have to be brave ? and careful . " It was n't all " kid stuff " last summer for one boy in this pack . William Otana explained how he had gone on a five-mile hike in Spain . " It was near Pampola , " he said , his eyes widening . " My friend and I had to shoot a rattlesnake in self-defense . Later I helped to save a boy from drowning .... Of course , he might have made it to safety anyway . " " We tell them to be fair to those who may not know as much as they know , " a den mother , Mrs. Donata Kormanik , said . We watched a tableful of boys in their navy uniforms . " These boys like to make things . " They were pasting together small strips of wood that would soon become napkin holders . But in a moment the mood changed . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It was fast and loud . Shouts all but brought down the rafters . The well-known wriggle muscles had free play . Meanwhile , across town . . . Later that evening we visited a lively group on the other side of town . They met at i3S6 on Madison Avenue and 81st Street . About 85 boys are enrolled . Parents had been invited to watch their sons get awards . It was rainy , but the fathers came cheerfully in water-sprinkled coats and turned-down hat brims . Half an hour before exercises started the fun began informally in the gym . " There are balls to be caught and thrown , " says the program book . ? . .. and dodged ! " said a ducking visitor . Shirts tucked in , they " fell in " promptly at 7 p.m . There was to be an interden competition in a tug-of-war , acting cubmaster Daniel Rose told them . They whistled , jumped , and whooped in delight . " Our philosophy , " the cubmaster told us , " is not a baby-sitting operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some interesting trips  --  they see skiing , tour an airport , and railroad repair shops , visit a ship , the police academy . the woods . We now have a waiting list of boys who want to join . " A random riffling through the program book of this pack says that a Cub Scout should : Toward beauty on the block Climb 12 feet up a tree or rope ; talk with parents about helping around the home ; make a collection of " anything you like " ; make a list of things you use daily that come from the soil ; make a list of things that make water and air dirty ; make a list of five laws affecting wildlife in your state ; list six ways to make your block or neighborhood more beautiful . In an interview with one of the groups , I asked them what could be done about cleaner streets . More than eager to reply , they said : Pick up bits of paper , ask people if they want " throwaways " before giving them out , find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more trash baskets , and numerous other helpful acts . The new program affects the activities of both " Bear " cubs , and " Wolves . " And it stresses a set-up for the 10-year-old , called the Webelos Scout program , named after an Indian tribe and edging farther toward real Scouting or the status of Boy Scout itself . High on the priority list is that of improving communication within the family and the community . An experienced den-mother coach , Mrs. Virginia Navarrate , the mother of a Boy Scout , thinks the Cub Scout can figure constructively in the " dangerous " streets of today . " There is too much noninvolvement , " she explained . " At a time of crisis , if the Scout sees someone who needs aid , he should not be afraid to report it to his parents or the police . " A Boy Scout ( need one repeat ? ) is brave  --  and careful .                     