@@726162

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Defeat of Abortion Bill Supported To the Editor : As a former member of the Assembly , it appears to me that your March 8 editorial " A. Pitiless Law " ) regarding the defeat of the abortion bill in the Rules Committee of the State Assembly is based on a false premise , that somehow , something undemocratic happened to the abortion bill . Fifteen members of the Codes Committee voted against the bill because they opposed it . I for one would have liked to have seen the bill come out on the floor of the Assembly , where I have no doubt it would have been overwhelmingly de-. feated . However , one can not expect a legislator to vote against his conscience , whether in a committee or on the floor , just to give a bill a more final defeat . A. legislator is not forcing his religious convictions on others ? when he votes his conscience . A legislator does not check his conscience at the door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I think most members of the Legislature would vote against the bill because they feel it is wrong to destroy a fetus unless the mother 's life is in danger . A Catholic member of the Assembly is not just out to protect Catholic infants . Civic Good If I were a member of the Rules Committee , I would have voted against the bill , not as a Catholic knowing full well that Catholic doctrine would probably protect the lives of the unborn children of Catholics , but because I think it is wrong to kill an unborn infant , whether the infant is Protestant or Catholic , Christian or Jew , black or white . It is a child , a creature of God , and I would not want the threatening of such lives on my conscience . I am proud to say that I was a co-sponsor of last year 's divorce reform bill and , I think , had something to do with its passage . My thoughts and my conscience indicated to me that such a reform was long overdue and necessary for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with me that the civic good required the defeat of the present abortion bill . Your editorial is unjust because it indicates that the only opposition was from the Catholic hierarchy . Although I respect and admire the hierarchy 's position , they are not alone . There is a respectable body of psychiatric opinion which feels that an abortion can do greater psychic harm than the birth of an unwanted child . Commonweal magazine ( never to be confused with the hierarchy ) published a strong article against the liberalization . Many doctors , including Dr. Roy Heffernan , Emeritus Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Tufts University School of Medicine , are opposed for good medical reasons . Assemblyman Blumenthal is one of the most dedicated and able members of the Legislature and I know his sponsorship of this bill was the product of his evident , compassion . However , I think that we should turn our attention from that which is God 's prerogative to that which is man 's duty , the alleviation of those conditions which cause so many to hopelessly turn to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 8 , 1967 Escalation Objective To the Editor : Despite the pleas both Secretary General of the United Nations U Thant and of the Pope to halt our bombings of North Vietnam , the American Government has not only re ? sumed the bombings , . but has ordered artillery fire across the neutralized zone , fire from the warships in the area and the mining of the rivers of North Vietnam . This dangerous escalation is explained by the President as follows : " Our principal objective there is to provide the maximum deterrent to people who believe aggression pays , with a minimum cost to us ? and to them . " ( Times , Feb. 28 . ) One might question the final phrase , " to them , " since evidently all the destruction is aimed to bring North Vietnam to the conference table as a defeated adversary . About the constant reference to resisting aggression , one is reminded of a press symposium on television after the Manila Conference . One journalist said he regarded it as romantic to assure the Asians that we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ define aggression ? " he asked ; and the rather cynical answer was , " Do n't you know ? Aggression is what other people do . Resisting aggression is what we do . " Our only hope of getting out of these abortive problems is that there is a rising reaction in Congress and the public against these abhorrent policies of a bloody civil war . REINHOLD NIEBUIIR New York , March 2 , 1967 ? Plans for Central Park Complex To the Editor : Commissioner Thomas Hoving 's March 7 letter published March 13 argues vigorously in favor of what is euphemistically referred to as the " park stables . " This shorthand reference is something of a misnomer ; the project actually consists of a police precinct station ( including headquarters for police whose duties are wholly unrelated to the park ) , a commercial riding stable , boarding facilities for privately owned horses , an indoor arena for 1,500 spectators and  --  until its jettisoning yesterday  --  a polo field . Some of these components are laudable contributions to the park 's security and recreational facilities ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polo field  --  appear to us indefensible . The one factor which has kept this latter part of the project ? in essence , the reconstruction of the 94th Street Armory in Central Park ? from being unanimously rejected out of hand has been the undoubted excellence of its architectural design . But , as pointed out by Mrs. Ada Louise Huxtable in her perceptive critique in The Times of Feb. 19 , the real issue here is not design or architecture ; it is the use  --  or misuse  --  of public park land . A beautifully designed encroachment remains an encroachment nonetheless . Estimated Cost Such a massive invasion of park land for such a use , objectionable , at any time , seems particularly incomprehensible today when the city 's straitened financial condition has forced the imposition of heavy new taxes and the retrenchment in even essential services . Yet millions of dollars of public funds and thousands of square feet of public land are now proposed to be expended upon a spectator sports arena , the stabling of private horses , and the like . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exceed the presently estimated $5.7 million , the city will be faced with a disastrous choice between pouring additional millions into this project or cutting back on the very architectural excellence which proponents now so heavily rely on for its salability . The Planning Commission recently struck the entire item from the current budget , thus permitting further consideration and study . This is the course which , in our view , the Board of Estimate and the City Council should also follow , rather than authorize expenditure of millions of dollars on the basis of the newly revised plans which now exist only in a press release . The good components of the project must be separated from the bad , and that can not be done with the plans in their present indefinite state . SHELDON OLIENsiS President , Park Association of New York City , Inc . New York , March 13 , 1967 An , editorial on this subject appears today .                     