@@721432

txt Vice President Nixon visited his Presidential campaign headquarters today as his aides announced the formation of a committee to attract women voters .. ? The Vice President , who left Walter Reed Army Medical Center last night , said that his left knee was still stiff as he prepared for a 9,000-mile crosscountry campaign , to start Monday . The Republican vote-seeking trip will begin with a rally at 10 A. M. Monday at Friendship International Airport near Bal-timore , President Eisenhower , Henry Cabot Lodge , the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee , and Senator Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , the Republican National Chairman , will speak . Poses With Radford Mr. Nixon posed today with Admiral Arthur W. Radford , the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who is chairman of the Retired Serviceman 's Committee for the Republican Ticket . These were the first pictures taken of him since leaving the hospital , Mr. Nixon remarked to the admiral with a smile , " so I 've got to look alive . " He went on to explain that he probably would favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the intensive campaigning next week . Talking to newsmen today about the ailing knee , Mr. Nixon said that " it will be a little time before the stiffness wears out . " He hurt it on a car door last month and was sent to the hospital for twelve days to treat a resultant infection . The doctors " have completely checked the infection , " Mr. Nixon assured newsmen and photographers . The Vice President made no political statements , having gone to the downtown headquarters office only to pose for pictures and work briefly on some campaign speeches . He said that he might be less active in moving about- crowds and standing on receiving lines . He also expressed doubt whether he would attend church services tomorrow , because he wanted to spare his knee as ( much as possible . Herbert G. Klein , the Vice President 's press secretary , said ! airport Mr. Nixon 's speech at the ! airport Monday would be brief but that it would outline the theme he will follow the rest of the week . There was some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican nominee 's election effort , had been a handicap while his op ! ponent , Senator John F. Ken , nedy , was actively campaigning . Mr. Nixon was reported to believe that he would be on even terms with Mr. Kennedy starting tomorrow . Other Re'publican sources suggested that the hospital stay had been a disadvantage . But there was strong feeling that the ' Vice ( President had had an opportunity to study the Kennedy campaign theme and prepare his own campaign statements with greater care . Following the Baltimore rally , Mr. Nixon will be in Indianapolis , Dallas and San Francisco the same day . In the active week ahead of him , covering two or three states a day , he will tour Oregon , Washington , Idaho , North Dakota , Illinois , New Jersey , Virginia , Nebraska , Iowa and Minnesota before returning to Washington Sept. 17 . Interview Slated The Vice President will be interviewed tomorrow evening on the National Broadcasting Company television program " Meet the Press " at 6 P. M. In announcing the committee to win women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party was aiming at the " largest and most important voting bloc in American politics . " Robert Finch , Mr. Nixon 's , campaign director , said the committee would coordinate a voting drive by women volunteers at " shopping centers , social affairs and across back 1 fences . " Mr. Finch named Mrs. Oscar A. Ahlgren , Whiting , Ind. , a pasts president of the Federation of Women 's Clubs ; Mrs. Daphne Robert Leeds , a former Young National Democratic Committee Woman from Georgia , now a resident of Atlantic City , N. J. , and Mrs. Andrew Williams Jr. , ' Seatttle , Wash. , a granddaughter of former President Theodore Roosevelt , as co-chairman of the group .                     