@@725604

txt School desegregation in the nation has proved a dismal failure , United States Education Commissioner Harold , Howe 2d told educators and school administrators of 76 cities here yesterday . The time has come , he said , ' for educators to put their own careers on the line to compel their communities to integrate their educational systems . The two principal approaches to school desegregation , gradualism and activism , have failed to accomplish school desegregation , he said , and it is time for school officials to ' create their own " third front " for racial equality in American education . The Commissioner delivered his assessment at the final session of a two-day conference of school administrators . Urban League Co-Sponsor The conference , held at the Roosevelt Hotel , was co-sponsored by the National Urban League and the Teachers College , of Columbia University , under a grant from the United States Office of Education . Mr. Howe told the educators that after he had heard of the shooting of James H. Meredith in Mississippi , " I started to wonder whether civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am beginning to suspect that it is not ; in any case , I have the feeling that those of us who tpink of ourselves as gentlemen should either stop pretending that we care about racial equality , or we should step down from our air-conditioned podium 's , and start something definite in the way of a program . " We have , to be sure , gotten a fair amount of newspaper space and published enough committee reports on the inequalities of segregated education to build a paper Tower of Babel . Nothing is safer these days than denouncing bigotry . But I find myself puzzling over which is worse , honest bigotry or well-intentioned timidity . " While we have go on urging moderation , sweet reason and bigger and better panel discussions , the schools throughout the nation remain almost as segregated today as they were in 1954 when the Supreme Court decided that racially segregated education was illegal . " Mr. Howe said- the small progress made in the South toward desegregation " has been offset by increasing de facto segregation in the cities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are that a Negro youngster in an American elementary school has on the national average not much more than 15 per cent of his classmates from the majority white groups ; in the Southern states the figure is nearer 5 per cent . White high school students can expect to have nine out of 10 of their classmates from their own white groups . " Moderation , Mr. Howe said , " has a great deal to be said for it , of course , especially by the moderates . I am reminded of the prayer that St. Augustine addressed to heaven when he was a young man . ' Oh , Lord , ' he said , ' make me chaste .. But not yet . " Mr. Howe continued : " Our words have urged the nation to desegregate its schools . But our reluctance to act has said even louder , ' Not yet ' Somehow we seem to have been lulled into a blind faith in gradualism , a mindless confidence that some morning , some year , a suddenly transformed electorate will spontaneously and joyously decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well it 's not going to happen . The majority of American whites display no likelihood of becoming enthusiastic about school desegregation and the changes it demands in the immediate future . " Gradualism , no matter what we call it , has failed , and I think it is fair to say that those who continue to espouse it are fooling themselves and , in many ways , failing our nation . It seems to me time for school officials to form a third front for racial equality in the United States . ' A Sluggish Team ' " At one end of this civil rights movement today we have the gradualists , both white and Negro , a polite , sometimes sluggish team deeply respectful of the , public and sometimes given to assuring each other that it is possible to make an omelet without breaking eggs . At the other end are the activists , who have come to feel that violence is the only way to get anything done . " The failure of the gradualists would seem at bottom ? to be fear , fear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that while they know in general terms what they want to achieve and are willing to pay a heavy price for it , they have neither the position in society nor the professional knowledge of the means and importance of advancing racial equality within the framework of law . " Mr. Howe suggested two main avenues of approach  --  to make the schools of the central city so good that they would attract , not repel people , and to use every possible device to include within each school a cross-section of the social and economic background of the metropolis . " A student should meet America in school , not a segregated segment of it , " he said . He continued : " There is no such thing as the perfect way to achieve school desegregation . We must simply bore ahead with the tools we have , and it wo n't be pleasant , and it wo n't be quiet . and it would be much nicer if someone else would share this work . " We are in the midst of a struggle for excellent education for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tool we can devise . Local school administrators must consider such means as redrawing school district boundaries and consolidating with neighboring districts for educational purposes , even though political boundaries may remain unchanged . " We can not wait for mayors and city councils to do the work they hired us to do . And sometimes we must do work they do n't want us to do . " The Task Ahead " The load we must carry is that of irritating a fair percentage of our white constituents , of embarrassing some governors and mayors , of alarming some newspaper publishers and of enraging suburban taxpayers , who , in proportion to the means , are not paying as much for their good schools as paupers in the city are paying for their bad ones . " And all this means that , finally , and most grievously , we must run the risk of being invited to resign . Unless . all of us are willing to put our jobs and our integrity on the line , we should admit that American educators are no longer prepared to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today is perhaps the hottest room in our national house . But we picked it out all by ourselves . To paraphrase a metaphor , first wrought by President Truman . I would say that we must either adjust ourselves to the heat or let somebody else take over the Kitchen . "                     