@@721102

txt Judge Joseph Sam Perry in federal District court dismissed Friday the injunction suit by which Progress Development corporation , 3317 Foster ay. , sought to restrain the park board of Deerfield from condemning 21 acres of land in the north shore suburb on which the company is building a racially integrated housing project . He also denied the builders ' demand for $750,000 damages from the village of Deerfield , the park board , and a residents ' committee which opposes integration . Builder Indicates Appeal Judge Perry ; ruled that there was no conspiracy by the defendants , that the civil rights of the builders had not been violated , and that the builders could not seek damages in federal court . John W. Hunt , attorney for and vice president of the Progress corporation , said , " Undoubtedly there will be an appeal , but first we must study the judge 's decision caref ully . " Morris Milgram , president of Modern Community Developers , Inc. , of New Jersey , the parent company which has built integrated housing projects elsewhere , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Damages " " The acts of the commissioners of the Deerfield park district do not constitute an unlawful conspiracy , " Judge Perry said in his decision . " The commissioners , in instituting condemnation proceedings against the premises on which Progress was building , were acting in their legislative capacity and are immune to the claim for damages sought by the builders . " This court can not consider the motives of the commissioners of the Deerfield park district in instituting condemnation proceed i n g s against the land on which Progress was building . Motives can not be inquired into when the sovereign speaks directly ; that is , when the people vote , as they did in this case . Finds No Bias Motive " The court specifically finds that the officials of the Deerfield park board had no motive of bias or discrimination against the plaintiffs when those officials acted as they did . " A party who plans to put into effect a system of land tenure whereby ownership or occupation of land will be controlled on racial or other discriminatory bases can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevents such party from putting such plan into effect . " The judge also held that the builders had adequate remedy at law in condemnation proceedings pending in Circuit court in Lake county . Tells Park Plan James Mitchell , president of the Deerfield park board , said , " There will be a park on the builders ' site in Deerfield . " He added that there will be a meeting Tuesday night to make preparations in Deerfield for the combination park and " school sites which are contemplated . Mitchell said $300,000 in bonds have been sold so far to obtain the builders ' property ' and six other parcels for park and school purposes .                     