@@722708

txt Air Line ' Grounds ' Stewardess ' Photo BY RUSSELL ( Picture on page 2 ) Chicago Tribune Press Service ! Washington , Oct. 9 . ? Eastern Air Lines charged today that a flight , engineer 's photo which apparently showed a stewardess sitting in the captain 's cockpit 1 seat during a flight was taken on the ground . Eastern said in a statement issued by Robert L. Turner , its executive vice president , that : ' company records do not place 1 D. K. Carson , the engineer , on 1 some of the flights on which he contends he snapped pictures of I pilots napping and reading in the cockpit . Turner issued the statement after conferring wit h Najeeb Halaby , federal aviation admin-istrator , who is investigating re ' ports by stewardesses and flight engineers that pilots are lax ' about observing safety regula- . Bons during flights . Tells of Flying Liner Miss Margaret Donfroy , of Jackson Heights , N.Y. , a former ' Eastern stewardess , last week told a House subcommittee probing air safety that she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlanta , Ga. , and Charlotte , N. C. The Flight Engineers International union , which has been on strike against Eastern since June 23 , turned Carson 's photographs over to the FAA last month . The engineers are dis I puting the program of Eastern to move pilots into their jobs on jet planes when cockpit crews are cut to three men from four . Last week William J. Miller , a Trans World Airlines flight engineer , turned more than 100 photographs over to the subcommittee which , he said , were taken in flight to catch pilots sleeping and stewardesses sitting on their laps . Three Captains Accused Halaby on Friday said the FAA has prima facie evidence that at least three captains of air liners have been guilty of inattention to duty . He said the evidence resulted from the study of photographs of 18 flights of air liner crews in the cockpit and from interviews with crew member s . Halaby did not name the air line . The FAA chief is scheduled to meet tomorrow with Trans World Airlines officials and also officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association . Turner said Carson 's photographs involved 18 flights . He said accusations were made against 14 individuals and as a result four have been , tentatively identified . Four Deny Violations Each of the four , said Turner , has denied violating company or federal regulations . " One pair of photographs , showing the same stewardess in a cockpit and the only picture showing a stewardess , so far as the company has been able to determine , was taken on the ground , " Turner said . The Eastern executive said the air line is attempting to locate the stewardess , who resigned in 1960 . Air Line Denies Charge of Engineer ( Story on Page 1 ) Photo released last week , showing stewardess on lap of pilot . Eastern Air Lines yesterday said this photo and others were not taken in flight but on ground . WI Telephoto !                     