@@722652

txt President Kennedy had a leisurely luncheon and talk with former President Dwight D. Eisenhower today . On General Eisenhower 's return from a six-week trip to Western Europe a fortnight ago , Mr. Kennedy wrote suggesting a luncheon to discuss the General 's impressions . General Eisenhower arrived at a side door of the White House at 12:45 P. M. and left the same way about 2:45 . The , two men talked in the President 's study for half an hour before lunch , spent an hour and fifteen minutes at lunch and , then went back to the study , for twenty minutes more of conversation No Statement by General . After the General left , Pierre Salinger , the White House press secretary , said : " President Eisenhower sends his regards . He said he would n't have anything to say . " Mr. Salinger did say that General Eisenhower had come from Gettysburg by helicopter , that he had reported on his European trip , and that a " number of problems , " had been discussed . It seemed a reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Kennedy Administration is , deeply-toncerned over mounting tension in Berlin and over the influx of Soviet arms and military technicians into Cuba . Republicans hive been demanding that the Administration " do something " about Premier Fidel Castro . Six days after the abortive invasion of Cuba in April , 1961 , President Kennedy and General Eisenhower had lunch at Camp David , in Maryland . After the meeting , former President Eisenhower was asked if he supported President Kennedy 's stand on Cuba . He replied : " I am all in favor of the United States ' supporting the man who has to carry the responsibilities for our foreign affairs . " This statement was regarded as having had a considerable effect in tempering Republican criticism of the " Cuban fiasco . " In the same way , observers believe , President . Kennedy 's conference with . General Eisenhower today could again moderate Republican criticism . The General has not only refused to give any support to the criticism but also sought to halt it by saying that Cuba should not become an issue of partisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy asked Congress for stand-by authority to call up 150,000 Reservists , General Eisenhower said : " None of us are in a position to know . the situation as the President does . As Americans we must all back our President . " President Kennedy received two other reports today . One was froth Vice , President Johnson , who came to the White House this morning to describe his seventeeh-day trip to six Middle Eastern and Mediterranean nations : ? The other was a written repOrf'from the Secretary of the Interior , Stewart L. Udall , on his trip to the Soviet Union . Mr. Udall arrived in Washington today. , The White House announced that the President would have lunch on Thursday with U Thant . Acting Secretary General of the United Nations , who spent five days in the Soviet Union late last month and also visited Poland , i Czechoslovakia and Austria . Premier Khrushchev told Mr. Thant that ' he favored a meeting with President Kennedy if the need should arise . However , Mr. Thant said , Mr.-Khrushchev did not plan to attend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18. - Mr . Kennedy , it is understood , wants to talk with Mr. Thant about his conversations with the Soviet Premier and also about the principal issues that will arise at the United Nations session . Chief among these are the Congo , disarmament and the financing of the world organization . The White House also announced that the President would hold a news conference at 6 P. M. Thursday , two hours later than the customary time . Mr. Salinger said no significance should be attached to the change in. time . He said the President 's crowded calendar had dictated the change . Mr. Kennedy was scheduled to take off tomorrow morning for a two-day visit to four space installations . Going to Huntsville He will first inspect the George C. Marshall space flight center at Huntsville , Ala. , where he will witness a static test of a first stage of a Saturn rocket . From there he will go to Cape Canaveral , Fla. , where he will see the rocket and capsule for the next earth orbit , which will be on the launching pad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late afternoon he will fly to Houston . Wednesday morning he will deliver an address on space problems at Rice University . Later he will be briefed at the manned spacecraft center . On Wednesday afternoon he will tour the Aircraft Corporation plant in St. Louis , where he will see a mockup of the Gemini spacecraft , and Mercury capsules in production . Peter Thorneycroft , the British Minister of Defense , who is here on an official visit , will go to Huntsville and Cape Canaveral . A number of high United States officials will also accompany the President . On Friday President Kennedy will go to Newport where he will be guest of honor at a dinner given by the Australian Ambasador , Sir Howard Beale , for the crews of Weatherly and Gretel , the United States defender and the Australian challenger in the America 's Cup races .                     