@@728187

txt The Chicago transit authority 's exact-fare - plan began operating yesterday on 17 bus routes , apparently with success . The drivers were happy and the majority of passengers had exact change in hand . A few had tokens . But the drivers and CTA officials all agree that this morning 's rush hour will provide the real test . 11 More Set Today Eleven more bus routes , including three downtown shuttle lines , were placed under the plan , which requires passengers to drop either tokens or the exact change into locked boxes , at 4 a , m. today . CTA bus drivers , members of division 241 of the transit union , insisted that the exact-fare plan be included in their last contract , ratified last December , as a means of eliminating the hazard of holdups and assaults on bus drivers . A TRIBUNE reporter boarded one of the buses yesterday at Monroe and State streets and produced a dollar bill . " Sorry ' buddy , you 'll have to get off at the next stop and get yourself some change , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About Envelopes ? " " Do n't you have some envelopes I can put the money in and get - change later ? " the reporter asked . " No sir , they have n't handed out the envelopes yet , " he said , closing the door . CTA officials said all the drivers were given 10 such envelopes to be used this way : The passenger puts his money in the envelope . The change due is recorded en the envelope and the passenger Is given a receipt . The passenger must put the envelope in a special slot on the box . " We can only use those envelopes in case of an emer gency , " said Hilario Roses , 46 a driver on the Archer avenue line . " If its in the middle of the night , in the middle of no- where , I can give you one , But certainly not at State and Monroe street where you can find change . anywhere . " It is the driver 's decision , he said . " It 's a real relief for me and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no idea what it feels like to have cold steel at your neck and someone saying ' give me all your money and if you do n't have enough I 'm going to kill you ' , " said Rosas , the father of eight children . He has been a robbery victim . On a California avenue bus , Erias Harris , 24 , said he had trouble with passengers north of 16th street . Two men who did n't have the correct change refused to pay . " I looked for a policeman , but they got off after riding 10 blocks , " Harris said . " Another man at 26th street changed his mind and wanted to get off after depositing the fare , " Harris said . " I told him he just lost 40 cents . "                     