@@724631

txt President Gamal Abdel Nasser warned tonight that the United Arab Republic would recognize East Germany if West Germany established formal relations with Israel . In a speech at Shibin el Kom , 50 miles north of Cairo , President Nasser also threatened to seize West German property and schools in the United Arab Republic and to sequester funds in this country . " Then we should like to see how West Germany is going to punish us , " President Nasser said tauntingly . " We would like to see who is going to pull the other 's ear . " He Urges Arab Boycott In a sharp attack on West Germany at the end of a droning , hour-long speech , he also advocated an Arab boycott of West Germany . " I would like to address a word to all Arabs , " he said . " Thirty per cent of West Germany 's trade is with Arab countries . If we boycott West Germany economically , we shall deprive her of 30 per cent of her trade . " A West German spokesman asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of West Germany 's exports , and 1,8 per cent of the country 's total foreign trade . The spokesman said West German property here was " very . limited . " One vital matter not touched upon in the Nasser speech was the fate of roughly 400 West German scientists and techniclans who are working to help the Egyptians build rockets and jet aircraft . Just previously in his speech , President Nasser asserted that the envoys of 13 Arab states had ' recommended to their governments yesterday a combined warning that all Arab states ; would sever ties with West Germany if it went through with its - plan to recognize Israel . Other Arab sources reported earlier that there was some division on this point . These sources said that some states , including the United Arab Republic , were prepared to go to the limit in retaliating but that others wanted more time before committing themselves to a complete- break with West Germany . Ties to West Cause Concern Saudi Arabia and Libya were said by Arab sources to be concerned that a complete break would jeopardize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the envoys of the 13 Arab League states last night approved recommendaItions that in effect turned the problem over to the Arab foreign ministers , who will meet ! here Sunday . The recalcitrance of some states may have prompted President Nasser to make his strong declaration tonight ? to try to produce the toughest possible stand against West Germany , to head off recognition of Israel . President Nasser said the Arab envoys approved these recommendations yesterday : CImmediate withdrawal of Arab ambassadors from Bonn , a lstep that eight states have already taken . I CA warning to the " imperialist West German Government " that Arab countries will sever diplomatic relations if it establishes diplomatic relations with Israel . 41Solidarity with the United Arab Republic and the severing of economic relations with West Germany if it " persists in an aggressive stand against the U.A.R. " CA " warning to all major powers that support Israel " that the Arab states will cease dealing with them if they continue that support . " In addition to this , we here in the U.A.R. will make other decisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany if West Germany recognizes Israel , we shall also seize all German property and German schools , and we shall put all German funds under sequestration . " These are almost the same measures , except for expulsion of foreign nationals , that President Nasser took against Britain and France at the time they attacked Egypt during the dispute over the Suez Canal in 1956 . In speeches recently President Nasser has warned the West Germans that if they cut off their aid , the Egyptians will stop repayment of nearly $200 million for loans and imports . There was no immediate estimate of West German property here but Germans operate three schools , two in Cairo and one in Alexandria . It was not clear whether President Nasser would include machinery of the German concerns that are carrying out construction projects for the United Arab Republic 's Government . This machinery is probably the largest collective asset of the Germans here .                     