@@726469

txt Canada 's Progressive Conservative Party  --  the official opposition in Parliament ? is preoccupied with internal disputes . It plans to choose a new leader at its September convention . But it can not be sure that its veteran chief , John G. Diefenbaker , will retire without a disruptive struggle . His summer holiday takes the form of a strenuous speaking tour in all provinces ? while his real intentions remain unknown . No consensus has formed behind any of the half-dozen men who are publicly seeking his office . Nor is there any agreement in the ruling Liberal Party which expects Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson to retire early next year . This centennial summer marks a period of basic political realignment and a transfer of power from one generation to another . The socialistic New Democratic Party is surprising most Canadians by its moderation . Hoping to form the opposition in the next Parliament , the party played down at its recent convention its old doctrine of nationalized industry . Instead it now favors indirect economic management by the state . And it promises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party vigorously attacks the American presence in Vietnam and demands a stronger Canadian foreign policy . T. C. Douglas , the party leader ' , charges that a timid Liberal government is afraid to protest United States military blunders . Canada , he says , is becoming an economic colony of the United States and its " independent action in world affairs is being reduced to zero . " Among all the nations , Canada is among the most carefree this Expo 67 summer ? at least on the surface . The holiday air centers in Montreal . Some 20 million visitors - already have seen Canada 's World 's Fair . And the mood of jubilation permeates the land . A nation much given to reticence and inward-searching hardly recognizes itself as the world 's great extrovert . Yet the euphoria is unlikely to last long . As a weary Parliament took two months ' vacation , its members knew that when Canadian leaves begin to fall they 'll be back again  --  facing a pile-up of serious problems , long postponed . Most of the government 's heavy legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet been ratified and wo n't be without a bitter debate on national economic policy  --  especially on the new " Kennedy round " tariff cuts . They deeply alarm some industries . Trends ? ? ? The newly created Order of Canada has been bestowed on 90 distinguished citizens . They include retired statesmen , writers , musicians , painters , doctors , a professional hockey player , an Indian chief , and an Eskimo artist . The list will be increased from time to time , but strictly limited . No privilege of any sort is conferred by the order . Only the nation 's approval of good work in any field . Columnists and readers both lean to lighter warm-weather news : Pierre Elliott Trudeau , Minister of Justice , grave constitutional scholar and buoyant bachelor , hit every front page when he showed up in Parliament wearing a sports jacket and open-neck shirt as an emblem of Canada 's rediscovered youth . It was a bold sequitur to the sudden disappearance of Mr. Pearson 's famous bow tie . Now that London Bridge is coming ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy the ancient stones . It would reerect them in the capital of British Columbia ? as a weighty sentimental gesture . Writing their own innocent postscript to the centennial , two separate parties of California tourists arrived at Vancouver armed with revolvers . They had been told that Canada was primitive and dangerous . Customs officials warmly welcomed the sight-seers  --  and sent the revolvers home by mail .                     