@@725641

txt For years now state government has been battling to hold its own against the inroads of Washington . The struggle goes on here as 50 state executives meet at the annual Governors ' Conference . Ever since the prewar budget surpluses vanished in the middle and late ' 40s , the states have lost much of the imagination that once characterized their approach to solving state problems . Services cost more A reform-minded governor today would doubtless be simply bogged down in the mundane job of scrambling for dollars to pay for state services that increasingly cost more . The new horizons for executive planning are pretty much left up to Washington . The thrust of the meeting here is , in fact , on how best to link Washington creative planning  --  and spending with more practical , efficient implementation . Thus , important sessions here address themselves to one big question : how best to make federal programs work at the state and local level and how best to get federal-state cooperation and coordination . Governors  --  Democrats and Republicans , liberals and conservatives  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' money . They see the revenue which they dearly would want to have  --  and feel they need  --  slide past them into federal government coffers . This has been going on for years . But in the federal-state sharing programs there used to be a certain amount of state " say-so " in the implementation of programs . And , the states decided whether there would be any program at all in the individual state involved . But now there is an increasing tendency for federal programs to be put into action at the local level with hardly more than a tip of the hat to the governors . The President has now indicated he will listen to proposed changes . The idea of returning some federally collected revenue to the states has caught his ear . Even the suggestion of returning some of the sources of revenue is something he will listen to . Governors ' role shaped But  --  more than anything ? he is showing an interest in bringing the governors into the planning stages of federal-state programs and of letting them have more of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that follows . State governors are tired of " housekeeping " duties that keep them so occupied today . They want a greater part of shaping the nation 's future . Many want the states to play the major role ; but they see that this opportunity has long been given up to Washington . But now , as they meet here , they insist that they no longer be bypassed . More than anything , they feel they can get more for the taxpayers dollar if they are a part of the administration of these programs . And they point to the antipoverty program as a prime example of a federal effort that has faltered ? and failed in some areas ? because the state government has been pushed aside .                     