@@727337

txt The Communists , now apparently winding up for a third military offensive , have driven home some scorching criticisms of their previous countrywide thrust in May . The criticisms of subordinate units have a wide range of targets . These include : ? A gunner who wasted 10 rounds of 75 mm. recoilless rifle fire by missing his assigned targets . ? A unit which went " on a walking exercise in the jungle " rather than rushing in to reinforce its comrades in battle . ? Units which fled in battle leaving munitions , heavy weapons , and wounded soldiers behind . ? Refusal of commanders to execute orders " without hesitation . " ? Fabrication by senior unit commanders of battlefield reports to superior headquarters , minimizing Communist casualties and exaggerating allied losses . Indoctrination intensified A major Communist difficulty was the defection of a senior Communist Party officer , Lt. Col. Travan Van Dac , who outlined portions of the Communist battle plan to the allied command shortly before the assault . Since then , the Communist command has intensified the indoctrination of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the May offensive , a number of Communist cadre and officers have continued to voluntarily defect to the allied side . Others have been captured on the battlefield . More significantly , these sources report that since the May offensive , as many as 10 to 20 percent of the troop strength from some badly battered units have deserted the Communist ranks , returning to their homes . Neglected targets At the strategic level , the four major weak points stressed by the Viet Cong high command following the May offensive were : " Militarily , our attacks were concentrated upon main targets , whereas secondary targets were neglected . . . . The uprising of the people was slow and scattered . Troop proselyting was deplorably weak . Development of our political and armed forces and the strengthening of rear areas was poor . " The usual Communist procedure is to follow up a military action with criticism and self-criticism sessions at each echelon as a means of correcting mistakes in the future . - As the allies wait for the Communist third offensive to roll in , a key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously analyzed weaknesses ? During the May offensive , the First Viet Cong Regiment , a pivotal spearheading unit , was sharply criticized by its superior headquarters , a captured document has revealed . // * Cong cracks down on past mistakes // Among these criticisms are the following , extracted from the document : " The forward command post changed posion without informing its subordinate units . It was supposed to be at the head of the formation  --  and it switched to the tail . As the first rounds opened the commanders of theubordinate units could not communicate with the command post . " When the command post gave the signal to begin the battle , the subordinate units were not ready  --  some units opened fire , some did not , some ran in disarray , abandoning their dead , wounded , and equipment . That 's how we lost 400 sampans plus rockets and heavy equipment . Report exaggerated " The commander of one unit of the First Regiment was told to go back and fight . He said he could not because he did not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said he was sick . " The subordinate then asked if he would designate someone to replace himself as commander . Lying on a bed , the commander just rolled his heavy body to the wall and refused to answer . " . Another unit of the First Regiment responsible for attacking the huge Bien Hoa bridge leading into Saigon was also subjected to searing criticism by its superiors . " Not only did the unit delay its after-action report following the attack , " the captured document said , " but it lied in its report . Our actual personnel casualties were 10 times higher than the report stated , our weapons and munitions abandoned on the battlefield was 10 times higher than the report stated , the loss of enemy allied casualties and equipment was exaggerated in the report claimed to have destroyed a lot of equipment and hardware at the new port installation  --  but in fact all rounds missed the target . " Decisive period ' The document , however , praised one squad leader who , on his own initiative , blew up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his squad were standing atop the structure . They were killed in the explosion . But the senior commanders of the Communist Subregion 4 and its units , were given a sizzling critique in the document . These commanders were " afraid of being killed and they were afraid of the violence of war . . . . This is the decisive period of the war and it 's always more violent than normal times . These commanders dared not tight during the second offensive . " The commander shifted position without informing his subordinates . The subordinates withdrew without orders from their superiors , instead of hanging on . A number of units assigned to slow down the enemy 's counteroffensive did not bother to do so but instead retreated before the enemy even showed up . " The headquarters of the subregion found out a number of orders were not carried out during the attack . The cadre of the party as well as military commanders at the company , battalion , and regimental level even dared to discuss the order . This is not a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not only did they discuss the order of their superiors , but they refused to carry out the order , making up all kinds of excuses . " So to conclude this session of criticism , we found out a lot of cadre lost morale and became undisciplined ; they lacked efficiency and their determination is bankrupt . " Another unit was criticized for being reluctant to cross the Dong Nai River in order to reinforce other units fighting closer to Saigon . " That unit walked 10 times around the jungle , " the document read , " and it dared not to cross the river to reinforce others .. These regulars were just wandering around in the jungle for fun . But , a battle is not the period of a walking exercise ? they should have crossed the river . "                     