@@723298

txt LONDON , July 9 ? London came close to a major riot tonight as police tried to keep peace around Buckingham palace while Queen Elizabeth banqueted her royal guests , King Paul and Queen Frederika of Greece . A series of street fights , the worst London has seen in many years , raged up and down approaches to the palace . Time and again police formed solid lines of blue across streets , only to have the crowds surge thru . High Scotland Yard officers , patrolling the streets like field marshals on a battleground , called up reinforcements by radio . The worst fighting took place in Whitehall , the broad government thorofare outside ancient Whitehall palace banqueting hall . Police Round Up 94 In the first hour police arrested 41 persons . Scotland Yard announced 94 were jailed by midnight . Ambulances carried away the wounded , including a man whose leg was pierced from knee to thigh when he was pulled from a tall iron railing at Whitehall palace . ( An Associated Press report described the demonstrators as Communists and their sympathizers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrations demanding " freedom for political prisoners in Greece , " meaning Communists who have been in jail since the Greek civil war . Feelings became intense when police , in an effort to disperse a section of the crowd , brought in seven prancing horses , led by an officer on a beautiful white animal The police deliberately set their horses among the crowd , pulling smartly on their reins to make the horses dance up and down , and swing from side to side , flailing their steel shod hooves against the legs of persons unable to move fast enough . The crowd had gathered peacefully in Trafalgar square , at the end of the half mile long Mall , the main ceremonial thorof are leading to the palace . Call Greeks Murderers Most wore , the black and white badge of Britain 's ban-the-bomb movement . Several carried banners with mottos such as " Greek Murderers Go Home " and " London Says No to EX-fascist Queen . " They distributed leaflets claiming that a Greek member of parliament , Gregory Lambrakis , was murdered on returning home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was mainly because of his death that the ban-the-bomb movement called tonight 's demonstration . Stewards distributed mimeographed instructions . At 8 o'clock the group was to leave the square , march up the Mall and there stand quietly thru the evening . If the Mall gates were closed , they were to find another approach . If all approaches were closed they were to return to the square and stay overnight . No violence was to be used . 5,000 Fill Square By 8 o'clock , 5,000 persons were in the square . Police ringed the square and formed solid blocks along nearby streets . Police with walkietalkie radios stood ready and police trucks and buses , loaded with reinforcements , were parked thruout the palace area . No police horses were in sight . As Big Ben , rising high over the far end of Whitehall , struck 8 , several persons unfurled banners and lifted them high . Police doubled their line on the palace side of the square along temporary riot railings anchored into the concrete walks . But the demonstrators flooded up wide stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street . Slowly they came down the side of the street , filling the street before the South African embassy , itself sometimes picketed recently as representative of a police state . Crowd Forges Forward The police ran into the end of the street and linked arms , three deep . Two police prisoner wagons pulled into the street behind them . The crowd came slowly , very slowly . Soon the first rank was right up against the police . The attackers and defenders merely leaned on each other . Soon the weight advantage lay with the attackers . The police line burst like a dam and the crowd surged across the broad street toward Admiralty arch , which with its triple set of beautiful steel gates framed the mall . Today it was lined with Great ' British and Greek flags . The mob pressed on toward the palace beyond , from which the I queen 's vast ceremonial personal banner flew . The police slammed the gates . The crowd milled about , made a feint toward Cockspur street leading toward Piccadilly , but then suddenly everyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the left . Whitehall is broad and the police , taken by surprise , could form only a single line , again arms linked . This barrier shattered with the first rush against it . Now police and crowd raced up the broad street . From old Scotland Yard , near the war office , police reinforcements raced . At Admiralty house , temporary home of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan while No. 10 Downing street is being rebuilt , police slammed shut the riot gates of steel faced with thick planks . Brush Aside Police Line Police formed another line , but it was brushed aside . Past . Admiralty house the crowd charged , cheering , waving banners . In the courtyard where royal horseguarcts stand ceremoniously during the daytime , and in the piazza in front of the air ministry a battalion of police waited . They now ran into Whitehall to form a new barrier . The attackers , thinned by losses at the earlier barricades , were now scattered . The ' new barrier held . Reformed barriers behind kept the crowd from drawing its reinforcements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trot . In the past , mounted police have been used to nudge people aside . But tonight they charged into the demonstrators . Hooves Mix With People At first sight of the horses , some of the mob sat down in the street . But the horses came right at them . People and hooves became mixed . Tempers burst at the display of violence . People cursed . Fists flew . Police and horses snorted . In 10 minutes the crowd was driven back into the walks . Police formed tight lines along the curbs , cutting off sections of , the crowd . Some demonstrators , *slowly drifted back into Trafalgar square , found them all still blocked , and took-the long walk up St. James ' , fashionable clubs flaunting giant gas torches in honor of the royal visitors to the city , on to St. James 's palace only to find the tall iron gates there closed . Another detour took them up into Piccadilly , past the Ritz hoteL The gates into Green park were open . Buckingham palace was straight ahead . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police there saw them coming . Motorcycles roared up , following four trucks of police . A new line formed across Constitution hill , which runs along one side of the palace garden . The great ceremonial circle before the palace was a desert . Normally , on state occasions , it is packed with thousands . Normally , monarchs lead their royal guests onto the balcony to take ovations . But tonight the great circle was a prohibited area . By order of the police commissioner , no one could " loiter " there . I happened to find myself alone in the vast open space , alone , except for the hordes of police on the perimeter . A photographer came running in . A police sergeant had thrown him to the ground , smashing his camera . Ironically , he works for the overseas television service of the government sponsored British Broadcasting corporation . " The police have gone nuts , " he said , as he passed . The long twilight was now ending . As I stood there the floodlights came on , setting alight the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ring of tall crown-tipped poles forming a half-circle before the palace . " Can This Be Britain " A man who had climbed over a ' railing , ran past the flags . Two police chased him , brought him down with a flying tackle . Two more helped carry him out and throw him back over the rails . A little man trying to get to Victoria station managed , after a long argument , to convince police he was an honest peaceful Briton and was allowed to scuttle past the tall palace railings . Police packed into three trucks parked before the palace watched him go . Now and then someone peered from a palace window . A footman in brilliant scarlet came out onto the steps , looked about the police-lined circle , and scuttled back within . ' T was a Great Parade of- the Shriners ? TRIBUNE Staff Photo Costumed like an avenging angel or demon , Ted of Aleppo temple of Boston was a commanding figure as he waved his scimitar while taking part yesterday in the annual Shrine convention parade . ( Story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for approximately a mile along Michigan avenue as units in the annual Shrine convention parade moved past the Art Institute . In the foreground a line of spectators stretches completely across the broad boulevard south of Balbo drive , where the paraders turned to the east before moving southward again to Soldiers ' field . Telescopic lens foreshortens the view . olory on page It TRIBUNE Staff Photo/ One of the many beautiful horses which had roles in the parade was ridden by a noble from Moslem temple of Detroit . The rider and his mount waited at marshaling point for the start of the procession . ( Story on page 1 )                     