@@724086

txt The 1964 GOP convention seems to be suffering from the same difficulties that marked the last GOP convention here , that of 1956 . Then it was a popular , surefire winner ? president Eisenhower ? that made it difficut to stir up much interest in the convention . All was decided : the candidate and , it seemed , the winner in November . In 1956 the Republicans did n't really need to fire up ncw public interest in their man , although they did their best to bring this about . IJohnson Favored But this year the Republicans have a greater need for that all-important ingredient that will keep viewers from coast to coast glued to their TV sets : As of now President Johnson is heavily favored to win in November . A heated conflict for the nomination is one way this tense national interest could be gained . More and more , of course , it appears that the delegates are sticking to Sen. Barry Goldwater o . Arizona and that he may well have enough support for a first-ballot triumph . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform committee to specifically reject extremist groups that are " alien to our shores . " He cited the John Birch Society as such a group . Instead of asking for a platform declaration that the Civil Rights Law is constitutional , he said the law " should be cited as another step toward America 's promise to the world , implicit in our Constitution , of equal rights and opportunities for all . " Negroes Ask Plank By Harlan Trott Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor San Francisco Negro leaders in the United States expect to get a plank they consider meaningful in the Republican platform , or else . The " or else " would , in the opinion of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , be an invitation to " national disaster and discord . " That goes for either party , according to a number of top Negro spokesmen contacted by this correspondent here this week . These Negro leaders all insist theirs is not a partisan issue . They want a clear commitment that both presidential candidates will go all-out to enforce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say : " We declare that the Civil-Rights Law is constitutional . " Failure of either party to make it " unequivocally clear that they are committed to immediate enforcement will , in the Rev. Dr. King 's opinion , only lead to civil strife that will make the Negro revolt of 1963 seem " infinitesimal . " What worries the Negro leaders is not so much the Republican platform as the probable party standard bearer . They are very frank about it outside this committee room . If Sen. Barry Goldwater , who voted against the civil-rights bill and described a portion of it as unconstitutional , were elected President , they think the platform would be meaningless . whateve : stand the committee adopts on civil rights . Choice Stated " In the past months , " says the NAACP 's Roy Wilkins . " We have heard much talk to the effect that enactment of a civil-rights bill would make the nation a police state , But the frenetic crusaders were never able to recognize a genuine police state like Mississippi . " Mr. Wilkins insists that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " states ' wrongs . " Senator Goldwater 's supporters say , as they have previously . that the Arizona Senator is outspokenly against discrimination against Negroes and has , in fact , led efforts to eliminate it in his home state . The Senator 's position on civil-rights legislation , they insist , is based on a sincere desire to handle such matters through the states whenever possible . This is in line with his opposition to centralization of power in Washington . Committee Reminded But ' the Negro leaders , especially now that the majority of Congress has spoken in behalf of the civil-rights legislation , do not give much weight to these pleadings . A hush fell over the St. Francis Hotel ballroom as the Rev. Dr. King reminded the GOP platform committee of the disappea'rance of those three young civil-rights workers near Philadelphia , Miss . " These and other instances of police harassment " call for " a vigorous and creative " use of presidential power to shield federal rights in " locally hostile environs , " he contends . The Rev. Dr. King 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or else " implications stem from fears entertained by American Negro leaders that flabby enforcement of the new civil-rights measure would incite uncontrollable acts of racial violence . Tensions Build Some of the tensions swelling across the land since that battered old station wagon was found near the Mississippi town of Philadelphia are building up here this week . Police officials in San Francisco and neighboring San Mateo County where the Cow Palace is located are quietly alerting their forces . Over 200 Pinkerton guards have been assigned to the automobiles . which will take VIPs to and from k the convention hall . Sen. Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , the GOP convention 's permanent chairman , announces he will not hesitate to call the police if organized picketing by the Congress of Racial Equality ( CORE ) and other minority groups should impede things . Protesting Negro , groups openly denounce Senator Goldwater for his vote against the civil-rights bill .                     