@@727958

txt " How many of your 700 foremen are non-white ? " A long pause . A frown . " You really want to get into numbers ? " asked Harold Cutler , Oldimobile 's personnel manager at the company 's 16,500-man Lansing , Mich. plant . I did , but he did not . Days earlier , Walter R. Greene , deputy director of the Michigan Civil Rights Corn-mission , said of the automaking " big three " ( Ford , General Motors , Chrysler ) : " They 'll say they do n't want to play the numbers game . But you need to play it to know where you are . If you have 200 black employees , and they 're all washing cars in the basement , you have good reason not to play the game . Its too revealing . " " I would be very generous , " a knowledge ? able former Olds worker told me later , " if I told you they have 10 black foremen today . I know they have no black general foremen , no assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated is that there are " several " black foremen . Not one full-time recruiter for Lansing-Olds is black . " We just have n't gotten around to it , " Mr. Cutler admits . One company official put it , after extolling Olds 's token progress to date in reducing job discrimination : " We 've still got a long way to go . " Scores of cases In capsule form the Olds case is typical of scores I 've found throughout the country . Whether a Negro , for instance , aspires to be a plumber in Cleveland , an ironworker in St. Louis , an auto dealer in Detroit , a set designer in Hollywood , a corporate lawyer in Philadelphia , a textile-plant manager in the Carolinas , or a boilermaker in a gulfcoast shipyard  --  his prospects are not very bright . There is token progress , of course . A new Inland Steel advertisement calling for capable people ? " any color , to help us run our business " ? concedes to critics the plea may be " tokenism . Or gradualism . Or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long road // too little too late . Maybe they 're right , " it goes on . " Or maybe it 's a beginning . " If my three months of research for this special series on job bias have found a theme , it is this : There has been a beginning . Nothing revolutionary . Hardly a full-fledged evolution at times . But , despite much linger . ing skepticism , industry 's propagandists speak at least a half-truth when they proclaim that " things are changing " ! At the present pace of change , though , it will probably require decades before black and Spanish-surnamed Americans can hope to achieve full equality in the nation 's economic mainstream . Record examined Meawhile Oldsmobile , here in the heart of Michigan , my hoinetown of Lansing , with a payroll of 16,500 , is the largest single employer in a city of 130,000 . The firm 's past record was openly discriminatory . Black workers could move from unskilled to skilled work , but never to positions as foremen or higher overseers . " They did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " explains Mr. Cutler . " When it came to promotion to the management team , they just did n't rise . " In 1963 , though , Olds joined a long list of large corporations in signing a Plans for Progress pledge to remove all race , creed , nationality , and sex barriers in personnel policy . " We 've always had the policy . General Motors never practiced discrimination , " Mr. Cutler insists . " We never had a situation where they were just sweepers and janitors . " Yet General Motors did discriminate . Olds , with a 7-percent black work force today , failed to promote one Negro from labor to management until the mid-1960 's . And 95 percent of Olds 's plant supervisors come from the work force . It is difficult not to charge racism in trying to account for this unbroken pattern . Fact sheet ' supplied General Motors corporate headquarters in Detroit voluntarily supplied me a " fact sheet " with a racial census of employees dating back to 1961 . For some reasons , GM 's personnel director , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information . But a breakdown of this data by job categories , he said , would be " playing the numbers game . " The GM figures showed a steady upward percentage of nonwhite workers , as well as a numerical rise over the eight-year span . This may explain GM 's willingness to make the data public . But such figures fail to show " upward mobility "  --  the acid test of " affirmative action . " The overall nonwhite figures are usually bloated , moreover , by crash programs to hire so-called " hard-core " workers from ghetto areas . Mr. Greene puts it bluntly : " I would challenge the big three General Motors , Ford , and Chrysler to show you their racial census in white-collar jobs , " he suggested . " They 'll only show you figures of overall employment . " Though he declined to reveal the current number of black foremen at Olds , Mr. Cutler conceded that it was " a low figure . " Breakthrough ahead ? The very fact that a handful of the roughly 1,100 black Olds autoworkers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs to less strenuous salaried positions may convince some of a breakthrough ahead . Others are n't so sure . Olds wants to upgrade deserving nonwhites , Mr. Cutler says , but a major obstacle stands in the way : The firm 's old image as a bigoted employer lingers in the black community . " The good people did n't come to Olds , " the personnel spokesman contends . " They felt there was no place for them . And let 's face it , at least 99 percent of college graduates do n't want to be a foreman . " Thus the company now scouts eight of the predominantly Negro colleges in search of white-collar graduates to offset its slim crop of home-grown supervisors . But the black campus is scarcely a happier hunting ground . Approach assessed One possible flaw in Olds 's approach : Not one of its full-time recruiters is black . Only Forrest Walker , a retired Army colonel who became Olds 's personnel-activities coordinator two years ago , is visible proof to the students that the company means what it says about ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure ? " several " black graduates , according to the Olds official ? opted to join the company in the last year . All this is not to single out the Lansing firm as a notable laggard in taking affirmative action . Some corporations , to say nothing of certain labor unions , appear much cooler to hiring and promoting white-collar blacks than Olds . On the other hand , some of the firm 's competitors are red hot in their quest for talented minority workers . What is notable at Oldsmobile ( and in a good percent of industry generally ) is a lukewarm feeling  --  or at least a lukewarm performance  --  as an equal-opportunity employer . First of a series . Next Thursday : St. Louis ? beneath its famous arch , a battle against discrimination .                     