@@721351

txt While the nation maintains the world 's most powerful military machine , the Republcan party must not lose its identity by adopting the spend-and-spend , elect-andelect practices of the New and Fair Deals , Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona warned the G. O. P. platform committee Tuesday . He got thebiggest hand of all from committee members and spectators . Goldwater , reminding the platform-drafters that he is chairman - of the senatorial campaign committee , said that while the Democratic party is now controled by advocates of the super-state , the Republicans should hold it the duty of government to help men who will help themselves ; that to help and support men who will not help themselves is " destructive . " Several others Heard This conservative counseling by the Arizona senator , who has supporters for the Presidential nomination but is not actually running , came during a session which als1 heard Adm . Arthur Radford Ret. , speaking 0n defense ; Secretary of the Treasury Robert B. Anderson , in behalf of a sound dol lar ; Dr. Leo A. Du Bridge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was science ; Clarence B. Randall , former Chicago steel executive and an assistant to President Eisenhower , who asked for " a new sense of high mission ; " and Dr. Laurence M. Gould , president of Carleton college , Northfield , Minn. , expressing the need for a renaissance in education . Policy Chairman Speaks Rep. John W. Byrnes of Wisconsin , chairman of the Republican policy committee , put the difference between the two parties , in their platform writing efforts , ag follows : " The chief concern of the Democrats was to pick a ticket acceptable to its dissident factions . The main Democratic objective , it was made clear in Los Angeles , is . to regain national power at any cost . " Our task is vastly different . Our concern is with enunciating a philosophy of government which we believe is best for our country , our people and their future ? even at the risk of losing an election . " Sen. Goldwater did not mince words in his presentation , telling the plank drafters that " the American people ' have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican party , in this year of national peril , would do well to discard discredited patterns of the past . " Freedom or Slavery ? ' " I am suggesting , " he continued , " the issue which we must decide is one of freedom or slavery . The world stands divided on this issue today . Unfortunately , the ' challenge is not presented in such clearly defined and recognizable terms . " To our undying national shame , there are.those among us who would prefer to crawl on their bellies to Moscow rather than face the possibility of an atomic war . " Our enemies are capitalizing on our inability or unwillingness to recognize the true implications of the cold war . Russia is determined to destroy our ideals and our ideas . And the tragedy ' of freedom is that so far they have been frighteningly successful . " In foreign affairs , this country has moved with timidity and indecision , Goldwater charged , even tolerating Premier Castro 's name-calling and confiscation of American property in Cuba , altho " the blood of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Must Maintain Power Goldwater said that the Republican party must determinedly maintain the most powerful military power in the world and must be willing to use this power ? " and our economic power  --  to defend the rights of American citizens and to preserve American property . " I am reminding the Re publican platform committee that private property and individual liberty are inseparable , " the senator said . " I am suggesting to the Republican party the first responsibility of the fed eral government is to defend freedom  --  with all the force and power and resources at our command . I ' am suggesting that Russia is determined to achieve victory  --  that we have not been equally determined and if Russia 's ambition for world conquest will not be satisfied short of an aggressive war , then no amount of appeasement , no action short of surrender , will satisfy the Russians . " And I am suggesting to the American people that if we truly desire to preserve freedom , we must be prepared to fight for its preservation if that eventuality becomes our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Goldwater said he wished to remind the platform makers that there is nothing new about a welfare state since " history is littered with the remains of once-proud republics who destroyed themselves by overindulgence , by national acceptance of the false and destructive idea that you can get something for nothing . " The people have not demanded federal assistance , the senator continued ; there has been no universal demand for federal aid to education , nor widespread public demand for federal aid to depressed areas , or federal medical care for the aged , or federal support for- the economy . Adm . Radford , former chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , answered the questions , " Is our military program adequate ? Is our country secure ? " , in this fashion : " Yes , at this time . Conditions may change , of course , for better or worse . "                     