@@723794

txt Washington It is not easy to generalize about President Johnson . The impression one gathers , after nearly three months in office , is that he combines solid achievement with the razzle-dazzle of vivid publicity . Sometimes it is difficult to separate the accomplishment from the pressagentry . Talk with one of his close advisers , who has known LBJ for a score of years , and his comment is : " Lyndon Johnson is actionoriented  --  action on a direct and immediate basis . His leadership is personal , and forceful . Where Kennedy was an idea man  --  with the ideas as passports to eventual action  --  President Johnson is impatient to nail things down now . " At the White House recently one of the new " Johnson men " was on the telephone to a Kennedy appointee . The Kennedy legionnaire was objecting when asked to do a certain job forthwith . " Some of these men just have n't caught onto the Johnson system yet , " the Johnson official observed . A A A This system has brought results : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax cut 's speed through Congress ; enactment of two big education bills . But there is also the razzle-dazzle . The President 's consumer message put together an expected batch of leftover ideas from the Kennedy administration . It provided no professional staff for the new " special assistant for consumer affairs . " It discussed drugs but did not mention cigarettes . Or consider the President 's transfer of oil policy to . the Depalment of the Interior . The ' suggestion made to the press .. wag- that this . took . a delicate , ionfl ict-or-interes t subject out Of presidential hands at applaudable move since Mr. ' Johnson is from a major , oil-producing state . But in a sense it was like tossing Br , tet : Rabbit into the briar patch . The Interior Department 's petroleum division plays a key role in the oil price mechanism . The Oil &; Gas Journal commented that the move " places oil problems in the hands of government officials who know most about oil . " And was there value in the President 's proposal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should unite to build in Washington " a fitting memorial to God " ? Only time will tell whether this bears fruit . Critics remark that the existing churches and church activities are the best memorials of all . A A Yet simultaneously the President , in his budget , accomplished a feat which , our close friend remarks , " was so simple and obvious that nobody thought of doing it . " Mr. Johnson courageously decided to save those billions of dollars that Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara told him could be saved ( if the White House would brave the protests of people affected by closed bases and curtailed defense plants ) . By this decision , plus frugality among the departments , he got not only the tax cut but the promise of money which could be plowed into the " war on poverty . " This aimed at depriving the Republicans of the economy issue . It gave the Democratic liberals their antipoverty drive . It was effective politics . But simultaneously ? and here is where the claim of achievement and substance comes to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Johnson very definitely intends to honor , though only an additional $500 mil : - lion is allocated for the first year . If the assault on poverty peters out in mediocre little projects , then it will have been razzle-dazzle after all . But  --  again to quote the close associate - yoti think Johnson , Who. - ' has been through aliardserabble youth and the New Deal , is fooling about poverty , wait and see . " ' My Daddy Had a Telephone Call From the President '                     