@@721068

txt ANTI-U . S. GESTURE BY CASTRO IS SEEN Moscow Deal Said to Show Stress on Independence ? Red Influence Noted By JAMES RESTON Speen I to The New York Tams . HAVANA , Feb. 14 ? The Cuban Government is consciously moving closer to the Soviet Union to demonstrate its in , dependence of the United States . This seems to be the opinion of most well-informed diplomats here the day after Cuba 's sign ; ing of a commercial and political agreement with First Deputy Premier Anastas I. Mikoyan of the Soviet Union . Some members of the diplomatic corps place a more extreme interpretation on the trend of events . They believe Premier Fidel Castro is moving left not only as a tactic to balance the economic influence of Washington but for ideological reasons . Even those diplomats who think Dr. Castro is merely trying to get everything he can from both Washington and Moscow agree that Communist influence is growing in Havana and might even get beyond the Premier 's control . The Mikoyan-Castro agree-ment provides a twelve-year ( credit of 5100,000,000 at 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons of sugar for dollars over a five.year period . The accord stipulates that Moscow is to fur , nish technical assistance to Cuba during the period 1961-64 , if requested , for " the construction of plants and factories for the Cuban Government . " Even before the announce // ment it had been noted here that Dr. Castro was bringing in non-Cuban experts , some of them with extreme Leftist if not Communist backgrounds , to help him organize his . Government . This trend is expected to increase as a result of the agreement , under which the Soviet Union will provide experts to maintain the machinery if requested . Yesterday 's communiqu ? also stated that the Soviet-Cuban conversations were conducted " in an atmosphere of frank cordiality " that showed the interest of both nations " to collaborate actively " in the United Nations " in favor of the coexistence , cooperation and friendship of all peoples of the world . " This was interpreted by diplomats here as meaning that Cuba was likely to work with the Soviet and Asian-African blocs in the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often support , is gradually losing its majority in the General Assembly . Cuban- officials denied today that the agreement was anything more than the kind of commercial arrangement made by the United States with Communist Poland . They repeated Dr. Castro 's familiar theme that Cuba wanted to be independent of both capitalism and communism . Communism , they said , quoting Dr. Castro , is a form of social organization that " gives you food without liberty , " while capitalism " gives you liberty and starves you to death . " Cuba , they insisted , is building a system of organized " humanism , " which they defined as " bread without fear and liberty without terror . " What seems to impress objective observers of the Cuban revolution , however , is not so much the emotional rhetoric of officials as the disorganization of the Government in dealing with practical economic problems . Present State of Nation Thirteen months after Dr. Castro established his Government , there seems to be general agreement in the diplomatic corps on these points : 9The Premier is rapidly breaking up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government that in many ways resembles national socialism even more than communism . ciHe has lost considerable support among the professional , middle and intellectual classes that supported his revolution , but still has great support among the workers and peasants and is the only symbol of authority in Cuba . He has proved to be better at destroying power than at building a constructive and well-organized Government . His revolution is going through that difficult and " even dangerous transition between the tearing down and the building up , and he is tearing down faster than he is building  --  though there is evidence of considerable construction of houses and schools , particularly in the rural areas . Dr. Castro is apparently confident that he can make commercial and political arrangements with Moscow without losing the United States sugar market on which the economy of Cuba largely depends . He places elaborate advertisements in United States newspapers and magazines urging tourists to come here and then vilifies the United States in such a way as to frighten them away . This has paralyzed the $50,000,000-a-year tourist trade with the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with Moscow to sell sugar at the world price of 3 cents a pound or less just as the State Department is trying to keep Congress from cutting or eliminating his sugar subsidy , which amounts to more than $100,000 , - 000 a year . All the frenzy of activity , much of it contradictory , has clearly alarmed many of those influential Cubans who supported the revolution . It also has disturbed United States officials here who have been urging Washington to take a patient and understanding attitude toward Cuba 's problems . There is no doubt , in the opinion of experienced diplomats here , that local and imported Communists are trying to take advantage of the situation . In fact , they are now arguing that to be anti-Communist in Cuba is to be antiCastro and counter-revolutionary . In short , there is a growing feeling of insecurity here  --  of not knowing what is coming next .                     