@@725599

txt deleted 48 lines meeting productive and appealed to adults to keep youths trolman shot a Puerto Rican in the led Sunday . More Latin-American policemen win be sought , Mr. Wilson said . The force now has few . Height requirements have been reduced to facilitate recruiting . Furthermore , Mr. Wilson said that policemen would be encouraged to study Spanish . Forty are doing so now . Puerto Ricans have complained that the laniguage barrier is too great for them to communicate with the police when they are questioned . Mr. Wilson also announced al change of command involving the- troubled area . He named Capt . James Holzman acting deputy chief of patrol , replacing Deputy Chief John B. Ascher . Mr. Wilson said that Chief Ascher , who suffered a heart attack recently , felt compelled to take his furlough now Decause of the strain imposed by the rioting . Chief Holzman 's new duties include supervision of the strife-ridden area . He told a group of Puerto Rican ministers that not even " peaceful gatherings " could be permitted now at night . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Park and called for an end to rioting . After the meeting destruction began anew . The crowd grew to several thousand . Before the flare-up ended , seven Puerto Ricans had been shot . One remains critically injured with a wound in the head . Many persons were injured by rocks and bricks , including several policemen and three newsmen . Thirty-six persons were arrested , compared with 49 Sunday night . Edward Marciniak , director of the city 's Commission on Human Relations , said in an interview that nobody at the meeting knew just why the rioting was occurring now . He said he believed it was a combination of factors , including a lack of communication between the Puerto Rican community and the police and the incidents of Sunday night . He said some Puerto Ricans believed they had a responsibility to fight back , just as they had seen Negroes fight for civil rights . He noted that the Puerto Ricans in this working class section of Chicago 's near Northwest Side were recent arrivals with no roots in the city or its social structure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area are cool . Until about six years ago , the neighborhood was predominantly Polish . But on Division Street , the center of the area that now is marked by broken windows and boarded-up storefronts , the flavor has become overwhelmingly Spanish . The Biltmore Theatre , once a popular place for European immigrants , is now the San Juan Theatre . Signs announcing bodegas and barberias  --  grocery stores and barber shops  --  line the street . There were 35,000 Puerto Ricans in Chicago when the 1960 census was taken . Now the estimate is nearly double that . Sixteen thousand came from Puerto Rico last year . Not all live in the riot area , but that is their port of entry and largest settlement in Chicago . It is a section of old , but neatly kept , two and threefor them in grade or high school . Many students drop out , including bright children who story homes . Large families live crowded into small flats . Few persons are on welfare , but their pay from factory and menial jobs is comparatively small , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as 85 per cent , Spanish is the primary language . There is no course in English can understand little of what is being taught . " These are peaceful people , " said Juan Diaz , director of the Latin-American Boys Club in the heart of the trouble area . " They have been pushed around too much . This would not have happened otherwise . " " We are citizens of the United States , " said Ismael ticevedo . " But nobody recoghizes that . "                     