@@724361

txt The three million customers of the Consolidated Edison Company eventually will be faced with higher bills as a result of the city 's attack on air pollution . A more refined fuel oil than is now in use will cost the company $12 milliOn more a year and a spokesman said the company planned to pass this on to the customers , subject to- the approval of the Public Service Commission . The ftel oil change is mandated under the new code of the city 's Department of Air Pollution Control , which says that the sulphur content of fuel oil must be reduced from its now allowable 3 per cent to 2.2 per cent by weight after Oct. 1 , 1969 . A. spokesman for the Federal air pollution control program // called the $12-million-a-year increase in cost " pretty cheap . " " As it is , New Yorkers contribute only about a nickel a year in the drive for clean air , " ihe remarked in an interview 1 here . 1 He foresaw an anomalous ( metropolitan resulting from the metropolitan area 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If we use a million barrels ' of fuel oil with 2 per cent sulphur content and then double the number , using one per cent , " he noted , " the " sulphur dioxide emission will still be about the same , " he noted . Health authorities everywhere have agreed that sulphur dioxide is a factor in the rise of respiratory disease . Air Pollution Commissioner Arthur J. Benline is optimistic that the central problem ? the increase of sulphur dioxide in the air over the last 10 years ? might be solved . The Commissioner stressed that an effective program would require more money , greater civic interest and the authority to act in a " completely ruthless " fashion to enforce the law . He pointed out that the residents of Los Angeles were assessed 57 cents a year and that San Francisco had doubled its annual expenditure to 46 cents per capita to combat air polfution . New York City is spending $200,000 in Federal aid ore the problem in the current fiscal year . While the Commissioner praised the amended municipal code , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edison " could live with , " the code was criticized elsewhere as not rigorous enough . Chemist Is Critical The critics include Dr. Morris B. Jacobs , a chemist who is associate professor of occupational medicine at the Columbia School of Administrative Medicine and Public Health , Dr. Jacobs , a consultant to the Interstate Sanitation Commission , was , until 1960 director of the bureau of laboratories at the City Department of Air Pollution Control . He is a consultant to the World Health Organization . He is an adviser to Councilman Robert A. Low , DemocratLiberal of Manhattan , who last May proposed more restrictive legislation covering the sulphur content of coal and fuel oil . His bill , now in the Council 's Health and Education Committee , seeks to reduce the-sulphur content to one per cent over a 10-year period . Dr. Jacobs attacked the new code as " very inadequate . " He contended that the department was exerting no control , especially in the burning of soft coal , which , he said , produced two tons of sulphur dioxide for every ton of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that other fuel users contributed largely to pollution . " The basis of our greatest source of air pollution , " he said , " is the use of fuel for heat , power and light and mass transportation . Domestic incinerators burn less than 2 per cent of the fuel . " A Con Edison spokesman insisted that the problem of sulphur dioxide could not be controlled by the company alone . In 1963 , the utility consumed 4,865,095 tons of coal , 490,308 , - 501 gallons of low-grade oil and $58,176,290 cubic feet of gas . The company has asked the Federal Power Commission to approve the building of a hydroelectric generating plant at Storm King Mountain , on the west bank of the Hudson River near Cornwall . Such . a plant would replace three old smokeemitting units in the city , a spokesman said . Conservationists have opposed the proposal . But Commissioner Benline , Dr. Jacobs and Councilman Low favor the plan .                     