@@723090

txt UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. , April 18 ? A spokesman for the United Arab Republic said today that his country and the Republic of Yemen would be happy to accept United Nations observers to supervise an agreement barring outside interference in Yemen 's civil war . This was the first statement from an official source that the Yemen regime and its Egyptian allies would accept such an observer team . Fighting that has gone on since last September 's revolution in Yemen has threatened to spread into surrounding countries because Saudi Arabia has been giving supplies to tribesmen supporting the ousted Imam while the U.A.R. has troops estimated to total 28,000 ' in Yemen fighting for the new republican Government . The U.A.R. spokesman said : " We would be happy if the United Nations sent observers to Yemen . If they found the Saudis had ceased interference , then we could withdraw our forces . It would be welcomed also by the Yemenites because , they would no longer need our Ellsworth Bunker , retired United States diplomat , returned April 11 from a mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have ' brought tenta // tive terms for a noninterference agreement , but details never have been made public . " Mr. Bunker has put the whole thing in the lap of the United Nations , " the U.A.R. spokesman said . " The United Nations ' task is to carry it out . Mr. Bunker 's great achievement is to have got a commitment from the Saudis . We have not changed our point of view . We told President Kennedy a long time ago that we would withdraw if the Saudis could be persuaded to stop their agitation . " He accused Saudi Arabia of causing continued fighting against the republican regime in Yemen by paying the tribesmen of northern Yemen . Tribesmen have continued to support the Imam , Mohamed al-Badr , in his fight against the Government of President AbdulIan al-Salal , who deposed him last September . There is wide disagreement among Middle East sources here on the state of affairs in Yemen . Those who favor the new republic , including United Arab Republic sources , contend that it is in complete control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people are behind it . There is no village that is not in its hands . There is resistance only among border tribes in the north . " . A different picture was presented by another Middle East delegate . He said President alSalal 's regime could not stand against the tribes if the U.A.R. withdrew its troops . " They control only a few towns , " he said . " The rest of the country is against them . " One thesis heard here was that Cairo wanted to bring Yemen into the new union with Iraq and Syria as soon as possible so that the three nations I together could legitimately con1 tinue to give military support ; to President al-Salal . Yemen joined with the United Arab Republic March 9 , 1958 , to form the " United Arab States . " She was more loosely tied to Egypt than was Syria . After Syria withdrew from the U.A.R. on Sept. 30 , 1961 , through a military revolt , President Gamal Abdel Nasser declared the tie with Yemen dissolved . A U.A.R. source said today that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying out promises of social reform and that Yemen therefore could be a source of unrest in the area . He attributed last September 's revolution to dissatisfaction among informed elements in Yemen over the lack of social reform . There have been reports here for some time that Dr. Ralph J. Bunche might return to the area to try to work out the noninterference agreement . Dr. Bunche , Under Secretary for Political Affairs , is the United Nations specialist in Middle East negotiations . He won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on the armistice pacts between Israel and the Arab states . Mr. Bunker 's trip was made under the auspices of the United States . It is widely believed here that there would be more general acceptance of an agreement negotiated under the aegis of the United Nations .                     