@@723785

txt Cyprus rejected tonight a key provision of a proposal by Secretary General Thant for the establishment of a peace-keeping force on the island republic . According to a reliable source Spyros Achilles Kyprianou , the Cypriote Foreign Minister , told the Secretary General that Cyprus would not be satisfied with a statement by Mr. Thant or by the president of the Security Council upholding the independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus . In his talk with the Secretary General , Mr. Kyprianou re mained firm on the Cypriote demand that the Security Council itself must give such a commitment against alleged Turkish plans to annex part of Cyprus . Appeals to Council Later , in a lengthy statement to the Council , Mr. Kyprianou declared that a Council commitment in this sense would be " the greatest contribution " it could make toward keeping peace in Cyprus . The territorial integrity , unity and sovereignty of Cyprus , he added , were " not negotiable . " The Turkish Ambassador to the United States , it is understood , was equally unyielding in a talk he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Turgut 3 , Ienemencioglu , reiterated his Government 's opposition to a commitment on Cyprus 's territorial integrity . In fact , he was said to have insisted that the Security Council adopt a resolution specifically endorsing the Cypriote Constitution and the treaty under which it was guaranteed by Britain , Turkey and Greece . Views Widely Divergent The Cypriote crisis began after an . attempt by Archbishop Makarios , President of Cyprus , to amend the Constitution to eliminate the right of the Turkish minority to veto certain decisions by the Greek majority . The dispute led to fighting between the two communities during Christmas week . After a lull during which British forces kept a tenuous peace , fighting broke out again . in some places on the island sev-t days ago . The divergence , of views on the constitutional question was so great that one authority said that the crisis could be settled only by direct talks between George Papandreou , who is to become Premier of Greece tomorrow as a result of his party 's victory in Sunday 's elections , and Premier Ismet Inonu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were also made today by Sir Patrick Dean , the British representative , Ambassador Menemencioglu and Dmitri S. Bitsios of Greece . Sir Patrick said that his Government felt that the Se : - curity Council should take the following action : CR should endorse Mr. Thant 's appeal for restraint , made last Saturday to the parties concerned . qIt should call on the " parties concerned , " including Britain , Greece and Turkey , in consultation with Mr. Thant , " to secure the establishment of an effective peace-keeping force as soon as possible . " ( lit should provide for the appointment of " an impartial mediator " to assist the parties in reaching an agreed settlement . 43It should call on all states and authorities concerned to respect the independence , territorial integrity and security of Cyprus " in accordance with the treaty of guarantee and as established and regulated by the basic articles of the Cypriote Constitution . " Tells of Latest Plan , Except for the endorsement of Mr. Thant 's appeal , this program corresponded with the revised United States-British plan that Archbishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , presented it to him . in Nicosia last week . Earlier in his speech , Sir Patrick gave the first detailed account of the proposal as submitted by Mr. Ball . He said that it was " premature " to introduce a resolution at this stage , but that " if the Council were to proceed on these lines I can assure my colleagues of the support of my Government . " The " lines " were in accordance with British insistence that the Security Council give only an implied authorization for the proposed peace-keeping force . In addition , they made the Council 's commitment opposing the partition of Cyprus subject to the existing Constitution and the treaty of guarantee , which gives Britain , Turkey and Greece the right to intervene independently . Neither Sir Patrick nor any other speaker referred to the plan for an international force submitted by Mr. Thant . This plan provided that the interested parties agree among themselves on the composition of the force , without formal Council authorization . If agreement were reached , the Council would adopt a resolution forma4 taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mediator be appointed to try to work out a political settlement . Mr. Kyprianou said that Archbishop Makarios had rejected the plan submitted to him by Mr. Ball because it did not provide that the proposed peacekeeping force be " under the control " of the Security Council . The Cypriote Foreign Minister also said that Cyprus had been warned that submitting her complaint against Turkey to the Security Council would produce an attack by Turkey . Later a Cypriote source said that the warning had been delivered in Nicosia by a " friendly Government . " He declined to identify the Government . Mr. Kyprianou read lengthy extracts from what he said was a Turkish document detailing the strategy to be used in producing fighting between Greek and Turkish Cypriotes as a prelude to annexation of part of the island by Turkey . Mr. Menemencioglu denied the Cypriote charges and accused Cyprus of making " distorted and falsified claims . " He accused " Greek Cypriote terrorists " of planning a " hideous massacre " of the Turkish Cypriotes and declared that the Greek Cypriote leaders did not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a conciliatory speech , said that all parties were agreed that the issue must be resolved and that " divergencies of view exist only about method . " He expressed the hope that the Council would help establish a peace-keeping force .                     