@@727911

txt The Government gave way to laborunion opposition today and abandoned its plan to legislate against wildcat strikes . In place of the long-promised legislation . Prime Minister Wilson accepted a promise from the Trades Union Congress , Britain 's labor federation , that it would do its best to stop wildcat walkouts through a new committee of its own . Labor party Members of Parliament were overjoyed at the agreement between the Government and the labor federation 's ; general council , which was reached late this afternoon at 10 Downing Street . M.P . ' s Cheer Wilson The Labor Members have been under conflicting pressures from the Government to vote for , and from unions to vote against , a proposed labor reform bill . They cheered when Mr. Wilson came before a party meeting tonight and made it clear they would not have to vote at all . But the abandonment of the legislation carries obvious political risks for Mr. Wilson . The Conservatives and many independent elements will criticize him for having dropped a measure to which he had given the highest priority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the union reform bill their main political plank . The Prime Minister even dropped the Home Secretary , . lames Callaghan , from the inner cabinet for having urged what has now been reached  --  a compromise with the unions . Just two months ago , in a meeting of Labor members , Mr. Wilson called the legislation urgent . He said it was " essential to our economic recovery , essential to the balance of payments , essential to full employment . " He implied that he would resign if the bill failed . The Chancellor of the Exchequer , Roy Jenkins , also tied the proposed bill closely to Britain 's delicate financial situation . In his budget in April he said that the Government would press the legislation " without delay . " One danger of which the Government must he aware is an adverse reaction in the internatonal financial community . Whether fairly or not , many hankers and others ) abroad think a lack of industrial discipiline is a major reason for Britain 's economic troubles . There was no sign tonight that Mr. Jenkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the union reform legislation . Its principal author , Mrs. Barbara Castle , Minister of Employment and Productivity , said she was " extremely happy " with the unions ' pledge . The reason for the Government 's turnabout is no secret . It found , during weeks of painful exploration , that it had almost no chance of pushing the bill through this summer as Mr. Wilson had promised . Too many Labor members were opposed . Instead , therefore , the Prime Minister and Mrs. Castle held a long series of meetings with the Congress 's general council and its acting secretary , Victor Feather . Mr. Feather was the key figure in the negotiations , and ' effectively he never gave ground . He said the unions , I would not accept any outside I interference in their right to I strike , and that view triumphed . The bill proposed by Mrs. Castle was quite narrow by American standards . It would have allowed the Government to make wildcat strikers go back to work for a 28-day cooling-off period . And it would have permitted Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Feather and other union leaders came up with a plan for action by the organization itself . It was the first such proposal in 40 years of the federation . Under this plan , a three-man committee will investigate each serious wildcat strike and decide whether the men were justified in walking out . If so , the committee will try to mediate . If not , it will tell the union involved to make them go back to work . If any union declined to cooperate , it could theoretically be expelled from the federation but the more difficult and more typical problem would he the case in which a union is powerless to make its members do anything . For eaxmple , the Transport Workers , this country 's largest union , is supposed to control most dockers . But the dockers habitually ignore the national leaders and walk out when they want to . Just last week a shipping line dumped $300,000 worth of bananas into the sea because a wildcat strike had closed its piers in Liverpool . Wildcat opposition to containerized cargo loading in London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area where unofficial walkouts , in violation of agreements , have been damaging is the automobile industry . Here a main union , the Amalgamated Engineers , has been most reluctant to discipline members . The big unions , such as the Engineers and Transport Workers , dominate the congress . Thus independent observers have been extremely skeptical that a federation committee will effectively discipline dockers or auto workers .                     