@@728302

txt Vice President Agnew flew here from Washington today to begin his 3-day goodwill trip to 10 countries of the Pacific . Mr. Agnew and his wife , Judy , flew aboard Air Force Two with a party of 56 and a 10-man press corps . After a stop here and at Guam , they are to begin the foreign visits in the Philippines . In an impromptu news conference aboard his jet shortly after leaving Washington , Mr. Agnew said that President Nixon would not veto the foreign aid appropriations bill if it should include $54.5-million for jet fighters for Nationalist China . Extension Is Possible Mr. Agnew also said that the President was likely to extend his " Nixon doctrine " on Asian military commitments to the rest of the world . The doctrine calls on United States allies in Asia to become more self-reliant . Mr. Agnew also said that Mr. Nixon had asked him to reassure President Chiang Kai-shek of Nationalist China , with whom Mr. Agnew will confer next week , that " our position is unchanged with respect to the Republic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the jets to the Administration 's foreign aid request , but the Senate removed the provision from the bill . The matter is in a conference committee and will not be resolved until Congress reconvenes in late January . Mr. Agnew said the President " would 've gone along with it either way " and preferred to let Congress decide whether to supply the jets . Noting that Secretary - of De // fense Melvin R. Laird supported the supplying of the jets and Secretary of State William P. Rogers was cool to the plan , the Vice President said speculation that Mr. Nixon was opposed to the Defense Secretary 's position was not accurate . He indicated that Ronald M. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , might ? have misled reporters in picturing the President as being aligned with Mr. Rogers . Reasserts U. S. Support The decision on the jets , Mr. Agnew said , " does n't change our commitment to Taiwan . " One of Mr. Agnew 's assignments on his trip is to explain the Nixon doctrine , which the President first enunciated on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would reduce and redesign its military commitments throughout non-Communist Asia to avoid future wars such as the one in South Vietnam . " I would think , as time goes on . the President would extend the doctrine to make it a worldwide posture . " Mr. Agnew said . In defining the doctrine , he said : " First , it states unequivocally we 're going to stand by our treaty commitments . " Secondly , we will provide a nuclear shield where any world power threatens the Asian nations . " Third , we will , in every way we can , stimulate the economic growth of small Asian nations and forster a spirit of regionalism for economic betterment and regional Protection . " Mr , Agnew said the United States would expect its Asian allies " to handle insurgency within their own borders with their own people . ' Yet , " he added , " in the , event we determine any action , against them threatens the general security of the Asian hemisphere , we will support them with material and other forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule out the use of United States combat forces in a1 situation like that in Vietnam . He said that the Vietnam war was " calculated aggression by outside forces , heavily supported by major powers . " In addition to the Philippines and Taiwan , the Vice President will visit Thailand , Nepal , Afghanistan , Malaysia , Singapore , Indonesia , Australia and New Zealand . He is expected to make a brief stop in South Vietnam , although it is not on his announced schedule . Mr. Agnew 's plane landed at Travis Air Force Base , Calif. , for refuelling before taking off for Honolulu . The place where the Vice President and his wife were spending the night in Honolulu was not disclosed .                     