@@722842

txt The Soviet Union is carrying out an intensive barrage of nucloar explosions , apparently as a prelude to a formal proposal for a new moratorium on tests , starting Jan. 1 . The Atomic Energy Commission announced today that in the past three days the Soviet Union had conducted " a number of nuclear atmospheric tests " in the vicinity of Novaya Zemlya in the Arctic . The largest detonation occurred on Monday with a yield of about 20 megatons  --  the equivalent of 20,000,000 tons of TNT . The explosive force of the other explosions ranged from less than 20,000 tons of TNT ( 20 kilotons ) to a few megatons . For unexplained reasons , the commission declined to specify the exact number of tests in the Sunday-through-Tuesday time period . A spokesman said , however , that there was at least one e ; : plosion on each of the three days . Swedish and Japanese observatories have reported four and perhaps five Soviet tests in the period . The latest Soviet explosions bring to at least 39 the number of tests announced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early in August . The 36th explosion in the series was reported by the commission on Saturday . Seek Wind-up in 1962 As analyzed by United States officials , the intensive rate of testing indicated a deliberate Soviet attempt to end the series before the end of the year . Early in November , Premier Khrushchev said that the testing would end by Nov. 20 . The speculation among officials is that the Soviet military found it impossible to complete the series by that time and was given a ' new deadline of Jan. 1 . The expectation is that within the next few days the Soviet Union will announce the conclusion of the series and then propose a cessation of all further testing by the nuclear powers starting Jan. 1 . The basis for the Soviet proposal would be a resolution by the United Nations General Assembly on Nov. 5 calling upon the nuclear powers to halt all nuclear testing by Jan. 1 . In recent weeks , the Soviet Union has indicated that such a formal proposal was in the offing . It issued appeals at the Geneva test-ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not a treaty had been achieved . Just before a Christmas recess was called at Geneva in mid-December , Arthur H. Dean , the American disarmament negotiator , rejected such appeals . He said that the United States could not agree to an uninspected cessation of tests . United States officials believe that within the next few days the Soviet Union may renew its appeal in a formal diplomatic proposal . Or , it is speculated , the Soviet may attempt 3 , new diplomatic maneuver by offering to stop tests as long as the Western powers refrain from testing . The United States ' answer to such a Soviet move has not yet been determined . Officials reported that the question WAS now beiifg considered by President Kennedy during his Christmas holiday in Palm Beach , Fla . In the past , the Administration has emphasized that it would not enter into another uninspected moratorium , such as the one existing from November , 1958 , until the Soviets resumed testing in Sept. 1961 . Foresee Tacit Agreement W:thin policy-making circles of the Administration , however , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on further testing in the atmosphere . Without any formal agreement or pledges , each side would tacitly agree that it would conduct no more atmospheric tests as long as the other side refrained . In the opinion of some officials , such a tacit suspension of testing would eliminate some of the drawbacks of the earlier moratorium . Since there would be no formal pledges or time period , each side would be free to continue preparations for further tests without being accused of bad faith . In the earlier moratorium , the United States felt inhibited about making such preparations and was caught unprepared by the Soviet resumption of testing . The continuation of the moratorium would be dependent upon each side 's unilaterally refraining from testing . . If one side decided to resume tests the atmospheric explosion could easily be detected without any international monitoring network . Certain technical and military factors are working toward such a tacit agreement to stop atmospheric testing . After their intensive series of the past . year , both sides presumably have developed their weapons technology to the point where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Furthermore , for tie larger weapons , which require atmospheric tests , the technology is reaching the point where no major advances can be expected with further testing . Gains achieved by the Soviet Union in its latest testing would be a key factor in whether the United States would be willing unilaterally to refrain from further testing . The analysis of the Soviet tests has not yet been completed . Preliminary indications , however , are that the tests primarily involved prooftesting of existing weapons and the translation into weapons of design information acquired in the 1961 series . For the Soviet Union , the key factor is likely to be tile American decision on underground testing . The past American position has been that a halt in underground testing is dependent upon acceptance of an international detection and inspection system capable of establishing the occurrence of such explosions . In the absence of . a test-ban treaty with international safeguards , therefore , it is the Administration 's present intent to continue underground explosions in Nevada , although probably at a reduced rate . The Soviet Union has repeatedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be viewed by the Soviet Union as a reason for conducting further tests in the atmosphere .                     