@@723000

txt The efforts of Robert M. Bird , 63 , to recover $1,025 in government bonds and other valuable papers stolen in a burglary of his home at 4203 N. Cicero ay. , were successful yesterday after two years of frustration . Bird said that he had appealed to the state 's attorney 's office , the police , and the City hall , none of which gave him any cooperation , before hitting upon the successful formula : Ask the man who stole them . Strongbox Stolen In September , 1959 , a burglar took a fireproof strongbox containing the 19 bonds , a car title , and insurance policies . Bird did n't miss the box , but 30 days later , police called to tell him they had arrested Alex Fritz for passing bad checks signed in Bird 's name . Fritz had deposited one of Bird 's bonds as surety for the check . When Fritz was scheduled to appear in Municipal court on the check charge , Bird went there hoping to recover his bonds , . but Fritz had jumped bond and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find out whore the bonds were , " Bird said . " I asked federal officials to issue now bonds ; but they . said they could not unless I had serial numbers of the stolen bonds . I had them , but they were in the strongbox with the bonds . Told to Wait " They told me I would have to wait until some of the bonds were cashed and then the Federal Bureau of Investigation would come in . " Later police told him that Fritz was in the Illinois state penitentiary on the bad check charge . He asked both police and the state 's attorneys to help him locate the bonds , but they said they could not . " They said they did n't know anything about it , " Bird said . " I talked to five people in the City hall but all I got was being shoved around . " Writes to Warden Then a friend suggested that Bird write Warden Frank J. Pate at the penitentiary and ask his help . James , assistant director ' of the state department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate action . " Fritz was contacted and he informed Warden Pate that he did take the bonds and told him where they might be located , " said . " Warden Pate forwarded this information to me and I assigned Trooper Francis S. Zinkiewicz of the Illinois state police to the investigation . " Yesterday , the trooper and Bird went to a liquor store at 5593 Belmont ay. , whore an envelope containing the stolen bonds was found In an air vent eight feet above the floor of the men 's washrpom . Fritz had cached it there two years before .                     