@@724218

txt Washington President Johnson 's cam ' paigners believe they are getting the " white backlash " issue into perspective ? and that they can control it . They may be talking through their hats , but the optimistic view is summed up in this comment by a White House aide : " The ' white backlash ' issue now is out in the open . It is n't a sleeper to the degree that the Roman Catholic issue was for the late President Kennedy . It is measurable , and it is , we believe , controllable . " Labor Apprehensive The President is by no means complacent about the " backlash " problem ? the prospect that some Democrats , particularly in the big-city wards , will vote against the administration because they are alarmed or angry about Negroes moving into their neighborhood ( or that , if they do n't vote for Senator Goldwater , they will just stay home on election day ) . To President Johnson , with his desire to " win big " in November , the " white backlash " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his majorities and cause him to " win small . " The White House is not contending that the " backlash " sentiment does n't exist . Experts are aware that it is heavy in some labor unions , particularly the building trades and the steelworkers . Some members are apprehensive that Negroes , aided by the new Civil Rights Law , will get their jobs . They worry about the impact of desegregation on schools . They fear loss of real-estate values . But the Johnson strategists say these apprehensions can be countered by calm reasoning and shrewd , vigorous campaigning  --  within the labor unions particularly . GOP Polls Taken However , opinion sampling among some labor organizations , taken by the Republicans , indicates to GOP strategists that labor leaders will have a difficult time persuading their rank and file to accept the Johnson ticket with enthusiasm . Republican strategists recall that organized labor 's drive to defeat the late Sen. Robert A. Taft in Ohio failed miserably . They contend that union men will resent the pleas and pressurings of their leaders . But Democratic strategists say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . They also are counting on no " cataclysmic " eruption of racial unrest in the South or in the North . They are expecting that , come this fall , there will be fewer serious incidents such as those which erupted during the summer in Harlem , Chicago , Rochester , Philadelphia . If , of course , a really big series of racial upsets occurred , the " white backlash " issue would crescendo , it is admitted . Democratic Theme The Johnson strategy is to have the labor leaders get cracking with campaigns which warn that Senator Goldwater 's election would be far more " cataclysmic " for the working man than any temporary racial rivalry over jobs . The theme advanced by the Democrats ? and the labor leaders  --  will be that a Goldwater victory would herald many kinds of trouble for unions  --  more presSure for so-called " right-to-work " laws , less protection for wage standards , no worker retraining . It will be contended that a Gold water triumph would eventually mean an economic downturn , with consequent loss of jobs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument that if business is freed from regulations , more jobs will be created . George Meany , AFL-CIO president , is preparing to visit the various union conventions in person this autumn to sound the warning . The unions plan to expend some $2,000,000 in an all-out campaign against Senator Goldwater . This is reported to be the largest sum labor has ever devoted to defeating a presidential candidate . Control at Issue At issue , basically , will be the question whether organized labor 's leaders can quell rankand-file worries about racial competition . The labor strategy will be to use Senator Gold-water 's past comment on such issues as " right to work . " putting unions under the antitrust laws , and social security . Labor experts think they can develop quite a " backlash against Goldwater . " Labor is also very pleased with the selection of Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey as the Democrats ' vice-presidental candidate . He is regarded as having a strong prolabor image throughout the country . Johnson campaigners think that , having made their plans early to counter the " white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to where its " best interests " lie , they are alertly handling this tough issue . They also are going to argue , to the wives of workingmen , that Senator Goldwater 's finger on the nuclear trigger would n't be tot , good for the country , either .                     