@@727738

txt Richard W. , the Nixon Administration 's tough-talking antitrust chief , is having trouble converting his words into actions . True , the new Justice Department regime has just announced its first move against a big conglomerate corporation . The department 's plans to sue Ling-Temco-Vought Inc. to force it to unload Jones &; Laughlin Steel Corp . seem to jibe nicely with Mr. 's condemnation of the " current merger mania " and his pledges to attack big conglomerate mergers . But what Mr. really hopes to do is to block some conglomerate mergers in court before they can be consummated . ( LTV already owns a controlling interest in J &L.); His staff lawyers are busy investigating many proposed conglomerate acquisitions , including certain take-over plans by International Telephone &; Telegraph Corp . and Northwest Industries Inc . They are drafting suits to try to stop some of them . But every time the antitrusters have gotten near a Federal courthouse so far , the would-be partners have - called off the deal to avoid a suit . Feeling the need of prompt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suit against the already accomplished acquisition by LTV ; it 's a test case carefully picked for maximum chance of victory in court . A Need for Speed Though there 's some satisfaction for the department in. stopping proposed mergers without lengthy litigation , officials feel that speed in bringing anticonglomerate suits is of special urgency . Their reasoning : If the Republican Administration fails to file and win significant suits against big conglomerate mergers , the Democratic-controlled Congress may enact an antitrust law that would curtail all kinds of corporate mergers . Any such law could be more drastic than would be desired by Mr. , President Nixon or executives of large , old-line companies who are seeking Administration aid against take-overs by brash young conglomerates . As a starter , Rep. Emanuel Celler 's House antitrust subcommittee is making its own " broad , deep and wide inquiry " into six wellknown conglomerate companies . Besides LTV and ITT , they are Gulf &; Western Industries Inc. , National General Corp. , Litton Industries Inc. and Leasco Data Processing Equipment Corp . The New York Democrat insists he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken . But Mr. Celler , who at 80 remains probably the most influential member of Congress on antitrust matters , adds : " We may have to have additional legislation . " An aide goes further , declaring that " if fails , there will have to be legislation . " An FTC Study A second major investigation of conglomerates is being made by a special unit of the Federal Trade Commission . It is studying 10 conglomerates , focusing on the financial motivations that led to their creation and their effects on competition . This summer it probably will recommend new legislation , regardless of Mr. 's success or failure in bringing suits . " It 's too late " to rely on the case-bycase approach , contends one FTC investigator . The Senate antimonopoly subcommittee headed by Michigan Democrat Philip Hart is eagerly awaiting the FTC report , which the Hart group requested . It has been holding its own hearings on conglomerate mergers and industry concentration on and off since 1964 . When the report comes out this summer , the Senators will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trend toward conglomerate mergers , often uniting companies in unrelated or little-related lines of business , has stirred considerable legal uncertainty . The nation 's two basic antitrust laws , the Sherman Act of 1890 and the Clayton Act of 1914 , have traditionally been applied to companies that monopolized an industry or market . The targets have been " horizontal " mergers of direct competitors and , more recently , " vertical " mergers of suppliers with customers . In 1950 , Congress passed the Celler-Kefauver Act to strengthen the Clayton Act 's bar on mergers that may substantially lessen competition or tend toward monopoly . Since that year , the Justice Department and the FTC have challenged over 800 horizontal and vertical mergers . Three Categories Partly because of this crackdown , get-togethers of the traditional kinds have lately given way to the conglomerate variety , joining companies that are neither direct competitors nor related by supplier-customer ties . Conglomerate mergers are of three types : " Market extension , " in which a company acquires a second concern to enter a new geographic market ; " product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product to a company 's line ; and " pure , " in which there is no discernible ' market or product relationship between the two companies . Even the market extension and product-extension conglomerate mergers do n't neatly fit the old antitrust enforcement patterns . During the Kennedy-Johnson era , the Justice Department and the FTC acted against a few such mergers , but the Democratic antitrust chiefs generally took the attitude that the Celler-Kefauver Act could n't be used against conglomerates . But some Democrats in Congress felt otherwise . Their argument was greatly strengthened in 1967 , when the Supreme Court , ruling on a case brought by the FTC during the Eisenhower Administration , decided against Procter &; Gamble Co. ' s acquisition of Clorox Chemical Co . The court said the Celler- banned large product-extension acquisitions in which the merger partners are potential competitors who might well enter each other 's product market through internal expansion . Now comes Richard , contending that present law can be used even against " big-company mergers of a somewhat ' purer ' conglomerate nature than have been ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyway that existing law should be tested before Congress enacts a new law . He proposes to challenge selected large conglomerate acquisitions on various grounds . Companies that have moved into many unrelated product lines may be hit on the theory that an accomplished or proposed acquisition violates the old ban on horizontal mergers between direct competitors . Another take-over might have features suspected of infringing the rules against vertical mergers . Mr. also intends to use against highly diversified conglomerates the Supreme Court doctrine that mergers of potential competitors may violate antitrust law . And he 'll attempt to widen existing law- against reciprocal industrial purchasing practices , by which conglomerate A may buy from independent company B only on condition that B purchase certain of its needs from A 's many subsidiaries . Choosing With Care Mr. is fully aware that he must pick his cases with care . Though the Supreme Court has shown no reluctance to expand antitrust law , lower courts often have . If Mr. loses in the lower courts , it would take several years to get a Supreme Court decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aide says the President probably will offer his own proposal for new antitrust legislation if : gr. is stymied in lower courts . Pressures are mounting on Democrats and Republicans alike to move against conglomerates . Probably the heaviest pressure is coming from older companies that are resisting takeover bids . Executives of blue-chip corporations are urging the Justice Department and the FTC to sue to stop take-overs . Most of these pleas have been rejected so far , but the FTC voted recently to issue a complaint to prevent the acquisition of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co. , the Milwaukee-based machinery maker , by White Consolidated Industries Inc. , a Cleveland conglomerate that has made 32 acquisitions since 1956 . Many other fearful executives have turned to Capitol Hill for help . " You 'd be surprised at the number of respectable businessmen who want the Government to do something , " says a House Democrat . Mr. Caller 's Questions Certainly many members of Congress do n't like to see substantial companies in their home districts gobbled up by conglomerates headquartered elsewhere . Democratic Rep. Henry Reuss of Milwaukee worries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community " when a large conglomerate comes in from outside and takes over . " Key Democrats on the HouSe and Senate antitrust subcommittees are worried about the financial motivations behind the conglomerate trend , the economic repercussions if conglomerate companies run into financial difficulties and the general increase in industrial concentration resulting from mergers . Mr. Celler says his study of conglomerates aims to find out " how they were put together and whether they will bold together . " He also wonders about the significance of size , and he wants to know how ocinglomerates are affecting the industries in which they make acquisifions . He 's concerned that stockholders of acquired companies who accept a conglomerate 's subordinated debentures for their stock do n't really understand the , exchange . " God knows what that debenture is subordinate to , " he declares . " Can a conglomerate service those debentures without acquiring more companies and putting more wind in the balloon ? When the balloon bursts , what 's going to happen ? " Already the House Ways and Means Committee is considering a measure to limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for stock of a company being acquired . And the House Banking Committee will start hearings next week on a bill to curb the conversion of banks into one-bank holding companies that may come to resemble conglomerates ; a Nixon Administration proposal for regulating these companies went to Capitol Hill yesterday . But Congress ' antitrusters feel something more is needed . As of now , Congressional consideration of a new antitrust law is a distinct probability . While few lawmakers are ready to talk details , Sen. Hart reveals his thinking . Among his more modest proposals are for Small Business Administration loans to help businessmen file private antitrust suits and for a new law to make it easier for small businesses and other customers of big business to collect triple damages from large companies convicted of antitrust violations . The Senator also suggests two other approaches that are by no ? means modest . One idea , far from new , is to give the Federal Government power to Charter corporations doing an interstate business . This , a Senate aide explains , would be " a mechanical device @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Second , and apparently as an alternative , Sen. Hart talks of a new law to prohibit " the largest corporations " from any further expansion through mergers or acquisitions . He might consider applying this ban to the 200-or-so largest companies in the country . But whether Congress is ready to accept such bold ideas is still a question .                     