@@724692

txt Ashland , Mass. , April 4 ( Al ? Bolstered by best wishes from President Johnson and a movie idol who befriended her , Judith Ann White became a bride today . Navy doctors who auenaeu the wedding marveled at the girl 's appearance . Eight and a half years ago they had given her one chance in 100 or surviving burns which covered 75 per cent of her body . Robe Catches Fire Judith Ann ? who became Mrs. Edward James Marsden of Framingham ? was only 12 when the near-fatal accident happened . She rose early one morning to feed her new puppy , Buff . She went to the kitchen and began heating milk . Flames from the stove ignited her robe , and the fire engulfed her within seconds , She spent the next 13 months at the naval hospital in Chelsea . She has undergone 90 operations , most of them painful skin grafts . She received 70 pints of blood . Doctor Beams Proudly Capt . Lewis Haynes , Judy 's doctor and now commandant of the Chelsea hospital , beamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Frasca of Ashland , when he wished the Marsdens well . " I 'm very proud of this girl , " he said . " She made a remarkable recovery . I felt it was a losing battle many times myself , but she surprised us . She stood up thru a lot of pain and punishment . " Gregory PecK , movie star , declined an invitation to the wedding and the supper for 200 friends and relatives . He explained that " this is her day , and I would n't want to detract from the attention rightly due her . " Wishes Them Well But Peck wished her and her husband a long , happy life together . His gift was a set of monogrammed silverware . Judy first met the actor while still in critical condition . Because Peck was her favorite actor , he was invited to visit the girl in the hospital when he made a trip to Boston . Peck kept in touch with Judy during the lengthy recovery period . Three years ago he was host to her and her mother for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visited the actor in New York . Johnson Sends Picture While attending President Johnson 's inaugural in January Peck told the President about the girl and that she was about to wed . A short time later , Judy received an autographed picture of the President with a note that ended : " The President and first lady wish you and Mr. Marsden all of God 's blessings and happiness in the years ahead . " The radiant bride does n't think her survival was such a miracle . " I never thought I was n't going to make it , " she said .                     