@@728254

txt Charles Watson , left , was one of three persons arrested last week in the Los Angeles slaying of actress Sharon Tate , above , and four others last August . The facts in the case " might prove stranger than the most lurid speculation . " Associated Press All the Twists Are Bizarre In the Tate Case LOS ANGELES  --  In mid-October , sheriff 's deputies raided the fortified retreat of a band of youthful wanderers in wild desert country near Death Valley . Several dozen suspects were arrested on charges of receiving stolen property and stealing automobiles , which the group apparently was converting into dune buggies . The Inyo County sheriff put the prisoners ' names on a police wire . Los Angeles officials immediately recognized the name of Susan Denise Atkins , alias Sadie Glutz , who was wanted in connection with the murder of Gary Hinman , 34 , a musician . How Break Came Miss Atkins was transferred to Los Angeles : In jail she apparently told a cellmate that her friends were involved in other murders . The cellmate relayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ break in one of the most bizarre murder cases of recent years  --  the slaying of actress Sharon Tate and four others in an isolated Los Angeles hillside home last Aug. 9 . After another month of investigation , police last week arrested three suspects in the murder , two women and a man . All belong to the loose " family " of nomads gathered around Charles Manson , a 35-year-old guru who preached a mixture of love for fellow men and hatred of the establishment to his devoted followers . On Friday , the Los Angeles District Attorney went before a grand jury seeking murder indictments against the three and possibly six other family members , including Manson , whO is still in jail on theft charges in Inyo County . The jury is expected to act tomorrow . From the beginning , the Tate murder case has had everything to intrigue and titillate a public that seems to relish the personal failings of the same people it worships as demigods . Pictures of the stunning blonde actress immediately ? pushed Jacqueline Onassis ? and Elizabith Taylor off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tate 's fellow victims only multiplied the interest : Jay Sebring , a well-known hairdresser and companion of movie stars ; Voityck Frykowski , a shadowy Polish ? migr ? and film producer ; Abigail Folger , Radcliffe-educated heiress of a coffee fortune ; and Steven Parent a teen-ager caught in the web of violence while visiting a friend on the property . Rumors of wild sex , mind-shatteringdrugs , and sadistic mutilations swept through the Hollywood Hills like the region 's famous brush fires . With them came terror . Sales jumped for guns , watchdogs and private police . But if the current suspects are finally convicted , the facts might prove to be stranger , in a way , than the most lurid speculation . For the two groups  --  the jet-setting movie colony around Sharon Tate , and the homeless hippies around Charlie Manson ? presented a fascinating study . Both groups were rootless , restless , unsure of their goals and values , determined to live freely and flout convention . But for the movie , crowd , restlessness meant flying first class to Paris or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discotheques and timing on in deep-piled , dark-paneled living rooms . Above all , they were successful , they had been accepted , they had made it . The ' Family ' Charlie Manson and his " family " drifted from San Francisco to Los Angeles in a wheezy old school bus . They squatted here in the crumbling buildings of an old movie set , scrounged . their meals fromthe garbage cans local grocers , ' and wore clothes until they fell Off their backs . They were misfits , balancing on the outer edge , barely tolerated by society . Manson , their leader , was born out of wedlock and abandoned by his . mother ; his criminal record reads like a directory of American prisons and reform schools . Whether he or his followers are implicated- in the murders ? and at least five others for which they are under suspicion ? remains a decision for a jury . But Susan Atkins insists that Manson urged his coterie to kill the occupants of the lonely house on Cielo Drive ' because a man who had once lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manson did not know who lived in the house at the time , Miss Atkins told her lawyers . " But he sent his people there , " she explained , " because the home represented a symbol of rejection to him . " ? STEVEN ROBERTS                     