@@724068

txt Defense planners , teal mg sharpened enemy detection and marksman -- ship may some day imperil the nation 's vital longer-range missiles . ale unleashing their imaginations to Mork up less vulnerable weapons . Navy and Air Force researchers me pondering a batch of ideas for making tomorrow 's missiles harder to hit by keeping them on the move  --  on land , on or under the sea , or in the air . The hope is to make any enemy strike at them ineffective and unprofitable . On land , smaller but highly potent intercontinental rockets might be deployed on ducks roaming U.S. highways or aboard special railroad cars ; the missiles-on-trains notion . Shelved several years ago , has been 1 een ed with advances in guidance tee linulogy that promise added accuracy . At sea . similar mobile weapons might be stationed on surface ships plying ocean trade routes or on barges traversing inland waterways . Offshore , beneath the sea 's surface . submerged barges might carry a few large missiles each . Or the U.S. might loose a swarm of small submarines armed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less vulnerable than today 's big Polariscarrying subs boasting 16 missiles apiece . Or large , slow-moving submarines might creep along the ocean floor to evade detection , each carrying a whole flock of small but far-flying missiles . In the sky , batteries of long-range weapons might be installed on new long-endurance airciaft ; some of these flying missile platforms would be kept on continual airborne alei t Escaping Enemy Eyes The missiles of the future could also be implanted in fixed-position hideaways harder for prying enemy eyes to spot than are today 's major bases . Water-tight missile capsules might be anchored off U.S. coasts or beneath the surface of lakes , or else stationed at remote sites on land ; they could be fired by remote control . It may well be that few of these " far-out " concepts will ever take firm shape . Many of them might carry a risk of fatal accident to civilian populations or be open to sabotage . Technical problems could block execution of sonic ideas . Anyway , the present U.S. force of strategic missiles may quite possibly remain largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be necessary . Certainly none of the alternatives is being pursued with great urgency now . But the Navy and Air Force are plowing several million dollars a year into a search for new and different missile basing concepts . and the basic reason why is plain enough . The planners are concerned that present and prospective Russian strides in missile guidance and in underwater detection could strip the protective cover from this country 's presentday strategic rockets ? the land-based Minuteman housed underground in concrete and steel silos , and the submarine-based Polaris hidden beneath the ocean waves . ' , Deadlier Sharpshooting ? Minuteman missiles , the mainstay of the American strategic armada , are located at fixed U.S. sites which the Soviets already can pinpoint very precisely with their reconnaissance satellites . Later on the Minuteman could be exposed to deadlier sharpshooting , too . The U.S. is already developing sophisticated " mapmatching " guidance equipment that promise bull's-eye accuracy ; officials reason the Russians can do likewise , in time . Map-matching works this way : A photographic , radar or infra-red likeness of a missile site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nose cone of an attacking missile . When the missile approaches the target , its sensors match their view of the target with the picture in the warhead , guiding the weapon unerringly to dead center . This is no mean feat , but some offi- cials hint the U.S. may not be many years away from perfecting such a system . Effective long-range underwater detection still defies mastery by U.S. scientists , but some believe part of the job can be done by stringing short-range listening devices along the floor of narrow straits through which submarines must pass to move from ocean to ocean . Again , it 's assumed the Russians could do likewise . In any case , with the Soviets building up their force of nuclear-powered U-boats by about a dozen a year , it wo n't be long before they could assign one killer sub to each of the 41 Polaris subs and shadow every one constantly . Still , there 's no certainty yet that any totally new U.S. breed of intercontinental missile , based differently from either Minuteman or Polaris , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians perfect missile gpidance and underwater detection , it 's questionable that they 'd want to spend the billions of rubles necessary , say . to expand their intercontinental missile force from fewer than 200 today to the more than 1,200 presumably needed to neutralize this country 's planned 11 force of Minutemen . U.S. reconnaissance is sharp enough to spot such a big buildup fairly early , officials say . And , adds one : " The Russians - know they 'd be the underdog in a renewed missile race ; we 've already demonstrated we can turn out additional Minutemen at the rate of one , a day . " Then , too , there are ways to kill missiles other than at the point of launch . It 's possible that orbiting space stations may some day be developed with the capability to destroy enemy missiles in mid-flight . Already both the U.S. and Russia are laboring to develop effective ground-based anti-missile systems to defend the skies over whole cities and military instn tions For both nations . multi-billion-dollar costs now seem destined to rule out any wide deployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kremlin 's already visible strain in trying to provide both guns and butter indicates such a stiff new bill aught be prohibitive for the Soviets . But if the ** should manage to deploy an advanced anti-missile system along with new capability to attack American " birds " in their own nests , U.S. thinking about new missile needs could change markedly . Says one top planner : " Then we 'd be very much interested either in coming up with an alternate basing concept to Minuteman , such as mobile missiles , or possibly moving to much bigger Minuteman missiles defended by ABM 's ( anti-tintlistic missiles ) of our own . " Bigger missiles could carry multiple warheads , which could fan out to attack several targets at once , and more built-in penetration devices to elude enemy missile defenses over prime target areas . The Air Force has begun a study of a much larger Minuteman that would carry from two to four times the payload of the newest model , the Minuteman U , which wo n't be deployed for at least another year . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger version of the increased- range A-3 model which becomes operational this summer . If the U.S decides fixed-base Minutemen should be supplemented by a mobile or hidden system , a new , smaller missile probably would have to be developed . To fit into the rear section of a normal site tractor-trailer , for example , a weapon would have to be much smaller and lighter than the present lwit/tne-man A number of existing programs to produce lighter , stronger metal alloys , better propellants and improved guidance systems to better the current missile breed could assist in the birth of any new system , military men say . And advances in guidance technology make a mobile missile , whether stationed in trains . trucks , planes , ships or barges , more feasible than before , officials say . The idea of unattended , hidden fixed-base missiles is getting some attention . But drawbacks are foreseen : The threat of sabotage or unauthorized firing and of unsuspected mechanical trouble not evident before launching . Space platforms have the least appeal of all at present . It 's reasoned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's orbit after only two or three turns around the earth and could knock it down fairly easily . And since lots of platforms would have to be kept in orbit at all times to insure the capability of coming down over key enemy targets at any given time , this system would be quite costly .                     