@@724842

txt The automatic dismissal of public employes who refuse to sign waivers of immunity when called to testify before a grand jury was declared unconstitutional yesterday in State Supreme Court . If the ruling by Justice Jacob Markowitz is upheld on appeal , it will mean a change in the common practice of making a government worker 's refusal to sign a waiver synonymous with immediate dismissal . Justice Markowitz did not invalidate the provisions of the State Constitution and City Charter that provide for the ouster of recalcitrant public employes who appear before investigative bodies . Rather , the court was striking down the widespread application of the provisions . Justice Markowitz held that the charter and constitutional provisions providing for the dis- missal of public employes who refuse to sign waivers should be " viewed not as self-executing ? mandates for summary dismissal , but as , affording petitioners the opportunity to explain " their refusal to tesitfy . The court 's 11-page decision concluded by ordering the reinstatement with back pay of three policemen who were diamissed after they refused to sign waivers a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties with gamblers . When a person signs a waiver of immunity , he relinquishes his right against self-incrimination , which is guaranteed by the 5th and 14th Amendments to the United States Constitution . The court , in deciding the three separate cases before it in one ruling , was concerned with the following questions : " Does the summary dismissal , without further inquiry , of all public employes who answer in the negative to the request to sign forthwith a waiver of immunity front prosecution , i.e. , to sign a waiver of one 's Fifth Amendment rights , constitute a deprivation of substantive due process as an unreasonable , discriminatory condition of public employment ? " Does the summary dismissal of petitioners without ' notice and hearing constitute a deprivation of procedural rights ? " Justice Markowitz answered yes to both questions . There emerges , the court said , " a concerned awareness of the ever-increasing economic power of government over the life of each member of our society , and the concomitant need for the ? judiciary to safeguard jealously the rights of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invocation of the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination or the refusal to waive the protective aegis of the amendment violates substantive due process , i.e. , an arbitrary and unreasonable discharge , " the court said . The immediate dismissal of public employes who refuse to testify has long been an important weapon in investigations into corruption . And it has also been a frustrating bloc to lawyers , who can do little more than explain to their clients that they will be discharged If they do not sign the waiver and will then have little , if any , ( chance for legal recourse . I ( Under yesterday 's ruling , a hearing would have to be held latter an employe refuses to sign a waiver to afford him an opportunity to explain his reasons . Presumably , the hearing would be conducted by the employe 's department head . In his ruling , Justice Markowitz did not attempt to characterize any type of explanation that might justify a public employe 's reluctance to sign a waiver and preserve his employment . Also left unanswered was the application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes in the state who accepted their automatic dismissal for refusing to sign waivers without going to court . Future rulings by higher courts on the subject are expected to clarify any , possible avenues of judicial redress these individuals may have . Included in this group are seven other policemen who were dismissed at about the same time as the three defendants in yesterday 's case . They also ) had refused to waive ? heiri rights when called before thel same grand jury . One criminal lawyer said yesterday that the effect of the ruling would be to afford a po-I tential witness more time ' WI consult with a lawyer on legal , subtleties so that his decision ' , on whether to sign the waiver would be based on his best interests . The three policemen who won their reinstatement yesterday were Lieut . Stanley W. Koutnik and John T. Smith and Robert Vincent Gardner , both patrolmen . Declined to Sign The transcript of the grand jury hearing that resulted in their dismissal last June 25 , said that Mr. Gardner did not want to sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could " get a lawyer to find out more about this proceeding . " Mr. Smith refused to sign " until I consult an attorney " and Mr. Koutnik refused , saying that " my lawyer has advised me not to sign anything . " The court noted that they were given scant time to consult any lawyers . Mr. Gardner was " awakened , after being on duty the preceding night , at approximately 7 . and directed to appear forthwith before the grand jury . " Mr. Smith was notified at 1 A.M. to appear at 8 A.M. before the grand jury and Mr. Koutnik was taken to the District Attorney 's office at 5:30 P.M. kept there for three hours . At 1 A.M. he was served with a subpoena to appear before the grand jury that morning . When the three expressed the desire to consult lawyers before signing the waiver , they were dismissed . " None of the petitioners was afforded an opportunity to explain , to , clarify or to attempt to justify his conduct or answers before the grand jury , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  