@@724095

txt ? Senator Barry Goldwater , sweeping toward a first-ballot nomination , gave Republicans and the country a preview today of his Presidential campaign . In a speech to the Platform Committee , he called for stronger opposition to Communism abroad and " a minimum of government " at home . An enthusiastically pro-Goldwater crowd in the hearing room at the St. Francis Hotel ; put on the wildest demonstration of the pre-convention week . The cheers were especially loud when the Senator demanded a firmer foreign policy and when he suggested that the rights of white persons as well as Negroes must be respected . But Senator Goldwater was not trying to please only his committed supporters . He spoke of " the great base of principle " on which Republicans agree and called for party unity in the campaign ahead . On Television Screens The proceedings were carried over national television networks . The dominant Goldwater forces on the Platform Committee followed the unity theme by accepting a number of planks proposed by Gov . William W. Scranton . In a closed session that lasted through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in modified versions the Scranton language on the United Nations , foreign aid , Cuba , medical care for the aged , Social Security , agriculture and urban needs . But the platform drafters rejected four planks pressed most strongly by the Scranton men . There were a strong civil rights plank and proposals to condemn extremists , to pledge continued Presidential control of nuclear weapons and to oppose a national right-to-work law . May Make Floor Fight The Scranton minority will make a fight for some or all of these rejected planks when the full 100-member Platform Committee considers the drafts on domestic and foreign policy tomorrow morning . Conceivably , the Goldwater supporters could give some further ground and accept compromises to keep everything on an even keel . If not , they have the votes to crush the Scranton proposals . Governor Scranton and his advisers have not yet decided whether to carry any platform issue to a fight on the floor of the convention next week . If they do , they know they will take a beating and will be // making the fight for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he answered questions , after his Platform Committee speech . The one point at which he became slightly ruffled was when George A. Parker of the District of Columbia , the only Negro delegate on the Platform Committee , spoke up . In light of the Senator 's vote against the civil rights bill en the ground that it was unconstitutional , Mr. Parker asked , how could he as president " consistently , conscientiously and in good faith use the power and the prestige of that office to enforce " the bill ? - " Well , sir , " Senator Goldwater began , " When you use that argument you are questioning My honesty and I should resent it , but I wo n't . " The Senator then restated his position that he would enforce the law because as President he would be sworn to do so . Unless and until the Supreme Court held the bill unconstitutional , he said , he would enforce it as " the voice of the majority . " Pressed on Civil Rights He was also asked whether , as President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Civil Rights Act , which he opposed so strongly , as a Senator . " That 's not in my opinion the duty of a President , " Senator Goldwater said . " I look upon the Presidency as one separated from the legislative branch . " The President is presented with the law . It 's his job to administer it , not his job to change it . And until the people speak , the President should be quiet about it . " When the questioning turned to the President 's present solitary responsibility for the use of nuclear weapons , Senator Goldwater sounded a similar note : " The law is very clear on that . And again , I ca n't change that law . " ? He left somewhat cloudy his present views on military discretion in the use of atomic weapons . In the past he has said that " commanders " should have that discretion , but more often he has spoken of the supreme commander of NATO . Today he emphasized that he was speaking only of the Supreme Commander and only of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shoulder or to be launched from aircraft . " He said those weapons " should come under closer supervision of the head of NATO . " But he did not clarify whether he felt the President should still have the final say on such weapons ' use . The question that drew boos was whether Senator Goldwater would run on all of the platform planks " or only those you consider constitutional . " He drew applause with this reply : " I have no idea what kind of a platform you 'll come out with . If I can not honestly accept it , I 'll do the honest thing : I will withdraw from the race . " The first heavy applause during the Senator 's opening speech came when he said he would not presume to suggest any specific planks to the Platform Committee . Expounding his general philosophy , Senator Goldwater said : " The pre-requisite of a free society is the widespread dispersion of powers  --  private as - well as as public . It means a minimum of government , limited and balanced . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' threaded his way carefully through the problems of civil liberties and civil rights . " We are all entitled to equal opportunities to exercise our talents and fulfill our ambitions , " he said , " so long as we - do not infringe the rights of others . " Then he listed a number of constitutional rights ? " free speedy trial by jury , due process elation , religious liberty , peaceful possession of property , speedy trial by jury , due proces - of law and protection from arbitrary search and seizure . " He did not mention the constitutional provision that prohibits racial discrimination , the clause of the 14th Amendment guaranteeing " the equal protection of the laws . " Constitutional rights , the Senator said , " are in danger not only from frontal assault but also from erosion through unintentional neglect and disregard . " Then he said : " No person , whether Government official or private citizen , should violate the rights of some in order to further the rights of others . " The audience burst into applause and yells . Plainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a criticism of some civil rights demonstrators and a reminder that white persons have rights , too . Senator Goldwater said yesterday that he hoped civil rights would not be brought into the coming campaign . Not many political observers believe that general statements of that kind , and his comments on the rights of property and association , will arouse support from white persons disturbed by the pace of racial change . In the foreign policy area , Senator Goldwater charged the Johnson Administration with a policy of adjustment to changes in the Communist world and accommodation with Communism . " Our party , " he said , " will reject unfounded assumptions of Communist change and base its policies upon the observable facts of Communism 's continued , unchanged and unabated intentions to destroy Western society . "                     