@@727693

txt The Supreme Court placed heavy penalties on illegal governmental eavesdropping today by ruling that espionage and racketeering defendants can search through certain of the Government 's surveillance transcripts to see if their rights were violated . The Court held that a defendant and his lawyer must be shown all the logs or transcripts of bugged conversations in which the defendant took part or that occurred on his premises . The ruling is expected to dis courage the Government from prosecuting some spy suspects . Solicitor General Erwin N. Griswold had argued before the Court that the Government might have to drop some espionage prosecutions because it could not afford to let foreign powers know how much United States counterspy units had learned through eavesdropping . Opinion Written by White However , the Court said in an opinion by Justice Byron R. White that no distinction should be made between defendants in ordinary criminal cases and those in spy trials when the Government was accused of illegal surveillance . In the 5-to-3 ruling , the Court dealt with the complicated problems raised by Federal agents who used wiretapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that made courtapproved surveillance legal . The Justice Department had // disclosed a number of instances in. which United States agents had eavesdropped on accused or convicted persons . Because material from illegal eavesdropping is not admitted in evidence against the person whose rights were violated , the Court has been called upon to say when a person 's rights have been violated by eavesdropping , and how he can be certain that no tainted evidence was used against him at his trial . On the first question , the Court adhered today to its traditional position that a person has " standing " to demand that any evidence be excluded from his trial if it was obtained by eavesdropping on his private premises or by surveillance of his conversations . It held that persons who were not overheard or whose ' premises were not compromised could not object to the use of evidence against them gained by eavesdropping . On the second question , the Court rejected the Justice Department 's argument that defendants ' rights would be adequately protected if trial judges read the transcripts of the bugged conversations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the trial . The Government argued that even if defendants in ordinary criminal cases were given more access . to the records , only the judge should see the transcripts in spy cases . Instead , Justice White said that if the hearings to determine whether the defendants ' rights were violated " are to be more than a formality and petitioners riot left entirely to reliance on Government testimony , " the defendant and his lawyer must be allowed to read the eavesdropping transcripts and see for themselves whether the Government used tainted information to make its case . This could embarrass the Government in a number . of sensitive cases . The Justice Department has disclosed in its Selective Service case against Cassius Clay , former heavy- ' weight boxing champion , and in the conspiracy case involving Dr. Benjamin M. Spock and four other opponents of the Vietnam war draft that the de-1 fendants were overheard by eavesdropping devices that were being used in surveillance of other persons . The Government gave its as- , surance that these conversa-1 tions did not taint these trials , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand to see the transcripts of their conversations . This will disclose whom the Government was overhearing  --  disclosures that could cause the Government acute discomfort . The dissenters on the ruling were Justices Hugo L. Black , John M. Harlan and Abe Fortas . Justice Thurgood Marshall , who helped frame the Justice Department 's bugging disclosure policy when he was Solicitor General did ? not Lake part . The decision was given in two cases . One involved the extortion conviction of Willie I. Alderman of Las Vegas and Felix Alderisio of Chicago , who were found guilty of threatening the life of a Denver lawyer to collect a debt . The second concerned the conviction of John W. Butenko , an American engineer , and Igor Ivanov , a Russian chauffeur , on a charge of conspiring to spy for the Soviet Union , The Court vacated the convictions in both cases and sent them back to the trial judges for hearings as to whether or not the surveillance had tainted the trials . If not , the convictions will be restored . If so , new trials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for Alder . man , Alderisio and Ivanov , Charles Danzig of Newark at- ? gued for Butenko.                     