@@724845

txt United Nations , N.Y . Diplomats here are watching for Peking 's reaction to a UN call for a world disarmament conference designed to include the Chinese . The key question is whether the Chinese Communists , who have been berating the UN and all its units recently , would deign to attend a conference called under UN sponsorship . Some clue as to Peking 's attitude may be found in the actions of two supporters of the Chinese here during a committee vote on the disarmament conference . Acceptance hinted Albania , which often reflects China 's international attitudes , voted for the measure . Mali , one of several West African states that have backed some Chinese policies , explained just after the vote that it would not consider a world disarmament conference as being a " subsidiary body of the UN " nor as necessarily a continuation of the long series of UN disarmament efforts . These attitudes on the part of China 's supporters may forecast eventual Chinese acceptance , even though the conference ( voted on June 11 ) would definitely be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be expected to take at least a year , perhaps two , to materialize . Largeness criticized The vote was simply an affirmation of a proposal put forward last fall by the second Conference of Nonaligned Nations meeting in Cairo . In taking up this proposal , the UN Disarmament Commission meeting here has only " recommended " that the General Assembly give the matter " urgent consideration " next fall . The vote in the UN commission was 89 to 0 with 16 abstentions . The United States and France were among the abstainers . Washington has taken the attitude that , while it is not against such a world conference , disarmament matters are best taken up in a smaller working group . Therefore , the United States is urging that the 18-nation Disarmament Committee reconvene as soon as possible in Geneva for specific negotiation . No conflict seen The two forums are not necessarily conflicting . It is possible that the 18-nation committee will return to its slow efforts while the General Assembly begins preparation for a world conference . China , meanwhile , may remain noncommittal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference is to become a creature of the UN  --  and how long its convening may be delayed . As long as Peking is not seated at the UN its attitude toward all UN projects and bodies remains somewhere between skeptical and scornful . China 's supporters may , therefore , be expected to . continue trying to divorce the world disarmament conference idea as much as possible from any UN trademarks.                     