@@725968

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 2 ? The Public Health Service has started formal action that may bar some Southern hospitals from all Federal funds because of their failure to comply with the civil rights requirements of Medicare . Seventeen hospitals that are still out of the Medicare program because of discriminatory practices have been offered hearings to review their cases . This is the first formal step in a series of events that would bar them from all Federal funds if the discrimination continued . The 17 are among 59 hospitals that applied for Medicare accreditation but have been refused . Another 50 hospitals are still being processed by the Public Health Service on the question of their compliance with Medicare 's civil rights requirements . All the other hospitals among the 59 civil rights holdouts are expected to be offered hearings soon . The first 17 are in Alabama , Louisiana , Mississippi , South Carolina and Texas . Most are small hospitals , but a few are of substantial size . The largest is St. Francis Hospital in Monroe , La. , a 373-bed general hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing notifications is believed to be receiving Federal funds at present others among the 59 may ' be doing so , a spokesman for the health agency said today. , Furthermore two of the 17 , Clarendon Memorial Hospital , a 76-bed hospital in Manning , S. C. , and Orangeburg Regional Hospital , 292 beds , in Orangeburg , S. C. , are eligible to receive surplus Government prop erty . The 17 hospitals have been found ineligible for Federal funds specifically because they ' do not comply with provisions ' of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 . , Until Medicare , however , the Public Health Service lacked staff and organization to pursue compliance among all the hospitals of the nation , a spokesman said today . The staff was made available in connection with the Medicare program , which helps pay hospitalization costs for Americans over 65 . The action now beginning can cut off discriminatory hospitals from any Federal funds from as many as 13 Federal departments and agencies . Some hospitals , for example , might lose training grants , vocational rehabilitation grants or construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination on the basis of race , color or national origin in the use of Federal funds . Federal aid to some school districts In the South has already been cut off on the ground of discrimination . Discriminatory practices in the 17 hospitals include the segregation of patients in wings , sections and rooms ; segregation in waiting rooms and dining rooms ; absence of Negro physicians on hospital staffs , segregation in training facilities and failure of the hospitals to make public announcement of open-admission policies , the Public Health Service announcement said today . The hospitals have failed to take sufficient action to bring themselves into compliance , the announcement said . Each hospital has been advised of the specific respects in which it is violating the Medicare civil rights rules . Letters of notification on the hearings were mailed Nov. 25 , according to a spokesman for the health agency . The hospitals have 20 days in which to respond . Any hospital that does not ask for a hearing or whose officers fail to appear for a scheduled hearing will be considered to have waived its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Subject to Review If a. hospital does request a. hearing , a Federal examiner is appointed to hear testimony and make a decision on the question of granting or withholding the Federal funds . The examiner 's decision is then presented to the chief of the agency granting the funds . Each decision is subject to ultimate review by John W. Gardner , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . The health service has already certified 7,092 of the country 's 7,452 hospitals as eligible for Federal funds , the announcement said . Some of the remainler are not eligible for Medicare for reasons other than civil rights . Among these are 251 that do not receive Federal funds for any purpose . The 17 hospitals named in the health agency announcement today are : Fifth Avenue Hospital , Huntsville , Ala. ; St. Francis Hospital , Monroe , La. ; Gray Hospital and Clinic , Springhill , La. ; East Bolivar County Hospital , Cleveland , Miss. ; Kemper County Hospital , DcKalb , Miss. ; Greenwood Leflore Hospital , Greenwood , Miss. ; Forrest General Hospital , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss. ; Jefferson Davis Memorial Hospital , Natchez , Miss. ; Newton Hospital , Newton , Miss. ; Clarendon Memorial Hospital ; Manning , S.C. ; Orangeburg Regional Hospital , Orangeburg , S.C. ; Hampton General Hospital , Varnville , S.C. ; Dayton Memorial Hospital , Dayton , Tex. ; Crockett Medical and Surgical Hospital and Crockett Clinic and Hospital , both in Crockett , Tex. , and Baytown Hospital , Baytown , Tex .                     