@@723237

txt Jackson . Miss . There is a mood of mourning and militancy among the majority of Negroes in this no longer secure bastion of white supremacy . It has been that way since the murder of Medgar W. Evers early Wednesday morning as he stepped from his car in front of his home . He was slain by a sniper lurking behind thelridged black bark of a sweetgum tree across the street . The mourning phase will reach a climax Saturday at the Negro Masonic temple when funeral services will be held for the 37-year-old civil rights strategist who headed the state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ( NAACP ) . Each day since his murder , additional protest marches have been held , with the number of arrests mounting toward the thousand mark , and with evidence of a rising tension . ! Dangers Accepted There is no indication the marches will be halted , despite the - risks involved . This is the way Mr. Evers would have wanted it : for he was a self-styled catalyst who accepted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come only after a prolonged struggle in which great difficulties would have to be faced . In Washington , the Supreme Court of the United States refused Friday to dissolve an injunction issued June 6 by a ? Mississippi state court to bar official demonstrations in Jackson . Seven days before he was murdered , Mr. Evers was asked whether his announced all-out equality campaign in Jackson had begun to falter . Actually , the segregationist Jackson daily newspapers , along with the Mayor and others , had boasted that the Negro drive had been blunted , if not completely deflected . Marchers Urged On And , on the night before . Mr. Evers had exhorted " adults as well as youths " to join in marches . At that time , 608 demonstrators had been arrested , with more than half of them minors . " It takes time to win a good cause , " Mr. Evers said in a voice sounding reproachful , as if annoyed that anyone could have anticipated faster progress . Mr. Evers went on to say : " Our campaign is being effectively presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off Capital Street in large numbers , and that indicates the campaign is going to be effective for some time . We 've become pretty thoroughly organized from the standpoint of the complete community . " Mr. Evers said several women at that very moment were telephoning boycott messages to other Negroes . Defeat Doubted " I doubt seriously if downtown merchants think we 've lost the fight , " he said . And then he summed up his hopes and his determination . " Jackson will be a focal point for some time . We intend to win it here . " His murder came as a shock to both whites and Negroes . With the news , Mayor Allen Thompson , who had long resisted Mr. Evers 's demands , rushed back from a Florida vacation . He announced a $5 , - 000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the killer  --  this , along with $10,000 from the NAACP , and other sources , placed a rich booty of some $22,000 on the head of the unknown assassin . Mr. Thompson joined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killer would be caught . Strain Shows On Thursday , the strain began to show on Jackson police , as well as on demonstrators . Nearly 100 were jailed in similar protest marches , some were struck by police clubs : a white history professor of Tougaloo Christian College , a predominantly Negro institution ; a 13-year-old Negro girl and her 15-year-old brother . At this point , Mr. Thompson told reporters he deplored the brutality of the Evers killing , He recalled that Mr , Evers often had worked out racial problems in Jackson in face-to-face meetings . The Mayor called for a restoration of harmonious relations between the two races . But it was quite obvious that harmonious relations , as de-find by the Mayor , meant a return to a calm and peaceful segregated city . His plea was ignored on Farish Street , or Potlicker Boulevard as it sometimes contemptuously is called .                     