@@727131

txt PARIS , May 24 ** and predominantly hostile reaction from opposition union and political leaders tonight greeted President Charles de Gaulle 's challenge to tormented France to accept his road to stability or see him leave the RtAECP he has long dominated . De Gaulle , in a speech to the nation , offered a June referendum on his reform program as a cure for the plague of unrest and strikes strangling the nation and said if the vote was negative he would not continue as the chief of state . Wants Better Conditions The address did little to calm the nation . Within an hour after he spoke , new violence broke out among rebellious students in Paris and there were out breaks elsewhere in the nation . To the de Gaulle challenge , Georges Seguy , secretary general of the communist-led General Confederation of Workers , retorted that the workers " do n't want a referendum but better working conditions . " The French Democratic Federation of Labor , moderately left , said , " The speech of the president of the republic confirms the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plays an important role in the strike wave . Would End Dialog The Democratic Center party . led by Jean Lecanuet , who gained prominence in the 1965 presidential elections by helping do Gaulle into a second round of voting , said , " A referendum does not imply a dialog . " The referendum , Lecantie-C said , would push aside the dialog . " It underscores the authori tarian tendency of the regime , " - he added . " Certainly the great majority of the French appreciate stability , but it puts ? up less and less with the paternalism of those who govern us . . . . The speech of the president of the republic does not respond to our times . " The Gaullists themselves seemed to find reason to cheer . Henry Rey. head of the Gaullist group of deputies in the national assembly . said the president had made a " penetrating analysis of the profound causes of the economic and social situation of our country , of the crisis that it is undergoing now and its consequences for the future of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moderate leftist who retains considerable prestige , said : " It is a plebiscite which is being asked .... The French people who came into the streets have already responded . The French people will have the last word . " Francois Mitterrand , long a vocal representative of the leftist opposition to de Gaulle , issued a statement in the name of the Federation of the Left which he heads , saying , " We reject the plebiscite . "                     