@@723331

txt A shift in policy toward meeting an expected order of the Supreme Court of the United States to reapportion Georgia 's 10 congressional districts has emerged from a meeting between Gov . Carl E. Sanders and nine members of the state 's delegation in the : House of Representatives- . The reapportionment issue will be met , ? frontally and soon . After the conference on July 16 Governor Sanders said that a committee of 20 members of the General AsSembly ? 10 from the state 's House and 10 from the Senate ? are being named by Speaker George T. Smith and Lt. Gov . Peter Zack Geer to draw new congressional districts . Their report is expected to be ready before the General Assembly convenes in January . Earlier , the Governor had announced that Georgia 's Attorney General , Eugene Cook , would appear before the Supreme Court in November and ask for a delay in its ruling on the Georgia reapportionment case until after the next meet-ilia of the Assembly . Failing to obtain agreement on this point , the Governor said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to act in advance of a court directive . The Governor 's announcement of a possibe special Assembly session had one positive result . Earlier , he had written all 10 members of the Georgia House delegation in Washington inviting them to confer with him on reapportionment last Tuesday . Rejection Appealed Eight of the 10 declined , pleading pressing engagements or work in Washington . But under the threat of a special session , the legislators apparently had a change of mind . All but veteran Rep. Carl T. Vinson appeared at the Governor 's office , and he was detained in Washington by an extraordinary occasion . He was honored in the House for having served longer than any member in history  --  a day longer than the late Speaker Sam Rayburn of Texas . The Georgia reapportionment case is before the high tribunal on the appeal of two plaintiffs ? State Senator James Wes-berry and Candler Crim Jr. , Atlanta attorney  --  whose suit to compel redistricting was rejected by the United States District Court here . Attorney General Cook said following the conference Tuesday that he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nov. 18 hearing date . Well informed political sources here expect that the court order reapportionment . It is hoped by state officials that if Mr. Cook tells the court that Georgia already is working on a plan to adjust districts in accordance with the 1960 Federal census the justices will allow the General Assembly to do the job rather than drawing the new districts themselves . Following a two-hour meeting with the nine congressmen , Governor Sanders said : " A joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives will be appointed immediately to study the question of congressional reappor. : tionment and submit its report to the General AsSembly in January . Opposed by None " We are all firmly committed to the principle that congressional apportionment is a matter for the people of Georgia through the Legislature and not by federal court action . " To the surprise of political writers , none of the nine congressmen who talked with Governor Sanders opposed the principle of reapportionment . However , as might have been expected , most of them argued that their own districts should be kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception was Rep. Charles L. Weltner of Georgia 's Fifth District , which includes Atlanta . Mr. Weltner said that he would support any " equitable " plan of reapportionment , and said that his own district probably would have to be " whittled down . " The Fifth , with 825.000 people , is the second largest congressional district in the United States , and is more than double the 400,000 average population that would be the norm under the 1960 federal census of the state .                     