@@723851

txt Washington , March 19-Presfent Johnson today submitted to Congress what he called a " no waste , no retreat " foreign aid program with a 3.4 billion dollar price tag . The 3.4 billion dollar total-1 dlion dollars for military aid and 2.4 billion dollars for ecolomic assistance ? is the same amount available in the current iscal year for foreign aid . The current program was approved by Congress last December after months of wrangling during which the lawmakers cut 1 1/2 billion dollars from the 4.9 billion dollar request of the late President Kennedy . Expect Opposition There are indications that President Johnson 's foreign aid proposals are in for equally rough sledding . Many lawmakers are wondering how they can support President Johnson 's proposal to spend 962 million dollars to fight poverty in the United States and vote nearly four times as much for aid to foreign countries . Anticipating trouble with Congress , President Johnson outlined a number of steps he was taking to make the foreign aid program " prudent and responsible . " He said he had ordered David Bell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bell 's agency now employes 7,000 Americans and 9,000 foreign nationals overseas . Asks Other Dismissals The President also asked for congressional authority for Bell to dismiss 200 or so supervisory and policy-making officials who are considered of " marginal competence " ? unable or unwilling to perform the tasks for which they are paid . Other economy steps , the President told Congress , will include the closing down or consolidation of foreign aid offices overseas . He said that 14 countries  --  government officials refused to name them  --  are on the way to becoming self-supporting and soon will be able to go off Uncle Sam 's dole . " In this program , " the President told Congress , " we do not seek to cover the whole world . . . . We seek instead , thru prudent and responsible programs , to help car ef ully selected countries whose survival in freedom is essential ? and whose collapse would bring new opportunities for communist expansion . " Calls Sum Insurance President Johnson said that two-thirds of the 1 billion dollars in military aid would go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  from Greece and Turkey thru southeast Asia and up to Korea . The money , the President said , will help keep 31/2 million men under arms . It will be insurance against war , he said , with the only alternative an increase of many billions in the United States defense budget . President Johnson asked Congress for a continuing , openend authorization for military aid . President Eisen ho w e r made a similar request during his administration , but Congress turned him down . Under the present system , Congress votes a new authorization each year for both military and economic aid . This is followed by legislation appropriating money for the programs . Usually less money is appropriated than is authorized . Explained by Dirksen Under the Johnson  --  and Eisenhower  --  plan , no new authorization would be required annually for military aid . Only appropriation bills would be necessary for the arms aid . Sen. Dirksen R. , M. , Senate minority leader , told reporters the open-end proposal would enable the President to pour more money than is being requested into trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his message , gave no area or countryby-country breakdown on how the military aid money would be spent , other than that twothirds would go to 11 countries around the communist bloc . A partial breakdown of the 2.4 billion dollars requested for economic aid showed that 550 million dollars would go to Latin America under the Alliance for Progress program ; 872 million to the near east and south asia ; 380 million to the far east ; and 219 million to Africa . Gets Other Help Latin America , however , would receive about 1 billion dollars in American aid with the addition of loans from the Export-Import bank , interAmerican development , a n d other organizations financed largely by the United States . The President told Congress he was not proposing any sweeping reorganization of the foreign aid program . A special committee headed by Undersecretary of State George W. Ball recently studied the program but did not come up with any startling proposals . The President said , however , that he would appoint an advisory committee " composed of distinguished private citizens with varied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in foreign aid matters . In addition , the President said , he will seek greater international participation in an effort to get other countries ' help in bolstering the economies of underdeveloped nation s . He noted that Canada has increased its foreign aid spending by 50 per cent and said Britain and France appear to be headed in the same direction .                     