@@723737

txt Springfield , Ill. , Jan. 24 ( UPI ) ? William Heirens , 35 , convicted murderer of a 6-year-old girl and two women , today lost his bid for freedom from Stateville penitentiary . The Illinois parole and pardon board announced that his request for parole has been denied . The board rejected an appeal by Heirens that he be given hope of getting out of prison before " the outside is a prison , too . " In an appearance before the board at Stateville Jan. 8 , the man who confessed to the dismemberment slaying of Suzanne Degnan , 6 , in 1946 had pleaded with the board to recommend that Gov . Kerner grant him parole for his life sentence in the Degnan killing . Deny Moretti Petition Thru Atty . Robert M. Wetzel , Heirens asked the board at a hearing here Jan. 14 to recommend that his three consecutive life sentences  --  for the slaying of the Degnan girl ; of Frances Brown , 28 , a former WAVE ; and Mrs. Josephine Ross , 43 ? be ordered to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced that Heirens ' request had been rejected , also said that the board had denied a parole request by Michael Moretti , 45 , a " killer cop " sentenced to a life term for murder . He and Heirens wer e among 290 prisoners granted hearings early this month under a new Illinois law . The new criminal code provision , which took effect Jan. 1 , provided that a convict is eligible for a parole hearing after serving 11 years and 3 months . Under the previous code , longterm convicts had to serve at least 20 years before becoming eligible for a parole . Moretti , former Chicago policeman , shot to death two youths and wounded a third Aug. 24 , 1951 , while he was assigned as a state 's attorney 's investigator . Eligible in 2019 If the concurrent terms had been allowed , Heirens would have been eligible for parole in 1966 . Under the consecutive term sentence that remains in effect , he will not be eligible until the year 2019 , when he ? is 90 years old . Heirens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I do not ask for release now but I would like to have some hope . " He said if he stayed behind bars too long , he would reach " a demarcation point . Then the outside is a prison too , and you 're not free . " Heirens , who confessed the three slayings in 1946 , now contends he did not commit them . He was a brilliant 17-year-old University of . Chicago student when , by his own admission , he crept into Suzanne 's bedroom in her Chicago home , killed her to satisfy a sexual urge , then carried her away to a nearby basement laundry room and dismembered her body . Heirens ' mother and father pleaded for their son 's freedom . The father , a steel company plant protection superintendent , said he planned to retire soon and wanted , his son to join him , in a new nursery business .                     