@@723113

txt ? Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba arrived in the Soviet Union early today on Premier Rhinshchev 's personal invitation . Tass , the Soviet press agency , announced that the Cuban leader had landed at the sub-Arctic airport of Murmansk after a nonstop flight from Havana aboard a Soviet TU-114 airliner . Dr. Castro and his party , described by Tass as " dear guests , " were met in Murmansk by a Soviet delegation led by Anastas Mikoyan , a First Deputy Premier and member of the Communist party 's ruling Presidium . Tass said the Cuban visitors and the Soviet welcoming party boarded a special train for Moscow , where they are due to-morrow , Visit Linked to Rift The Cuban leader 's visit , inaugurated by the unusual early morning Tass announcement , is expected to strengthen the Soviet Union 's hand in its ideological dispute with Communist China . Moscow is likely to use Dr. Castro 's tour as an indication that he is squarely in the Soviet camp . A major element in the dispute between Moscow and Peking has been over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Russians have been favoring a loose confederation of various kinds of Communist systems , such as those that exist in Cuba and Yugoslavia . The Chinese have presented themselves as champions of Cuban interests but have opposed the Yugoslays as " revisionists . " A Logical Choice An announcement in Havana April 16 said Dr. Castro had ac. cepted an invitation from Premier Khrushchev " to get to know the Soviet Union and to discuss relations between the two countries and strengthen friendship between the peoples of the Soviet Union and Cuba . " Mr. Mikoyan appeared to have been a logical choice to head the welcoming party in Murmansk in view of his previous personal dealings with Dr. Castro and his visits to Cuba , Mr. Mikoyan 's most recent trip to Cuba took place In November , 1962 , when he flew to Havana to explain Moscow 's decision to withdraw its missileb from 2ub.i during the crisis over the Sovlci. arms build-up in that island . Other members of the Soviet welcoming party also had previous dealings with Dr. Castro . The party included Aleksandr A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet assistance to the Cuban fishing fleet , aid Vasily V. Kuznetsov , First Deputy Foreign Minister , who represented the Soviet Union in talks in New York with the United States after the Cuban confrontation last autumn . Admiral of the Fleet Sergei G. Gorshkov , commander in chief of the Soviet Navy , was also on hand in Murmansk , which is the center of a major naval base area . The Castro party was accompanied by the Soviet Ambassador to Cuba , Aleksandr I. Alekseyev . Dr. Castro 's visit was evidently timed to coincide with the May Day celebrations in Moscow , one of the most colorful holidays in the Soviet Union . The Tass announcement said a guard of honor had been lined up at the Murmansk airport and the national ant'hems of Cuba and the Soviet Union were played when Premier Castro arrived . He and Mr. Mikoyan were said to have " exchanged firm handshakes , embraced each other and engaged in a hearty conversation . " When Dr. Castro arrives in Moscow , he will undoubtedly be met at the railroad station by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro Hints Easing With U. S. HAVANA , April 26 ( AP ) ? Before leaving for Moscow , Pre , mier Fidel Castro hinted last night that the Kennedy Administration 's recent curbs on anti-Castro Cuban exiles could bring about a lessening of United States-Cuban tensions . Dr. Castro expounded on United States-Cuban relations during an unscheduled appearlance at Havana University shortly before he left for the Soviet Union . The Premier 's departure was not learned until late today after the Soviet press agency Tass had reported his arrival in the Soviet Union . In his discussion ' with students at Havana University , Dr. Castro was asked whether the United States crackdown on anti-Castro commando raids would affect the United StatesCuban relations . " One must always be distrustful but never waste an occasion to lessen tensions , " Dr. Castro replied . " We must not close the doors on them . " Neutral observers felt that Premier Castro 's off-the-cuff comments indicated a desire to increase contacts with the United States without dropping Cuba 's attitude of belligerence . Dr. Castro also had words of praise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who successfully negotiated the release of the Cuban Bay of Pigs invasion prisoners last December and of American prisoners early this week . " Donovan is intelligent and , at least with us , handled himself in very serious form , " Dr. Castro said . " He is skillful and a great worker . " Informed sources in Havana have persistently declared , despite Washington denials , that Mr. Donovan 's frequent talks with Dr. Castro have encompassed high-level political matters . A Fneus of Tensions Cuba has been a . focus of tensions between th ? United States and the Soviet Union since last October , when President Kennedy dramatically announced to the nation some details of secret Soviet aims build-up in Cuba and demanded that it be halted and reversed . The President put Cuba under naval quarantine . Premier Khrushchev ordered the dismantling of Soviet missiles in Cuba and a halt to the construction of Soviet bases there . In March Premier Castro was quoted by the Paris newspaper Le Monde in an interview as saying that , if Premier Khrushchev had visited Cuba after his withdrawal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ears . " " He should not have removed his missiles without consulting us , " Dr. Castro was quoted as having said . The day after the Cuban Government announced that Dr. Castro had been invited to Moscow , Premier Chou En-lai of Communist China pledged Peking 's support for Cuba 's " sacred struggle against United States imperialist aggression . " The Chinese Communists have condemned the Soviet withdrawal of missiles from Cuba as appeasement . They have repeatedly used the Cuban situation as a basis for ideological statements . The Soviet Union is supplying Cuba with aid , including arms and ammunition , estimated to total $1,000,000 daily . Dr. Castro 's visit to the Soviet Union is his first trip abroad since 1960 , when he first met Mr. Khrushchev at the United Nations .                     