@@726526

txt A special committee of the Episcopal Church termed the concept of heresy " anachronistic " I , esterday and called for a /drastic revision of canon law " to make heresy trials almost impossible . " Any risks the church may run by fostering a climate of genuine freedqm , " the committee said in a report , " are minor compared-. to the dangers it surely will encounter from any attempts at suppression , censorship or thought contitil . " If a church member voices theological opinions that others in the church consider seriously subversive , the committee said , they should he able to dissociate themselves from those opinions without attacking the motivations or character of the dissenter . The committee , set up last January in the wake of heresy - charges against Bishop James A. Pike , was headed by Bishop Stephen F. Payne Jr. , and made up of three bishops , five theologians , two social scientists and  --  a journalist . The 20-page report went to . the Episcopal Church 's Presiding Bishop , John E. Hines , who is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general convention in Seattle Sept. 17 . The committee stopped short of recommending a total ban on heresy trials for tactical reasons . It was thought that a total ban could not be maneuvered through the general convention but that the current report stood a good chance . The committee called heresy trials " a last resort " and urged that 10 bishops be required to file a presentment for a trial instead of the present three . It also urged that no trial go forward without a two-thirds vote of the House of Bishops . Under , current canon law , the bishops vote after such trials , to approve dr reject the court 's findings , ' Bishop Pike , who has been under attack from conservative bishops for his repudiation of such traditional Christian doctrines as the Trinity and the Virgin Birth , is not mentioned in the report , although ? it obviously was written with him in mind . Heresy proceedings against Bishop Pike were called for at the , annual House of Bishops meeting last October , but forestalled by a resolution rejecting the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ages . However , because the resolution also rebuked Bishop Pike for " irresponsible " flippancy , the controversial prelate demanded a heresy trial because he felt his name had been impugned . Yesterday ' the Bishop said that he had not seen the committee report , but that it appealed to be " a breath of fresh air . " He said that if the Seattle convention approved it , he would withdraw his demand for a heresy , trial . This presumably would settle the entire Pike case , which has been a. major source of anxiety  --  and unfavorable publicity-1 for the Episcopal Church for several years . Bishop Pike stepped down as Episcopal Bishop of California during the controversy and is now a theologian in residence et the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara , Calif . The Bishop appeared before the committed last April as an adviser . One of his recommendations was that the committee not propose a ban on all heresy trials because , he said , the church must retain the ultimate means to protect itself . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may feel it must maintain a last-resort power to deal Associated mu Bishop Stephen P. Bayne Jr . headed special panel . juridically with bishops or priests who publicly engage in persistent and flagrant contradiction of its essential witness . " In calling for " a Climate of genuine freedom , " . the committee said that " the Church Should not only tolerate but should actively encourage free and vigorous theological debate , application of the Gospel to social wrongs , and restatement of Christian doctrines to make them intelligible to contemporary minds , " It called for the continuing education of both the clergy and laymen to provide a wider add more vigorous theological inquiry . Advisers to the committee included the Rev. Dr. J. V. Lang ; mead Casserley of SeaburyWestern . Theological Seminary ; the Rev. John Courtney Murray , the Rpman Catholic theologian , and Jehn At T. Robinson , Bishop of Woolwich , England , and author of the controversial bestseller " Honest to God . " The report and the papers of all advisers will be published as a book by Seabury Press in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Theological . Freedom and Social Responsibilities , in addition to Bishop Bayne , were : George W. Barrett , BIshhp of Rochester . Louis Cassels , religion editor of United Press International . The Rev. Dr. Theodore P. Ferris , rector o Trinity Church la Boston . EveM H. Jones , Bishop of West Texas . The Rev. Dr. John Macouarrie , Union Theo-1 logical Seminary . ThAthRoz Dr. Paul S. Miner , Yale Divinity ) The Rev. Dr. Albert T. Molinari , Virgitna Theological Seminary . The Rev. Dr. Charles P. Price , Memorial **36;2009;TOOLONG ' University of Washington . Dr , David L. Sills , edif:r of the International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences .                     