@@726627

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Facing Urban Problems To the Editor : On Oct. 4 The Times printed a letter from C. Richard Hatch of the Architects ' Renewal Committee in Harlem concerning my testimony on Senator Robert F. Kennedy 's bill to encourage housing production in slum areas . I use the word " production " rather than " construction " since both the Senator and I were referring to rehabilitation as well as new , ? construction . Mr. Hatch is under the impression that I criticized Senator Kennedy 's proposal as superfluous on the grounds that the section 221(d) ( 3 ) moderateincome housing program is already doing the job . The basic point that I made at the Senate hearing was quite different . If the existing program operated on a financial formula providing fifty - year mortgage loans , a 2 per cent interest rate and Federal grants for , local real property tax abatement  --  all of which are proposed in Senator Kennedy 's bill  --  then the existing program could provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Government than under the Senator 's plan . This is so because of the loss to the Treasury that would result from the income-tax benefits written into the Senator 's bill . At no time during my testimony did I suggest that the full purpose intended to be served by Senator Kennedy 's bill is now being accomplished in Harlem or in any other large slum or ghetto area . I fully concur in Senator Kennedy 's assessment of the critical nature of our urban problems . We do have a difference with respect to one particular proposal for solving these problems . ROBERT C. WEAVER Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Washington , Oct. 4 , 1967 ? To Resist Communism To the Editor : When Senator Everett Dirksen states that the strategic line from Korea through Vietnam is essential to the security of the United States he is merely reaffirming our historic position , which of necessity . has always concerned itself with the safety of our West Coast . During World War II it was in our national interest to put an , end to Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific and Indian Oceans ; today it can hardly be less important to checkmate similar designs by Asian Communism . " Now this is a critical point , " writes James Reston Oct. 6 , " for this is what the Communists have always feared ; that the United States is fighting there to maintain a strategic stronghold- close to the China frontier . " If the Communists indeed " fear " our need to defend ourselves , their obvious remedy is to pursue a genuine , instead of phony , policy of coexistence . Until they do so , we will be compelled to resist them in Asia lest we later find ourselves fighting in Hawaii or California . As Israel 's brilliant spokesman , Abba Eban , recently put it , " No country has the international obligation to commit suicide . " Not even the United States . Not even if the Communists " fear " American survival . R. MINN New York , Oct. 6 , 1967 ? Polluted Air Dangers To the Editor : During the air-pollution watch recently the Mayor stated : " Adverse health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the period of air stagnation continues for a prolonged period . " This seems to be the present attitude of the city fathers ? that steps are necessary only to prevent some catastrophe some time in the future . Yet there has been a great deal of information published about past and present levels of air pollution having adverse effects on health and even on the life span of people in polluted areas , including estimates that life expectancy in the worst sections may be shortened by as much as five years . In other words , this means that thousands of people annually are now being killed by air pollution , to say nothing of the impairment of health and damage to property and killing of plant life . Are the city fathers to wait until they see people falling in the streets , clutching their throats and gasping for breath before they feel that it is the time to take effective steps to reduce air pollution ? CHARLES A. HEBERT New York , Oct. 10 , 1967 ? Creation of Jobs for Hard-Core Unemployed To the Editor : We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oct. 5 " Defeat for the Poor , " with the Senate 's rejection , by a vote of 47-42 , of a plan for a stepped-up effort to create jobs for hard-core unemployed and underemployed advantaged petsons . However , contrary to the impression left by your editorial , the plan was sponsored jointly by the undersigned as a constructive Republican alternative to the Emergency Employment Act proposed by Senator Clark and added in committee as a separate title to the antipoverty bill . Senator Clark , as floor manager of the antipoverty bill , accepted our substitute for his $2.8-billion plan because , in his words , it " would do almost as much as can realistically be expected to be done in this fiscal year to get jobs for those in the cities who so badly need them . " Our plan substantially revised the EmergencyEmployment Act . That act proposed to create public-service jobs for the hardcore unemployed , with government as an employer of last resort . The main emphasis and thrust of the Prouty-Scott plan , on the other hand , was on training such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can obtain the necessary skills to fill and keep productive jobs in the private sector of our economy . We feel that a make-work op , proach constitutes no real long ! range solution to poverty and . unemployment , and is warrant- , ed only to the extent that some of our people are at a point ? in , life where further education and , training can not qualify them for productive jobs . Accordingly , our plan permitted the Secretary of Labor to use up to 5714 per cent of the authorized funds for human investment training programs run by private indus-7 try and for on-the-job training and other vocational and insti , tutional training programs unl. der the Manpower Development and Training Act . The remainder of the funds authorized by our plan could be used for the various public : ! ' service employment programs contemplated by the original : Emergency Employment Act . Administration Opposed Despite our efforts , through , the Prouty-Scott substitute , tar make the Emergency Employ , ment Act more fiscally sound and more Workable in terms of meaningful employment opporA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administra7 ' tion saw fit to oppose it , just as it opposed the original act . - We are glad that Senator Clark has announced his intention to introduce another emergency employment bill and to ached ; ule early hearings , with the ' hope of reporting it to the Sen ? ? ate calendar before the end of the present session of Congress : ' We share his sense of urgency on this question and we hope that concerned Senators front both political parties might co ; operate in drafting an effective measure which we can all support . We also hope that the John- , son Administration . will join in this undertaking . WINSTON PROUTY U.S. Senator , Vermont HUGH SCOTT U.S. Senator , Pennsylvania Washington , Oct. 6 , 1967                     