@@723934

txt Two weeks of deliberations by the House Ways and Means Committee have failed to produce any signs of progress on the Administration 's program of health care for the aged . The committee has been meeting in closed session several days a week since April 9 , having completed hearings earlier this year . Members said today that no votes had been taken and that no promising compro mises had been offered . " Prospects of favorable action are no better and perhaps a bit worse than they 've been from the start , " one member reported . The Administration bill calls for hospitalization , nursing care and clinical services for persons over 65 years old as part of the Social Security program . The benefits would be financed by an increase in the Social Security payroll tax . Senate Holds Off Hearings The measure has been bogged down in the 25-member Ways and Means Committee since its introduction early last year , with proponents unable to muster a majority of 13 . No Senate hearings are planned unless the House acts . All 10 Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats are opposed to the principle of financing health services through the So cial Security tax system . The Administration will not accept any compromise that fails to provide Social Security financing , and the opponents will not consider any that does . The deadlock , consequently , continues . Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas , the committee 's influentiall chairman , is among the apparently implacable Democratic opponents . Others include A. Sydney Herlong Jr . of Florida and John C. Watts of Kentucky . Substitute Bill Likely Present indications are that the committee will substitute a bill to increase cash retirement benefits under Social Security . Mr. Mills has introduced such a measure and is expected to seek its approval by the panel . The chairman 's ostensible strategy is to weaken the case for the health-care plan with the argument that higher retirement benefits are long overdue and that both can not be financed by - Social Security taxes without a prohibitive increase in the payroll tax rate . Over-all retirement benefits have not been raised since 1959 despite substantial increases in living costs . The monthly maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional payments amounting to half of their husbands ' benefits . Social Security bills are classified as revenue legislation and are therefore considered by the House under procedure that bars amendments from the floor . Consequently , there will . no opportunity in the . House to ' add health-care provisions to any Social Security measure the committee may report out . There is no such prohibition in- : the Senate , however . It is taken for granted that healthtare provisions would be attached there . Ordinarily , such a bill would finally go to a Senate-House conference committee for adpstment of differences . But a triajority of the probable ionferees , consisting of senior ! members of the House Ways and Wens and Senate Finance Corninittees , are opposed to Social security financing of health eare . Mr. Mills has told colleagues that any bill carrying Senate amendments providing for health care under Social Security that reached conference would die there unless the disputed provisions were eliminated . Even so , a House vote on the issue could be brought about through one of ? several rarely used parliamentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the opportunity should arise , proponents could seek House approval of Senate health-care amendments withbut sending the bill to conference . Mr. Mills 's reputation for Subtle maneuvering has led some colleagues to speculate that he may be quietly anetting some , such strategy to accommodate the Johnson Administration without openly aiding its health-care program . - Mr. Mills declines to comment publicly on any aspects of the situation except to say that he still opposes the Administration bill . Administration leaders Conceded months ago that there was no real hope for the meas. tire or any compromise without his help . Whether Mr. Mills 's tacit support of devious parliamentary maneuver will turn the trick is doubtful . But some supporters of the health-care program are about ready to concede that it holds the only hope for favorable Congressional action this session .                     