@@721260

txt The Soviet Union asserted tonight that continuance Of the United States policy " of military espionage and sabotage against the Soviet Union , a policy of dangerous provocations , " would place mankind " on the brink of war . " Andrei A. Gromyko , Soviet Foreign Minister , told the Security Council that President Eisenhower 's address to the nation last night was a " demonstrative announcement " that this policy would be continued . " This statement , " he declared , " expresses with particular clarity the imperialistic foreign policy line of the United States , a line aimed at exacerbating the international situation . " Soviet Charge Rejected . Before the Security Council recessed for luncheon today , it rejected by an overwhelming majority a Soviet charge that flights by United States reconnaissance planes constituted " aggressive acts . " Seven of the eleven Council members voted against the Soviet resolution . Under it the Security Council would also have condemned " the incursions of United States aircraft into other states , " and would have requested ' that they stop forthwith . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate on a resolution offered by Argentina , Ceylon , Ecuador and Tunisia , asking the Big Four to resume their efforts to reach agreement on disarmament and other issues . In accordance with a Soviet demand , the Security Council took up the four-nation resolution as a separate item from the Soviet complaint against incursions by United States planes . One such plane , a U-2 , was shot down in the Soviet Union May 1 . Henry Cabot Lodge of the United States said after the meeting that Mr. Gromyko 's " brink of war " warning was " a fantastic allegation . " " One could only wonder , " Mr. OF U. S. SPY POLICY // Lodge continued , " what might cause the Soviet Government to say such atrocious things . " Elsewhere in the United Nations it was recalled that the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles , in an interview , said the United States had been brought to the brink of war with the Soviet Union on several occasions . The Security Council agreed to meet tomorrow morning to continue the debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the United States and other Western countries . A Soviet amendment introduced tonight would ask the Big Four to try to reach agreement on " general and complete disarmament , " which was proposed by Premier Khrushchev last September . Another Soviet amendment would hold that incursions of " foreign " military aircraft ? without naming the United States  --  are a threat to peace and international security . Only the two Communist members of the Council  --  the Soviet Union and Poland  --  voted in favor of the Soviet resolution this morning . Ceylon and Tunisia abstained . Members voting against the Soviet proposal were : Argentina , Britain , Ecuador , France , Italy , Nationalist China , and the United States . Mr. Gromyko ignored pleas yesterday by Ceylon and Ecuador not to press for a vote on his resolution . He told newsmen after his defeat that the Soviet Union would submit its complaint to the General Assembly . He declined to say whether he would request a special session or would wait until the regular session , to begin Sept. 20 . In his hour-long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that never before in history had a great power proclaimed as its policy incursions of its aircraft over other states . Even " the Hitlerites , " he said , did not dare to come up with such " piratical pretensions . " He added that if the Security Council rejected the Soviet resolution , " We will reply as needed to aggressive acts to insure the security of our countries and our allies . " Mr. Lodge supplied a surprise rebuttal to Mr. Gromyko 's statement today that United States counter-charges of espionage against the Soviet Union were " fairy tales . " At the end of his ten-minute statement Mr. Lodge exhibited to the Security Council a wooden reproduction of the Great Seal of the United States that contained a " clandestine listening device . " Mr. Lodge declared that some time ago some unidentified Russians had presented the seal to the United States Ambassador in Moscow and that it had hung behind the Ambassador 's desk until its nature was discovered . Mr. Lodge 's exhibit produced biting comments from Mr. Gromyko and Jerzy Michalowski of Poland . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote . said that in his statement Tuesday he had presented a case against the United States and it had not been answered .. In contrast to Mr .. Gromyko 's generalized charges , M. , Michalowski had offered specific legal criticism of the flight of the U-2 . His point was that the United States was a party to the Chicago convention on civil aviation , signed in 1954 , which provides that each state is sovereign over its own air space . This was not mentioned today by Mr. Lodge , who repeated his general denial that neither the United States Air Force nor any other agency of the United States.had engaged in " aggressive acts against the Soviet Union . " Replying to Mr. Gromyko , who asked today what the United Mates reaction would have been if a Soviet plane had been discovered flying over the United eltates , Mr. Lodge said that the answer " is very simple . " " The United States , " he explained , " in effect invited Soviet planes to do this very thing when President Eisenhower made our open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flights by American planes over the Soviet Union and Soviet planes over the United States . " As an outgrowth of that proposal , which had been rejected by the Soviet Union , President Eisenhower outlined last night a program under which the United Nations would organize air reconnaissance flights as a safeguard against surprise attack . Mr. Lodge told newsmen yesterday ' that the proposal would be submitted to the General Assembly in September . Mr. Gromyko , who was the first speaker today , said that when the " open skies " proposal was made in 1955 Premier Khrushchev told President Eisenhower that it was intended to collect intelligence information on the armaments and industrial potential of the Soviet Union and other states . The Soviet Foreign Minister ridiculed the United States stand that flights maw Soviet territory were justified by the refusal of the Soviet Union to accept the " open skies " plan . He asked how the United States would react if Soviet planes were sent over its territory because the United States had rejected Soviet proposals to ban nuclear weapons and liquidate foreign military . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the responsibility for wrecking the summit meeting . Mr. Lodge said that a " propaganda build-up " to blame the United States for a summit failure had begun in Pravda and Izvestia , the two leading papers of the Soviet Union , long before the plane incident .                     