@@724796

txt HANOVER , N. H. ? Even though the present policy debate confirms the vigor of American democracy , it is national and public rather than Congressional . Congress finds itself in a difficult position to dissent from the Executive during crises , for , since the days of Truman , it has been in the habit of signing advance Presidential blank checks . Now it is being mastered by an expert , Lyndon Johnson . Nevertheless , the extent of minority criticism on foreign affairs has not escaped our legislators . This will surely be shown in new hearings to be held by Senator . Jackson 's remarkable Subcommittee on National Security and International Operations . Ambiguous Policy This body is to inquire into ambiguities in policy elaboration and , as its preliminary report says , the tendency of governmental departments and agencies " to mount their horses and ride off in all directions . " The subcommittee suspects resultant " disarray , inviting others , including members of Congress , to peddle , sometimes in an irresponsible manner , their own special tonics for our national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American commitments . " The Jackson group believes the relationship between the State and Defense Departments is " central . " It observes a " tendency of some American policy makers to treat psychological and political problems as if they were primarily technical , and to try to solve political problems with technical expedients . " There has often been an abrupt air of improvisation in U.S. actions during the past fifteen years . While Johnson is sometimes now excoriated , similar tendencies have been evident since 1950 . Already in 1955 Secretary Dulles regarded endorsement of SEATO as tantamount to giving President Eisenhower an advance blank check in Southeast Asia . Dulles Diplomacy The diplomatic style of Dulles , who was allowed by Eisenhower to seize the reins , was peripatetic , harsh and sometimes tricky . The Kennedy style was awkward and deceptive at the time of the Bay of Pigs but later acquired elegant assurance . The Johnson style has recently shown haste and clumsiness although , underneath , the President calmly pursues essential goals . Mr. Johnson relies heavily on Secretaries and Rusk and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mann is high on the list of subsidiary advisers and , while remaining anonymous , Vice President Humphrey is in constant , close contact . Such coordination seemingly works in the parallel sense of keeping abreast Governmental branches most concerned with foreign affairs ; but it does n't work in the vertical sense . The Pentagon leans heavily upon computers for precise , swift answers . No other department is similarly equipped . The result is that , willynilly , has gained a heavier specific gravity in foreign policy than properly should be his due . believes in civilian rule as confirmed by the grumbling of his admirals and generals . Nevertheless , the exact brilliance that enables him to control the huge military establishment has  --  with the aid of quick computer planning ? allowed him to intrude excessively into diplomatic decisions ; and the State Department has n't been strong enough to prevent this . Logic vs . Sensitivity While President Johnson makes decisions , the counsel he receives is often overweighted by Pentagon calculations . The necessarily nebulous advice of the State Department appears at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy decisions . There were logical reasons , for example , to delay Prime Minister Shastri 's Washington visit ; but the brusque way this was done caused unnecessary Indian irritation . The question of shipping nontoxic gases to South Vietnam was apparently never considered in human implications . Offense could have been minimized with advance information and avoidance of the dreadful word " gas . " Awareness of the dirty meaning in Latin America of the word " Marines " might have caused us to use airborne infantry instead in Santo Domingo . Any pretender to great power status occasionally has to do grim things in what it conceives to be its interests . Khrushchev behaved brutally in Hungary because he felt the entire Soviet system menaced . The British are being tough in Aden . France ruthlessly squashed a coup in Gabon , prime uranium source for its nuclear force . The Human Touch The important thing is for our President to weigh diplomatic actions in imprecise human as well as precise practical terms . The State Department must assert itself more boldly . It should have at hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin-American military force which has now been exhumed . The Pentagon can not be blamed for its computer mentality , imposed upon it by the technological revolution . But Foggy Bottom should emerge from the fog and clamber off the bottom . The content of great power policy must sometimes be blunt ; its style should always be burnished.                     