@@726446

txt The United Arab Republic informed Secretary General Thant today that it accepted his proposal to station United Nations observers on both sides of the Israeli-Egyptian cease-fire line along the Suez Canal . Mohamed Awad el-Kony , the United Arab Republic 's chief representative , told Mr. Thant of his Government 's decision at a meeting this morning . The ISecurity Council agreed early ' , today to authorize the SecreItary General to send . 25 observers to ' the area , where fighting has broken out on the last two weekends . The Israeli representative , Gideon Rafael , submitted his Government 's reply tonight . Neither the Secretary General 's office nor the Israeli mission would divulge its contents . Foreign Minister . Abba Eban will fly here tomorrow to explain his Government 's reaction to Mr. Thant 's plan . The Israeli Government appeared Monday night to ' have moved toward acceptance of United Nations observers along the Sup Canal , it was reported from Jerusalem . The Cabinet met twice to discuss Mr. Thant 's proposal but its decision was not disclosed . Page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Emergency Force that had been stationed on Egyptian territory in the Sinai Peninsula was withdrawn by Secretary General Thant in mid-May at the request of President Gamal Abdel Nasser . Israel had refused , after the 1956 Suez war with the Arabs , to permit stationing of United Nations observers on her side of the border . Mr. Eban plans to speak at the emergency session of the General Assembly when it resumes Wednesday . . He will explain Israel 's position on the administration of the united city of Jerusalem and the progress made in arranging for the safeguarding of the city 's holy places . The delay in the Israeli reply on the proposed United Nations presence aroused fears among some diplomats that Israel had either rejected Mr. Thant 's sug- gestion or sought to impose conditions on the operations of the observers . Either course , they said , would offend ppinion in the General Assembly and exacerbate Arab feelings just when some Arab Governments appear to be taking a more realistic approach toward peacemaking . It was suggested that one reason for Israel 's delay might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Truce Supervision Organization . This body dates back to the general armistice agreements of 1949 , and some Israeli politicians , it was said , might ' interpret acceptance of it in this situation as an indication that the Government was prepared to entrust supervision of Israel 's forward positions to an organization that they feel has failed their country in the past . One delegation that has close ties with Israel believes , however , that Mr. Eban will disclose his Government 's acceptance of the Security Council 's proposals after proposing some conditions about the observers ' activities . The Security Council agreement on observers followed Fighting that broke out during the weekend in the Ras el Ish and Qantara areas , along the Suez Canal . There were sporadic skirmishes along the cease-fire lipe in the preceding weekend . Small Teams Used There has been no United Nations presence between the Israeli and Egyptian forces since Mr. Thant withdrew the Emergency Force from the Gaza strip in May . The Emergency Force is a military organization composed of units provided by member countries . The Truce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are drawn from the armed forces of member nations . United Nations observers have been serving in the Middle East since 1948 . At the peak there were more than 700 observers in the area , but the number has now fallen to 133 . Lieut . Gen. Odd Bull , Chief of Staff of the Truce Supervision Organization , has informed Mr. Thant that he will need an additional 25 observers and asked that these be made available as soon as possible . Pending the arrival of the additional men , General Bull informed the Secretary General , he could send a small team of observers from his staff to the Suez Canal area , where they could begin patrols on both the Egyptian and Israeli sides of the front . Israeli Cabinet Meets Special to The New York Times JERUSALEM , July 10 ? The Israeli Government appeared tonight have moved toward acceptance of United Nations cease-fire observers along the Suez Canal . The Cabinet met in morning and afternoon sessions to discuss Secretary General Thant 's proposal but there was no disclosure of any decision . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow for the Wednesday session of the General Assembly and , presumably , to negotiate with Mr. Thant on the stationing of observers . Israeli officials have been opposed , in general , to the reintroduction of a United Nations presence in the area but there were suggestions during the uay that the arguments for accepting the observers were gaining favor . Tactically , Egypt 's acceptance of the United Nations observers would tend to make it incumbent on the Israelis to grant similar ? approval . Pressure on Israelis Seen It was also argued that the drawing of a United Nations observer line , no matter how tentative , would establish a form of recognition of the status quo . A Western diplomat indicated that pressure was being applied on the Israelis to accept the observers . The diplomat said - that the posting of United Nations observers along the canal would diminish President Nasser 's ability to maintain the impression that the war was still under way . Opposition to the force is based on ' Israel 's generally unsatisfactory experience with ' United Nations activities in this area over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposition of a third , or intermediary , force as a deterrent to the direct talks with the Egyptians that officials here are insisting on as the only way to obtain a lasting peace . Officials who oppose the United Nations proposal say that on a practical level the observers can not stop any shooting after it erupts and generally have proved unwilling or unable to decide who shot first . Cabinet Said to Be Divided The Cabinet was understood to be divided on the issue . One of those who have long opposed the stationing of United Nations troops or observers between the Israelis and their Arab neighbors is Maj. Gen Moshe Dayan , who was appointed Defense Minister a few days before the war started . General Dayan has long called for removal of the United Nations forces along Israeli borders so that the Arabs would be forced to deal directly with Israel . The outspoken Defense Minister has expressed this view anew since the war . One of today 's Cabinet decisions seemed to be aimed at muzzling the Defense Minister . The Cabinet reaffirmed thepolicy , expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eshkol and the Foreign Minister could speak on foreign policy . It provided that on defense matters the Defense Minister might also express himself , but only if his comment remained within the bounds of Cabinet decisions . Gaza Annexation Hinted Last week General Dayan implied that Gaza would be annexed by Israel , as Jerusalem has been . The Government later denied that it had any such intention , although Premier Eshkol has since echoed General Dayan 's statement , saying in an interview published in the German magazine Spiegel that " the Gaza Strip must remain part of Israel . " It was not known tonight how much influence General Dayan has had during the Cabinet sessions.                     