@@728253

txt COPENHAGEN ? Since taking office President , Nixon has consistently sought ' to diminish the world image of an overly dynamic United States , advocating what is called a low profile ' position . After eleven months this endeavor has succeeded beyond anyone 's dream . As far as Western Europe is concerned the American profile is so low that it has virtually disappeared over the horizon . This region has relied on U.S. leadership for a generation and has happily accepted a series of strong Secretaries of State like Marshall . Acheson and Dulles . Even Dean Rusk was a well-known figure but very few foreigners have even heard of Secretary Rogers . A ' Cohn and Schine ' On the whole the quality of our diplomats is certainly strained and although the President is a respected if not a charismatic figure , Vice President Agnew comes through to Europe as a kind of manysplendored Cohn and Schine . His posturings and canned texts may be thought useful in balancing the lopsided American scene , but seem both ridiculous and frightening at this distance . U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Nixon is establishing for himself a reassuringly strong position in a divided country . Nevertheless , his means of achieving this have not echoed happily abroad . On Nov. 28 , The Times of London wrote in a lead editorial : " The impression emerges of a President whose major policies are going wrong and whose choice of men for high public office is uncertain . His first year has not brought unity . " This is a fairly typical view in the NATO area which depends on us at least as heavily as we should depend on it ; nor does this view derive merely from the tragic Vietnam confusion where many of our allies , indeed , are inclined to give Nixon more of a break than vociferous American opinion . It is not so much that the voice of the turtledove echoes increasingly in the Continent as it is that the series of horrors exposed ? the Green Beret murder , the Hill 192 rape killing , and , above all , the ghastly Pinkville massacre ? have led to a frightened impression that today 's United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone whom they would destroy . Since Europeans are keenly aware of the Link binding them to the object of such destruction , they are more than intellectually scared . They have already experienced with trepidation a Manichean America which , in the simplistic days of Dulles , believed that everyone with us was good and everyone against us evil . The ultimate logic of such a credo could easily lead to a nuclear Paradise Lost , but in a sense it is less bewildering than today 's neo-Manicheanism which seems to regard those who support Nixon 's policy as wicked and , as for those who oppose him , the more they oppose the better . This is a desperately unhealthy situation and can bring nothing but harm to both the United States and its allies . Only stern re-establishment of American self-respect and restoration of active and moral initiative commensurate with our superpower position can regain for the U.S.A. the acceptance required of a democratic leader . The Pinkville Case Obviously the immediate requirement is application to the dreadful Pinkville case of justice based upon that philosophy of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief American prosecutor , Justice Jackson . This philosophy must be incorporated into the legal ' . interpretation of U.S. military justice . The United States took pains to formulate a new kind of doctrine applicable to those who transgress all moral limits . Precisely that doctrine must be applied now and whenever necessary to our own citizens . Cleansing the American name is a primordial need having precedence over all else to make the low U.S. profile again visible in Europe . It is not impossible to achieve such cleansing since a huge legacy of admiration , gratitude and friendship for the United States continues here . Regaining Respect One should remember Great Britain acquired a similarly ignoble reputation during the Boer War by inventing the instrument which Hitler was to make so diabolical  --  the concentration camp . Yet the inherent nobility of the British character soon regained the world 's respect . Western Europe wants and requires leadership from its hitherto trusted and admired friend and we can not opt out or this highly important industrial region will be increasingly inclined to seek its own solutions . America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? cease giving the impression of " being lost .                     