@@723115

txt The Cuban Government radio said tonight that bombs were dropped by an unidentified plane on oil refineries in Regla across the bay from downtown Havana . According to the broadcast , the bombs did not explode and no one was injured . Early this morning a group of Cuban exiles in Miami known as the Cuban Freedom Fighters announced that the refineries of Havana had been bombed . They said that one bomb of 100 pounds and several smaller bombs had been dropped from a two-engine plane flying at an altitude of 150 feet . The Defense Department said that two Cuban gunboats had " engaged in maneuvers " Friday near a United States Coast Guard cutter about 30 miles northeast of Havana . The actions were not characterized as hostile . The plane left Havana flying at 50 feet above the water , according to the Cuban Freedom Fighters . The group said that the plane had taken off from a Caribbean island . The island 's identity was withheld . Refineries Were Confiscated The refineries had been owned by the Esso Standard Oil Company and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castro regime in 1960 , Reported to be on the plane with the Cuban exiles were two or three unidentified American university students belonging to an organization known as the U. S. Freedom Fighters . Also aboard the plane was Alexander I. Rorke Jr. , a free-lance photographer and lecturer of New York , who said he photographed the operation . The attack was the first bombing raid carried out by Cuban exiles since the Bay of Pigs invasion in April , 1961 . It was made in accordance with the pledge of Cuban exile action groups in Miami to continue harassment of the Castro regime despite United States Government orders . These were designed to prevent further raids by exile groups against Cuban and Soviet shipping . Vigilance has been tightened in Miami by United States authorities , and the United States Coast Guard has increased its force in the area in an effort to prevent Cuban exile raids . About 25 Cubans heading the action groups have been ordered by the Government to remain in Dade County , which includes Miami , on penalty of $5,000 fine or five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raids strengthen the Communist Castro regime . But the exiles believe the raids encourage the enemies of Premier Castro in Cuba to increase sabo tage and guerrilla fighting . Cuba Calls U. S. Responsible KEY WEST , Fla. , April 26 ( AP ) ? The Cuban Government announcement of the bombing said that Cuba held the United states Government responsible for the incident . The announcement said : " At about 10 P.M. April 25 a two-engined airplane , coming from the north , flew very low over the Nico Lopez oil refinery ( at Havana ) and dropped a 100-pound bomb and several cans of napalm-type inflammable material that did not explode . " The plane then flew away in the direction from which it had come . " Later North American news agencies gave information that someone named Alexander I. ) Rorke Jri had told newsmen in Washington that he was in the plane that bombed the refinery . " The fact that the plane departed American territory and went back in the same direction with absolute impunity . . . and that the American authorities have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for this incident . If it had been successful it would have killed many people . " The broadcast said that the raid was " inexcusable " in view of the United States announced decision not to permit counterrevolutionaries in the United States to operate against Fidel Castro . " The Cuban Government holds the United States - Government responsible for these pirate attacks and the consequences that may come from them , " the broadcast said . " The Cuban Government will prepare a diplomatic note and will also inform member states of the United Nations . " Boats Maneuver Near Cutter WASHINGTON , April 26 ( AP ) ? The Defense Department reported that two Cdcan gunboats " engaged in maneuvers " today near a United States Coast Guard cutter . The cutter had been sent out to investigate a report of a AIMOCIlite4 Press Wirephoto TELLS OF RAID : Alexander I. Rorke dr. reports in Washington yesterday on alleged bombing of Cuba . small boat in distress in the Florida Strait . Two F-8U planes were sent from Key West , Fla. , after the cutter reported the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the maneuvers were discontinued , " an announcement said . Reports indicated no shots had been fired , and a Pentagon spokesman said the gunboats ' actions were not characterized as hostile . The incident took place shortly before 2 P.M , about 30 miles northeast of Havana . In a speech before an antiCommunist meeting here , Alexander I. Rorke Jr . said that he took part in the bombing raid over Cuba last night . He said that while he filmed the scene , crewmen lighted homemade bombs with their cigars and dropped them into a refinery area . According to Mr. Rorke , the explosives went off , but he did not say that any damage had been done to the oil tanks at which the bombs were aimed . Rorke Active Against Castro For several years Alexander I. Rorke Jr . has been strongly opposed to the Castro regime , and he has engaged in active , anti-Castro operations . In 1961 he was a passenger in one of two planes that dropped several hundred thousand anti-Castro leaflets over Camaguey in eastern Cuba . Last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had been used repeatedly in Cuban exile operations , often , he said , with the advance knowledge of the United States Government . Mr. Rorke , whose father is Alexander I. Rorke , an Appeals Court judge in New York City , was graduated from St. John 's University . During World War II he served in the European theater with the 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment and the First Constabulary Squadron as an intelligence specialist .                     