@@722254

txt The countdown proIceeded smoothly today for to'morrow 's attempt to send Lieut . ' Col. John H. Glenn Jr . on a three-orbit journey around the earth . On the eve of his flight , ' the , 140-year-old marine expressed , his views on the project . The astronaut said he recognized that , inevitably , there ' were risks involved in the flight . ' But he said he wanted the nation to push ahead with its space program regardless of what happened to him . Take-off time for the Atlas missile that is scheduled to boost the Project Mercury capsule and its test pilot into space has been set for 7:30 A. M. However , project officials are prepared to launch the astronaut as late as 12:30 P. M. if the countdown is delayed because of technical troubles or because of bad weather here or , in the designated landing areas ' at sea . The cut-off time is dictated by the desire to provide at least , , three hours of daylight for the ; recovery of the astronaut . Twenty-four Navy ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cap- , sule and pick up Colonel Glenn. ! If the take-off is delayed past 9:30 A. M. , the plan is to ; bring down the capsule after two , instead of three , orbits . If the count drags past 11 A. M .. the mission is to be limited to one orbit . Weather at the cape was perfect for today 's launching of a Ranger 3 spacecraft carrying what it was hoped would be the first instruments to be landed on the moon . The rocket drifted off course , however . The forecast for tomorrow was for continued good weather both here and in the astronaut recovery zones . Only tv. -o huroa ns , b. ; th Russians , Maj. Yuri A. Gagarin and Maj. Glierman S. Titov. have been rocketed into orbit . so far as is known . Two Americans , Comdr . Alan B. Shepard Jr . and Capt . Virgil . I. Grissom. have made 300-mile sub-orbital rocket trips . Colonel Glenn 's views were ling by Lieut . Col. John A. Powers , Project Mercury spokesman . The spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Colonel Glenn had expressed concern that his outlook be understood . He said that Colonel Glenn , while realizing that everything possible was being done to ensure a safe flight , wanted everyone to realize that there was a risk involved , and that he was aware of that risk . Asked whether the astronaut meant by his statement that , no matter what happened , he wanted the space program to continue , Colonel Powers said : " That was the sense of it , yes. , , The fact that Colonel Glenn took pains to convey his feelings did not seem unusual to those who have observed him through earlier phases of the Mercury program . He is an articulate man , the oldest of the seven astronauts , and the one who has seemed to be the leader and customary spokesman for the group . He has been through many dangers before , in fifty-nine combat missions in World War II , sixty-three more in the Korean war , during which he downed three enemy planes , and countless flights as a Marine test pilot . Attends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so do his wife and two teen-age children . Many things could go wrong on a Mercury orbital flight . But the possibility that worried most observers was that the three retro or braking rockets to bring him out of orbit would fail to fire . Each rocket can be fired in three ways  --  by a tinier on board , by the pilot , or from the ground . Firing of only one would be enough to bring the capsule down , though the landing area would probably be far from the main recovery zones . There are differences of opinion among Mecury engineers as to how long the capsule would stay in orbit ifall three rockets failed completely . Some say it would come down well within twenty-four hours . And since there is enough oxygen and carbon dioxide remover on board to last twenty-four hours , the astronaut would survive . But others feel the capsule could stay aloft as much as a week or ten days . Several modifications in the flight plan and equipment were disclosed today for the first time . Under the cockpit panel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rubber band . " The astronaut will be called upon to exercise periodically , pulling on the rubber band like an oarsman on his oars . Blood pressure will be measured to see how a pilot is affected by exertions under conditions of weightlessness . Tiny red lights have been installed on the index and middle fingertips of the astronaut 's space-suit gloves . These , powered by small wrist batteries , would enable him to see his instrument panel in case normal lights failed while he was in the ( forty-five-minute cycle on the dark side of the globe . Finally , an additional visual experiment has been added . A tracking ship in the Indian Ocean will send up flares by balloons . These will be ignited at an altitude of 30,000 feet as the astronaut sails overhead on his second orbit . Colonel Glenn will be asked whether he can see them through the picture window in his capsule .                     