@@722481

txt SOCHI , Soviet Union , June 4 ( AP )  --  Russian officials began getting sticky tonight with Benny Goodman and his orchestra in Sochi , Black sea resort which is a favorite holiday place of Premier Nikita Khrushchev . Appeals went off to Moscow , and it was hoped that things would be smoothed over . However , the Russians appeared to be determined not to let any foreigners record the Goodman good will tour for television and other reproduction . New restrictions bobbed up here after Goodman 's opening concerts in . Moscow last week were well received and applauded by Khrushchev . The change in attitude was abrupt . Gag U. S. Translator First , the Russians ordered R. C. A.-Victor officials to stop recording tonight 's perform-ance , the second here . Then the Russians ordered Terrence F. Catherman of Dearborn , Mich. , embassy cultural officer , to stop translating Goodman 's remarks on stage . hey said the translating had to be done by one of their own translators . Third , the Russians cracked , down on the band members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hundreds pushed their way to the stage door and were rewarded with buttons last night . Policemen held back the crowd as . the orchestra came out tonight . When the band 's singer , Joya Sherrill , ignored the policemen and banded out buttons from the orchestra bus , a policeman angrily ordered the bus driver to start for the hotel immediately . New Theater officials here and in Moscow said that the ministry of culture must give ' written permission before any reebrdings of the Goodman concerts may be made . Embassy officials said they expect written permission to arrive tomorrow . R. C. A.-Victor , which has a contract with Goodman , began recording the performances even tho written permission had not yet arrived . They had planned to continue recording when they were s ud d e n1 y stopped . The Russians also are refusing to allow an American TV camera crew to accompany the band on its tour .                     