@@724188

txt Washington As the Democratic platform hearings moved to Atlantic City , following presentations by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , Negro rights leaders , farm officials , and top physi cists , this much was clear so far : The administration is permitting its secretaries of state and defense  --  who are usually more aloof from campaign politics than other Cabinet officials ? to take strongly partisan stances in their platform appearances . The administration was stressing not only peace and preparedness but also ? in its Washington presentations ? abundant prosperity , virtually a " you never had it so good " theme . Top administration spokesmen  --  Secretary of the Treasury C. Douglas Dillon , and Walter Heller , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers ? . predicted continuing high prosperity lasting well into 1965 . Another tax cut , on excise levies , was predicted for next year , to be followed , if prosperity continued , with an income tax cut . But some spokesmen before the platform committee stressed another theme , labeled " unfinished business . " R. Sargent Shriver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said the poverty program was ready to move into high gear as soon as Congress appropriates the money . He asked volunteers to sign up . George Meany , AFL-CIO president , commended the administration for bringing home to the nation the problem of poverty but added : " Four years ago I came before the platform committee to talk about unemployment . . . . I pointed out that the jobless rate had been 5 percent for nearly three years . It is still at that level four years later . " But Mr. Meany said the Republican platform , as written , showed hardly any specifics as to how the GOP would remedy unemployment or poverty . On the economic front , Mr. Heller said he looked forward to a gross national product of $640 billion to $650 billion in the first quarter of 1965 . He said the average American since 1961 has gained $300 in personal income after taxes .                     