@@721288

txt Stone-throwing demonstrators imprisoned James C. Hagerty , Ambassador Douglas 2d and Thomas E. Stephens , White House appointments secretary in their limousine for hn hour and twenty minutes yesterday at the Haneda International Airport . The three men were rescued in a United States Marine Corps helicopter with great difficulty . Mr. Hagerty , the White House press secretary , said afterward plans for President Eisenhower to visit Japan June 19 to 22 remained unchanged despite the anti-American fanaticism by Japanese at the airport . In Washington , some observers said the attack might mobilize Japanese public opinion against the demonstrators and promote restraint for the President 's visit . Forecast by Leftists The . demonstration against Mr. Hagerty , which had been forecast for more than a week by the Leftist leaders , was the first among recent protests in which an anti-American tone was predominant . The Leftists have hitherto stressed their opposition to the Government of Premier Nobusuke Kishi and the new Japanese-United States security treaty . They had warned that the Government 's determination to bring President Eisenhower here would convert the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . Snake dancing demonstrators under red banners surged past the United States Em ; bassy Saturday , The Assts. : ciated Press reported . About 8,000 police massed against a threat to storm Parliament and Premier Kishi 's residence as the Leftists stepped up their efforts to force the resignation of Mr. Kishi and force President Eisenhower to cancel his visit to Japan . According to statements ' by the giant Japanese Left-Wing labor federation , and Zengakuren , the radical national // ' COPIER RESCUES THREE U. S. AIDES Plans for Eisenhower Visit on June 19 Unchanged ? Press Aide Scores Reds // student organization , the airport demonstration was a curtainraiser to what is planned for President Eisenhower 's arrival . The black 1956 Cadillac in which the three Americans were riding was halted about a halfmile from the airport terminal building , where Mr. Hagerty had arrived a few minutes earlier , by a truck parkc .. ? d across the narrow exit road . Instantly , the vehicle was surrounded by a throng of Leftist students and unionists from a crowd of protest marchers estimated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a shower of stones , which cracked windows on both sides and dented the body . Mr. Hagerty said later that the demonstrators had attempted to slash the tires and overturn the car . Unsuccessful in this , they swarmed on top of the vehicle , partly caving in the roof and hood . The five occupants , who included a Japanese driver and a United States Secret Service man in the front seat , kept the doors locked and the windows rolled up . There was no attempt to open the doors or to harm those inside after the first stoning . At a whistled signal from a leader the students and unionists withdrew slightly from the limousine , but kept it surrounded . United States Embassy officials and Secret Service men rushed from other cars in the caravan , which were not molested , and formed an inner human barrier around the Ambassador 's automobile . The United States flag flying at the front of the Ambassador 's car disappeared early , along with the chromium standard . Meanwhile , the helicopter had been summoned by portable radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Marine helicopter pilot to land on near-by airplane taxiways and grassy areas . Mr. Hagerty and the others sat calmly . Mr. Hagerty was observed taking pictures of the demonstrators with a Japanese miniature camera . With a cigarette dangling from his lips , he scribbled on a pad . The scene was a sea of red flags bearing the names of the Communist and Socialist parties , various powerful labor unions and student organizations , and placards carrying English-language slogans such as " Ike and U-2 not to Japan , " " We dislike Ike , " " Take back your bases " and " Remember Hiroshima . " The gray-clad Japanese policemen were summoned from the airport terminal and other near-by points . Their ranks swelled from the original 500 to 1,700 . The police were ineffectual , however , before the well-drilled efforts of the demonstrators to hold the Ambassador 's car immovable and to keep the circling helicopter from landing . Piloted by Maj. Don Foss of Sioux Falls , S. D. , the big helicopter drew dangerously close to the heads of the swarming demonstrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dust , which only momentarily disconcerted the mob . Finally , sufficient space was cleared for the machine to land about fifty feet from the imprisoned limousine . Two double lines of policemen formed a lane from car to helicopter . The Ambassador , Mr. Hagerty and Mr. Stephens were rushed to the open door of the helicopter cabin . They pushed and pulled each other aboard , and the machine rose vertically the instant they had scrambled inside the still-open door . The helicopter landed a few minutes later at a site leased from the Japanese Government at Hardy Barracks , a former United States military base near the United States Embassy . The three passengers proceeded by car to the Embassy . The Ambassador and the two guests eluded a crowd of 8,000 demonstrators at the Embassy by entering through the rear entrance . When Mr. Hagerty 's presence inside became known several hundred Zengakuren members attempted without success to push through a heavy police guard . The crowd chanted anti-American slogans late into the night . The police announced that twenty-eight policemen and three students had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unruffled by the riot , at a news conference in the embassy three hours after the escape . " It was obvious that the demonstration was carefully planned by a group of professional organizers , " he said in a prepared statement . " The singing of the Internationale as they stoned , shattered the windows , cut the tires , and tried to overturn the Ambassador 's car in which we were riding , " he said , " suggests that they may not even owe their allegiance to Japan . Or at least it raises that question . " " We are sure that the demonstration in no way reflects the feelings and attitudes of the great majority of the Japanese people , for whom the American people have the warmest feelings of friendship , " Mr. Hagerty said . Ambassador said that a Vice Foreign Minister had conveyed personally to him ? the apologies of Premier Kishi and Foreign Minister Aiichiro Fujiyama , who were in the Diet ( Parliament ) for a debate on ratification of the new security treaty . At an emergency meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regrettable . " The nation 's newspapers ran strong editorials condemning the demonstrators . Mr. Hagerty indicated that details of President Eisenhower 's itinerary in Japan might be changed for security reasons after his conulstations with Japanese officials . However , he declared : " I can not think that the Japanese people will permit the President of the United States to be caught in a bind similar to the one we were caught in today . He will be a guest of Japan . I would assume that the ser7rity measures taken for ' the President will be satisfactorily handled by the Japanese Government and the Japanese police . " Mr. Hagerty confessed to some apprehension for the personal safety of himself and the others when the demonstrators struck . He remarked that he had been in hostile demonstrations before , notably in Montevideo , Uruguay , but that today 's was " the biggest " he had experienced . " I have an opinion , or hunch , that the overwhelming opinion of the people of Japan will be very much against such demonstrations , " Mr. Hagerty declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business that I am in , of the weight of public opinion . " Mr. Hagerty said that he hoped to leave here tonight and to join President Eisenhower in Anchorage , Alaska , the first stop on the President 's journey to the Philippines , Taiwan , Japan and Korea .                     