@@726423

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 17 Letters to the Editor of The Times Jerusalem 's Site To the Editor : The July 13 editorial entitled " The U.N . and Jerusalem " may give the impression that Israel is proposing arrangements for the holy places of some faiths and not for others . There is nothing in our policy or in our statements which warrants such an assumption . Our stated policy is to reach agreement for bringing the holy places of all faiths under the responsibility of those who hold them sacred . Any arrangements worked out with those concerned for the Christian holy places would be accompanied by corresponding arrangements for the holy places of other faiths as well . At present the Moslem places of worship in Jerusalem are in the custody of the same Moslem authority that had previously administered them . The Government of Israel is ready to confer with the representatives of universal Moslem interests in order to give effect to the principles which we have formulated and published for the holy places in general . GIDEON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations New York , July 13 , 1967 ? Services for Minorities To the Editor : Your editorial on neighborhood city halls ( July 7 ) is timely but sketchy . It misses the potential inherent in a locally based , nonpolitical mediating agent ? between the individual and the social welfare-oriented state . It is true that , given the complex structure of private and public social agencies , there is a need for information resources based within walking distance of the individual . The emphasis in experimental forms , however , should be on such service for the poor , specifically , in New York , Negroes and Puerto Ricans ( e.g. , Kingsbridge Welfare Center Information Center ) . It is this segment of New York 's population that is most disoriented , that is in need of information as to services , rights , procedures and techniques of negotiating with agencies and government . Moreover , what is needed , as in Mobilization for Youth service centers , is emphasis on active individual advocacy , because information on services and rights is useless where the knowledge can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopelessly mired bureaucracies ( Welfare , Buildings Department , private placement agencies ) often become obstacles themselves to service . By keeping the service free of political affiliation , Negro and Puerto Rican groups will be able to break their dependence on Democratic or Republican party clubhouse politicians , hence exercise more leverage in political action through independent political stances . JUAN D. GONZALEZ Director of Neighborhood Information Center Program to Activate Community Talent New York , July 7 , 1967 City Police Procedures To the Editor : I would like to draw your attention to an amazing and frustrating experience with the New York City police which recently befell me . It reveals features of police procedure which facilitate criminal actions perpetrated against visitors to your city . Jan. 6 was the last day of my long stay in the city . On that day I was beaten up and robbed by four youths from the neighborhood , two of whom I knew . My shock and confusion were such that when reporting this to the police I was unable to get myself to identify them . Three hours later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I attempted to take the matter up at the United States Embassy , but was informed that nothing could be done . Ten days ago I returned to the United States , and went to the Ninth Precinct in order to identify the persons concerned and to press charges . The detective in charge of the case ( Detective Murray ; case 61-274-233 ) , was not on duty , and I was asked to come back in a week 's time and talk to him . I did so , but he " had been called away . " . Another detective took down the names and addresses I gave him , but could not tell me how further to press the matter . He did not regard the six months ' delay as serious under the circumstances . However he told me that on the grave charges I wished to bring ( felonious assault , robbery with violence , demanding money with menaces , etc. ) , nothing could be done because I was only going to be in the United States for six weeks . The outrageous implications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against such crimes . Indeed , the people who robbed me knew that I was leaving and thought they would therefore get away with it . The police are proving them correct . MICHAEL M. BROIDO Fellow of Magdalen College , Oxford Waltham , Mass. , June 26 , 1967 ? Tribute to Zilliacus To the Editor : I am deeply disturbed by the tone and content of your July 7 news obituary of that great and gentle man Konni Zilliacus . It is not accurate to depict him , as you do , as a persistent adherent to pro-Soviet views . His proficiency in the diplomatic and linguistic arts gave him special responsibilities in dealing with the Soviet Union during his tenure in the League of Nations . Strength and Integrity He took the view , which many responsible persons share in retrospect , that the Soviets should have been welcomed into the international community , if for no other reason than to assist in the fight against Fascism . He excoriated not only the American decision not to join the league but the decisions of all of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascist aggression in the period between the wars . In the immediate postwar period Zilliacus used his contacts in Eastern Europe to encourage participation by the Eastern European states in United Nations recovery programs and later in the Marshall Plan . This conduct on his part , which was later to be cited by the Soviets as evidence that Zilliacus was a " capitalist spy , " is not mentioned in your obituary . You also fail to mention that Zilliacus supported the Titoist break with the Soviet Union , a move which led to bitter denunciations of him by Soviet leaders . Not until 1956. when Khrushchev was in London , was Zilliacus spoken civilly to by any Soviet official . It is impossible in brief compass to speak fully of the qualities of eloquence , gentleness , strength and integrity which made Konni Zilliacus respected not only in Britain , but , to an even greater extent , abroad . He was , of course , a socialist , for he believed that only with public ownership of the means of production could the scourges of poverty and war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he believed without exception that public debate and tolerance of different views are indispensable . Zilliacus had also the qualities of personal greatness  --  humor , kindliness , generosity , practical wisdom  --  which those of us whose lives he touched will not soon forget . MICHAEL E. TIGAR Washington , July 7 , 1967 ? Mexico 's Human , Rights Guarantees To the Editor : An editorial entitled " Land of Paradox " published on July 10 contains this statement : " Mexico has no habeas corpus , but she can fairly be said to live under the rule of law . " Mexico has a juridical procedure to protect the liberties of the individual similar to the habeas corpus named the Juicio Constitutional de Amparo . Our democratic civilizations require respect for the individual and a recognition of the liberties essential to man , who must be protected by juridical instruments before the existing courts established for the purpose of guaranteeing the defense of such liberties . In the United States the rights specified in the Bill of Rights and the amendments to the Constitution are guaranteed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prohibition and injunction . Our Mexican Constitution of 1917 reaffirms the rights essential to the individual and implements them through the Juicio de Amparo . Since the Constitution of 1857 the Juicio de Amparo created HUNGARIAN RAIN Watertalk voices on my roof declaim Down the loud chute to iron lilacs And murmur into the mute of whey And caved-in snowbanks , Magyar lingo from my mother 's Homeland . I hear , I recognize But do not understand . Listen , she says , reaching my hand Under a melancholy cloud , And teaches me by touch how dreams Go down the drain . EDMUND PENNANT the means to maintain the sti= premacy of the Constitution .. Article 101 of the Constitution of 1857 left no doubt as to the definite recognition of the . ' 0,1-1t of Amparo as one of our Xarklamental iegai institutions Wmcn enables the federal courts to intervene in disputes emanating from laws or acts committed by the authorities , including , frir the first time , members of the judiciary . The first 29 articles of the Constitution of 1857 enumerate all the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights were mentioned in our earlier Constitution . The Constituent Assembly , of Queretaro , which enacted in 1917 our current Constitution , approved the articles on human rights of 1857 and added others of social significance . Every person in Mexico is entitled to protection from any illegal act ; HUGO B. MARGAIN Ambassador of Mexico to the United States Washington , July 10 , 1967 ? Abused Parks To the Editor : Ann Buttenwieser of the Council for Parks and Playgrounds as well as August Heckscher and Thomas Hoving should spare us their meaningless categories of " nineteenth vs. twentieth-century " in the current controversy over Cen , tral Park . I am sure they all have traveled and are well aware that London , Paris , Athens , Zurich , Mexico City  --  indeed , all big cities today in the twentieth century  --  have glorious parks which are havens of tranquillity for the population , extremely well-kept although used intensively . Only New York offers a sea of broken glass and beer cans , worn grass , dying trees , Car ment , drunks and degenerates  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twentiethcentury " dream of beauty , not by means of planting and gals , dening , but by more and more publicity stunts . If this be nineteenth-century thinking , make the most of it . EUGENE VICTOR THAW New York , July 5 , 1967 . ? Tshombe 's Detention ' To the Editor : Permit me to commend your reasoned editorial of July .. 5 relative to Moise Tshombe , former Premier of the Congo . As you point out , his recent kidnapping and detention in Algeria defy all canons of international law ; and if he is now deported to his own country for summary execution it would be a tragic miscarriage of justice . Whatever his faults , Mr. Tshombe has proved himself to be an opponent of Communism in Africa and a man who has worked for collaboration between the nations of that continent and the West . It is to be hoped that the United States Government , which still offers food to Algeria and gives considerable foreign aid to the Congo , will exert its influence on Mr. Tshombe 's behalf . JOHN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    