@@727640

txt Proposals ranging from outright revocation of tax exemption to the ' reliance on a voluntary code of ethics to prevent abuses were made today as the House Ways and Means Committee opened hearings on taxexempt foundations . A bitter attack on foundations came from Representative Wright Patman , Democrat of Texas , the committee 's first witness . Mr. Patman , a long-time foundation critic , proposed imposition of a flat 20 per cent tax on all foundation income , except contributions . He said that to be able to afford to pay these taxes foundations would only need to give up what he termed " foundation foolishness "  --  the making of grants for " the development of trivia into nonsense . " As an example of such a grant he cited a study financed by the Bollingen Foundation into " the origin and signifiContinued cance of the decorative types of medieval tombstones in Bosnia and Herzegovina . " The BollIngen Foundation is " a creation . of the Mellon banking family of Pittsburgh , " Mr. Patman said , and " if the Mel-1 Ions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . that is the Mellons ' affair . " " However , " he continued , " there is no obligation upon either the Congress or the American citizenry to give the Mellons tax-free dollars to finance their exotic interests . " The operating expenses of some foundations , as well as the subject-matter of their grants came under criticism from Mr. Patman . The foUnda-. tions will be given opportunity to state their positions later in the hearings . Mr. Patman said that the Ford Foundation spent $446 , - 262 for public relations in 1967 and that the Rockefeller Foundation poured $5-million " into the upkeep of its elegant offices in New York " in 1966 . He said that studies made by his Small Business Subcommittee , which has been investigating foundations for eight years , indicated that imposing a 20 per cent tax on the gross income of foundations would raise $200-million annually . Mr. Patman also proposed that no foundation be permitted to own more than 3 per cent of the stock of any corporation and that foundations be required to disburse all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came from Lawrence F. Stone , professor of law at the University of California at Berkeley , who was a principal staff assistant in the preparation of the Treasury Department 's report on foundations in 1965 . Mr. Stone said that he endorsed all of the various recommendations against self-dealing between foundations and their creators , disbursement of earnings , and so on , contained in this report . Greater Policing Backed But he went beyond the Treasury 's recommendations in proposing more extensive policing of foundation activities and additional penalties for improper activities . At present , Mr. Stone noted , the Government can do nothing to a foundation that is found to be violating the law except revoke its tax-exempt status . But this may not serve the public interest , he contended . Those who gave the funds to create the foundation in the first place have already , long since , taken their contributions as deductions , he said . Mr. Stone said that the proper remedy would be court action to remove the erring foundation trustees and appointment of new trustees or court orders to compel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not endorse voluntary self-regulation by foundations , which was proposed by several of the day 's witnesses , on the ground that the very foundations most in need of regulation would not voluntarily submit to it . Voluntary self-policing might be established , however , he said , provided the Government retained the right to police those who did not join the vol untary organization . This is al system of regulation that is used in the securities business . Alan Pifer , president of the Carnegie Corporation , one of the nation 's largest foundations , appealed for mandatory disclosure of foundation activities as a condition of tax-exemption . Mr. Pifer said that of 249 foundations with assets of more than $10-million , less than onequarter issued regular public reports . His own foundation does . Mr. Pifer said that the reports should , at a minimum , list the trustees and senior staff of each foundation ; the recipients , amounts and purposes of grants ; the foundation 's investments ; details of its administrative expenses , and possibly financial information on any business the foundation controls . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an organization that advises mostly small foundations , objected to most of the proposals for stricter control made by the Treasury Department in 1965 . He was scolded for his refusal to endorse any mandatory controls by Representative John C. Watts , Democrat of Kentucky , who is often a key " swing vote " in the committee . " There is an increasing feeling here in Congress that voluntary controls are not going to be enough , " Mr. Watts , mentioning in particular what he , felt was the need for " full public disclosure " of foundation activities . " I think we 've gone down the road of hush-hush treatment as far as we 're going to go , " the Kentucky Representative said .                     