@@724656

txt President Johnson offered tonight to mobilize the Alabama National Guard to protect the Selma-to-Montgomery marchers next week . In rejecting a request by Gov . George C. Wallace for " federal civilian forces " to police the demonstration , the President pointed out that the Governor could mobilize the Guard if he felt such protection was needed , He then said that If the Governor did not do so , and conditions warranted , he would call up the Guard himself . In Montgomery , Governor Wallace told a joint session of the Alabama Legislature of his request to President Johnson . After he spoke , the Legislature adopted a resolution calling the protest march " asinine and ridiculous : ' Page 20 . Delays Ranch Trip The President 's statement was made to a hastily summoned news conference in his White House office at 10:15 o'clock tonight . He had delayed his departure for a weekend at his ranch in Texas because of the developments in the Alabama situation . The President first read reporters a telegram he had received from Governor Wallace , at 8:48 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum security for the march which had ' been authorized by a Federal Court the state would need the services of more than 6,000 men , 489 vehicles , 15 buses and necessary supporting units . The President 's statement said : " The questions raised by the Selma-Montgomery march were submitted to the court in Montgomery , Ala . Cites Court 's Ruling " That court , with an Alabama judge sitting , after hearing all of the evidence , including evi- , dence as to the problems of protecting marchers , determined that a march should be permitted and that the marchers should be protected . " The Federal Government does not have civilian personnel approaching the figure suggested by Governor Wallace . However , Governor Wallace has at his disposal over 10,000 trained members of the Alabama Na- ' tional Guard which he could call into service . " If he is unable or unwilling to call up the Guard , and to maintain law and order in Alabama , I will call the Guard up and give them all the support that may be required . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , General Katzenbach bto contact : Captain Painter and supply him : with this information . " Governor Wallace 's wire to the President said : " Dear Mr. President . " With regard to the order of the Federal District Court for .. ! the Middle District or Alabama , providing a plan for the so- , called march from Selma , Ala. , to Montgomery , Ala. , the Department of Public Safety of the state of Alabama advises me that the following personnel will he required in order to provide maximum security for the march : 6.171 men , 489 vehicles . 15 buses . not including . support units . " The state of Alabama has available 300 state troopers , and approximately 150 officers of the Department of Conservation and Alcoholic Beverage Control Department for use in accordance with the order of the Federal Court , " I respectfully request that the United States provide sufficient Federal civil authorities or officers to provide for the safety and welfare of citizens in and along the proposed march route and to provide for the safety and welfare of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Safety of the state of Alabama are available to confer with your appropriate agencies . " The appropriate liaison officer being Capt . W. B. Painter , Department of Public Safety , Montgomery , Ala . " Respectfully , " George C. Wallace , " Governor of Alabama . " The President said he had conferred during the evening with Attorney General Nicholas deB . Katzenbach on Governor Wallace 's request . The Attorney General had to be called to the telephone from an evening session of the House Judiciary Committee , where he was testifying on the votingrights bill , which went to Congress yesterday . The President left immediately after the meeting with reporters to board a helicopter en the White House lawn to ge , to his waiting plane at Andrews Air Force Base . The plane took off for Texas . at 10:47 P. M.                     