@@726957

txt Senator Mike Mansfield urged the Administration today to give preference to " escalating our peace efforts " over expected military requests for more American troops in Vietnam . In a speech to the Senate , the majority leader called for a trial suspension of American air attacks against North Vietnam " as a step toward peace . " This is " preferable , " he contended , to heeding " the insatiable calls for more men as the war spreads and intensifies . " The Montana Democrat said any limitation of the air campaign " would not and should not weaken the air support " for American forces just south of the demilitarized buffer zone between North and South Vietnam , especially the marine positions at Khesanh . Debate on the Floor Senator Mansfield 's speech came as an endorsement of a statement by Secretary General Thant of what Mr. Mansfield called " the reasonable belief that talks could begin shortly after the United States calls off the bombing of North Vietnam . " The United Nations official made the statement on Saturday . The Mansfield speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic whip , said he considered Mr. Mansfield 's proposal a bad mistake . " The American people arc getting disgusted of this talk of a pause , or pulling your punches when the enemy is slugging you , " he declared . " I for one hope General Westmoreland will be provided with all the troops he requests . " " As much as I hate to see a single American boy die , someone has to fight , " the Louisianan said . " The boys in my generation did , and the boys in this generation will , too . " J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , demanded that President Johnson consult Congress before making any decision to commit more troops to Vietnam . George Murphy , Republican of California , retorted that " the time has not only come , but passed , that the military decisions should be left to the military . " Jack R. Miller , Republican of Iowa , declared his opposition to increasing American troop strength in Vietnam until President Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum use . Senator Mansfield and others treated it as a foregone conclusion that Gen. Earle G. Wheeler , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , would present a request to President Johnson for up to 100,000 more American troops when he returns here on Wednesday from an inspection trip to Vietnam . Meeting on Troops Held - Mr. Mansfield said he had no information that the White House had reached a decision yet . But Gen. William C. Westmoreland , the American commander in Saigon , was reported yesterday to have said that " additional United States troops , may be required " beyond the ' total of about 525,000 men now scheduled to be in Vietnam by July 1 . The Joint Chiefs of Staff are already reported to have recommended mobilization of 40,000 to 50,000 men . They met this afternoon with Secretary of Defense Robert S. and the three civilian Secretaries of the armed services , presumably to discuss Vietnam troop needs in the wake of recent enemy offensives . In a statement issued late today , Senator John Sherman Cooper said proposals to enThe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam " would undoubtedly lead to a further involvement by North Vietnam , Communist China and the Soviet Union . " The Kentucky Republican , in a move apparently aimed at supporting Senator Mansfield 's calls for peace initiatives , urged that the Foreign Relations Committee open hearings on " the procedures , terms and means " by which peace negotiations could be started . Mr. Cooper 's proposal followed a suggestion yesterday by Senator Fullbright for a " full-scale re-examination of the purposes and objectives of our policy in Vietnam " by the Foreign Relations Committee and Congress . Secretary of State Dean Rusk , talking with newsmen today after testifying before a House Appropriations subcommittee , brushed aside Senator Fulbright 's proposal . " I thought we had been in a careful and continuing re-examination at all stages of the fighting in Vietnam , " he said .                     