@@727787

txt Leaders of the Liberal party yesterday endorsed Mayor Lindsay 's running mates , Sanford D. Garelik , a Democrat , for City Council President and Fioravante G. Perrotta , a Republican , for Controller . The endorsements are expected to be ratified by the party 's citywide convention , which on Wednesday voted 276 to 36 to support Mayor Lindsay for re-election . The delegates are to reconvene this morning . On the Democratic side of the tangled mayoral race , the party 's Bronx organization yesterday endorsed Controller Mario A. Procaccino by a vote of 48 to 2 . Mr. Procaccino has six competitors for his party 's mayoral nomination in the June 17 primary . The Bronx organization also endorsed . City Council President Francis X. Smith , Mr. Pixieaccino 's running mate for Council President , and former Controller Abraham D. Beame for Controller . Mr. Beame said through a spokesman that he would run independent of any party slate . Two hours after the Liberal convention reassembles this morning , the party 's citywide executive committee will meet to authorize the Lindsay-Garelik-Perrotta ticket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lindsay 's not having a Liberal on his ticket , the Liberal leaders asked for and the Mayor agreed to the establishment of a Fusion Advisory Council to advise him on how " to further the aims of a fusion , good - government administration . " The Rev. Dr. Donald S. Harrington , the Liberal state chairman , told a news conference at the Americana that the council would be established " as soon as practicable " and that it would include Republicans , Democrats , Liberals and independents . lie said the council would , meet regularly and that P.s advice to the Mayor would seelz " to strengthen the quality of municipal administration , to in- , sure the success of the next , fusion administration and to work for the continuous prog- , ress of our city . " Dr. Harrington said it would take time to find " the right kind of people who basically support the concept of fusion , " that that he expected the council " to be operative " after the June 17 primary , and possibly before . Candidates Interviewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a subcommittee of the party 's policy committee , which includes its top leaders , had interviewed Mr. Garelik and Mr. Perrotta and discussed with the Mayor the formation of the Fusion Advisory Council . The state chairman said the subcommittee , authorized to act for the full policy committee , had decided to recom- ' mend Mr. Lindsay 's running mates to the convention " after considering various alternatives , " including requests of others for endorsements . He identified the others as Councilman Robert A. Low and Assemblyman Charles E. Rangel , candidates for the Democratic nomination for Council President , and State Senator Harrison J. Goldin who seeks the Democratic nomination for Controller . The decision of the policy committee to endorse Mr. Garelik and Mr. Perrotta is expected to be approved by the convention and the executive committee . The convention has already voted to bar any nonmember of the Liberal party aside from Mr. Lindsay from the Liberal Mayoralty primary . This move also is expected to be approved by the executive committee . Then only an enrolled Liberal could challenge any of the Lindsay slate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was , " gratifying " and he believedl the fusion council should be " formalized as soon as possible . " He told the news conference he expected " a very difficult fight " in the Republican primary , where he is opposed by State Senator John J. Marchi and Assemblyman Vito P. Battista . The Bronx Democratic organization 's endorsement of Mr. Procaccino had been expected since he is a resident of that county and has strong support there . The Staten Island ( Richmond ) Democratic organization has endorsed Representative John M. Murphy of that county for Mayor . Brooklyn , Queens and Manhattan have yet to act . Civil Court Judge William Kapelman , who was backed by the Bronx Democratic organization for Borough President , announced yesterday that he had resigned from the bench to run for that office . Opposing him for the Democratic nomination is Assemblyman Robert Abrams , a Reform Democrat . Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo is seeking the mayoral nomination .                     