@@725921

txt Mayor Lindsay disavowed yesterday any intention to seek advancement to a higher political office in 1968 . He pledged again to serve his full four years as Mayor to " do the best job I can for the people of the City of New York . " A questioner at the Mayor 's news conference said that with Tuesday 's elections out of the way , the national focus was on the Presidential election of 1968 , and asked if Mr. Lindsay would consider seeking the Republican nomination for President or Vice President . " Thanks for the compliment , but no thanks , " the Mayor said as he blinked into the glare of camera lights in the front of the cluttered reception room . But he went on to hail the results of Tuesday 's election as bringing moderate Republicans to the front all over the country for future consideration . Later yesterday , at the other end of City Hall , City Council President Frank D. O'Connor , back after his defeat Tuesday as the Democratic candidate for Governor , relaxed at his desk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city government . He told reporters he would move soon to have an independent study made of the city government designed to lead to 3. broad reorganization . The changes he wants , Mr. O'Con- said , might require either a , inv Charter or revisions in the gent Charter . The Council President 's role the city government , Mr. /Connor declared , should be ... rengthened . He also felt , he that the Borough Presi ( Lents should have restored to tIlem some of the powers they lost in the current Charter , in effect since Jan. 1 , 1963 . The Republican Mayor and the Democratic second-in-command exchanged persdnal compliments . Mr. Lindsay said he looked forward to a continuing " very cordial relationship " with Mr. O'Connor . The Council President reciprocated with : " I like John Lindsay . I 've said that I 'll support him when he 's right and I 'll continue to do so . " Mayor Lindsay , in his news conference , indicated he would press soon again for Board of Estimate and City Council consideration of his neighborhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he doubted if there had been any lessening of the sharp opposition by the board and the Council to the little city halls . The Council ? resident said , however , he would " talk to the Mayor about it . " A neighborhood city hall is virtually a branch of the Mayor 's office in a local area . Although money for these offices was deleted from the 1966-67 budget by the board and the Council , the Mayor , with private assistance , succeeded in opening two such offices . One is at 715 Riverdale Avenue East New York ; the other is at 259 Bristol Street , Brownsville , both Brooklyn . " People are making good use of these offices , " Mr. Lindsay The New York Times Mayor Lindsay at City ; clan news conference yesterday . said . " They are a real bridge to the city government . I hope the entire neighborhood city hall program can go forward . " On the local scene also , the Mayor ver:fied reports that Sanitation Commissioner Joseph F. Periconi wanted to resign from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Lindsay said , before allegations of bribery became public last month in the scandal-torn department . The Mayor said he would not accept the resignation for the time being because he wanted Mr. Periconi 's aid in reorganizing the department . Mr. Lindsay hinted that he might find another job in the city administration for Mr. Periconi . Last night Mr. Periconi said " reports of my leaving the Sanitation Department are true . " He said , however , he would be " happy " to stay a while to assist with the dpeartmental reorganization . Mr. Periconi 's aide and longtime friend , First Deputy Commissioner Vincent A. Starace , was discharged by the Mayor two weeks ago from his $17,500-a-year job for refusing to cooperate with an inquiry into charges of alleged payoffs for promotions . Mr. O'Connor , in advocating needed changes in the city government structure , said the present Charter might have been drawn " too hastily . " The Mayor 's veto power , the budget process and the powers of the City Council , Mr. O'Connor asserted , would be appropriate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he declared , that the study be made by a qualified outside organization rather than by the Council itself . He hoped , he said , that " an impartial , nonpolitical body , " possibly a foundation , could be induced to make the survey . During the campaign , Mr. O'Connor contended that the Council President in the New York City Government was little more than " a figurehead in an overstuffed chair . " The Council President said that for the immediate present he would press for legislation now pending in the City Council aimed at lowering food prices , particularly milk , in the city . Just prior to Mayor . Lindsay 's news conference , Deputy Mayor Robert Price , answering reporters ' questions , said there was no truth to rumors that he ' planned to resign his $35,000-a-year post soon .                     