@@721465

txt The Supreme Court convenes tomorrow to begin what may be one of its most significant terms . A. broad range of deeply controversial issues is scheduled for resolution during the term . The court has agreed to pass on questions of church and state , of controls on communism , of censorship , of race relations ? and many others . No big headlines can be expected tomorrow . The court will simply admit some lawyers to its bar and then adjourn for a week of secret conferences . Argument and decision of cases will start a week from tomorrow . The religious issue in the Presidential campaign may give special import to a group of church-state cases on the docket . Five of these test the constitutionality of Sunday blue laws  --  state statutes requiring businesses to close on Sunday . Double Issue Involved Blue laws involve both religious and commercial controversy . Church groups , in the last few years notably the ItOrnah Catholic Church , have pressed for their enforcement . So have downtown stores fearful of competition from highway merchants who slay open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are ' a form of . government aid to religion , of the kind barred by the First Amendment . On the other side they are defended as a legit- , imate , nonreligious device to make sure everyone gets a day of rest . The constitutionality of blue laws had been widely assumed until recently , when a Federal court in Massachusetts struck down a state law . That case is now here , along with others // tions about ambulance-chasing . ) Another corner of the free speech problem will be explored in an important movie censorship case . Before the court will be ' the constitutionality of state and local laws requiring a censor 's approval before a film is licensed for exhibit . The question has often been pressed on the court , but the Justices have sidestepped by finding a particular movie not obscene , But this time the film is not in the record of the case , so the court will not be able to rest decision on the character of the movie . A company challenging Chicago 's censorship refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of fighting them through the courts put too much pressure on it to cut disputed scenes . The company wants the right to show any film without prior censorship , subject only to later police action . In the field of race relations the court faces a subtle and difficult problem , one significant for the sit-in movement of Negro students in the South . At issue is the conviction of a Howard University law student for tresspass when he refused to leave a " white " restaurant in a bus terminal in Richmond , Va . This raises , among other things , the question of official versus private racial discrimination . The Constitution prohibits only governmental discrimination , One question in the present case is whether a private restaurant 's action becomes " official " and subject to constitutional restraints when supported by a state arrest and prosectre time A case with racial significance and other import involves a challenge to Alabama that changed the boundaries of the city of Tuskegee front a square to a figure with twenty-eight sides . The new boundaries excluded almost all Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack on the change , citing Supreme Court . turn of the Clayton Antitrust rulings that the courts must not interfere With political boundaries . The Justice Department has joined the plaintiffs in asking the court to annul the Alabama law as implicit racial discrimination . As always , there are many cases testing what is fair criminal procedure . The eternal problems of wiretapping and eavesdropping will be before the court in several new guises . In one case a man about to be prosecuted by New York State wants a Federal court injunction against the state courts ' use of wiretap evidence . The Supreme Court has said that state courts are free to adopt their own rules on wiretap evidence , but it has not passed on the specific question of Federal injunction . Another question is whether ' the constitutional rights of three ' Washington gamblers were violated when the police drove a spike wired for sound into their wall and eavesdropped . The Supreme Court years ago upheld the police use of a " detectaphone " placed against a wall . Frank Costello , the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order stripping him of his citizenship . He says the Government 's denaturalization case must fall because it was based on wiretap clues . Two cases explore the use of habeas corpus by Federal courts to release state prisoners whose constitutional rights were violated . At issue , among other things , is the extent to which the Federal court may re-examine matters already determined by state courts  --  a touchy subject among state prosecutors and judges . Suing Right Considered State-Federal relations may also be a factor in a case testing the right of the victim of police misbehavior to sue under the Federal Civil Rights acts . A Chicago man , who was falsely arrested , subjected to an illegal search and beaten , was turndd down by the lower Federal courts when he attempted to collect damages from the police . A problem that has troubled many judges and others in this country  --  press reporting of criminal trials  --  is raised in a California case . Three convict ed murderers say their prosecutor drummed up so much newspaper publicity that they could not get a fair trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual number of meaningful cases ? many of them doubtless affecting more individuals than the great civil liberties tests . Consolidated Edison , for example , is fighting for the right to bring natural gas to New York to use in its East River generating plant and thus , it says , cut down smoke pollution . The Federal Power Commission said this use of gas was less desirable than use in the home and refused to approve . The big du Pont case is back for another round . After the Supreme Court found the chemical company 's ownership of General Motors stock a violaThe New York Times OPENING COURT TERM : Chief Justice Earl Warren . from Pennsylvania and Maryland , whose laws were upheld by lower courts . Religion also bears on two cases testing a Connecticut law against the sale or use of contraceptives . Plaintiffs include a woman whose health would be endangered by another pregnancy and the physician who wishes to prescribe contraceptives for her , Their argument is that the state prohibition deprives them of life or liberty without due process of Jaw , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a highly touchy issue in this country , in good part because of the Catholic Church 's opposition to it , The Supreme Court refused fifteen years ago to pass on the Connecticut law , for procedural reasons . Two of the Federal Government 's major weapons against the American Communist party will be tested during the term . They are the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 and the so-called membership clause of the Smith Act of 1940 . The first of these set up the the Subversive Activities Control Board and directed all " Communist action " and " Communist front " groups to register with it . Travel and other activities of the members of registered organizations were to be severely restricted . Ten years and innumerable hearings later no group has registered . The Supreme Court heard argument on the constitutionality of the act four years ago but sent the case back on another ground . The Smith Act question has awaited Supreme Court resolution just as long . It has been on the docket six successive terms and has been argued twice before , LI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Smith Act that prohibited the organizing of groups to teach or advocate the violent overthrow of the Government . At issue now is a section that makes it a crime merely to be a member of such a group , The constitutional argument against the Smith Act is , of course , that it inhibits free speech . In 1951 , the Supreme Court weighed against that right the need of the Government to pre ? serve itself against revolution . But the court recently has seemed to look more critically at the Smith Act , and it may be less willing to permit action against party membership than against leadership , The Government argues that in fact the two men whose cases are in the Supreme Court were party leaders , not mere casual members . They are Junius Irving Scales of North Carolina and John Francis Nato of Massachusetts . Reds ' Case on Dockets The court will consider again whether California may exclude from its bar a man who , some witnesses say , had Communist associations and who refuses tot answer questions about them.I The state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court decision in 1957 ordered another look . A related case from Illinois , involves a man who refused to answer any questions about his political ideas or affiliations . The bar officials had no evidence of any undesirable associations but turned him down . And from New York comes the question whether a state may disbar a lawyer because he invokes the privilege against selfincrimination in refusing to answer an official inquiry 's quesAct , a lower Federal judge refused to order outright divestiture of the stock . The Government appealed . The Supreme Court has agreed also to review a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that could mean great changes in the enforcement of commercial arbitration clauses . The Second Circuit held that the Federal courts should lay down Federal law for the interpretation and enforcement of arbitration clauses in interstate transactions . In the past state law had generally been considered to . govern , and in some states agreements to arbitrate. are not enforceable . The Federal Government has a last . chance in the Supreme Court to keep from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensate for cancellation of the ill-fated ' contract . The court will hear the Government 's contention that illegal behavior by the company vitiates its claim , And the court will review the huge railroad-trucker case from Pennsylvania . A divided Third Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a judgment for the truckers in their suit that contended the railroads had violated the antitrust laws by lobbying the Legislature to pass legislation favoring the railroads over trucks , The tendency of state tax claims to conflict will receive , another look . The issue is Virginia 's right to tax as an intangible asset some cash left by a deceased Virginian in a District of Columbia safe deposit box after the District had taxed it as a tangible asset , The validity of various unionmanaged hiring halls and other employment devices under the Taft-Hartley Act-is to be tested . The question is whether they adequately protect the rights of nonunion members ? and what remedies the National Labor Relations Board may apply to illegal systems . Finally , the court will hear reargument on a Georgia Supreme Court ruling that the union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because a portion of union dues is spent for political purposes of which some members disapprove. - olja OPENS BUSY TERM TODAY Continued Froze Puge 1 , Col.                     