@@726115

txt The board of trustees of the University of Illinois was be , sieged yesterday by student demands for greater ' political activity on the Chicago and Urbana campuses and for repeal of a state law banning speakers of subversive organizations . In one instance , the U. of I. trustees , meeting at the Chicago Circle campus , voted 6 to 3 to recognize an Urbana student organization of the W. E. B. DuBois club . which at the national level has been termed a communist front group by the United States attorney general 's office . Not Called Seditious The majority of the U. of I. board acted on grounds that the DuBois club has not yet been designated as seditious by the subversive activities control hoard of the federal government . At the same time , the trustees affirmed a policy not to recognize proven subversive groups . In another instance , the U. of I. trustees received petitions from student leaders at both the Chicago Circle and Urbana campuses with a two-fold re-quest : 1 . That the U. of I. rescind a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on campuses to candidates for office or a nation-wide or state-wide basis . For . campaign speeches , this rule now prohibits campus appearances by such candidates as those for the House of Representatives . the state legislature , alder me n , and mayors . Adlai Backs Students 2 . That the U. of I. trustees ask the state legislature to repeal the 1647 Ciabaugh act . which prohibits the university from making its facilities and campuses available to members of subversive organizations espousing their causes . Student leaders who made this request also carried a letter from Adlai E. Stevenson III , the Democratic state treasurer , supporting them on these two demands . The six trustees voting to recognize the DuBois club at this time included Wayne A. Johnston , Flossmoor , chairman of the general policies committee ; Howard W. Clement , Des Plaines , board of trustee president ; Theodore A. Jones , Chicago ; Irving Dillard , Collinsville ; Mrs. Frances B. Watkins , Chicago ; and Kenney E. Williamson , Peoria . Voting " no " were Earl M. Hughes , Woodstock ; Harold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All spoke strongly against the move . Swain pointed out that the DuBois club also had been designated as subversive by J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . A report by the general policy committee , presented by Johnston , the chairman , pointed out that the Urbana group of the DuBois club had denied any affiliation with the national organization . Carries a Stipulation The committee recommendation carried this final stipulation : " However , at any time that the W. E. B. DuBois club or any other student group can be proved to be subversive , seditious , or dedicated to the violent overthrow of the government of Illinois or of the United States , the trustees will expect the administration of the university to deny to that group the privileges and ties of association with the university that are allowed to recognized student groups . " John Schmadeke , editor of the Daily Illini , the Urbana student newspaper , said " no more than five or six students " were members of the DuBois club there . The matter , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the question being taken to the U. of I. board instead of being left in " normal channels " with Stanton Millet , the dean of students . Millet said he now will grant the club official recognition .                     