@@724744

txt The first link in a worldwide live television system was , opened yesterday afternoon as : the Early Bird satellite united : millions of North American andl European viewers in a cultural . ' educational and journalistic exchange on the home screen . The European Broadcasting Union and the combined networks of the United States , Canada and Mexico started regular use of the initial commercial satellite over the Atlantic with an bout-long program that constituted a breathtaking demonstration of the electronic conquest of time and distance . By use of a two-way split screen , the presentation enabled la set owner in this country to I watch physicians in Geneva as they , in turn , watched Americans performing a heart operation in Houston . The program closed with hands in Washington and Quebec joining with the Soviet , Navy chorus aboard Admiral Nelson 's flagship , H.M , S. Vic ' tory , in the harbor at Portsmouth . England , in a simultaneous intercontinental performance of " Auld Lang Syne . " The pictures from abroad for the most part were of remarkably good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Italian , Swedish , Spanish , Swiss and English faces . A Slight Overcast There was a slight overcast , a touch of smearing and some loss of definition in the distance shots , particularly when contrasted with the live pickups from this side of the Atlantic . But in the main the images were on a par with the striking live pictures received by Pacific satellite last October from the opening of the Olympic Games in Tokyo . The Early Bird satellite , hovering over the Equator between South America and North Africa and acting as a relay platform , performed better than some older modes of communication . The running commentary of Richard Dimbleby , veteran newscaster of the British Broadcasting Corporation , was marred by echoes . Each line hespoke sounded as if it came from a cave or tunnel . But his words were not sent via Early Bird but were transmitted separately by underwater cable . Mr. Dimbleby 's voice went across the Atlantic and back to Britain by cable and then apparently through some technical mishap re-entered the , original circuit in London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading to the series of aural reverberations . The music and voices directly associate ( ' with the pictures from Europe , identified as " the natural sound , " were carrried by the Early Bird and were received without impairment . The use of separate cables was dictated by the complexities of international live TV . In Europe broadcasters from different countries watched the same pooled pictures on monitoring screens and then gave commentaries in their own languages . Mr. Dimbleby was assigned to do the English language service . If any one language had been made part of the integral Early Bird circuit , engineers said , it would have complicated the translation problem . One Prepared Script . In the United States , Mike Wallace of the Columbia Broadcasting System , whose commentary also was carried abroad by underwater cable ; Frank of the National Broadcasting Company and Bob Young of the American Broadcasting Company all read from the same prepared script . In Mexico a Spanish commentator used the script and in Canada both English and French versions were carried . The Early Bird satellite program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe at 1 P.M. but thereafter operated without pictorial flaw . On the other hand , the jinxridden Astrodome in Houston fell victim to a circuit disruption on the ground . Only jagged lines emanated from the enclosed sports arena on United States TV but the stadium was clearly seen in Europe . Yesterday 's pictures and related sound from the United States left the control point in New York and were transmitted over ground facilities to Andover , Me . There the ground station operated by the Cornmuications Satellite Corporation beamed the program 22,300 miles up to Early Bird , which orbits synchronously with the earth and hence assumes a fixed position . Early Bird received the signals , amplified them and then sent them another 22,300 miles down to ground stations in Europe . Pickups From Rome During the two-way program , the ground stations at Goonhilly Downs , near Cornwall , . England ; Pleumeur-Bodou in Brittany , France , and Resist. , ing , West Germany , were used ; to connect with Eurovision , the European TV network , which ; had its control point in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed , though there were pickups from Rome over land circuits . The significance of Early . Bird , which was launched last . month from Cape Kennedy , Fla. , is its ability to provide 24-hour service over the Atlantic . Previous satellites , such as Telstar and Relay , offered it at lower altitudes and could be used for only the brief periods when they were within range of both North America and Europe . The Early Bird television premiere will be followed by further experimental exchanges today and on succeeding Mondays . The satellite will be used primarily to expwand telephone circuits and for the relay of other forms of information . Commercial rates for the use of Early Bird on a permanent basis have not yet been announced . The maiden use of Early Bird was designed to dramatize the potential of satellites in open- , ing new avenues of instanta-1 neous international communications and as a forerunner of plans of the Communications Satellite Corporation to ring the world with relay stations in the sky . Ironically , the opening item on the first news broadcast carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one of the purposes of Cornsat , as outlined by act of Congress in creating the communications , company , is the promotion of world understanding . Among the news items from Europe were superb pictures of Pope Paul VI bestowing his blessing on the throngs in Rome . Scotland Yard , the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police exchanged photographs of " most wanted " criminals , the ultimate electronic improvement on the posters in the post office . The heart surgery in Houston , performed by Dr. Michael E. DeBakey , who operated on the Duke of Windsor last December , was a vivid demonstration of international TV 's educational potential . To see a closeup of the aorta valve that had made a round-trip over the Atlantic was almost uncanny . The shots of the interior of the new tunnel going under Mont Blanc in Italy were especially unusual . There was a glimpse of a bullfight in Barcelona and there were festivals galore , from Assisi . Italy , from . Mexico , from Bavaria . The cueing of pick-ups from all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ timing . The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . was seen speaking at the dedication of Bright Hope Baptist Philadelphia . Scores of cameras and hundreds of technical personnel cooperated on the exchange program . At least 17 European countries , reaching as far east as Finland and Yugoslavia , carried the program and the estimated total audience was put at more than 300 million persons . The Soviet Union thus far has not become a member of the consortium of 45 nations that have joined Comsat in the ownership and operation of an international satellite system . Two-Way Discussion Among the programs to he carried today by way of Early Bird is the National Broadcasting Company 's " Today " show , which will include a twoway ' discussion on international issues between members of Parliament outside the House of Commons and Congressmen in Washington . The Huntley-Brinkley Report will be trans-Atlantic and at 7:30 P.M. , Mr. Dimbleby in New York will join Mr. Huntley in London for a special feature entitled " Panorama . " Walter Cronkite of C.B.S . will remain here , but correspondents in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Mike Wallace morning newscast . The network will also hold a " Town Meeting of the World " on South Vietnam that will be transmitted by Early Bird at 1 P.M. and repeated at 10 P.M. Other Early Bird news and features will be on the American Broadcasting Company 's Marlene Sanders and Peter Jennings Shows . and on Channel 9 at 4:30 P.M. and Channel 11 at 6 P.M.                     