@@727879

txt Imagine a hook-and-ladder truck , its siren screaming , careering down Main Street with a middle-aged housewife at the wheel and five other ladies in fire helmets hanging on behind . Frightening ? It almost happened recently in Clark , Pa. , ( population 600 ) when the town 's volunteer firemen grew lax in answering fire calls . After several alarms rang and no firefighters showed up , a dozen housewives marched to the fire station and signed up for a training program . " We were pretty upset  --  our homes were at stake , " recalls Mrs. Esta McClure , one of the firewomen . The tactic worked . No sooner had the women taken a few lessons on manning the hoses than the shamed men resumed their duties . Thus the dilemma in Clark was resolved . Nationally , however , lack of conscientious volunteer firemen remains a serious problem in many areas . That 's not all that 's troubling the country 's volunteer departments . For one thing , they 're under increasing fire from civil rights groups that charge they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhoods . Using Tax Funds In addition , costs of fire-fighting equipment are soaring faster than proceeds from traditional firemen 's fairs and bean suppers , forcing growing numbers of volunteer companies to dip into the public till . Partly as a result of such tax aid , public officials have started intruding into the volunteers ' cherished autonomy , insisting that neighboring but rival companies pool resources for greater economy and efficiency . Moreover , the manpower pinch is growing so serious that some " volunteers " are being paid by the hour . Indeed , many companies are hiring some full-time employes  --  often to the chagrin of their volunteer members . Despite these woes , volunteer departments are growing in number as suburbia expands . According to the National Fire Protection Association ( NFPA ) , a clearinghouse for fire safety information , there are more than 23,000 such fire companies in the U.S. , up from 18,000 a decade ago . In all , there are about 1.2 million Volunteers , compared with only 200,000 paid professionals . Cut-Rate Protection Economy is the main reason for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NFPA survey indicated that the average cost per person protected by volunteers was $2.25 a year , compared with $13.69 for those protected by paid departments . The cost saving is especially important at a time when prices of fire-fighting equipment are soaring between 5% and 10% annually . Industry sources say volunteers buy four-fifths of the more than $200 million worth of fire equipment sold annually in the U.S. But many experts and even some volunteers themselves say that the protection given by volunteer departments could be greatly improved . New high-rise structures and the use of new flammable chemical products in buildings and furnishings have increased the complexity of fire-fighting . But while a growing number of counties and states are setting up training facilities for volunteers , most part-time firemen get little instruction in new techniques , such as coping with dangerous gases and using foam to fight fires . " A lot of volunteers do n't understand their work , " asserts Stanley C. Smith , assistant chief of the West Lawn , Pa. , volunteer department . " They shun new ideas because they 're afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers pool , or centralize , their resources clash with traditions of departmental pride and independence . " The volunteers want to keep big brother out , " observes an official of the Illinois Inspection and Rating Bureau , which sets fire insurance rates . In some Illinois counties , he says , centralization would reduce equipment and manpower by a third and still provide the same protection . Indeed , some of the state 's fire companies are just a half-mile apart , each duplicating the other 's resources . A Protest by Taxpayers The difficulty of reducing duplication is illustrated by recent events in Riverton , N.J. , a pleasant community of 3,900 just across the Delaware River from Philadelphia . A few months ago , taxpayers there protested the volunteer fire company 's plan to spend $52,000 in public funds for a truck with a 100-foot aerial ladder . One borough councilman , Frank G. Lockhart , a former Riverton fire commissioner , argued that the purchase was a needless duplication since two adjacent towns , Palmyra ( population : 7,700 ) and Cinnaminson ( population : 15,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of truck . Under an existing mutual aid pact , both neighboring departments can have their equipment in Riverton in less than four minutes . In addition , Mr. Lockhart argued , a nearby department in Moorestown ( population : 15,000 ) already had a 100-foot aerial ladder truck , which would be available if Riverton requested it . A local newspaper editorialized that centralized , countywide purchashig would spread the cost of fire-fighting gear more evenly among communities . But the Riverton volunteers fought hard for their new truck , and the borough council finally voted to buy it . Observes the town 's fire chief , Peter S. Evert , a contracting suprnntendent : " We 're proud of our job and proud of our equipment . If we centralize , we 'll get dictated to and lose the spirit of the volunteer fire company . " To head off centralization moves , volunteers often can tap an enormous resiarvoir of goodwill within their communities . " When I hear that alarm go off at two o'clock in the morning , " says one New Jersey suburbanite , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Nor does the public forget that fire-fighting is a dangerous game . The NFPA estimates that more than 100 volunteers are killed on duty every year and thousands more are injured . Community goodwill helped volunteer firemen in Montgomery County , Md. , last year defeat a referendum to place the county 's 16 independent departments under central controL Almost to a man , the 1,200 volunteers in the county pleaded directly to the public that centralization would bring their reasignaticns and thus lead to a more costly paid department . The proposal was defeated by a two-to-one margin . Centralization is working well in some areas . Fairfax County , Va. , a suburban area outside Washington , has been centralizing its volunteer fire services since the early 1950s . The county figures it saves taxpayers at least $35,000 through bulk purchasing of supplies . Although some volunteers still fume over the situation , County Fire Administrator Willis H. Burton Jr . concludes , " We 're cutting costs and giving better protection to boot . " Arriving Late On the civil rights issue , some volunteer departments are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups . Not long ago , for example , the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commission brought racial discrimination charges against five tax-supported volunteer companies in Chester , Pa . Testimony in public hearings indicated that members of the all-white fire-fighting units often arrived late at fires in black neighborhoods because they lived so far away . Moreover , it was charged , many volunteers did n't bother to go at all . The Chester fire companies concede that some white firemen have been a bit slow in getting to fires in black sections , but they insist that the reason they have no Negro members is that no Negroes have applied . At the hearing , however , witnesee asserted that interested blacks had been told they had to be sponsored for membership and had not been sent applications . The commission warned that it will take action if the volunteer departments are n't integrated or replaced with full-time paid firemen . One big reason volunteer departments are hard-pressed for men is that more and more potential members work miles from their hometowns . Hence the most serious problem is finding people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper-seated reasons , too , says Wilfrid L. Parsons , fire coordinator of Upstate New York 's Cortland County . " Today a man puts his family ahead of the public interest and after he 's been in the military service , he 's had about all the excitement he wants . " Hiring some full-time employee ensures a volunteer company of at least minimum protection during the day . While this works out well during actual fire-fighting operations , at other times the mixing of volunteers and paid men produces friction . " A lot of volunteers say , ' If Joe can get paid for it , so can I , ' " comments Mr. Parsons , a former volunteer chief . And the more enthusiastic volunteers resent the implication that they ca n't handle the job , Mr. Parsons adds . " Like Being a , Little Pregnant " Even the trend toward paying volunteers for their time  --  rates range all the way from 50 cents a call to $8 an hour  --  perturbs some people . " Being a paid volunteer is like being a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problems , it 's clear volunteer fire-fighting will continue to attract new men , whether the lure be snr  --  isll activity , prestige , a sense of civic responsibility or excitement . A veteran volunteer in a New Hampshire department traces his fire-fighting career back to the day he realized he " could no more hurry past a firehouse than a fly fisherman could hurry past an inviting pool . "                     