@@726929

txt Upon Khe Sanh rest the hopes of two powerful armies . Never before in the Vietnamese war has there been Such an opportunity for each side to prepare so completely for battle . And , as never before , each side has been situated to fight in a manner in which it is extremely skilled . Khe Sanh is a battle neither side can afford to lose . Preparations are being carefully made with that stark fact in mind . Build-up hastened The latest sign of American concern is the decision to rush 10,500 troops to Vietnam at the urgent behest of Gen. William C. Westmoreland . The fast response of the administration to the request is viewed as a demonstration of the seriousness with the situation in South Vietnam , and particularly at Khe Sanh . But beyond that , the administration is desperately willing to ensure that General Westmoreland has all that he needs . There is an underlying interest in making certain that if there is failure of any sort at Khe Sanh the blame will rest upon the military command . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to slightly above 510,000 . Very recently , Pentagon planners believed that the 525,000 total authorization would not quite be met by the end of the current fiscal year . Now , it appears that the situation may be otherwise , primarily because of the recent difficulties . The North Vietnamese are steadily working to improve their situation in the northern section of South Vietnam . There have been no signs so far of ill-considered moves on their part in the countryside around Khe Sanh , and sources agree that there are not likely to be any such signs . The United States and its allies have a fortified position backed by tremendous air and artillery fire power . Waiting in the wings at Quang Tri is more than a division of combat veterans . In the area around Leatherneck Square south of the demilitarized zone , approximately a division and a third of United States and Korean Marines and a battalion of Vietnamese Rangers bolstered by light and medium artillery are ready for the fray . And the vast logistics train vital to the support of United States forces has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to gather five divisions in the vicinity of the demilitarized zone and in the parts of Laos and South Vietnam neighboring Khe Sanh . Slowly and surely , men and equipment have been brought together to confront the Americans . Air blows constant At this juncture the North Vietnamese are assumed to have gathered in Laos large quantities . of equipment including a substantial array of medium and heavy artillery and rockets . Some sources believe there is a strong possibility that surface-to-surface missiles may make their debut against Khe Sanh . And there is the further possibility of antiaircraft weaponry to defend against air strikes once the battle is joined . Sources here say the North Vietnamese probably will have to move within a few weeks if there is to be hope that inclement weather can hamper United States air power for a protracted period . They point out that the monsoons are to end shortly . Sources expect that the North Vietnamese will take advantage of foul weather to complete their deployments and stockpiling around Khe Sanh . And , with the next bad weather spell they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck hundreds of times daily against suspected enemy targets in the surrounding area , as weather permitted . The United States has more than 500 tactical aircraft available at Da Nang and Chou Lai for tactical air strikes , as well as several squadrons of Navy tactical fighters on a carrier off the coast . In addition 40-50 B-52 's have been available daily to drop devastatingly heavy loads of bombs upon the enemy . But , sources agree , the air strikes have hindered and hampered but not halted the enemy 's efforts to gather his forces . As a result , the North Vietnamese should have what they want when the battle breaks out . Many guns positioned Already , sources say , 40 or more guns and mortars have been put in dug-in positions from which they will be able to fire at Khe Sanh with relative impunity at least for a period . But the North Vietnamese will have measurably more fire power than that when they decide to strike in full force , military men agree . Few here doubt that the North Vietnamese will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exemplary of the expanded North Vietnamese arsenal in the Khe Sanh area were the light amphibious tanks used in the capture of the special forces camp at Lang Vei . The North Vietnamese also have about six Soviet-made jet bombers available within striking range of Khe Sanh . The North , however , has had those bombers for over a year and has not yet seen fit to use them . This does not mean that they would not do so at this juncture , but it is pointed out by informed sources that the bombers were not gathered for Khe Sanh specifically . The allies apparently have more manpower available , with approximately 40,000 United States Marines and soldiers in the northern area , 5,000 Korean soldiers and marines , and 15,000 South Vietnamese infantrymen , airborne troops , rangers , and marines . Defensive advantage cited The North Vietnamese are believed to have available a little less than 50,000 men in the four divisions being positioned for battle and the one division being held in reserve . In addition there are tens of thousands of Viet Cong irregulars scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its allies theoretically would have the definite manpower advantage by virtue of being on the defensive . In terms of airpower ; th'e United States has a virtual monopoly , and its artillery is substantially more potent than is the enemy 's . There is little disagreement among those directly responsible for the prosecution of the war that the North Vietnamese will attack at Khe Sanh . Analysts here believe that the North Viet . namese , with a success against Khe Sanh , would hope then to institute negotiations , with an eye to gaining favorable terms because of the successes .                     