@@727088

txt Columbia University faculty members failed yesterday in efforts to end the dispute that has crippled the Morningside Heights campus since Tuesday afternoon . Late in the afternoon , a faculty committee voted by acclapation to recommend to the university administration that a 12-member panel be established to deal with problems of student discipline at Columbia . The committee would have five faculty members , five students and two administration representatives and would set guidelines and appeals procedures for handling the sensitive issue of student discipline . Seek Mediation Role There was no immediate reaction to the proposal from Grayson Kirk , university president , but Mark Rudd , the 20-year-old chairman of the Students for a Democratic Society , which is spearheading the campus protest , said his group could not accept the faculty 's plan . The proposal was part of a faculty attempt to interpose teachers as a third force between the demonstrating students and the university 's administration . The hope was that such a third force could mediate an amicable solution to the dispute and prevent a perilous confrontation between protesters and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The faculty efforts were the highlight of a day that also witnessed the following : 9The movement of masses of policemen into the campus to occupy every building that was open or that had not already been taken over by student protesters . elThe sealing of the campus to everyone except students and employes after some 250 high school students surged into the university grounds in a show of support for the sitin demonstrators . 9A visit to the Columbia campus by H. Rap Brown , the militant chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , and Stokely Carmichael , his predecessor in that post . No classes were held on Co- lumbia 's main campus yesterday . the university ? except for Bernard College , Teachers College and units removed from the Morningside Heights area ? wig closed because of the protest . Th protest , which began Tuesday afternoon , is aimed princiOally at halting construction Of Columbia 's new gymnasitua in Momingside Park and ending$ the university 's affiliation vOth the Institute for Defense ; tanalysis , a 12-university consortium that does secret research for the Government Inconciliatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was temporarily halting work on thetymnasium , which is at 113th Street and Morningside Drive . But the move had little effect . Some 700 demonstrators , led by the Students for a Democratic Society and the Student Afro-American Society , both part of the New Left , continued to hold sections of five buildings on the campus , which , has a total student enrolllt of about 12,000 . Th buildings were Avery Hall , e architecture building ; Faye ether Hall , a graduate social sciences building ; Low Memo al Library , the admin. ? strati e building ; the Mathematics Building , which was seized ; early yesterday , and Hamilton Hall , which houses many ; Columbia College classrooms ; and offices . Hamilton Hall is occupied entirely ( by Negro students and a scattering of Negro activists from off the campus . The other buildings are occupied solely by white students . Faculty in Wider Role Mr. Rudd expressed some optimism about a settlement of the dispute yesterday , declaring that " at present the substantive demands of the demonstrators here are well under way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Morningside Park , Which has been a major issue In the dispute , " will certainly mot be built " and expressed the view that the universiWs links with the Institute for Defense Analysis , another . source of contention , " will certainly be broken . " The university has thus far given no indication of such a move . The : faculty members assumed+ a more vital role in the campus situation yesterday as it tecame apparent that informat negotiations between the administration and the student demonstrators had collapsed . " It's. their feeling they can do soniething , so they are being given the chance , " an admin .. istratiOn spokesman said of the faculty members . " They 're taking a . more active role than they had . " Throughout the day , and until 1 o'clock this morning when they suspended their efforts until this afternoon , faculty members met among themselves iin the Philosophy . Building , with students of all ' campus persuasions and with members of the administration In an attempt to find a way to resolve the dispute . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gates at 116th Street and Broadway and 116th , Street and Amsterdam Avenue to help university security men and policemen screen , those entering the camput And . faculty members , also with white armbands  --  which in many cases were nothing more than handkerchiefs ? ringed Low Memorial Library , the headquarters of the leaders of the Students for a Democratic Society , and refused to permit anyone to enter without a student identification card or anyone to leave without surrendering his identification card . This meant that no demonstrator could leave and then , return . Previously , demonstrators had moved freely in and , out of Low , where they hold President Grayson Kirk 's office area , as well as in and out of other buildings they occupy . Food Passed In The faculty members said they were permitting food to be passed into Low and were allowing a messenger to move in and out of the building to facilitate the continuation of informal negotiations . At its meeting in the Philosophy Building , the faculty focused on the key Issue of student discipline . Thus far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his refusal to surrender the disciplinary powers of his office . Under elating university rules , the president and his delegated officers have absolute disciplinary control over Columbia students . Neither the administration nor most faculty members at yesterday 's meeting appeared prepared under any circumstances to grant the student demonstrators one of their key demands  --  a general amnesty that would free the demonstrators of any disciplinary tiction resulting from the current protest . Last night , Paul Vilardi , a senior and the chairman of the Majority Coalition , which opposes the demonstration , issued a statement saying : " Amnesty is out of the question . This is the feeling of the majority of the students and many of the faculty . " Mr. Vilardi , who said he represented 2.000 Columbia College students as he spoke in Ferris Booth Hall , was supported in his statement by Warren Schilling , professor of government and law ; Richard Morgan , assistant professor of government , and William Connor , professor of psychology . Late last night , however , 10 students ? six of them top elected leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's advisory committee on student life ? issued a statement supporting the basic position of the demonstrators , including the demand for a general amnesty . Last night about 60 Barnard College students holding lighted candles began a vigil outside Barnard Hall on the west side of Broadway in support of the demonstrators ' demands . The plan by the faculty to ring Low Library , a faculty source emerging from the closed faculty meeting said , was a compromise . Some faculty members felt the teaching staff had taken too sympathetic a stance toward the demonstrators , while others were strongly opposed to any unsympathetic action by the faculty . About 200 of the 3,000 teachers on the Morningside Heights campus attended the meeting . At one point during the session , the faculty members were , informed that the students in one of the occupied buildings were ready to evacuate if a tripartite commission was given full disciplinary power over students . Rights Disputed " It is wrong , " a law professor was quoted as saying , " to allow anyone who breaks the law to dictate who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrupted when word reached the teachers that about 250 high school students had surged onto the campus in a show of support for the demonstrators . Chanting " black power , " the youngsters staged an impromptu rally in Low Plaza , at the heart of the campus . Then led by Wilbur Colom and Ted Francis , both 18-year-old Brandeis High School students , they moved to Hamilton Hall where several proposed that " we take another hall , " meaning an effort to seize control of another university building . A Negro Columbia student , who declined to give his name , quickly moved to the head of the group , which included youngsters no more than 12 or 13 , and said : " Do n't take any hall . Believe me , do n't take another hall . Just stay here . " " Sit down , dammit , " another Negro student said . He explalned that the demonstrators were " trying to get some kind of a settlement and we ca n't mess up the brothers inside . " " Now sit down and cool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many moving quietly over to the South Field lawn and sprawling on the grass there . Guards Posted Among the schools repre ? sented by the youngsters were Haaren , Brandeis , Benjamin Franklin and Metropolitan High Schools and Junior High School 118 , all in Manhattan . As a result of the roaring entry into the campus of the youngsters , the police posted men at both ends of 116th Street on the campus and pre . vented anyone from entering who was not an employe or a student of Columbia . All other gates of the campus were pad ? locked . Assisting the police were the light-blue uniformed campus security men and the whlte  --  armbanded faculty mem-bers , But the security efforts at the gates appeared to fall apart at about 1 P.M. when the black militants , H. Rap Brown and Stokely Carmichael , showed up at the Amstercirim Avenue gate and , accompanied by a large crowd , surged easily past the gatemen . Brown , wearing a black turtie neck shirt and coverall jeans , and Carmichael , who wore a blue suit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hamilton Hall where they conferred for more than a half hour with the Negro protesters inside . As word of the presence of the two militant leaders spread around the campus , a crowd of close to a thousand people amassed outside the undergraduate college building . Before Brown and Carmichael appeared outside the building , Prof. Immanuel Wallerstein of the sociology department urged restraint by the crowd . " I plead with you , " he said , " to restrain your emotions . " At 1:50 P.M. , Brown and Carmichael appeared on the steps of Hamilton Hall . It was a tepid Brown , far less fiery than usual , and a laconic Carmichael . ' Brown declared that the demonstrators were " fighting against the racist policies , of this university , " and ' he wared that Negroes sverel " preparing to come and deal with Columbia University at some point . " Warning by Brown Talking about the Morningside Park gymnasium project , Brown declared : " If they build it up , people in Harlem should blow it up . " He went on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students in Hamilton Hall , it would have to deal " with the people on the streets . " Brown then turned to Carmichael , who surprised the crowd by saying , " You my leader , you speak for me " and walking away . Within minutes , the two black militant figures were off the campus and had left the area . Late in the afternoon , students began distributing light blue crepe paper armbands at the 116th Street entrances to Columbia Bruce Gillers , a 20-year-old premedical student , explained that they were being given to students who were pledged to preserving peace on the campus , regardless of their sentiments in the demonstration . " I just do n't want the university to be destroyed , or anyone to get killed , " he said . But within a few feet of where he stood , an angry exchange flared between a Negro woman and one of the high school students who had entered the campus earlier in the day . " You 're not a student on this campus , " the woman , Mrs. Emma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youth . " Get off this campus . You have no right to be here . " The youth unleashed a stream of abuse at Mrs. Plaga and walked away , The dispute has been generally peaceful , but there was one ugly flare-up of violence yesterday morning . At 12:55 A.M. , Acting Dean Henry S. Coleman , who had been held hostage for 23 hours in Hamilton Hall Tuesday night and Wednesday , informed the ad hoc faculty committee that Dr. Kirk was planning to ask the police to take action to clear the occupied buildings . Within minutes , 25 plainclothes policemen moved toward Low Library , where faculty members had posted themselves in pursuance of a vow to prevent the forcible eviction of the demonstrating students . As the police approached , 10 faculty members at the southeast entrance of Low Library stood their ground . The police began shoving and swinging with their clubs and one faculty member , Richard Greenman , a French instructor , was struck on the head and injured . He was treated at St. Luke 's Hospital and released . Alarmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a faculty delegation went to President Kirk and convinced him to give the faculty more time to attempt to resolve the dispute peacefully . A short time later , Dr. Kirk Informed the police that he wanted them to hold off further attempts to evict the demonstrating students . At 3:30 A.M. , a university spokesman said that " a faculty committee has persuaded the university administration to postpone a request for police action on the campus while the faculty and the administration continue their efforts to effect a peaceful solution to the situation . " It was at this point that the university decided , on the advice of Mayor Lindsay , to announce it was temporarily halting construction of the Morningside Park gym . At the same ' time It announced it was closing the university until Monday . Percy Uris , one of the trus. tees of Columbia University . , said in an interview last night that he was " terribly upset " i and " In many ways angry " ' about what was happening on the campus . Mr. Uris said he " would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " because Its construction was predicated on a " fair contract " with the city . Another trustee , Vincent G. Kling , reached by telephone at his home in Narberth , Pa. , said he had been told by his son , Vincent Jr .. a graduate student at the Columbia University School of Architecture , that " a majority of students are upset with the whole thing . " " They came there to study , " he said , quoting his son . " They do n't think it 's a particularly representative group that 's taken over . "                     