@@721694

txt The Soviet Union withdrew its recognition of Dag Hammarskjold as Secretary General of the United Nations today . It branded the international official " an accomplice and organizer of the murder " of Patrice Lumumba . In a formal statement on the death of the deposed Premier of the Congo , the Soviet Government demanded the withdrawal of United Nations troops from the African republic within a month . The Kremlin indicated its readiness to intervene by promising " all possible assistance and support " to Mr. Lumumba 's deputy , Antoine Gizenga . It extended recognition to Mr. Gizenga as the Acting Premier of the " legitimate Government of the Congo . " Mr. Gizenga has set up a government in Stanleyville , capital of Eastern Province . The Kremlin statement was issued as Soviet , African and Asian university students here stoned and defaced the Belgian Embassy in Moscow , shouting , " Murderers ! " and " Dag , Out ! " Protest Meetings Held Meetings protesting the assassination of Mr. Lumumba were held in towns and cities across the Soviet Union . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitals . In Belgrade , a shouting mob of youths sacked the Belgian Embassy . Moscow thus confronted the United Nations with one of its gravest crises by refusing categorically to cooperate with its chief executive . The Soviet Union has been sharply critical of Mr. Hammarskjold 's direction of the United Nations operation in the Congo for several months . At the General Assembly session last autumn , Premier Khrushchev proposed that the loffice of the Secretary General be replaced by a three-man directorate representing the West , the Soviet bloc and the neutral nations . Belgians Accused of Crime The Soviet statement today declared : " Dag Hammarskjold must be I dismissed from the office of Secretary General as an accomplice and organizer of the murder of leading statesmen of the Congo Republic , who has stained the name of the United Nations . " For its part , the Soviet Government will not maintain any relations with Hammarskjold and will not recognize him as an official of the United Nations . " The statement implied that the Soviet Union would ignore the machinery of the United Nations unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resign last year when he and his Congo policies came under heavy Soviet fire . The Soviet statement accused " Belgian colonialists " of having organized the " wild murder " of Mr. Lumumba . It added that they would never have dared to commit this crime unless they felt confident of the support of the Western powers . The Soviet statement demanded that United Nations troops in the Congo immediately arrest Maj. Gen. Joseph Mobutu and President Moise Tshombe of Katanga Province . It insisted that they be put on trial and their police and army forces disarmed forthwith . The statement said that all the Belgian troops must also be disarmed immediately and removed from the country . The angry outburst in the Soviet press and in radio and television broadcasts against Mr. Lumumba 's death culminated in a five-hour demonstra tion before the Belgian Embassy . About 6,000 factory workers and students from the Moscow Friendship University converged on the Embassy bearing placards with such slogans as : " The blood of the great African leader Lumumba is on the imperialists . " As about 100 Soviet policemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building was smashed by students hurlin rocks and chunks of ice . The front of the building was splattered with ink . Hippolyte Cools , the Belgian Ambassador , remained in the Embassy during the demonstration . He said he would protest formally to the Soviet Foreign Ministry tomorrow . Feeling against the Belgians was whipped up at a meeting this morning at Friendship University , a school for students from under-developed ' countries opened this year by the Soviet Government . At 1:30 P. M , several hundred students led by Africans of the Congo , Ghana , Guinea and the Cameroons marched on the Embassy . They were joined by columns of Russian collegeage students . This reporter , identified as an American by a group of African students , was manhandled before the police intervened . His notebook was snatched away , and he was told : " You Americans are murdering us. " ** there was little evidence of anti-Americanism . Fifteen students slipped through a police cordon and battered through the front door of the Embassy . The Belgian Ambassador refused to accept a petition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Belgian Embassy , said the demonstration had been expected after it was noted that there was an unusual number of Soviet police in the area . At 4:10 P. M. two trucks mounting floodlights rolled up before the Belgian Embassy to aid Soviet newsreel cameramen in filming several thousand factory workers marching past bearing protest banners .                     