@@728223

txt Apollo 12 : It Has Opened New Vistas and New Controversies Associated Press Astronauts Alan L. Bean , left , and Charles Conrad Jr . were euphoric  --  casually singing and humming ? as they carried out their tasks on the surface of the moon last week . Apollo 12 has not been like Apollo 11 . The tasks have differed and the passing of manned lunar exploration from the neverto-be-repeated drama last July of that first landing to an extended series of missions has made it clear to all concerned ? Government leaders , Congress and the public  --  that a fork in the road has been reached . The difference was symbolized last Wednesday when Comdr . Charles Conrad 's great white boot groped downward for the landing pad on the lunar surface . In his mind was the remark made by his predecessor , Neil A. Armstrong : " One small step for a man , one giant step for mankind . " Perhaps , said Commander Conrad , who is one of the more diminutive of the astronauts , it had been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a big step for him . Thus , in jocular vein , he set the tone of the Apollo 12 mission . Exploration of the moon is no longer the greatest public drama of the century . It is a job that must be done in ways commensurate with the other needs of the nation and of mankind as a whole . For sheer euphoria , however , there has never been a space flight like that of Apollo 12 . To most men the wild ride of the Lunar Module , or LM , down to the Sea of Storms , with its descent engine thundering and its attitude control jets slewing it from side to side , would have been a sobering experience . But those listening anxiously from earth heard giggles . TV Failure The failure of the television camera meant that the world had to follow man 's first " nature walk " on the moon by eavesdropping on what the two astronauts ? Commander Conrad and Comdr . Alan L. Bean ? said to one another . Those who did so will not soon forget the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commander Conrad as he made his way around crater rims and across the black , dusty plain . The astronauts set up the first complex array of scientific sensors on the moon . These detectors , expected to operate for at least a year , are monitoring a variety of phenomena : tremors indicative of activity inside the moon , changes in local magnetism , the direction and intensity of the supersonic " solar wind " blowing outward from the sun and the presence of any traces of gas that may constitute a thin lunar atmosphere . The astronauts also are bringing back for analysis 140 pounds of moon rocks and parts of Surveyor 3 , an unmanned satellite that landed on the moon in 1967 . Now Commanders Conrad and Bean , and Richard F. Gordon Jr. , who stayed with the command module in lunar orbit , are plunging toward a splashdown in the Pacific tomorrow afternoon . Symptomatic of the long-term decisions facing the United States in its space program has been the appearance of several policy statements on the subject in recent days and weeks . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , headed by Vice President Agnew , whose job was to look beyond the Apollo program . Landing on Mars It concluded that , In the light of the Apollo achievements , a manned landing on Mars within 15 years was feasible and recommended that the United States " accept the long-range option or goal of manned planetary exploration with a manned Mars mission before the end of this century as the first target " While the report considered the extreme possibilities of an all-out program with no fiscal restraints or of a complete closing out of manned space flights after Apollo , its recommendations focused on two intermediate options . The more ambitious of these timetables would , by 1976 , place a module in earth orbit capable of handling 6 to 12 men . Four years later enough of these modules would be joined for a 50-man space station . By 1985 there would be a 100-man station in earth orbit . In 1978 a station would be orbited around the moon to serve as a base from which to make landings . A base on the lunar surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mars would come in 1983 . From 1976 to 1978 a reusable shuttle for ferrying men to and from earth-orbiting stations would be developed , as well as a nuclear-powered ferry for use between earth orbit and Mars orbit and a space tug to haul vehicles from one orbit to another . The less ambitious timetable would do all these things from one to four years later  --  with the exception of the Mars expedition , which would be deferred . Is a 100-man space station a reasonable goal for the United States , as suggested by this report ? Ten days ago another report was made public by Dr. Lee A. DuBridge , science adviser to the President , whose tenor was quite different . It was prepared by the Space Science and Technology Panel of the President 's Science Advisory Committee , headed by Dr. Lewis M. Branscomb , director of the National Bureau of Standards . Report Critical The report was pointedly critical of NASA , charging that its studies of man in space had not thrown much light on the potential usefulness of astronauts , as opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the nation commits itself to grandiose projects for men in space  --  trips to Mars that take more than a year and massive space stations ? it should find out more precisely what are man 's limitations in a cramped , weightless environment , the report said . One can detect in the report echoes of the chagrin within much of the scientific community at the way the space program backed off from scientific research to concentrate its limited funds on the single goal of landing men on the moon . Another report , circulated last week , was that of NASA 's Astronomy Missions Board , a panel of leading authorities in all fields of astronomy assigned to advise NASA in future missions . It said a " minimum " program of unmanned shots sufficient to avoid loss of present momentum in space astronomy would cost $250-million a year , far less than a single Apollo mission . But approval of even half the " minimum " program is regarded by NASA as unlikely . Many are now asking whether the huge costs of manned space flight can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In response to an enthusiastic presentation before a Senate committee last August , Senator Mark 0 . Hatfield of Oregon commented : " When you are talking to people who are living in the ghetto and when there is alienation within student groups and a black and white militancy heading to disruption ? and I personally think we are already in a revolution in this country  --  the space program and its exploits are almost irrelevant to those individuals , " The next three Apollo landings are scheduled at four-month intervals , partly on the grounds that the experimental packages are already designed and can not be changed substantially no matter what is discovered in the interim . Then the spacing will grow to five or possibly six months for the remaining four shots into 1972 . By that time the two-year Apollo Applications Program should have begun , including the launching of an orbiting " workshop " in 1972 . It will carry a telescope mount for studying the sun at a variety of wavelengths invisible from the earth . The workshop , according to present plans , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soul-searching now under way that the ultimate role of man in space is not much clearer today than it was before the first Apollo astronaut was selected . ? WALTER sui , L.IsrAr4 Targets for Future Apollos Apollo 17 August , 1971 Marius Hills , peculiar humps. possibly volcanic . Apollo 18 ' February , 1972 Inside Copernicus Crater with walls 2.4 miles high . Apollo 19 July , 1972 Mount Hadley in Apennines with river-like " rill e " . Apollo 14 July . 1970 Littrow Crater on edge of seemingly volcanic " sea " . Apollo 13 March . 1970 Fra Mauro Crater. very old , in vast rough area . Apollo 20 December . 1972 Rim of Tycho Crater alongside Explorer 7 . Apollo 16 April , 1971 Descartes Crater , ' volcanic ' features in highlands . Apollo 15 November , 1970 Censorious , apparently a fresh Impact crater.                     