@@721892

txt Acting County Judge John Marshall Karns dismissed vote fraud charges against four precinct election judges yesterday and indicated he would do the same in the case of 235 other judges . The ruling virtually assured dismissal of contempt charges against judges from 46 other precinct election boards cited in an investigation of alleged vote stealing in the 1960 Presidential election . Karns warned Morris J. Wexler , special vote fraud prosecutor , that if the facts were the same in cases involving the other paper ballot precincts , his ruling would be the same . Karns upheld the contention that the sanctity of the paper ballots involved in the contempt proceedings had been violated . He ruled that the opportunity for tampering with them had existed during a preliminary recheck of the 1960 election count conducted by the city board of election commissioners . Sandquist Hits Ruling Elroy C. Sandquist Jr. , an attorney for former State 's Atty . Benjamin S. Adamowski , who had demanded a vote recount after Adamowski 's defeat Nov. 8 , said Karns ' ruling gives election officials " a license @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving election judges of the 48th precinct of the 3d ward . He agreed with Mayer Goldberg , attorney for the four defendants , that " the sanctity of the paper ballots was ruined and violated " during the election board recheck , which preceded a recount in Circuit court . Goldberg had argued that the city canvass board had no authority to delegate the recheck to the election board . 50 Teams in Recheck The election board , over a period of days , conducted a recheck of the paper ballot count , using 50 teams of counters in its offices in City hall . This socalled discovery recheck formed the basis for Adamowski 's recount suit before Judge Cornelius J. Harrington in Cir. cult court . Adamowski , a Republican , was defeated by Daniel P. Ward , a Democrat . Karns had stated that Goldberg did not have to show that there was tampering with the ballots but merely that the opportunity was there . Karns had said Wexler had to show that there had been no " reasonable opportunity " to tamper with the ballots . Warren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court it would have been impossible for the canvassing board alone to ' check the more than 900 paper ballot precincts involved in the vote fraud allegations . There was no reason why it could not delegate this chore to the city election board , he said . Procedure Defended Swanson told Karns that the recheck was conducted with watchers from both political parties and that conducting the recheck in public insured rather than impaired preservation of ballots . In his ruling , Karns observed that " it looks as if the paper ballots were sort of kicked around like a football a good deal . " He said the evidence showed there were " hundreds of people milling around " the 50 tally tables during the recheck . He added that he did not wish to do anything that would make it impossible for future elections to be held because of refusals by housewives to serve as judges . Karns threatened to cite Wexler for contempt after Goldberg asserted that election judges in another case involving the 9th precinct of the 23d ward were threatened and intimidated by Wexler when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Set Back Sandquist , who has been handling the appeal of Adamowski 's recent suit before the Illinois Supreme court since its dismissal by Judge Harrington , said Karns " ruling had " pushed vote reform back several decades . " Defendants in the case were Katie M. Thomas , 4016 Calumet ay. ; Dorothy Lewis , 9020 Prairie ay. ; Agnes Coleman , 4034 Prairie ay. ; and Armielle Jones , 4034 Calumet ay . The ruling will have no effect on prosecution pending against 437 other election officials in precincts with voting machines .                     