@@725123

txt on U.S. - the Midwest What 's ahead ... Illinois Republican Charles H. Percy will soon say which way he intends to jump next in politics . The youthful Republican , turned back in his 1964 bid for the governor 's chair , faces two choices  --  run against incumbent Democratic Sen. Paul H. Douglas next year or wait and go for governor again in 1968 . The first choice is wrapped in a dilemma . Senator Douglas is a powerful vote getter . If Mr. Percy decides not to take him on , it may be regarded as a confession that the senator is unbeatable . Since Mr. Percy is the strongest potential GOP vote puller in the state , this would cast a pall over any other Republican who did decide to run . But if Mr. Percy makes his bid and loses , it will throw cold water all over his own political future . It 's not an easy decision . Midwestern states over the winter will grapple with a mounting summertime problem  --  how to find more tenting space on the old campground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national forests lie too far away for most weekending midwestern city-dwellers to reach . Michigan leads the pack in tent sites ? 15,600 . That 's nearly as many as Kansas , Nebraska , Indiana , Illinois , Minnesota , Ohio , Oklahoma , North Dakota , South Dakota , Missouri , and Kentucky have combined . Yet even Michigan has had to turn away as many as 30,000 would-be campers on a heavy weekend . It all spells camp crisis . Politicians , state park leaders , conservationists , and recreation officials are settling down to a long winter 's search for funds and solutions . ? Trends . " .. The civil-rights issue is encamping now in the small towns of the north . ? Northerners used to think racial discrimination , segregation , and civil rights crises were confined to the Deep South or to the big cities of the North and West . But now they are beginning to flare even in the medium and small towns outside of Dixie . In these communities Negroes are often bunched together on the other side of the tracks or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a town of 27,000 population 26 miles west of Chicago , has only a few hundred Negroes . But some local realtors are passing anti-open housing petitions ? to keep Negroes from buying homes anywhere but in Negro sections . When a city human relations commission was first proposed in Wheaton , it stirred a fight . Akron , Ohio , a small city of 290,000 , is now gripped in a law suit leveled against its school system for alleged racial segregation . These are but two cases . Some Midwesterners say they are straws in the wind . A new Negro countermigration is stirring . Some first generation Northern Negroes are going home . Not in huge numbers . The return to the South is only a trickle , but a steady trickle . A handful7. - most in their middle years ? pack their cars and head back to Dixie every day out of cities such as Chicago , Cleveland , Detroit , Milwaukee , and St. Louis . New civil-rights laws , the token compliance through much of Dixie , the beginnings of change in white attitudes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many hear things are better back home . Others yearn to escape the substandard , jam-packed housing in Northern cities . How and why ... Lake lovers in Michigan and Wisconsin are wading to war against signs of subtle pollution . More than 60,000 lakes dot the two states . And they have been bared such outright forms of pollution as industrial waste and raw sewage . But a more subtle sort has crept in ? called nutrient pollution . It seeps into the lakes from septic tanks of lake-fronting cottages or from fertilizers that drain off lawns and farmlands . This brand of pollution does one of two things . It feeds algae and weeds until they turn the lakes into marshes . Or it kills off the fish and other plant growth . Either way it ruins lakes . The Wisconsin Legislature has just passed a bill to set up a study of the problem . Lake associations in Michigan are forming now to fight it .                     