@@723290

txt Bonn Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's visit to East Berlin must have disappointed his Communist supporters there , and especially Party Chief Walter Ulbricht , since it produced no such political gift as he probably expected for his 70th birthday . This disappointment was evident in the lack of applause during Mr. Khrushchev 's two-hour speech in WernerSeelenbinder Hall  --  where he had nothing new to offer , particularly regarding Germany . Naturally there was approval when he repeated that the best way to German reunification was through elimination of capitalism in West Germany and establishment of a united Germany on the basis of communism . But he gave no fixed date for a German peace treaty , only declaring the Germans themselves must decide how to achieve a Communist Germany . Guarantees Swapped As President Kennedy gave guarantees to West Germany and West Berlin , so did Mr. Khrushchev for East Germany . The latter 's emphasis was upon peaceful coexistence and upon the mutual benefits of trade between communist and capitalist countries . Mr. Khrushchev 's most practical promise was of " inexhaustible raw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East Germany . These are essential for East Germany to fulfill its commitments under economic plans within the Communist bloc . Slogans chanted by Communist Youth such as " with cosmonaut precision we shall improve production " occupied waiting time in the meeting hall , but they do not produce goods . It was clear that Mr. Khrushchev is not seeking adventures at this time but was much more concerned about the Soviet-Chinese ideological conference to open in Moscow July 5 . Kennedy ' Scored The Soviet Premier did , however , find time to condemn President Kennedy for taking Chancellor Konrad Adenauer with him to West Berlin  --  because this indicated West Berlin 's close connection with West Germany , a relationship Moscow maintains does not exist . All this is seen here as little encouragement for the coming nuclear test-ban talks between the United States , Britain , and the Soviet Union in Moscow . The Premier 's proposal of Tuesday to combine such a ban with a nonaggression pact between NATO and Warsaw Pact countries is interpreted to mean that he is building up as many obstacles as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany and the Soviet Union as well as improvement of the former 's relation with East-bloc countries , were made at the Free Democratic Party congress in Munich . Walter Scheel , Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation , supported the idea of increased trade with Eastern Europe and efforts to convince Moscow of German desire for peace .                     