@@723197

txt Letters to The Times tion . CLARENCE B. JONES . New York , June 10 , 1963 . S.J. RUNDT . New York , June 1 ... Letters to The Times Meeting on Civil Rights Lawyer Outlines Stand Taken in Talk With Attorney General TO THS EDITOR OP THU NM YORK Tuns : Inasmuch as I was one of the participants in the recent meeting between the Attorney General of the United States and James Baldwin , I am writing to comment upon certain statements made by James Reston on that meeting in his June 7 column . After describing the dilemma which the Justice Department feels it is in because it believes that both the " militant white segregationists " and the " militant Negro integrationists " are against it , Mr. Reston cited the meeting with the Attorney General as one of the major events contributing to this feeling . I was invited to the meeting as one of the attorneys for James Baldwin . I am also counsel to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . Thus , the reference to " an attorney for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's column is obviously intended to refer to me . Contrary to Mr. Reston and other stories which have emanated out of Washington that a lawyer for Dr. King remained silent throughout the meeting ( the implication being as a " moderate " such a lawyer was intimidated from speaking ) , I participated in four specific areas of discussion with the Attorney General , two of which were initiated by my questions and comments . Subjects Covered I directed the Attorney General 's attention to a Times editorial suggesting that , in order to avoid a recurrence of Oxford , Miss. , the President himself should accompany the Negro students to the campus of the University of Alabama . I directed his attention to the appointment of certain judges by his Administration who had openly and avowedly , prior to their appointment , indicated their flagrant segregationist views . He disputed me concerning the judges and the facts of their appointment . I asked the Attorney General why , since the President had spoken so persuasively as a candidate about the creative use of the powers of the Presidency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example the President 's Sept. 9 , 1960 , speech in Los Angeles ) , the President could not reinstitute F. D. R. 's " fireside chats " in the form of a series of television speeches on segregation and discrimination in America . I participated in a discussion on the role of the F.B.I . in civil rights cases , making the point that there was a crisis in the confidence that Negroes had in the F.B.I . insofar as their efficacy on behalf of civil rights is concerned . The reply ascribed to me , partially by paraphrase and partially by quote , in Mr. Reston 's column is factually inaccurate . No such statement or reply was made by me or anyone authorized to speak for me to the Attorney General during or after the meeting on Central Park South . Incommensurate Activity I only mention this not so much in terms of what I personally did or did not do at the Attorney General 's meeting but lest there be some derivative implications that , because of my association with Dr. King , actions or inactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " moderate " movement being " intimidated " by the " militants . " The Attorney General and Burke Marshall have been more vigorous in their prosecution of actions in behalf of civil rights than any previous Administration . Our complaint , however , is that this admittedly increased vigorous activity is incommensurate with the enormity of the racial crisis confronting our country . That the chief legal officer of the United States was shocked over the sentiments expressed by the participants in and of itself is reflective of how the Administration underestimates the explosive ingredients inherent in the continued existence of racial discrimination and segregation . CLARENCE B. JONES . New York , June 10 , 1963 . To Curb Fiscal Imbalance ro THS EDITOR OP THI NEW YORK THUS : For ten days I have kept on my lesk the clipping of a Times editorial -f May 31 on " The Local Tax Orleal . " I have read and reread it vith growing concern . In conclusion you state : " The pubic will have to realize that we ca n't Lave it both ways : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved governmental se ? ces . . . . " This would appear to be a grim allacy which , unfortunately , is now , days widely propagated in our lads . Tested , more orthodox balance sheet analysis seems to have been forgotten . When revenues do not cover expenditures , there are two basic ways to bring accounts into equilibrium . One can step up intake , or one can cut outlays . How about some prudent reductions in municipal and state and Federal spending ? How about a bit of austerity , which we so often admonish other nations to introduce ? How about elimination of largescale waste and , indeed , also of graft and corruption ( in city and state ) ? How about giving the taxpayer more for his tax dollar by greater efficiency and productivity in public housekeeping ? On balance it would appear that the choice is not so simple and not so black and white . Higher taxes are not the only method to bring order into fiscal imbalances . S. J. RUNDT . New York , June 11 , 1963 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Refugees Repatriated TO THR EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : In her letter published June 6 Vera Weizmann , widow of the late Dr. Chaim Weizmann , incorrectly stated that there are " only a half million Arab refugees " and calls it " a vicious assertion that there are a million . " Dr. John H. Davis , a United States citizen and the Commissioner General of United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees , stated in his June , 1962 , report , to the United Nations General As- ? isembly that the number of Arab refugees was 1,174,760 . Mrs. Weizmann also incorrectly stated that the refugees " left of them own free will , " Menachem Begin , leader of the Zionist Irgun terrorists , perpetrators of Deir Yasin and other massacres , in his book " The Revolt , " stated that " Arabs throughout OS country , induced to believe wild tales of Irgun butchery , were seized with limitless panic and started to flee for their lives shouting ' Deir Yasin . ' This mass flight soon developed into a maddened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lived on the present territory of the State of Israel , only some 165,000 are still there . " We assure Mrs. Weizmann and her coreligionists throughout the world that neither President Nasser nor other Arab leaders contemplate " driving Jews into the sea or exterminating the Jews in Palestine . " Arabs are not and never were enemies of Jews . Throughout history Jews were persecuted in Christian countries . They were always welcome in the Arab world . Without Discrimination Jews live today in Arab countries as citizens with full constitutional rights without discrimination of any kind , Likewise Jews can live today as fellow citizens with Christians and Moslems in the Republic of Palestine . The road to peace is not to advocate giving Ben-Gurion more lethal weapons to increase his " deterrent power . " The United States and other Western powers should not underwrite the unjust and illegal Zionist occupation in Palestine . This road may lead to World War III . We , like Mrs. Weizmann , believe " in the ultimate triumph of moral values . " We believe further that justice will prevail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Arab country , homes and possessions are a crime against humanity . The Arabs of Palestine are bound to attain peace with justice , return to their country and establish the Republic of Palestine . The Holy Land will again become a sacred shrine for all faiths , a land of peace , justice and spiritual inspiration , as it was before it fell victim to Zionist terrorism and occupation . ISSA NAK H LEA , Director , Palestine Arab Delegation . New York , June 8 , 1963 . For Competitive Rent Market TOTHEEDrronor THE NEW YORK Tines : Because of low rents in many areas , due to the unrealistic rent law , elderly couples hold on to six and seven rooms , even though their families have dwindled . Young married couples with children have no alternative but to move into overcrowded , rat-infested slums . Gradual decontrol of rents would immediately put apartments into circulation and give newcomers a chance in the rental market. , New York City le one of the few left with rent control , while all over the country there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent market . Let 's put private housing back on the competitive market , and halt the steady downward trend toward slumville . A WEARY LANDLORD . Brooklyn , May 31 , 1962.                     