@@722959

txt Rabat , Morocco King Hassan has ordered his ministers to hasten plans for the conversion of United States military bases here , due to be evacuated by the end of this year , for civilian use . The monarch directed key ministers attending a night Cabinet session Feb. 19 to study civilian uses of the bases and propose " adequate solutions , " an official palace communiqu ? said . Those attending the meeting included the ministers of Foreign Affairs . Public Health , Interior and Agriculture , Defense . Finance , Labor , Public Works , Posts and Telegraphs , and Education , all of which are con cerned by the conversion problem , official sources said . An interministerial commission of experts was to begin urgent study of the base question Thursday under the chairmanship of Foreign Minister Ahmed Balafrej . All United States forces arc to be withdrawn from the three Air Force bases and the one Kenitra Naval Air Station and from the Voice of America installations in Tangier , and the bases handed over to the Moroccan Government under an agreement reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late King Mohammed V. Among uses which the Moroccans are reportedly considering for the bases are new international airport at the giant bomber base of Nouasseur , near Casablanca , hospitals , and an African training center which would provide technical training in aeronautics , industrial techniques , and modern farming . In December , 1961 , a State Department commission headed by Charles Baxter studied conversion of the $800,000,000 base complex and made suggestions to the Moroccan Government . Last month , Richard Aldrich , director of the United States Economic Aid ( USAID ) mission here , conferred on the Baxter commission report and on disposal of base property with Moroccan Public Works Minister Ben Salem Guessous . Political Fires Fueled Since then , speculation that the United States desires to keep naval communications and Voice of America facilities beyond the deadline added fuel to the political tires kindled by the two political parties which now oppose King Hassan 's government . The daily newspaper AlTahrir , organ of left-wing National Union , charged that the king had already concluded a secret accord for extension of evacuation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied this . The charges of the National Union are seen here as aimed at embarrassing the king prior to his official conversations with President Kennedy scheduled in Washington March 27 and 28 . Deals Charged Newspapers controlled by the right-wing Istiqlal Party , technically in opposition since King Hassan excluded three of its ministers from the government Jan. 7 , charged that " a prominent leader " and an unidentified businessman were both attempting to make private deals with American authorities for the profitable sale of supplies and assets on the bases . Observers here say the " leader " referred to is Ahmed Reda Guedira , Interior and Agriculture Minister and second most powerful man in the kingdom . The Istiqlal wishes to topple Mr. Guedira from power if it can before Morocco 's first parliamentary elections this summer . It regards him as the chief obstacle to consolidation of Istiqlal strength ,                     