@@726748

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Nov. 20 Monday-Three companies of the American 173d airborne ' brigade stormed up Hill 875 , overlooking the big allied base at Dak To yesterday , but they were driven back by entrenched North Vietnamese infantrymen . The United States command said 40 Americans were killed and 42 wounded . Over North Viet Nam , wave after wave of American jet fighter-bombers hammered the Hanoi-Haiphong power core and hit a cement factory and a barge yard near Hanoi for the first time . Headquarters reported two air force F-105 Thunderchief jets shot clown and listed both pilots as missing . Tells Capture of Airmen The North Vietnamese , however , claimed a record 17 American planes shot down yesterday and a " sizable number " of airmen captured . Radio Hanoi said 12 planes were shot down by ground fire and five by MIG interceptors . In the fight for Hill 875 , 14 miles southwest of Dak To , one company of the 173d airborne became pinned down by 15 to 20 entrenched North Vietnamese troops . Two hours later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force 700 yards northwest of the first clash . An hour later , a third company , which had stayed behind to clear a helicopter landing area , tried to reinforce the paratroopers and met the enemy 200 yards to the south of the original contact . Reports ' said some of the paratroopers became separated , but managed to link up after seven hours of fighting and heavy bombardment by fighter bombers and artillery . Infantry Patrol Flit In an action 4 miles south of Dak To , a patrol from the 1st brigade of the United States 4th infantry division came under attack by North Vietnamese troops . The patrol pulled back to allow artillery to hit the enemy positions . A short time later , two 4th division companies sweeping the area came under mortar , small arms , and automatic weapons fire . Three United States infantrymen were killed . Across the valley , paratroopers of the 3d South Vietnamese airborne battalion routed an estimated two Nor t h Viet namese battalions on a mountain peak after four days of savage fighting along razorback ridges . Overrun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles northeast of Dak To , and overran a North Vietnamese command post that United States planes have been pounding with bombs and napalm . The battle climaxed four days of clashes along ridges only a few yards wide and 4,000 to 5,000 feet high . A South Vietnamese infantry battalion was in contact with another North Vietnamese battalion 2 miles away from the Vietnamese paratroopers along the same ridge line . American officers believe the North Vietnamese 24th regiment is spread out along the three-mile ridge line to the east of Dak To . The South Vietnamese troops are at the northern end of the ridge line , and a battalion of the 1st air cavalry division is at the southern edge . The air cavalrymen ran into stiff North Vietnamese resistance Saturday while advancing to the top of the ridge line . The United States troops suffered light casualties and pulled back temporarily while planes and artillery attacked the communist positions , then gained the top . Report Enemy Strength United States intelligence believes there are five North Vietnamese regiments operating around Dak To , with 6,000 to 8,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area . Counting South Vietnamese troops , there is , perhaps , a full division of allied troops in the central highlands , about 10,000 men . American casualties in the 18-day old battle for Dak To were reported as 197 killed and 750 wounded as against 868 Communists killed by Americans forces and 250 more by South Vietnamese troops .                     