@@726229

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 42 Letters to the Editor of The Times Selecting Judges To the Editor : The Constitutional Convention must devise a more effective way to select judges for the courts of this state . Elections to bring judges to the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court in New York have degenerated to absurdity . The electorate can not keep track of all the judicial candidates who stand for office , but the political leaders can and do . The point is not that judgeships are too sacred to be subject to the will of the voters . Rather it is that campaigns for jrdgeships can not capture the voters ' attention when there are so many other contests for high office that raise hot partisan issues , as judicial contests clearly do not . , Is a candidate for the bench to promise that he will decide for plaintiffs ? For defendants ? Is he to pledge himself to give large judgments or shall ones ? All across the nation the trend is toward merit selection plans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slates of qualified candidates to the Governor or other appointing authority : The selection must then be made from the list . Routine Vote The City Bar Association has proposed a merit selection plan that is sound In general , but I part company with it in two respects . First , it does not provide any popular vote at all on retaining a judge in office once he is. appointed . Unlike this plan , the usual merit plan provides for a routine vote on retaining or discarding the judge after a short , time on the bench . , In New York , with so many hundreds of judges to vote on , the retention vote becomes routine and meaningless . I agree with the Bar plan in discarding the routine vote feature . However , the voters should be safeguarded in their right to vote on a particular judge if they are in fact interested . Why not a compromise ? After a judge has been designated he should be subject to being compelled to run for a. full term if a small percentage of the voters sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The judicial nominating commission should have the duty of reporting regularly and publicly on the performance in office of all judges for a year or so after their ' appointment . The special retention election would be held , - if at all , only in the aftermath Of the short probationary term . This would assure a serious election , contest in proper cases , while avoiding a mechanical and uninteresting routine . A , , second suggestion is that the constitutional provision , for : the ? merit selection plan ought to be " phased in . " It should go into effect immediately in New York City and in statewide judicial contests . It should be delayed several years for Buffalo , Rochester and Syracuse ; and should be deferred somewhat longer in smaller population centers . The reason for this is that the present elective method works poorest in places where judges are elected in wholesale numbers and the candidates are completely unknown to the body of voters . In smaller centers there is some likelihood that the voters will know the men they are voting for as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1967 The writer is Professor of Law at Columbia University . He is a member of Mayor Lindsay 's Judicial Selection Committee . ? Romney 's War Stand To the Editor : Gov . George Roniney 's longawaited Vietnam policy speech , and some of the reactions to that speech , brought to the fore two often-made but disturbing assumptions about United States foreign policy . One of these is that our policy can and should be based on our national pride . Romney admits we made a mistake in committing almost a fifth of our national budget and a force approaching half a million men to a " tragic war , " and he points out that " our interest has been defined largely by the commitment . " Yet he also believes that " it is unthinkable that the United States withdraw from Vietnam . " Is it , then , impossible for a great nation to admit a mistake and reverse a course of action ? The other questionable assumption came to light in the responses to the speech . by the White House and two Senators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deserves the gratitude of the American people for maintaining our great tradition that politics stops at the water 's edge . " Senators Griffin and Scott praised hint - for not using the Vietnam war as an issue or " for political expediency . " Has it always been our " tradition " that politics stops at , the water 's edge ? Tradition or not , is this political practice " great ' " ? Or does it amount to saying that we believe in democracy and rational , public discussion of issues only until the issues become complex and vital ? JAMES C. DAVIS Department of History University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia , April 8 , 1967 ? Jewish Method of Slaughter To the Editor : Alice Herrington errs ( letter April 6 ) in her statement that Holland has outlawed ritual slaughter of animals for food . The text of the Dutch law of March 26 , 1920 , fully protects the Jewish religious method . True , on July 31 , 1940 , another regulation , outlawing the Jewish method , was promulgated in Holland . But this change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Occupied Netherlands Territories . Does Miss Herrington consider this regulation of 1940 as still binding in Holland ? Fortunately it is not , as is no more the decree of Adolf Hitler of April 21 , 1933 , which outlawed the Jewish method in Germany , or the decree of the German Governor General of Poland , Hans Frank , dated Oct. 26 , 1939 , which stated that " in any territory under German rule cruelty to animals of any kind is not permissible ; effective immediately , Jewish ritual slaughter for kosher meat consumption is therefore forbidden . " The same decree , so kind to animals , sent the human beings who would follow their religious way of slaughtering animals ( incidentally , recognized by all experts as most humane ) to concentration camps . Outlawed by Quisling Concerning Switzerland , the German Protestant cantons of this country voted for the prohibition and they outvoted the German Catholic , French and Italian cantons who were for the Jewish method . In Norway , the outlawing of the Jewish method was due - to the efforts of a certain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazi puppet government ; his associate was Vidkun Quisling . The two names speak for them- . ? selves . It is strange that Miss Herrington quotes " Upper Austria " as another " nation which has . t ? outlatired , ritual slaughter . " Since when fs " Upper Austria " a nation ? The present Austria has not outlawed the Jewish . method , obviously ? because it relies on the opinion of great experts , physiologists and ' vet- ? erinarians , who consider the Jewish method as most humane . ' I hope that this opinion will .. ultimately convince even Miss ? Herrington that she is wrong in ' ? her action against the Jewish method . There are strong indications that this senseless and - totally unfounded propaganda has already boomeranged : Sev ? eral who originally signed the advertisement sponsored by Miss Herrington have withdrawn ? - ? their signatures . Rabbi ISAAC ' LEWIN New York , April 7 , 1967 The writer , Professor of History at'Yeshiva University , is author of " Religious to Practice Freedom : Shehitah . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Your April 5 editorial " Gun Control Needed " is . unadidterated nonsense . ? Has the Sullivan law prevented the illegal . use of pistols and revolvers -- or their getting into the hands of criminals ? And how would the registration of rifles and shotguns with the police be any more effective than the . Sullivan law is with pistols and revolvers ? You say " Because a . gun is easily concealed . . . " How is a shotgun or rifle concealed ? Yes , registration of shotguns and rifles with the police would be a greater hardship for sportsmen , . than a driver 's license is for the auto owner , . if for no other reason ? than that this is a step nearer to a police state and further undermining of the citizen 's constitutional rights .                     