@@721361

txt Governor Rockefeller finally and defi ; nitely took himself out of the running for the Republican nomination for President today . The New York delegation to the Republican National Convention thereupon voted , on the Governor 's motion , to swing its ninety-six votes to Vice President Nixon . ' This should assure the Vice President of a first-ballot nomination when the roll is called tomorrow night . Herbert G. Klein , Mr. Nixon 's press . secretary , reported that the Vice President was " very gratified " by the New York delegation 's action . He quoted the Vice President . as having said that " this is an omen for the victory of the Republican nominee in the State of New York this November . " Besides eliminating himself from consideration for the Pres ? idency , Governor Rockefeller again turned down an effort to induce him to accept the nomination for Vice President . Tiro new attempt to get him to change his mind was made by three members of the New York County delegation . Governor Rockefeller waE authorized , as chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Nixon on the choice of a running mate . His disposition , the Governor indicated , is to line up the New York votes behind anyone Mr. Nixon wants . Within the delegation there is strong support for Henry Cabot Lodge , the United States representative at the United Nations , for second place . Many delegates feel Mr. Lodge would ' strengthen Republican chances of carrying New York this fall . Governor Rockefeller 's decision to take himself completely out of the Presidential race had been expected since his agreement with Mr. Nixon last Friday on the main ingredients of the Republican platform . The decision was announced formally , at a , caucus of the New York delegation this afternoon . In a statement to the group , Mr , Rockefeller said he was " delighted " about the plat-1 form agreement with Mr. Nixon , and " profoundly gratified " . that the resolutions committee had paved the way for " a strong clear and affirmative civil rights plank . " He said he was moved by and deeply appreciative of , .. the efforts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he had to ask them to face realistically the fact that a majority of the delegates had wanted for many months to nominate Mr. Nixon . Before making his announcement to the New York delegation , Governor Rockefeller told a meeting of the Michigan delegation that he would rise on the floor and ask that his name be withdrawn if it were placed in nomination . Mr. Rockefeller 's announcement to the New York delegation was greeted by applaute . An overwhelming majority of the delegates felt uncomfortable at remaining " uncommitted " on the eve of Mr. Nixon 's nomination . Adoption of the Rockefeller resolution putting the delegates in Mr. Nixon 's column was followed promptly by three emotional pleas for him to accept the Vice - Presidential nomination . The first was made by Harold Forstenzer , a Washington Heights district leader ; the second by Bernard Newman , the New York County chairman , and the third by Harold Burton , a veteran Negro district leader in Harlem . Mr , Burton told the Governor that as Vice President he would be in a particularly strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's reply was that he believed he could exert a greater force on national policy by remaining Governor of New York . One delegate quoted him as having told the closed meeting that the Vice-Presidency was like an auxiliary motor called into play only if the main motor failed . Except for this contingency , he said , it is excess weight . As Vice President , he went on , he would not feel free to speak out because of his obligations to the president . As Governor of the country 's most populous state , he said , no such restrictions will apply . At a news , conference after the New York caucus , Governor Rockefeller was asked if he would accept an appointive office in the new Administration if Mr. Nixon were elected . His reply was : " That is the kind of question I do n't like to answer . " He explained that he believed the new President should go into office without any political commitments . The New York Governor barred the possibility he would accept the Vice Presidential nomination in his statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change his mind persisted until today . The matter was put up to him this morning at a breakfast of seven Republican Governors . He I refused then and at least a half : dozen times during the day .                     