@@722618

txt BERLIN , Aug. 24 ( UPI ) - The United States army sent hundreds of American soldiers in seven convoys to and from Berlin today in militant affirmation of western access rights to the tense and isolated city . They were passed without hindrance or escort on the 110 mile autobahn . American officials disclosed that an American military sedan was stoned and splashed with green paint in East Germany yesterday . No one was hurt . U. S. Escorts Reds The peril laden Berlin crisis also saw these developments : West Berlin Mayor W i 11 y Brandt said communist guards definitely fired into the western sector yesterday when they killed a 19 year old refugee trying to flee into the French zone . American military police at Checkpoint Charlie on the Berlin wall again forced three Russian armored cars to accept a western escort fore and aft on the way to the Russian war memorial in the Tiergarten . A Russian colonel threatened yesterday that Russia would retaliate for such actions by insisting on escorts for American vehicles traveling in East Berlin or on the highway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States put that threat to a test . The first convoy of the 6th infantry division entered the western end of the autobahn thru East Germany to Berlin . There were 223 men in 70 vehicles , mostly trucks . On arrival in Berlin the convoy commander called it a roLtine trip with no attempt by the Russians to provide an escort . Six more convoys followed thruout the day . A total of 342 officers and men and 108 vehicles moved into Berlin in three convoys from West Germany , while 487 men in 90 vehicles traveled in four convoys to West Germany for two week training maneuvers . Army Confirms Attack The American sedan used by liaison mission officers in Potsdam , East Germany , was seen late yesterday returning to West Berlin over the Glienicker bridge . Its windshield was shattered and green paint streaked the body . American officials in Berlin at first refused to comment but army officials at the Heidelberg headquarters of the United States army in Europe confirmed that it bad been attacked . They described the damage as minor . A drizzling rain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again at Checkpoint Charlie en route with replacements for the war memorial . They were about an hour later than usual . The hatches of the vehicles were buttoned down and only the unarmed Russian officer in charge of the convoy was standing in a personnel carrier . They were halted for only four minutes . Maj. Edward Luce of Hemingford , Neb. , read off a written statement which was interpreted for the Russian officer . Then the armored cars drove on a mile and a half to the memorial with an escort of American military sedans , West Berlin radio cars , and West Berlin motorcycles . Escorted by British The British supplied the escort on the return trip along with the same West Berlin police vehicles . Late today about 200 West Berliners gathered at the spot on the French sector where an East German youth was slain yesterday . They placed flowers on a cross erected there .. Brandt showed anger at his press conference . He said the East German transport policeman , Hans Dieter Wesa , was " riddled by 20 to 30 bullets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said it was not clear whether Wesa was still on communist soil when he was hit by the first bullets but that communist submachine gun fire definitely hit West Berlin territory .                     