@@726195

txt Democratic and Republican leaders disclosed agreement yesterday on a set of 19 draft rules for the State Constitutional Convention , which opens April 4 in Albany . The rules will be submitted to Democratic delegates tomorrow and to the Republicans next Wednesday . The draft rules provide for a system of 15 committees , in a calculated effort to seek a simplified constitution . They also contain a timetable calling for final reports from the 12 substantive committees not later than Aug. 14 , although this may be extended . William J. vanden Heuvcl. chairman of the temporary rules committee for the 99 Democrats , said at his office , 277 Park Avenue , at ** Street ; that the agreement thus far means " we are more prepared for this convention than any prior convention in the history of New York State . " For the Republicans , who have 84 delegates ( including one Conservative ) , Perry B. Duryea Jr. , Assembly minority leader , said in Albany that he and Earl W. Brydges , Senate majority leader , were " very much encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rapid start of the convention . " The Liberals have three delegates , Mr. Duryea said the Democratic - Republican agreement covered all points except one that " will be decided on the convention , floor . " This , he said , was how ' the convention 's proposals should be submitted to the voters . The draft rules simply provide now for a " committee on presentation of " proposed constitution . " This is to have five majority and five minority members , specifically not to be appointed before Aug. 1 . The convention has a wide range of choices  --  submission of an entire new constitution , separate amendments to the existing constitution , or groups of amendments . Mr. vanden Heuvel noted that Speaker Anthony J. Travia , Democratic choice for convention president , favored a submission for the general election next fall . Mr. vanden Heuvel said he thought this might be too early . The present constitution bars voting on proposals until at least six weeks after a convention ends ; this , Mr. vanden Heuvel said , would require closing the sessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . " I do n't think we should rush the ending of the convention in such a way as to destroy the confidence of the people , " Mr. vanden Heuvel commented . " It may require more than six weeks to tell the people about the proposals . In 1968 , we 'll have a Presidential election , and more people will be coming out to vote . " As against the 34 standing committees in the 1938 constitutional convention , the 15 currently proposed would be the following : Bill of Rights and suffrage ; economic development ; education ; ? executive branch ; health , housing and social services ; intergovernmental relations ; judiciary ; labor , civil service and public pensions ; legislature ; local government and home rule ; natural resources and agriculture ; presenta-I tion of proposed constitution ; rules ; state finances , taxation and expenditures ; style and arrangement . Makeup of Committees The rules committee would include the convention president and its four vice presidents ; the majority and minority leaders and their assistant leaders , and the chairmen of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have 10 members , half f:om each major party ; the other committees would have 15 majority and 12 minority members each . The timetable in the rules , which the convention would seek to adopt its first day , provides that no delegate may introduce a proposition after  --  Jtme 1 , and no committee , except the rules committee , after June 20 . Propositions introduced before Aug. g shall be referred to standing committees , with later propositions going to the rules committee . The committees , ' except for the rules , style and presentation groups , must make 11 Democrats Meet Tomorrow Speaker Travia , . Mr. vanden Heuvel said , had worked along with the nine-member Democratic temporary rules committee , whose vice chairman was former Mayor Robert F. Wagner . The Democratic delegates are to caucus on the rules at 4 P.M. tomorrow at the National Democratic Club , 233 Madison Avenue . The Democratic committee , Mr. vanden Heuvel said , had worked out the draft in close consultation with a Republican rules committee under Mayor Daniel J. Reidy of Ardsley and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sol Neil Corbin . Mr. Duryea said the draft rules had been approved by the Republican steering committee in Albany yesterday morning , with a Republican delegates ' conference to be called to act on them next Wednesday in Albany . Speaker Travia announced yesterday that as the expected convention president , he intended to appoint Dr. Robert S. Herman as his executive assistant . Dr. Herman has been executive director of the Corbin preparatory commission since last summer , having previously served from 1954 on as assistant state budget director . their final reports on Aug. 14 , unless given more time by the president . The draft rules take over the code of ethics that now applies to members of the Legislature and legislative employes . Lobbyists would be required to register and to file monthly itemized statements of expenditures . Mr. Vanden Heuvel said special committees on ethics and lobbying would be proposed by separate resolutions .                     