@@723304

txt The nation 's civil defense chief said today that a thermonuclear attack on the United States would not create a wasteland and would not foreclose economic recovery . He also said it would not permanently contaminate agriculture or permanently disable rail and road transportation . While making these points , he appealed for Congressional support of the Administration 's nationwide shelter program . As the final major witness before the House Armed Services subcommittee , Assistant Secretary of Defense Steuart L. Pittman sought to refute earlier testimony with a point-by-point commentary on criticisms of the civil defense program . Commenting on the efforts of the Civil Defense Office in the Pentagon , which he leads , Mr. Pittman said : " The agency of government which is operating its own programs can not , by itself , successfully and adequately inform the American people on matters about which no one wants to hear . " " As I have said earlier , " Mr. Pittman went on , " there can be no zest for information about nuclear war which imposes obligations to act in ways which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Representative F. Edwart Hebert , Democrat of Louisiana , began hearings , on the civil defense program - five weeks ago . The bill before the subcommittee would authorize $175,000,000 to expand the Administration 's shelter program . Mr. Pittman presented four lengthy statements , one summarizing the hearings from his viewpoint and three dealing with special issues he thought required specific rebuttal , He did not finish reading them today ail was asked to return tomorrow , when the hearings are expected to end . Mr. Pittman also asked the subcommittee to support an amendment to the present laws to permit civil defense operations to cope with natural disasters . Local and state civil dec fense units ? already have been useful in dealing with hurricanes , floods and other natural disasters , he said . The amendment would remove legal restrictions in the Federal Civil Defense Act that restricted Federal assistance to wartime disasters only . " It would be a mistake to allow the main , purpose of civil defense in America to be diluted by an excessive emphasis on natural disasters , " Mr. Pittman said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be &; mistake to overlook the opportunity of making our civil defense structure highly effective against storms , fires , earthquakes and floods . " As a matter of fact , Mr. Pittman observed , " these natural forces of destruction are , within limits , not unlike some of the effects of nuclear weapons . " Hurricae Carla in 1961 , he pointed out , produced winds at more than 150 miles an hour and raised tides on the Texas coast to more than 18 feet . This flooded 97 per cent of the homes in Texas City and produced greater damage than did the explosions of 1947 that devastated that city . Mr. Pittman offered the following point by point rebuttal of statements about the deadlines of the environment following a nuclear attack : A thermonuclear attack on the United States " would severely damage our national economy , " Mr. Pittman conceded . Then he added : " Nevertheless , it would not create insurmountable barriers to eventual economic recovery . Most of the key sectors of our economy would continue to function  - -  -  not at pre-attack level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Except for perhaps 5 per cent of the land in the area of the holocaust , the countryside would look normal , but would be partially contaminated by Radiation . " Answering speculation that radiation damage to domestic and wild animals and to insects and plants " would be so severe as to create a wasteland through the upset of the ecological balance in nature , " Mr. Pittman said : " Such information as is available does not support such speculation . " He pointed out that a 15-megaton surface bomb ? equal to 15,000,000 tons of TNT  --  was detonated in Rongelap atoll in 1954 and that " that luxuriant set of Pacific islands was heavily contaminated and is now populated again . " Although the most immediate requirements for survival in the post-attack period are widely expected to be food and water supplies , Mr. Pittman cited information furnished by the Department of Agriculture , the Commodity Credit Corporation and studies by the Stanford Research Institute . Their surveys , he said , " show that enough food would be quickly available to support survivors for at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stocked in shelters , canned food in homes and restaurants and supplies in local food distribution channels , " after which sufficient transport and stockpiles would survive to provide backup for at least one year . The effects on agricultural production " appear to be limited to the first year after attack , " he went on . Mr. Pittmen also disputed a statement by Hanson W. Baldwin , military editor of The New York Times , that the country would be catapulted into a " muscle economy " in which essential transportation would be disrupted and only hard labor would be available . The Pentagon official said that " fairly detailed studies that have been made of surviving resources do not bear out such beliefs " and that " transportation for essential shipments would be widely available within a few weeks . " Medical supplies and medical manpower would be short and " could be the most serious factor contributing to a relatively high death rate from disease , " Mr. Pittmann said . " However , he remarked , " this problem is responsive to preparation ' and organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . "                     