@@727956

txt Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko called today for a new lera of friendly relations with the United States and indicated . 1 Soviet interest in a future coaference with President Nixon . In a foreign policy speech to the Supreme Soviet ( Parliament ) , Mr. Gromyko also said the Soviet Union was ready to begin strategic arms control talks with the United States , but he avoided commenting on Mr. Nixon 's proposal to start them in the first two weeks of August . In Washington , Administration spokesmen said they were pleased by the conciliatory tone of Mr. Grornyko 's speech . Politburo Is Present Members of the ruling Politburo sat on a raised platform behind Mr. Gromyko , as he spoke . The Supreme Soviet 's annual summer ? session is expected to last . two or three days . As usual , newsmen and diplomats were invited to the session . The Foreign Minister 's wideranging review of the world underscored the Soviet Union 's continuing concern over relations with Communist China . He repeated a Soviet warning to Peking to negotiate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that talks at Khabarovsk on navigation on border rivers were continuing , but that success was periled by Chinese statements at the negotiating table and the incident on Tuesday , on the Amur River in which Moscow says a river worker was killed and three were wounded . Improvement Is Seen Diplomats regarded Mr. Gromyko 's conciliatory words toward the United States as an indication of a growing improvement in relations and probably the result of a highlevel decision to seek an improved atmosphere with . the West while the problems with China continue . But Mr. Gromyko stressed that the Soviet Union would not seek improved relations at the expense of its Warsaw Pact alliance . He did not mention last August 's invasion of Czechoslovakia , but defended the right of Communist nations to aid others to preserve Communism . He denied that this represented a curtailment of sovereignty , as interpreted in the West . The Foreign Minister also held out the hand of friendship to Yugoslavia and said that despite differences the Soviet Union hoped that relations could be improved . Yugoslavia has criticized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the press . On Vietnam , Mr. Gromyko indicated that Soviet policy would go no further than the one enunciated by North Vietnam . He urged the United States to make a " sober consideration " of the war and " end its war of aggression in Vietnam . " On the Middle East , where Moscow has been the leading supporter of the Arab cause , Mr. Gromyko spoke in milder terms than in the past toward Israel and echoed United States concern about the instability of the truce in that area . " It would be a shortsighted policy to place hopes , as they do in Israel , on military superiority , " he said . " The surest way to solve the problem would be on the basis of the withdrawal of Israeli troops from occupied areas and the simultaneous recognition of the right of all Middle Eastern states , including Israel , to independent national existence and the establishment of a lasting peace in this important area , " he said . Diplomats were struck by the section of Mr. Gromyko 's speech devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gromyko 's words last year at the summer session of the Supreme Soviet . Last year , Mr. Gromyko , while indicating that Moscow was ready to begin arms control talks , nevertheless said that " Soviet-American relations are still burdened by the aggressiveness of the foreign policy of the United States and primarily by the war unleashed in Vietnam . " The United States stopped the bombing of North Vietnam last November . That , with the advent of a new administration , apparently removed a major obstacle to improved SovietAmerican relations together with the coming into office of a new Administration . Today Mr. Gromyko said : " We are for the development of good relations with the United States and would like these relations to be turned into friendly ones because we are convinced that this would cor'respond to the interests of both the Soviet and the American peoples . " Mr. Gromyko asserted that although there were " deep class differences " between the two powers , " the Soviet Union believes always that , when it comes to problems of safeguarding peace , the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He said the Soviet Union had taken notice of President Nixon 's remark in the inauguration speech that the time of confrontation had ended and a time for negotiation was beginning . " The Soviet Union is in favor of negotiations , and if the United States Government would implement this line , on our side , as before , there is a readiness to seek agreement both on bilateral issues and on unsolved international problems , " Mr. Gromyko declared . In a specific proposal , he said , " Why not , for instance , consider the question of an exchange of official delegations of the Supreme Soviet and the United States Congress ? " Embassy officials said this was the first time such an exchange was proposed at this high a level , although it has been made before . Congress has been cool to such an exchange in the past apparently on the ground that the Supreme Soviet is not a genuine legislative and debating body in the Western sense and , for the most part , merely adopted legislation proposed by the Soviet Union 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summit meeting , Mr. Gromyko said " the Soviet Union could not help but notice , of course , the statement of President Nixon in favor of a wellprepared Soviet-American meeting at the highest level . " This was taken to mean that the Soviet leaders , while not committing themselves , were favorably inclined toward such a meeting . United States officials have said they doubted a meeting could take place before the autumn at the earliest and probably not before next year . Mr. Gromyko said anti-Communists in the United States would probably continue to oppose an improvement in relations , but " even those circles must understand that the preventing of conflict between the two greatest powers in the world and the establishing of normal or , what would even he better , good relations are in the interest of both parties . " On arms-control matters , Ile asserted one of the most crucial issues is the halting of the arms race in strategic weapons . He said the United States had declared that " it is getting ready for an exchange of opin-1 ion " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it , " Mr. Gromyko ' declared . " One would hope that both sides will approach this problem with full understanding of its great importance . " There has been no Soviet reply to the United States proposal to begin talks on strategic missiles in the first two weeks of August . There was nothing in Mr. Gromyko 's speech about Mr. Nixon 's forthcoming trip to five Asian countries a MI to Rumania . In fact , in a po , ; sible reference to widely publicized articles about Soviet-Rumanian differences , Mr. Cromyko accused adopted legislation proposed by through a magnifying glass ccr- , lain flaws in relations " among members of the Soviet bloc . He recalled a statement by Leonid I. Brezhnev , the Soviet party leader , at last month 's world Communist conference calling for an Asian collective security system . Asian diplomats have tried in vain to get an idea of what Mr. Brezhnev had in mind . " This idea has met with wide international response , particuarty in Asian countries , " he said . But he denied that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                