@@722469

txt Letters to The Times pg . 32 Letters to The Times To Activate the Economy Increase in Government Spending Is Declared Overdue TV THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : . I share the opinion expressed in your editorials of June 3 and 6 that l'the Federal Government should take early action to stimulate the economy . But I do not feel , as you do , that tax reduction is preferable to increased Government expenditure . While I strongly recommend curtailment of income taxes for the low-income groups and of many indirect and excise taxes , I do so chiefly for social reasons . To stimulate the economy , increased Government spending for the construction of schools , hospitals , low-cost housing , public transportation , etc. , is urgently required . And this mainly for two reasons : for one , stimulation of the economy by such expenditure would be immediate and direct , while stimulation expected from reduction of income and corporate taxes would , except for Some consumer goods industries , be very uncertain and at best very slow . Second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumers and curtailing it in capital goods industries  --  a painful process which would take years to complete  --  a given volume of capital investment is required to generate a high level of production and employment . Otherwise capacity and manpower in the basic industries remain idle , despite a possible increase in the production of consumer goods . Capital Investment Level Since there is no - mechanism in present-day American capitalism insuring an appropriate level of capital investment at all times , Government expenditure substituting for private investment is indicated whenever there is , or threatens to be , serious unemployment in the economy . It is a fallacy to assume that reduction of tax rates for high income groups and corporations would stimulate private investment sufficiently to absorb all or a large part of existing idle capacity and manpower . The time for increased Government expenditure is long overdue . For years the American economy has suffered from inadequate investment activities . This is the chief reason for the sluggishness of the present recovery . The investment outlook has of late not been very promising , and the recent developments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments . An immediate decision to augment expenditure for public works by Fed , eral , state and city governments is hence essential to increase production and employment and to forestall an early recession which otherwise might result from present conditions . Pressure on Prices There is no reason to assume , as you do , that a budgetary deficit caused by Government spending would put pressure on prices and create difficulties for the balance of payments while a similar deficit resulting from tax reduction would not do so . Some wholesale prices may rise in the course of an economic expansion as they have always done and ' as is almost unavoidable under our system ; but there is not much danger of unduly large price rises in the near future . The chief cause of the difficulties in our balance of payments is our overseas military expenditures as well as short- and long-term capital movements in regard to which complete freedom exists not only for our own citizens but for anyone in the world who desires to invest or speculate in our markets and finds it profitable to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is impossible to provide real " protection " to the balance of payments , except by Government supervision , to which Government and business are strongly opposed . However , a business expansion stimulated by Government expenditures would not only increase the profitability of American enterprise ( regardless of possible price increases ) and augment tax receipts , but it would also serve to attract foreign funds to the United States or at least discourage their withdrawal from here as well as the export of American funds . OTTO NATHAN . New York , June 6 , 1962 . Airplane Accidents To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There were tears in my eyes after reading your editorial of June . 5 " The End of the Runway . " It was written with reverence and with a moral . It was an article that did two things . It should have awakened the persons . frightened of flying to realize their folly and should console those who have lost ' loved ones . In an airplane catastrophe . I lost a very dear brother in the Grand Canyon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am sure he would have been the first to agree that there was and is a slight risk in flying but also that there is , a risk in all human endeaVors . We must always look forward . Already the Federal Aviation Agency is working on equipment to prevent another Orly incident . This fact is not much consolation now . for the families of the victims , but I hope and pray some ' day they willwant to " fasten their seat belts and ride the unpaved and beautiful high -- ways of the sky . " My heart goes out to those in mourning in Georgia and France . Mrs. WENDELL M. CARRIER . Brooklyn , June 6 , 1962 . No Population Problem Statement That It Is Outrunning Our Resources Disputed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of May 31 concerning United States help in population control and the letter published on June 8 , " Controlling Population , " by Dr. Johan Eliot , illustrate some rather confused thinking . Your editorial is directed specifically to the population growth in under-developed countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to apply your reasoning to population growth in the United States , saying , at one point , that population is outrunning resources . A population problem could well exist in certain under-developed countries , although there is considerable controversy on this subject . In some countries population tends to rise up to the limits of output , making it difficult for per capita real income to rise . The tendency of planners in the under-developed countries as well as most Jeaders of the rich nations , however , is to encourage measures that would make real national income rise faster than population , thereby setting in motion a whole chain of events which would reduce . the birth rate by voluntary action on the part of the couples themselyes . This approach to population control is both sensible and wise , and it seems much more desirable than curbs on the birth rate imposed on a national scale as Dr. Eliot suggests . Per Capita Income But in the United States real national income is rising much faster than population . Since 1875 per capita real income has risen five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nothing could be further from the truth than Dr : Eliot 's suggestion that population is outrunning resources in the United States . In fact , resources are increasing so rapidly that they seem to be pulling population upward . It is high time for responsible citizens to stop using population growth as a scapegoat for certain of our national ills . Population is this country 's greatest resource . The rising incidence of mental illness , . delinquency and crime referred to in Dr. Eliot 's letter can hardly be the result of over-population in America . JOSEPH ZAREMBA , Associate Professor of Economics , Fordham University . New York , June 8 , 1962 . Diplomats ' Retirement TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : I read with deep concern your May 31 news article on retirements from the Foreign Service . The . statement is made that the career diplomats are leaving in order to receive the 12 per cent pension bonus available to those who apply for retirement prior to May 31 . All of the individual officers mentioned in this article are known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public servants who have ren= dered invaluable service to their country through the years . I can state , without fear of contradiction , - that in not one of the cases rnehtioned is the monetary increment the major factor . While the increased pension is undoubtedly come , health , personal and other . reasons account for the retirements : It would be an unfortunate commentary indeed , were these officers , knowing as they did on entering the service that they could not expect : financial gain , were now to be motivated by such considerations . Haps. pily this is not the case . Any conclusion td the contrary is ' an unwarranted reflection on agroup of men whose whole careers are ample proof of their basic pa-. triotism and their willingness to put the national interest above monetary rewards . ROBERT NEWBEGIN , ? Career Minister , Retired . Washington , June 1 , 1,962.                     