@@724351

txt The Common Market made substantial progress today toward settling its internal policy disputes over agriculture and trade . West Germany 's Foreign Minister , Dr. Gerhard Schroder , told the Council of Ministers ' meeting here : " My country is prepared to reach an agreement now on common grain prices . " He did not specify the sort of agreement Bonn would regard as acceptable , but the atmosphere of the meeting seemed to have improved following his statement . No one was prepared to say that the Common Market , or European Economic Community , had resolved the FrenchWest German differences over grain prices and a common position for the Kennedy round of tariff-cutting negotiations . Hopes for Compromise Rise But there was considerable agreement that the community was at least back on a path that could lead to a compromise by the year 's end . The cabinet ministers of the member nations ? West Germany , France , Italy , the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg ? agreed to clear away all other proposals that might interfere with settling the key disputes during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan . sponsored by Chancellor Ludwig Erhard of West Germany for promoting European political and economic unity , the program of Walter Hallstein , president of the Common Market 's Executive Commission , for accelerating the development of a customs union and the several Italian action programs were all moved aside . The ministers simply agreed to lump all such proposals together for a round-table discussion early next year . Meanwhile they will try to work out a compromise on grain prices and the Kennedy round that will satisfy the two biggest members of the sixnation bloc  --  France and West Germany . The French-West German dis- pute over farm prices results from the contrast between grain prices in France , which are the lowest in the European Community , and in West Germany , which are the highest . The Common Market 's Executive Commission has recommended a uniform price level between these two extremes . Five of the six nations , including France , have accepted this proposal , but West Germany has refused so far . The suggested price for a ton of wheat is $106.25 . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission proposed that they be paid up to $140 million over the first three years after a common grain price had been set . France , which is most interested in selling her farm surpluses in the European Community , has been blocked by West Germany 's reluctance to drop higher prices and let farm products in . The Erhard Government has been dragging its feet because reduced grain prices would cut into the C-erman farmer 's income and the farm bloc is politically powerful in West Germany . - Bonn Stands to Profit West Germany , the Community 's biggest industrial ex'ander , stands to profit most from the Kennedy round , which calls for worldwide reduction of tariff , barriers to industrial trade . The negotiations are named for President Kennedy because they grew out of the Trade Expansion Act passed in his Administration . The French spokesman made it unmistakably clear during a special briefing last night that there would be no progress in the Kennedy round without some concession by West Germany on grain prices . France is in a position to block the Kennedy round if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concessions in Dr. SchrOder 's remarks today were sufficient to stimulate a similar response from the French Ministers tomorrow . Some observers expect that the grain-price agreement , if it materializes next month as expected , will take effect only after the German elections in September , 1965 . Dr. Schrader , it was felt , would deliberately refrain from indicating what would be agreeable to West Germany until there was some evidence of great progress in the Kennedy round . Tomorrows agenda calls for the first discussion in the Council of Ministers . of the Community 's exceptions list . Most Observers feel that the attitude demonstrated by France tomorrow will indicate whether there is to be a compromise before the year 's end on the Common Market 's current conflicts .                     