@@721759

txt WASHINGTON , April 2 ? The United States is planning to send another 1,500-man battle group to fill out stand-by manpower requirements for the Far East . However , there is no indication of a major Army build-up , Army offi ials say that they do not have enough men to carry out major reinforcements . The battle group will presumably be assigned to the 1Twenty-Fifth Infantry Division now stationed at Hawaii . This division has been below its regular strength . One of its five battle groups is stationed in Okinawa . . The unit in Okinawa is the second airborne battle group of the 503d Regiment , a reinforced outfit with 1,920 men instead of the usual 1,500 . It was sent to the Pacific from Fort Bragg , N. C. , last summer . Army Will Add 5,000 The date of the new reinforcement could not be ascertained . It will be covered by the increases in personnel announced by President Kennedy in his defense Budget Message last week . Of the 13,000 men who will ! be added to the armed force. % @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5,000 , it was made known at the Pentagon . The Marines will get 3,000 , the Navy 3,000 and the Air Force 2,000 . The Army said that its additional manpower would be used to double the size of the special forces . These are - the recently much publicized guerrilla fighter units . The Army has about 1,800 men in the special forces . They will be increased by 500 this year . Special-force units are stationed in Germany , in Okinawa , and at the training headquarters at Fort Bragg . Increases Are Small Secretary of Defense Robert S. took notice of comments that the manpower increases indicated in President Kennedy 's defense message were fairly small , in view of the new stress on preparedness for limited-war situations . Mr. called attention to the 6,000 men in uniform in this country and the 15,000 overseas who are expected to be released for other duties when various installations and bases . are shut down for economy reasons . Several of the larger installations will be closed out in stages over three years to reduce the unfavorable economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials at the - Pentagon conceded that they had received considerably less in personnel and funds for weapons modernization than they had sought . According to long-standing Army estimates , the Army needs 1,000,000 men and close to $3,000,000,000 a year for at least three years to provide an adequate , modernly equipped force to deal with limited-war situations . Army spokesmen have repeatedly called attention to the obsolescence of their arms and equipment in contrast with Modernization that has heel carded out by the Soviet ground forces since World War II . The Army , which got 5,000 more men under the President 's budget revisions , had sought 55,000 more , for a total of 925,000 . The Army gained some increases in modernization funds through the changes made by President Kennedy in the Eisenhower defense budget . ? General Eisenhower 's farewell budget called for $1 , $03 , - 000,000 for Army modernization and President Kennedy raised this to $1,912,000,000 ? still far short of the Army 's r ! quests The Army has said it needs $1,500,000,000 a year just to replace worn out equipment , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ es have pointed out that with the huge new appropriations requests for Navy Polaris-missile submarines , they could not have expected much more than they received . These sources said they hoped for a better response to their requests next year when President Kennedy will prepare his own complete budget , instead of revising one he inherited . However , other qualifed Pentagon officials indicated that the appropriations requested for the Army modernization program had not fallen short of Army requests because of em- ' phasis upon the Polaris and other major weapons such as the Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missiles . These officials said that the Army had failed to make a convincing case for its weaponsmodernization requirements . They called attention to a new survey that has been ordered to assess once more the Army 's modernization requirements .                     