@@725363

txt Another phase of the Vietnam great debate is over , and the United States presses ahead on its established course in Asia . This is the factual situation here in the wake of the Fulbright hearings . President Johnson is left in command of the field . The President will continue to seek peace and stability in Asia by placing the power of the United States firmly across the path of Communist expansion . He will not be moved by the objections or suggestions of the Fulbright group in Congress and the intellectuals of the Democratic left . He will not check the mounting involvement of the United States in Asia at present . He will not try to separate the national revolutionaries of Vietnam away from the Communist system centering on Peking , and seek accommodation with them . The President withheld his own personal and most carefully reasoned reply to his critics until the Fulbright hearings were done . His speech at New York was an effort to reassert his leadership in terms that would reassemble the broad center of American opinion behind him after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also hoped to minimize , even to gloss over , his serious differences with the liberals who opposed him . Policy document The President 's speech at New York , in consequence , gave more than his usual improvised argument against aggression which had become so familiar that it was widely regarded as a cliche . He presented a close-knit policy document . It combined two elements which are inseparable in the view of his advisers who helped him prepare it : One was a comprehensive reply to Americans who fear needless escalation . Mr. Johnson had not given such explicit reassurances before . The other was a freshly worded explanation of why the United States is fighting in Vietnam . He avoided the usual legalistic argument over the American " commitment " to stop aggression and gave his own  --  and in trenchant quotes , the Roosevelt , Truman , Eisenhower , and Kennedy  --  basic reasoning . On the first point , the President said the United States does not fight for unlimited objectives ; that it does not threaten the existence of Communist China ? " never by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caught in a blind escalation of force that is pulling us headlong toward a wider war that no one wants . " He said that this was a " measured use of force " under " careful control " and not " a mindless escalation " ? in other words , a limited war . Its purpose is to stop misbehavior , not to annihilate an opponent . Presidents quoted He recalled " the pledge of Honolulu " that the American effort would not " rely on guns alone , " but would seek to give the substance of freedom , political and economic , to the Vietnamese people . No " hopeful chance of peace " is being neglected , he said . On the second point , he explained that no national leader in wartime could say how long the war would last . He repeated that " our fighting men ... have , and will haVe , what they need to fight the aggressor . " Then he gave his quotations on the reasons for defending free countries , carefully selected from Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt through Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam would grow only if the Communists enlarged it for the purpose of conquest . The United States would use only enough force to stop that conquest . But it would use as much as was necessary . By the time the President spoke , a flurry of ambiguity over a criticism from Sen. Robert F. Kennedy ( D ) of New York had subsided . The Senator seemed to be going beyond the Fulbright statement that the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam should be admitted to peace talks in its own right . He appeared to say it should be admitted to a coalition government . Contradictory positions He was publicly answered by Hubert H. Humphrey , George W. Ball , and McGeorge Bundy as if he had meant an interim coalition government , where the Viet Cong leaders could use their position to rig or slant national elections in their favor . But the administration leaders appeared , in news reports , to say the front should not be admitted to a government coalition , even if the results of an election pointed that way . This was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result of a genuinely free election even if it meant Communist control . Senator Kennedy then said he had not meant to force an interim coalition on South Vietnam , only permit it to be discussed at peace talks . The President 's press secretary said this was acceptable . No one was quite sure from the necessanity brief news reports what anyone else had meant in the first exchanges . But the outcome pointed up again how hard it is for critics to dramatize a vital flaw in the administration position . Related stories : Pages 3 and 5                     