@@727175

txt Senator Edward W. Brooke warned today that pressure was mounting for a renewed expansion of the war in Vietnam if North Vietnam 's negotiators did not show more flexibility in the Paris talks with the United States . Administration officials cited the Massachusetts Republican 's speech  --  the first - major statement on Vietnam in the Senate since ' the , Paris talks began six weeks ago  --  as a useful warning , particularly amid reports that North Vietnamese helicop , ters Might ' have entered the air war over the demilitarized zone . Secretary General Thant predicted ? Tuesday that the Paris talks would remain deadlocked for a long time because . both sides still hoped for a military victory . Page 5 . . The reports from Saigon about the sighting of North Vietnamese helicopters have not been fully verified here , and official spokesmen declined comment on them until more information could be obtained . If they are borne out , however , officials said , it could be a quite serious demonstration that North Vietnam was intent on pursuing the military effort unabated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks served only as a propaganda forum . The fear of such an eventuality is what led Senator Brooke to break the Senate 's silence on Vietnam diplomacy . " It appears that the North Vietnamese have misconstrued our silence , " he said . " They have responded to America 's unilateral de-escalation of the war by rapidly increasing their own military efforts . " " Hanoi should not delude itself into thinking that the start of negotiations has created expectations in this country of an early settlement or that the United States has no choice but to continue the talks , however fruitless they may prove . " Make no , mistake about it ? the President 's options do not lead only to the conference table . He is still commander in chief of the armed forces of the United States . " ? Senator Brooke specifically addressed his remarks to the Hanoi leadership as much as to the dozen Senators who heard him speak . Several , including a leading Senate dove , John Sherman Cooper , ? Republican of Kentucky , rose to endorse his speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patience , both ' toward the Stilled Paris talks and the military activity in Vietnam , some : officials are'expressing concern at how long the bombing limitations announced March 31 by President Johnson can be ' maintained if there is no evident response from the North Vietnamese side . Under its liinitations the 19th Parallel became the . northernniost point that the attacks would occur ; Special ' diplomatic effort has been : directed. ; . the .. lastNweek toward . he Soviet Union , whose diplomats are believed to be one : of Hanoi 's main-sources of information about the attitudes of American political figures , bOthin and out of the Administration . The Soviet Ambassador , Anatoly F. Dobrynin , has been active in canvassing , the evolving opinions of influential ? policymakers . He sought a private meeting with the chief United States negotiator , W. Averell Harriman , when Mr. Harriman was in Washington briefly last week after the funeral of Senator Robert F. Kennedy . It is ' in this context that Sen1-tie New Yol Timcs Senator Edward W. Brooke ator Brooke 's remarks were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aides said the text of the speech had not been discussed with the Administration in advance . " If Hanoi is to make a balanced appraisal of the negotiations in Paris , it must understand some central truths about the domestic political trends in the United States , " Senator Brooke said . " The American people have adopted a highly skeptical attitude toward the Paris discussions and are prepared for the contingency of their failure . " " Should the negotiations fail , I fear that there will be a tremendous pressure on the United States Government to resume escalation , " the Senator went on . " Not only are there likely to be calls for the bombing limitations to end , but overwhelming demands for an all-out assault to close Haiphong . Already I am hearing from colleagues and constituents vehement arguments that every rocket that falls in ? Saigon should be matched by a bomb on Hanoi . " Senator Brooke is considered to be close to the ? main group of Senate doves ' who oppose the policy of military escalation , although not quite one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his previous support of the Administrations 's policy had altered and that he favored a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam .                     