@@726625

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times For ' Blaine ' Repeal To the Editor : The Rev. Dr. Dan Potter , executive director of the Protestant Council of the City of New York , does not speak for all of the Protestants of this city , and perhaps not even for a majority of them , when in his Oct. 2 letter he denounces the Constitutional Convention for proposing to substitute the generalized " no-establishment " language of the Federal Bill of Rights for the rigidities of the so-called Blaine amendment . The Federal " no - establishment " provision , which already binds the states through the operation of the Federal Constitution 's Fourteenth Amendment , plus the good sense of the people and their legislators , have been the sturdy guardians of church-state separation in this country for two centuries . What reason is there to believe that they will suddenly cease to be so ? Dr. Potter refuses to acknowledge that church - state separation , properly conceived , is a constitutional principle and , unlike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative prescription . Rather , like " equal protection , " " due process " and the other similar concepts which express the highest values of our political order , church-state separation should have not an immutable content but a capacity for growth to accommodate the evolving needs and standards of twentieth-century America . The proposed repeal of Blaine merely reflects the fact that government is involving itself today , more than ever before , in those areas of health , education and welfare which have been the traditional secular concerns of the churches for 1,000 years . This state 's government should have the capacity to deal reasonably and responsibly with that fact . New York will not become another Spain if it does . H. RICHARD SCHUMACHER New York , Oct. 4 , 1967 Dijon 's Link with U.S. Army To the Editor : I was disgusted to read the letter of Prof. David S. Lifson in the Oct. 3 issue of The Times wherein he objected to the appearance of the United States Army band at the international wine festival in Dijon . If I understand the Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hello Dolly " at a folk festival was indicative of an aggressive , warlike attitude on the part of the United States as compared to the peaceful , gay and friendly aspect of the singers and dancers from the other countries . What rubbish ! It is true enough that a military band is not a particularly appropriate choice to represent the United States at a folk festival . But it is certainly nothing to be ashamed of or to conjure up the absurd notion that Americans are military jingoes . As a matter of fact , there were no doubt some French citizens of Dijon at the festival who recalled with gratitude some other Americans ( also in uniform ) who appeared in their city in September 1944 , when the United States Third and Seventh armies linked up and drove out the Nazis . P. W. GUINEY Jr . West Point , N. Y. , Oct. 4 , 1947 ? Russia 's Rank To the Editor : The first of Harrison Salisbury 's interesting news articles on a half-century of Soviet rule in Russia includes a statement that calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has seen Russia move from bottom rank among European powers to second in the world to the United States , " does not offer an adequate picture of Russia 's relative position . In 1917 Russia ranked fourth in Europe in industrial production , after Germany , England and France , but ahead of Italy and Austria-Hungary . The United States ranked first in the world . Today Russia ranks first in Europe in this respect , and second in the world after the United States . This ranking is naturally affected by Russia 's size . It is the largest country in the world in area . Its population is about four and a half times larger than that of Germany , England or France . It should therefore be noted that in terms of gross national product per capita , Russia ranks about twentieth in the world today in the estimate of Western economists . Soviet economists , on the basis of a somewhat different calculation of national income , rank their country fourteenth in the world per capita . To state the matter in this fashion is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past half-century . It would appear from the inadequate statistics available that while Russia has narrowed many of the gaps separating it from the more developed countries , and has surpassed some of them in significant respects , in terms of the comprehensive estimates represented by gross national product per capita , the countries that were ahead of Russia in 1917 are still ahead in 1967 . CYRIL E. BLACK Princeton , N. J. , Oct. 3 , 1967 The writer , Professor of History at Princeton University , is editor and co-author of " Communism and Revolution . " ? Transportation Woes To the Editor : Commissioner Henry Barnes ' announcement of an increase in parking meter rates lamentably omitted mention of any corresponding proposal to improve the city-owned public transportation facilities . No one will deny the desirability of fewer private automobiles in New York ( excepting one 's own , naturally )  --  the less traffic the better . But unfortunately the only other option for traveling people is either a bus that takes forever or a subway that makes Calcutta seem utopian . By any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an emergency ; New York 's public transportation system is subsidizing psychiatrists and aspirin companies ( who in turn should be taxed on this account ) and , is in fact promoting a kind of fatalism which one thought the social gospel had rendered ob-. solete . As victims of our own prop-. agenda , moreover , we have come to believe that it is fun ' - . damentally unimprovable , the will of God . I have even run into some people who actually ' like it here . Commissioner Barnes must be reprimanded tor his capitulation to the logic of our collective suicide . By not offering some way to improve our pub- , lie weal at the same time he ' piled on another straw he has taken us one step further toward complete sullen narcosit JONATHAN EISEN New York , Sept. 29 , 1967 ? Funds for Sculpture To the Editor : May I correct a fundamental misapprehension in the letter from Bertha Molony printed in ' your columns on Oct. 2 ? Miss Molony considers it a mistake to have spent Parks Department funds on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Cultural Showcase week . Actually no Parks Depart-ment or city funds were spent for this purpose ; the pieces of sculpture , their placing and insurance , catalogue and the ' poster were contributed by private sources especially for this purpose , with the support of the artists themselves . Miss Molony may be assured that the task of keeping our parks clean and green goes forward , with no hindrance from the muse of modern art . AUGUST riECKSCHER Administrator and Commissioner Department of Parks , New York , Oct. 4 , 1967 ?                     