@@725490

txt Washington continues to be conspicuously interested in things other than the war in Vietnam . The President returned from his " lookingthe-other-way " trip to Mexico City to a Washington engaged in spirited verbal " escalation " of the issue with France over the time of departure of American forces from France . The President at once busied himself with domestic affairs , particularly with the inflationary pressures in the United States economy and the question of what to do about them . Secretary of State Dean Rusk went off to Ankara for the annual meeting of the CENTO foreign ministers , although the United States is not a member of CENTO , and it is not entirely necessary for the Secretary of State to be there . ' Mr. Rusk did not use his presence to ask for aid for his cause in Vietnam . Such a request at that place would have been wasted breath . Main Washington initiative abOut Vietnam was provided by Sen. Mike Mansfield ( D ) of Montana who thought out loud that perhaps fresh efforts might be made from ASia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He mentioned Japan and Burma as places from which some initiative might usefully come . His remarks were given official White House and State Department blessing . The effect of the Mansfield move was said by political observers to help give the President more room for maneuver . The current theory is that he has by now largely disengaged himself from his own commitment of the Honolulu trip to Premier Nguyen Cao Ky and is in a position to accept any new regime which events might throw up in Saigon at any moment . New ? mpartiality seen The President and , his subordinates all display a new impartiality toward the various political elements in South Vietnam . Friendly words were even found for Thich Tri Quang , - leader of the less moderate Buddhist element . A month earlier Washington officialdom found little good in that particular monk . The disengagement of presidential prestige from the political fortunes of Marshal // off to Vietnam Wearing typical slouch hats and jungle green uniforms , Australian troops march through the streets of Sydney on the eve of departure for Vietnam . Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . // Ky in Saigon had more behind it than merely domestic political prudence . It was in line with conclusions drawn from two major recent world events which have by now been appraised . The results have been fed into the American policymaking process . First event was the counterrevolution in Indonesia which is by now fully established . There is no longer any serious thought that President Sukarno can again recover his personal political control . The revolution is believed to be finished and decisive . It has manifestly taken Indonesia completely out of the Chinese circle of influence . In theaftermath of the counterrevolution Indonesia has broken with Peking , is in the process of making peace with Singapore and Malaysia , has asked and been granted emergency American aid . This changes the strategic situation in Southeast Asia . It downgrades the importance of developments in South Vietnam . Among Washington strategists it is still considered desirable and preferable to have South Vietnam " on our side . " But it is difficult to argue that what happens in South Vietnam is any longer " vital " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ digested event is the Moscow 23d Communist Party Congress . Analysis leads to the conclusion that Moscow succeeded in producing a " Potemkin Village " appearance of world Communist solidarity , But behind the facade lay the essential fact that the Communist movement is deeply split . United States Ambassador W. Averell Harriman , the President 's senior adviser on Communist affairs , phrased the conclusions in the following terms ; " Communism is not a salable product in the world today . . . . " Stalin 's concept of a monolithic structure of international communism , with the Kremlin as the oracle , has of course collapsed . " The appraisal of the 23d Communist Party Congress came out in other ways . Secretary of State Rusk and Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara have each been through another 31/2-hour televised ordeal before the Senate 's committee on foreign relations .                     