@@724318

txt Wichita Falls , Tex. , Oct. 24 ? Sen. Barry Goldwater ended another campaign swing into President Johnson 's home state of Texas here today with the charge that Johnson and his top aids believe the government is the master , not the servant , of the people . it was the fourth time the Republican nominee has criscrossed Texas seeking to wrest it from the President on election day . At rallies at the first two stops of the day , in Austin and Corpus Christi , Goldwater leveled his attack at Hubert Humphrey , the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee . He saved the big gun for his largest , wildest cheering rally of the day in the 10,000-seat Midwestern university stadium here . Jokes About Johnson All three rallies were full houses . The crowds were enthusiastic . Wichita Falls capped a day that , in addition to the rallies , saw Goldwater spend a few minutes tossing a football back and forth with a boy in Corpus Christi while a jammed top on a motorcade convertible was repaired . It was a day in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's TV monopoly , and ended his speech in Spanish in Corpus Christi , where 38 per cent of the population is Latin-American . At Wichita Falls , Goldwater said the message of the campaign is clear  --  to stop the spread of socialism at home and communism abroad . Rap at Scandal He again referred to Johnson as the interim President . He criticized the administration for the Bobby Baker scandal . He Add constitutional government must be preserved . He had expressed the same theme in Corpus Christi , where he told 8,000 people in the city 's exposition hall that free enterprise and centrally controled governments are not compatible . He said the United States had got where it is , not because of government , but despite government . He warned against federal control of education and consumer planning . Goldwater was alternately serious and humorous thruout the day in attacking Johnson . At Austin , the first stop , he told an enthusiastic crowd of 1,000 at the airport that his pilot had asked him how to get to Austin when they left southern California this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head southeast and look for the first big city with only one TV antenna , " quipped Goldwater . The crowd roared in laughter to the reference t o Johnson 's television monopoly in the state capital . When Goldwater arrived at the civic auditorium , after a motorcade thru the heart of town . Goldwater remarked that Johnson has told the nation he will go to Europe to confer with European leaders if elected . He said this would leave Humphrey in charge at home . He said he did n't know " if that is a threat or a promise . "                     