@@725451

txt For nearly 100 years , most predominantly Negro colleges in the United States have operated in cultural and academic isolation . This bleak picture is changing as exchanges are effected between Negro colleges and their predominantly white counterparts . Both Negro and white educators are heralding these programs as two-way windows on a shrinking world . Twelve students from Tuskegee Institute in Alabama spent their fall semester at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor . This semester , seven University of Michigan students are attending Tuskegee . Cornell University in Ithaca , N.Y. , and Hampton Institute in Hampton , Va. , exchange students , lecturers , and seminar leaders , as well as business and administrative personnel . Some of the exchanges take place for a day or a week , and others may last as long as a year . Students from the University of Rochester change places for a semester with students from Bennett College for Women in Greensboro , N.C. , Howard University in Washington , D.C. , Talladega College in Talladega , Ala. , and Hampton Institute . Last year six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchanged places for two weeks with six girls from Spelman College in Atlanta , Ga . On the advice of all 12 girls , this year the Cedar CrestSpelman exchange involves just four girls , two from each college but for a full semester . These exchanges between predominantly white and predominantly Negro institutions are more than a game of musical colleges . They are , as one college president explained , " a significant step forward in wholesome race relations . " The girls from Spelman ? the oldest predominantly Negro college for women in the United States ? were , by their own estimate , thrilled with their time at Cedar Crest ? a small , highly selective , private women 's college . Confidence bolstered As one Negro exchangee said , " My mother always said we were just the same as whites . I come from Jacksonville , Fla. , and somehow could never believe that , much as I wanted to . After two weeks here at Cedar Crest , I am most grateful for this one special thing  --  the realization that my mother was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find I could talk with white kids about something other than integration . " Many of the predominantly white colleges unashamedly admit that they enter into exchanges with Negro colleges in order to encourage more qualified Negro students to apply to their universities . " And it 's always a big risk when we let a faculty member go off for a year to a glamorous university , " a Negro college president said , speaking from experience . " But , " the same Negro College president admitted , " these exchanges are one of the best things which could have happened to Negro education . At long last , we 're out of isolation . " Advantage cited Dr. Willa B. Player , former president of Bennett College says , " The exchanges should be just that . We only want white girls to come to Bennett who want to come to study . And we want our girls to be treated as regular students wherever they go . " Exchanges between predominantly white and predominantly Negro colleges are relatively new programs . There have been individuals who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they been sanctioned by both cooperating institutions . A few well-established and well-to-do white universities have " adopted " a Negro college . Such a " big-brother " relationship exists between Hampton Institute and Cornell University ; between Tougaloo College , Tougaloo , Ala. , and Brown University . This year , for instance , two courses are being offered at Tougaloo which have not been offered previously . They are being taught by a team of professors from Brown . In order to help two Negro colleges begin adult education in their areas , Syracuse University has undertaken to aid Norfolk State . College in Virginia , and the University of Wisconsin will help Tuskegee Institute . Potential leaders in adult education will spend a year in each brother institution learning how , and then will return home knowing that they can call on their " big brother " for help when and if necessary .                     