@@727534

txt However the Vietnam war ends , the world of Richard M. Nixon looks as though it will include many continuing problems and commitments in Southeast Asia . Though much hard negotiating and prob . ably much hard fighting still lie ahead , Asia specialists are beginning to look beyond Vietnam to the kind of Asia which will con. front Mr. Nixon during his presidential term , Clearly , the kind of settlement that emerges from Vietnam will help determine the kind of Asia that is to be . But win , lose , or draw , the United States hardly seem : able to make the total withdrawal from Asia for which its Asian enemies are hoping and which many of its Asian friends fear . Some U.S. allies scent an isolationist trend among Americans . They note declining foreign-aid funds . They predict American refusal to become embroiled , soon again , in another Asian land war . Continued role expected All these presumptions may prove correct . Undoubtedly many thousands of American soldiers will shake the dust and mud of Asia from their combat boots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts ponder the prospect ahead , many hold that the realities of the situation in Asia will compel continued American involvement here . Thus the question for Mr. Nixon , when he assumes the presidency , is perhaps not whether the United States should maintain a presence in Asia , but just what kind of presence that should be . Some of the realities which will confront Mr. Nixon include : 1 . A new Soviet thrust into Southeast Asia . 2 . Uncertainty over Communist China 's intentions in the area once the pieces of the cultural revolution have been picked up . 3 . Britain 's pending military withdrawal from the Far East . 4 . Continuing Communist insurgency in such countries as Laos and Thailand , irrespective of the outcome in Vietnam . Commitments involved 5 . Firm American commitments , some of them by written agreement , to a string of countries like Japan , South Korea , Taiwan , the Philippines , Thailand , Australia , New Zealand . 6 . Acute American interest in the survival of non-Communist governments in such countries as India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irrespective of the Vietnam war , the // *U.S. likely o linger in Asia // United States has long maintained substantial military power in Asia . The U.S. Navy 's Seventh Fleet is said to include at least 190 ships , 80,000 men , and 750 aircraft . The U.S. Air Force flies from bases strung from Guam , Okinawa , and Japan , across the Philippines , and Thailand . Whatever happens to American ground forces in Asia , the fleets and air forces arc unlikely to be dismantled at the end of the Vietnam war . And even though the bulk of the halfmillion-strong American ground force may be withdrawn from South Vietnam , ground forces will remain elsewhere . Troop levels estimated The American military establishment in Japan , for instance , is believed , with dependents , to total around 85,000 . In South Korea it is 60,000 . There are substantial service communities on Guam and Okinawa . The American armed-services community in Formosa is probably around 25,000 . In the Philippines it is more than 70,000 , with a similar number in Thailand , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , a theory that the era of the superpower is fading . Certainly few Asian experts discount the power and potency of Asian nationalism . But it is difficult , in the light of all this , to envisage in the foreseeable future an Asia without the presence of the superpowers . Some of Asia 's most ardent nationalists corroborate this view . For instance , Prince Norodom Sihanouk , nationalist , neutralist , and ruler of Cambodia , has long desired the neutralization of Southeast Asia . Under the Sihanouk plan , also promoted by the French , the major powers would withdraw from the area , thus permitting its insulation against their feuding and rivalry . Position altered But Prince Sihanouk is also noted for his canny anticipation of developing trends . Thus particular significance attaches to his conclusion that neutralization , although desirable , is no longer attainable . Instead , he now urges the Americans to maintain some military presence in Southeast Asia after the Vietnam war . The reasoning is that if the big powers can not be kept out , then at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no single one dominates the area . The permanent head of Malaysia 's Foreign Ministry , Tan Sri Ghazali , has just made a similar-sounding plea . In an address to the Singapore Institute of International Affairs he proposed a series of counterbalancing influences , including Communist China , the United States , the Soviet Union , and Australia , to ensure the stability and progress of Southeast Asia in the 1970 's . Communist penetration If the United States is already involved in Southeast Asia , there is not much doubt about the presence of the Communist powers . One of the facts of Southeast Asian life in recent months has been the determined thrust into the area of the Soviet Union . Moscow has established diplomatic and trade links in Malaysia and Singapore and is busily wooing the Philippines . Soviet vessels constantly ply Southeast Asian waters , and smiling Soviet diplomats ply Asian leaders with aid , trade , and . Slavic culture . As for Communist China , there is no guarantee that Mao Tse-tung 's lieutenants , heirs , and agents will stay home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growling to a standstill . Some analysts perceive a more rational tone to China 's foreign policy . There is the prospect of a resumed Chinese dialogue with the United States , conducted at ambassadorial level in Warsaw . But the basis on which China will talk is that of its five so-called " principles of coexistence . " It may be worthwhile noting that China has written those principles into agreements with eight Asian countries  --  and that in the case of five of those countries it is currently calling for the overthrow of their governments . Thus while one may hope for a peaceful and orderly China , there is no guarantee that he will get one . This question mark over China 's intentions in Southeast Asia is but one of the factors , along with Soviet penetration and American commitment , which Mr. Nixon will have to weigh as he maps his policy for this part of the world .                     