@@725113

txt WASHINGTON , Nov. 6 ? The history of American politics since the war of 1939.45 seems to support three propositions : ( 1 ) ? The political spirit of the majority of the American people varies from moderate to progressive ; ( 2 ) ? either major party that takes its stand on this middle ground with ? an attractive world-minded candidate can win the Presidency ; and ( 3 ) ? there is plenty of room far vigorous and constructive party warfare on this center battlefield between the Tweedledum Republicans a little right of center and the Tweedledee Democrats a little left of center . These propositions may not be true in some areas of the country  --  for example , In some predominantly Democratic states of the South and some predominantly Republican states of the Middle West , where the spirit of the people is more conservative . But in national terms , it is difficult to argue from the record that either party can win the Presidency or even be an effective national opposition if it defies these propositions . The Eisenhower Lesson Dwight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans In 1952 and 1956 . Lyndon Johnson accepted them in 1964 and won by the largest margin in the history of the Presidency . Barry Goldwater defied them and not only lost but weakened his party 's capacity  --  In the Congress and the state capitols ? to serve as an effective opposition party . Even in so Democratic a city as New York , John Lindsay saved the Republican party by repudiating it , and won the mayoral election by appealing above party to all moderates and progressives , while the Democrats lost by appealing on narrow partisan grounds . Individuals may ignore and even resent the success of these moderate to progressive candidates of both parties , but political parties can not . For the function of a political party in this country is not to preside over a philosophical debate , but to control and direct the struggle for power , and no party can do this successfully unless it appeals to many diverse economic , regional , religious and racial groups all over the continental United States . The Weakness of Ideology Ideological conservatives like Goldwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that acceptance of the policies of the American " center " means acceptance of a strong trend toward " the welfare state " and " the planned economy . " They are right too ? though their opponents usually will not admit it  --  in charging that American politics are moving to the left and adopting many of the aspects of a " Socialist society . " Where they are wrong , or so it seems to me , is in basing the political action of a large national party on narrow ideological grounds and on what people say or pretend instead of on what people really do . Almost everybody says he is against " the welfare state " and " the planned economy , " but most of them vote for both without thinking much about either , ' The Common Welfare ' Almost everybody in this country is for " the common welfare " and the most successful " planners " in the United States are the Republican big businessmen who plan every automobile or other commercial product to attract popular support . People are not as rigid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things they support in practice , and the successful politicians of the last generation have been those who have appealed to the people 's interests and not to the people 's pretenses . The record simply does not support the notion that moving the Republican party from the center to the conservative right strengthens the Republican opposition and helps restore a balance in American political life . It does the opposite . It gives the people a clear " choice " all right , but a choice they are not prepared to accept . It does not balance or weaken the left but strengthens the left . It increases the noise and it envenoms the political argument , but it actually reduces the power of the Republican oppomtion . The Decisive Center Eisenhower and the British Conservatives have demonstrated that the best way to gain national power in a Western democracy is not by moving to the right and exaggerating the differences with the party on the left , but by commanding the center , accepting the best of the liberal policies , and arguing that the moderates can administer them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy reforms which the Democrats introduced and his own party opposed in the thirties and forties , and thus managed to be the only Republican President in the last 33 years . Goldwater gave the impression that he was against these reforms and was overwhelmingly defeated . This is still the main political lesson of the postwar era . The decisive battleground of American politics lies in the center and can not be captured from either of the extremes , and any party that defies this principle does not improve its chances of national power or even effective opposition , but precisely the opposite .                     