@@723532

txt The Ecumenical Council failed today to approve as a whole steps that it took separately last week to simplify the ceremony of the mass and to authorize the use of vernacular languages in parts of it . The vote on the second chapter of the schema , or theme on the sacred liturgy , as amended , was 1,417 in favor to 36 against . But the required two-thirds majority came to 1,495 . The big difference was made up by 781 votes of approval ' " juxta modum , " or with reservations or qualifications . These could not be counted toward the required two-thirds . There were also 8 void votes . In another significant development , Pope Paul VI , by changing the seats at the Council assigned to the patriarchs of the Eastern churches , made a gesture both to them and , by implication , to the " separated brethren " of the Orthodox Church . Bishops and nonvoting experts who were present at the session in St. Peter 's Basilica emphasized that the vote on the liturgy of the mass did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform movement . " There is no question in my mind whatsoever , " said the Rev. Frederick of Boston , an adviser to the Council 's liturgical commission , " of any retreat from the position of last fall or last week . " Last Nov. 14 the draft theme on liturgical reform was approved 2,162 to 46 . This was a first vote in principle , allowing the draft to advance to detailed debate . Last Tuesday and Wednesday the Council approved a series of 19 amendments that had been drawn up prior to the resumption of the Council on Sept. 29 . The first session adjourned Dec. 8 . Thus today 's vote appeared to most analysts to evidence more a rather cumbersome and protracted system of procedure than a reversal of an estab- ' lished and significant trend of opinion . The Council continued its debate on the second chapter of " De Ecclesia , " the schema on the nature of the church . This debate will go into its 12th day tomorrow , when voting also will begin on 10 amendments to another chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than the mass . Virtually all expert discussion today related to the vote on the liturgy chapter and the shifting of the seats assigned to the Eastern patriarchs . Bishop John Joseph Wright , of Pittsburgh explained the " juxta modum " votes this way : " I think each one meant , ' This pleases me , but in my way , and I want to be heard in my way . ' " " I would be prepared to hear , " Bishop Wright added , " although I happen to know it is not a fact , that there were 781 differentreservations . " Father , Bishop Wright and others agreed that the vote should be considered not as a rejection but as qual- ' ified approval . Change of Seats Significant The Eastern patriarchs , until this morning , had occupied seats in the grandstand on the left side of the nave as they faced the altar . They were thus farther from it than the Cardinals , who have places in the same section but at the innermost end , nearest the altar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on special seats erected directly opposite the Cardinals . They were also close to the celebrated statue of St. Peter , its right foot worn smooth by the kisses of the faithful down the years . Another consideration in the shift , some experts believed , was ' that the " right " side facing in becomes the " left " side looking out from the altar . In Eastern Rite churches , an orientalist explained , the left side from this point of view is associated with the holiest icons . More broadly , the shift , described by the Rev. John Long of Brooklyn , a specialist in Eastern churches , as " a significant one , " reflected a centuriesold rivalry between the patriarchs and the Cardinals . The Orthodox churches have been in schism with Rome since the 11th century . An Orthodox meeting on the island of Rhodes recently opened the way to a " dialogue " with Rome on the possibility of reconciliation .                     