@@720996

txt Governor Rockefeller in his ? second annual message to the New York Legislature places a constructive program for lawmaking within the framework of preamble and conclusion that emphasize the fateful importance , in our time , of governing well and thus strengthening the free world . He does this with eloquence and conviction ; as a man now withdrawn from the competition for higher office he can speak of broad principles and not be suspected of politics . When so many people , even in a democracy , think of government as something to be endured , or at the extreme a costly nuisance , and too often also regard officeholders , including legislators , as unworthy inferiors , the Governor lifts our sights , applies a needed corrective . Looking ahead through the Nineteen Sixties , he ' sees a ' decade that is " ours to use , or ours to waste ; ours for the sufferance of evil events , or ours for the creation of great events . " The public servants of our state , of every state , indeed all responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face the stark and immediate challenge of proving that representative government can work , serving all the people , securing freedom and achieving justice for all . " - The basic proposition of his message , as Mr. Rockefeller sees it , is that with our abiding concern the worth and dignity of the individual , " we must be ruled and inspired by awareness that , in the deepest political sense , all things are one thing . " And the one thing so urgently demanded of us Is " to prove that freedom  --  its citizens , its leaders , and its laws  --  can work , can create , can endure , and can avail . " In this high purpose , the . Governor adds , " let us know that each of us has his role to play . " Within this setting the Governor approaches the problems of New York . lie sees the stated own fiscal integrity as an essential to economic growth ; he proposes , by Feb. 1 , to submit a budget whose appropriations will not exceed those of the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that his " revitalized " Department of Commerce has had conspicuous success in encouraging employment increase and industrial expansion . He proposes to assist small business with tax changes . Much of his message is devoted to labor . He will convene a conference on automation , which " must be faced with realism and understanding . " He urges a statutory minimum wage of $1 an hour for workers , with some exceptions . He would increase unemployment insurance , workmen 's compensation and disability benefits , proposes important other protections of the individual and family . The passage on education is , of course , fraught with interest and probable political controversy . He will present a program to authorize the levying of local , nonproperty taxes and the establishment of new federated school . dis : tricts with tax-levying powers . Convinced that the local cost of education can no longer be met by real estate taxation alone , he advances the theory that " those who spend school funds should participate in the decision as to how , they should be obtained . " He promises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awaited with eager suspense ? " additional state aid beyond present statutory requirements . " Many important sections have been anticipated . Reorganization of the Executive branch and constitutional revision will be pushed . Highway safety , juvenile delinquency , housing bias , needs of the aged , narcotic addiction , vocational rehabilitation , mental health ( with a new re : search institute for the mentally retarded ) , middle-income housing , water resources , recreational facilities , an advisory council on the arts ? these are among the subjects treated . A number of special messages are promised . So the Legislature has rgenda , to which its members will add their contribution , for substantial accomplishment , devoid of sensational innovation , but progressive .                     