@@727600

txt Lyndon B. Johnson has written , in a long article appraising his foreign policy , that while the war in Vietnam helped drive him from office , any other course would have meant even worse consequences . " The penalty I paid for facing duty in Vietnam was a high one , " said the former President in an apparent reference to his decision not to seek re-election , " but was nothing compared to the penalties that would have been exacted had I not done so . " Mr. Johnson 's article , " In Quest of Peace , " appears in the February issue of Reader 's Digest . " Vietnam has been the most frustrating of all the crises I have faced , " Mr. Johnson remarked . He wrote that " the last thing I wanted was to become a ' wartime ' President . " But the former President argued that the nation had " no acceptable option but to intensify our effort when the enemy mounted an ail-out drive to take South Vietnam and unhinge all of Asia . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will discourage future aggressors , " Mr. Johnson wrote . " We must realize that if word were to go out that the United States is abdicating its stabilizing role ( and playing such a role does not mean that misleading slogan , ' policing the world ' ) , it would simply invite aggression by those who need little invitation now . " - The February Reader 's Digest goes on sale Tuesday . Mr. Johnson 's 8,500-word article is a condensation of an article that will appear this spring in the Encyclopaedia Britannica 's " Book of the Year 1969 . " It was not known when Mr. Johnson produced " In Quest of Peace , " but it was clear that he must have done so before leaving the White House last Monday . Also , it could not be learned whether the writing was done by the former President himself or by an aide . It is his first published article since leaving office . ' The Awful Choice ' A substantial portion of the article Was devoted to Vietnam , and the former President 's words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the awful choice of- intervention or retreat in Southeast Asia " and insisted that " I could not escape or delay it . " Mr. Johnson called for new ways " to explain foreign policy to. : the American people and win their understanding suppert . " Previously , he said , " the aristocratic few in government " made the decisions and now " everyone has become involved . " " The American press has multiplied its reporters covering our State Department and feteign , capitals , " he wrote . " Television brings into almost every home the most vivid pictures of foreign policy in actiOn ? in Europe , in Vietnam , in Panama , in the Middle East . " ' Instant Authorities ' " Once largely a stay-athome people , Americans since 1941 have traveled the world , " he said . " There are many instant authorities now , with clear opinions on every crisis . " A democratic leader has to make new exertions to win their understanding . The gap , between the intelligence information that a President deals with daily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by . the media , must somehow be narrowed . " Mr. Johnson said the talk of a " credibility gap " during his Administration was a " myth " and that the Government had " tried many ways to explain our foreign policy decisions . " " The point has been made that had I been more eloquent on the subject of foreign affairs , and shared more of Winston Churchill 's qualities as a speaker , I might have been more successful , " he wrote . But , he said , even Churchill 's eloquence " was unable to get a hearing until his nation was in mortal danger . " " Indeed , " Mr. Johnson wrote , " had he been heeded earlier , and had Britain made a stand when Nazi troops moved on the Sudetenland , he would probably have been politically roasted for involvement in an obscure , faraway place  --  and for putting credence in a ridiculous ' domino ' theory that if the Sudetenland went , then Czechoslovakia , Poland , France  --  all of Europe ? would not be far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regrets outside the leading one of Vietnam . " I deeply regret that Western European unity did not move forward during my term in office , " he wrote . He blamed the French Government of President de Gaulle . The effectiveness of the United Nations , he said , " has not grown as rapidly as any of us wished " although " America 's effort to make the U.N . effective has , I believe , been without parallel . " Mr. Johnson said he also regretted the continuing stalemate in the Middle East . He warned against " an imposed solution that does not present the real views of the nations involved . " Such an arrangement , he said , " would likely exacerbate the situation . "                     