@@723311

txt MOSCOW , July 14 ( UPD ) - The Chinese Reds were reported today to have demanded the removal of Premier Nikita Khrushchev 's Kremlin leadership as the price of reconciliation between Moscow and Peking . Informed diplomatic sources said the Red Chinese conditions were presented during final Chinese-Russian negotiations in Moscow which , for all practical purposes , came to a close over the week-end . Departure of the Chinese delegation was expected at any time . Call Chinese Hypocrites Disclosure of the Khrushchev demand came as the Russians were denouncing the Chinese as hypocrites , warmdngers and racists . The demand appeared to leave little doubt among diplomats here that the sino-soviet split is an accomplished fact . The Kremlin today in a 25,000 word blast against the Peking government told the Chinese it would go ahead with efforts to improve relations with the United States . " Do you really think that bourgeois governments lack all reasons in everything they do . . . that they are bound to cheat ? " the Russian Communist party asked Peking in a declaration ostensibly addressed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Pravda . Seize the Initiative The Russians , who for several years have been on the receiving end of Peking 's unrestricted ideological warfare , have now seized the initiative and taken the offensive against Chinese efforts to wrest control of the international communist movement . The conflict , which now embraces all aspects of sino-soviet relations from party and state affairs to the personality of the top leaders , appears destined to grow in severity as AmericanRussian relations improve , diplomats said . The sino-soviet bury-thehatchet talks , a vain 11th hour attempt to seal the breach , may involve more Moscow meetings before the Chinese return to Peking . A new round of talks in Moscow or Peking may follow a formal adjournment expected early this week . The framework of contacts may be maintained , but the stage has passed when such diametrically opposed and hostile views could be reconciled . The basic split is over one thing : Khrushchev 's avowed policy of peaceful co-existence with the west and Chinese Communist Leader Mao Tse-tung 's belief that war not only is inevitable but that a nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build communism on the ashes of the world . U. S. a Paper Tiger Mao refers to the United States as a paper tiger . Khrushchev replies that it is a paper tiger with nuclear teeth . The Russian people , who for the first time today read in Pravda the full extent of the Moscow - Peking conflict , learned that the Chinese have told the other Asian people " the whites have no business here " and that " eastern winds will prevail over western winds . "                     