@@726160

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Marshall Report on Draft To the Editor : Some rather vital data were omitted from the Burke Marshall report on the draft  --  at least as it was reported ill The New York Times . The most important concerns the size of the manpower pool and the numbers who will actually be drawn out of it by lot . A great outcry has been made over the student deferments under the present system and the fact that these can be " parlayed " into complete exemption . But the Marshall report proposes a system under which anyone not drawn by lottery in his nineteenth year is effectively exempt A few will be condemned by lot to do two years ' military service . The rest will go free . This really seems to me to come close to the involuntary servitude prohibited by the Constitution . Whether it does or not would appear to turn on the Department of Defense requirements , as now projected . It obviously makes a difference whether 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafted and 90 per cent perform no military service , or whether 90 per cent are drafted and 10 per cent only escape the manpower demand . But on this rather critical datum we have no information . It is not so much the theoretical equity of the proposed system ( any lottery is , I suppose , equitable in theory ) as to how it would work out in practice that matters . On this ere have been told very little . We need a great deal more information upon how the new system would affect the human beings upon whom it is imposed . The Marshall report stresses the importance of educating the public in the operation of the draft . It has failed in meeting the first requirement of such education . I can only hope that your columns will meet it . WALTER MILLIS New York , March 6 , 1967 The writer is author of " Arms and Men . " ? Sumner 's 1871 Ouster To the Editor : The Times of March 4 had a news item from Princeton , N. J. " Speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't say it 's racism , but in 160 years they never took a chairmanship from a white man , ' " As a matter of fact , it was only 96 years ago ( March 10 , 1871 ) that white , Protestant , Anglo-Saxon , Republican from Massachusetts , Charles Sumner was removed from the chairmanship of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations . ( Not , to be sure , for behaving like Powell , but ; for behaving like Fulbright . ) RALPH T. CATTERALL Richmond , Va. , March 7 , 1967 ? Congressional Purge ? To the Editor : Now that it has decided not to seat Adam Clayton Powell , may we expect that the House ( and the Senate ) will proceed with similar efficiency and disphtch to investigate the activities of its other members and apply to them the standards of high conduct to which it has so eloquently and certainly professed allegiance ? J. IC . S. GHA.NDHI Philadelphia , March 2 , 1967 Students ' Subvention To the Editor : The disclosure of Central Intelligence Agency funding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association demonstrates the deep , corrupting influence of the anti-Communist malaise which afflicts our democracy . Contrary to the claims of one columriot , the C.I.A . did not " prevaA on students to work for the aims and ideals of the American Government . " Most of us ' who ' orked for N.S.A. did so out of personal loyalty to democracy whica no outside governmental agency could inspire , much less impose . The National Student Association was founded by the hardheaded , G.I. generation od college students after World War II . Its origins were international ; at that time there simply was no national organization which could in any way represent American student views to our colleagues around the world . Fundamentally this was  --  and is  --  an impossible task . American students , like the American people , have never spoken with a single voice . But N.S.A. held representative democracy as an ideal  --  a positive value , impossible of perfect attainment , which nevertheless was worthy of our best efforts . When it became apparent that this ' ideal was not shared by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European national unions of students set up the International Student Conference . The conference brought relatively small groups of student leaders together in the name of representative democracy , not anti-Communism . Now we know that it , too , was partially funded by the C.I.A . As a moderate , liberally oriented organization , N.S.A. successfully defeated an attempted take-over by the extreme left in the 1940 's . In the era of McCarthy and the so-called silent generation , it was driven to the financial wall . Because N.S.A. refused to play upon the anti-Communist proclivities of American society , it could not attract the voluntary private support it needed to survive . At this point-1952 ? one or two top officers must have turned in desperation to clandestine C.LA. support . Those who first knowingly accepted secret funds surely understood that disclosure of this support would completely undermine N.S.A. 's effectiveness abroad . Once this illicit , sub rosa decision was made , succeeding generations of top officers had few qualms about increasing the CIA . stake . Budgets grew about tenfold , buildings and other comfortable afflictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the C.I.A . The few who knew prostituted us all . Those who now claim that the C.I.A . ' s money was " well spent and well used " celebrate a victory of expedience over idealism ? an irreparable loss to the cause of democracy among the youth of this world . ROBERT W. REVERS Portola Valley , Calif . March 2 , 1967 The writer was Publio Relations Director of the U.S .. National Student Association 1954-55 . ? Sentences to Nazis To the Editor : According to The New York Times of Feb. 25 , an individual named Harster has been sentenced by a Munich judge to fifteen years in prison for his part in the deportation and murder of 82,854 Dutch Jews . Harster admitted in open court that he had been fully aware of the meaning of the word " deportation " when he committed his crimes . A brief calculation will show that Harster would suffer one hour and three minutes of imprisomnent for each of these wantonly snuffed-out-lives  --  assuming that he were really to serve his full term . But this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he will be given credit for several short wells in jail by which he was previously inconvenienced . Altogether he will serve about six years : a signal triumph of justice . Of late there has been considerable talk about the low value the nations of the East place on human life . This judgment would make it appear that at least this particular West German judge belongs to a very Far Eastern school of thinking indeed . As a graduate of Dachau and Buchenwald and a G.I. of World War II , I derive little pleasure from contemplating that we spend enormous sums and take great risks to protect a presumably reformed and chastened Germany , only to discover again and again that nothing has changed In her administrators but the dictionary of their political jargon . GEORGE A. FERI Morris Plains , N. J. March 2 , 1967 ? Britain 's Dynamism To the Editor : As a first time visitor to North America and reader of your paper , I was intrigued by the juxtaposition of Elspeth Huxley 's letter , " Sanctions Against Rhodesia " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 , Section IV ) . Mrs. Huxley 's statement that Prime Minister Harold Wilson is only really bothered by the illegality of the Smith regime in Rhodesia is an oversimplification , and to accuse Wilson of imperialist dreams is a distortion . Acceptance of unbridled white minority rsle would be a betrayal of Britain 's ( and the United States ' ) role toward Rhodesia 's four million Africans . Sanctions mean material loss to Britain , but do not mean that Britain intends that Rhodesian . Africans should starve . in . the process . British people , of all serious political opinions , want a negotiated settlement , but not a tacit abandonment of Africans to apartheid . United States intervention toward a compromise would be desirable , but why does Mrs. Huxley state boldly that the British " are on the escalator , going down " ? Such " slippery-slope " statements to foreign friends create the false impression that Britain is done for . Is a country with , say , 2 per cent of the world 's population , that probably still produces more nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really so effete ? Stand on Market The British malaise following 1945 has ended , and Wilson realizes that Britain has a dynamic as well as a stabilizing contribution to make to Europe . He has come far from his original opposition to European Economic Community membership , and his seemingly cautious " probe " is wise ; a further Gaullist " Non ! " precipitated by a headlong rush approach would be a disservice both to Britain and Europe . . Britain will pay the entrance price to the E.E.C . in spite of the awkward adjustments involved . British membership will insure that the E.E.C . is both " Atlantic " and outward-looking . Is American help needed ( or feasible ) to further Britain 's cause ? Or can Mr. Wilson really prove he is the astute tactician he 's cracked up to be , and earn that place in history he so yearns for ? As a non-Socialist one can say Mr. Wilson has brought a new energy and urgency to the British political scene . If he wants more of this vigor to rub off on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax endeavor and incentive to such an absurd degree . WARREN K. LESSAR Toronto , Ont. , Canada March 5 , 1967 ? Future of India 's Parties To the Editor : One is hard put to understand the alarmist view of the results of the fourth general elections in India taken by The New York Times , as exemplified in the very caption of your Feb. 24 editorial " Setback in India . " While the election results are perhaps a setback for the Congress party , does it follow that they are also a setback for India ? It seems that democracy will have to learn to function with one party in power federally and in a few states , and with one or more parties in power in the other states of the union . But is it realistic to expect , with one party having ruled for twenty years , that one major opposition party would emerge from the first major election in which the ruling party of twenty years ' standing sustains major reverses ? Is it not possible that the 1967 elections are an intermediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Program There is the possibility , however small , that the first effective electoral alliances in 1967 may have provided some of the opposition parties with the nucleus of a common program on which the alliance can be formalized into a merger . Mr h will depend on the imagination and drive of the leadership of some of the opposition parties , like Swatantra , which already enjoy a certain " credibility " as national parties . In any case , breaking the monopoly of power of the Congress party would seem to be an essential first step in opening up such possibilities . The chance that the possibilities may not be realized , but might be wasted in dogmatism and narrow-mindedness , can not be diecounted . But would one seriously propose them an argument to sustain the thesis that the people should continue indefinitely to vote the Congress party to power by large Major-ities ? From the point of view of the Congress party itself , the elections are not an unmitigated " setback . " As the - only party ? in power , naturally Congress has been blamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Let the Congress party use the respite to put its house in order . If the other parties should not prove better alternatives , Congress will be ready when the people turn to it again , as they certainly will if these elections are any criterion . ? MRITYUN.TAY B. ATHREYA Boston , March 6 , 1967 ? Peace Talks With . Hanoi To the Editor : The complexity of our involvment in Vietnam has confronted many patriotic Americana with the anguished decision as to whether , in all honesty , they should openly oppose the policies of their Government Unfortunately , we haw now succeeded in dividing ourselves over an issue on which there should be the nearest approach to a unanimity of purpose and opinione-peace talks with North Vietnam . If Ho 011 Minh is sincere in his reported qualified willingness to talk .. peace , then he is prepared to make some minimum concession , however small that may be ; and if he believed there was any possibility of a settlement on the basis of a minimum concession he would not easily be deterred from seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make more substantial concessions , it is only the result of his being forced to the realization that total victory is impossible . In such a case he should be equally ready to negotiate , in the hope of achieving a settlement with fewer concessions than the maximum he is now prepared ? . to make . There is another possibility ? that the North Vietnamese have no intention of making the slightest concession but expect to - gain an advantage , militarily or with respect to world opinion , by their present posture . The possibility of success in this design might well be enhanced by their perfunctory participation in peace discussions . If they are free to ' engage in such a maneuver , then it is not true , as suggested in many quarters , that we . have nothing to lose by ' stopping our bombing . and immediately beginning pence talks . When Secretary Rusk was asked what reciprocal action by the North Vietnamese would be necessary to atop the bombing and bring us to the peace table he replied , " almost anything . " Implicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything " must be tangible enough to constitute the unmistakable evidence of good faith . DAVID G. REUTER Manhasset , L. I. , March 6 , 1967 ? No Parallel to Vietnam To the Editor : .. A feature of the defense of ( ) Ur Vietnam policy by its admirers has been the preoccupation with historical parallels . One senses that defense ' based on contemperary , logic being inadequate.refuga is sought in the less vulnerable past . For several years Secretary ' of State . Dean Rusk referred obsessively to the dangers of another Mtmich . . Only a major literary effort by Prof. Arthur Schlesinger eventually persuaded him that the parallel between Hitler 's European ambitions of thirty years ago and that of one set of Vietnamese with respect to another in Asia today was , at a minimum , inexact . He s has now retreated to the sanctity of our obligations under SEATO . More recently in a speech in ' Leeds , England , Walt W. Rostow , himself a historian , has come up with an even more astonishing parallel . He equates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War . The Cuban missile crisis was Gettysburg ; now in Vietnam we have the Wilderness . Mr. Rostow is reassured by this . After the Wilderness not much of the war remained . We have only to ' stand firm and see this little extra out . Program for Hawks But something remained ; one imagines that in putting Vietnam in phase with the Wilderness Mr. Rostow was influenced by terminology . For . after ? that battle there was still Sherman 's march through Georgia and the Carolinas . There was the burning and capture of Richmond , the enemy capital . There was . Reconstruction . As one dwells ' on , these in parallel with the present strug- ? gle one is less reassured . They provide the hawks with quite a program . An alternative , more in keeping with Mr. Rostow 's intelligence and adeptness of mind , is ' to suppose that he Ls supplying , aeon occasion in the past , intellectual rationalization on a bespoke basis to fit the needs and hopes of his customer . But this means we must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Switzerland Fob. 28 ,                     