@@725693

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the . Editor of The Times Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Opponents of Title IV To the Editor : Senator Everett M. Dirksen states that he opposes Title IV of the pending 1966 civil rights bill because it violates the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment . While a traditional constitutional argument can be made for Dirksen 's viewpoint , I do n't see where Title IV varies substantially from the public accommodations section of the last civil rights bill , which section has been declared constitutional under the purview of the Commerce Clause . This apparent legal inconsistency seems to me to be the result of a moral inconsistency displayed by that part of the country which felt so strongly about racial justice in the South . If Title IV is eventually deleted from the bill or is even passed in its amended form as it goes to the Senate , how can the non-Southern white community justify this betrayal of the Negro ? Quite simply we can not ; and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bigotry and prejudice not only in the South , but in the country as a whole . DONALD B. KEES Lyndhurst , N. J. , Aug. 7 , 1966 Long-Haul Trains To the Editor : I am completely in favor of the New York Central and the Pennsylvania Railroad merger as I think it would make for a more efficient system . However , I think that they , should not be allowed to give up both the 20th Century and the Broadway Limited to Chicago . If both these trains were discontinued it would mean that the trains west from Chicago would suffer , as people who like to travel by rail would not be able to make connections in Chicago to Denver , Montana , California , etc . I also think the Pennsylvania should keep the Pittsburgher and the Spirit of St. Louis running . Once these first-class , longhaul trains are discontinued they will never be started again . With new ? equipment , which would be available in the future and more efficient ticket-selling , all these trains should be able to make a profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the travel agencies a commission on tickets as do the airlines and should advertise more to get traffic . I have many friends who do not enjoy flying and like the comfort and security of rail travel . In bad weather and at such times as during the current strike , these trains are indispensable . To conclude , I would say that these two railroads , given the merger , should not be allowed to discontinue these trains but should improve the service , thereby encouraging traffic : it seems to me that they have been inclined to discourage passenger traffic . The Western rails , Santa Fe , Northern Pacific and Great Northern , encourage passenger traffic , as do the Southern trains . Of course , the unions do n't help the situation by insisting on many changes of crews on the long-haul trains . The unions should be willing to compromise , thereby not losing all their jobs , and keeping the passenger trains rolling . CHARLES R. LEONARD JR . New York , Aug. 3 , 1966 Hanoi 's Assessment of U.S. To the Editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that President Johnson has sincerely pursued negotiations with North Vietnam but has been consistently rebuffed . This , and other " mysteries of Hanoi 's diplomacy , " add up to a " major blunder . " In view of the events and disclosures of the past eighteen months , it is hard to accept such reasoning . Washington 's expressed desire for " unconditional discussions " is not meant to bring about a real diplomatic dialogue . It is instead aimed at softening world opinion for the implacable escalation practiced by our geopoliticians  --  the only way to prevent the concessions to the Vietcong necessary for a political solution . As Mr. Reston himself , and Times reporters , have pointed out , the Administration has made clear that it has no intention of negotiating on terms the enemy could possibly accept . The Times 's own diplomatic correspondent stated in February that " compromise is not anticipated in Washington . " Our purpose at any negotiations would be " to ratify the end of the Communist threat to South Vietnam and not to compromise on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington ) agree with this presumed Communist assessment . " Furthermore , several writers ( Mr. Reston among them ) have observed that virtually every peace initiative by Hanoi or neutral parties has been answered by Washington ? by increased military escalation . The latest example was the President 's bellicose press conference of June 18 , followed by the HanoiHaiphong bombings . All of this came precisely when diplomatic optimism was being heard from Hanoi , and when French and Canadian diplomats felt themselves on the verge of eliciting new negotiating positions from North Vietnam . We may be sure that the " message " carried by such escalations has not been lost on the Hanoi leadership . It thus appears that Hanoi 's behavior is not the " blunder " Mr. Reston claims , but rather a reaction based on a correct assessment : that Washington 's aims and deeds are in complete contradiction with its words , and that its words simply can not be trusted . RICHARD B. Du BOFF Bryn Mawr , Pa . Aug. 1 , 1966 ? For All-Out Offensive To the Editor : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cornelia McCarthy should be heartily endorsed . As many will agree , the aggressors of World War I and World War II were Wilhelm II and Hitler , respectively . By the same token , Ho Chi Minh is the aggressor in South Vietnam . The inference is that we can not stop Ho Chi Minh from taking over South Vietnam and establishing his Communistic policies there unless we use the same tactics we used in World Wars I and IL It is therefore my opinion that if President Johnson 's aim is only to defend South Vietnam from the aggressor , he will be " policeman " to South Vietnam for the rest of the existence of the United States , needlessly sacrificing many lives . The wayyto win a war is to be all out on the offensive . HESTER A. WE'TMORE Morristown , N. J. , July 23 , 1965 ? Traffic Plans for 23d Street To the Editor : The Department of Traffic is now studying a proposal advanced by neighborhood transit committees who have decided upon 23d Street as a terminal point for two-way traffic on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not indicate what is to be done with traffic upon its arrival at Fifth Avenue and 23d Street . It would appear that four Fifth Avenue southbound lanes would have to be channeled into two lanes after crossing 23d Street . If adopted , their plan would cause northbound traffic to turn west , holding up the southbound lanes , or east , halting both Fifth Avenue and Broadway-bound traffic . I feel the adoption of such a proposal would result in severe traffic congestion . WILLIAM H. SCHADE Managing Director 23d Street Association New York , Aug. 5 , 1966                     