@@721240

txt Vice President Nixon 's " bandwagon is rolling and rolling hard at the grass roots level . " This assertion was made today by Mr. Nixon 's press secretary , Herbert G. Klein . BeH hind the statement was an obvious effort to suggest that Senator John F. Kennedy , who won a sweeping victory in West . Virginia 's Democratic primary this week , was not the only candidate with a bandwagon on the road . The Vice President asserted Saturday in a news conference at Hot Springs , Va. , that moderate tax reforms should be possible in 1961 , provided the Government showed a substantial surplus and world conditions permitted . Primary Votes Cited Using as a yardstick Mr. Nixon 's record in eight primaries since Jan. 1 , Mr. Klein drew the " conclusions " that Mr. Nixon , particularly in Midwestern States , had done the following : Shown " great strength in the farm areas " where he was supposed to be weak . CDemonstrated he was " ahead of his party , especially in the farm areas , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas , " which have Republicans worried because of the unpopularity of Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson . Mr. Nixon and Mr. Benson do not see eye-to-eye. ' 9 " Refuted all arguments he can not win Democratic votes and that he ca n't get Republican votes at the grass root levels . " To bolster these contentions , Mr. Klein presented a tabulation of eight Presidential preference primaries held since Jan. 1 . He said these showed that Mr. Nixon 's " total vote exceeded Senator Kennedy 's by more than 1,000,000 votes , " including West Virginia . where Mr. Nixon did not run . Mr , Klein said he had eliminated.the Ohio primary of May 3 because , it had not been a direct preference primary and the Democratic vote had mainly represented a battle between Democratic factions . However , he noted , that Mr. Nixon had polled 370,000 votes to Senator Kennedy 's 419,000 . Mr. Klein also said that Mr. Nixon did not believe that the Massachusetts Senator would be easier to beat than other possible candidates . He said that the Vice President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) been based on the Senator 's , ability as a campaigner . Mr. Kennedy , he went on , is regarded as a serious canidate , who has built a well-financed , tightly knit organization . Strategy Change Barred Mr. Klein indicated that the ) Vice President planned nol changes in his campaign strat-1 egy now that Senator Kennedy appeared to be riding a crest toward winning the Democratic nomination and opposing Mr. Nixon in November . Mr. Klein made this point in the face of growing demands that Mr. Nixon step up his campaign to clarify issues and make his own appeal independent of the Eisenhower Administration . Mr. Nixon 's office also has " noticed , " Mr. Klein said , " small booms popping up for several Vice Presidential candidates in the country . " But he said he was " not eliminating any candidates " when a reporter noted he had not mentioned Secretary of Labor James P. Mitchell as a Vice Presidential possibility . His list included Secretary of the Interior Fred A. Seaton , Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona ; Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mark 0 . Hatfield of Oregon ; Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , House Republican leader , and Charles Percy , Chicago business man , who has been named co-chairman of the Platform Committee for the Republican National Convention . Mr. Klein said tonight that ) the Vice President would have no comment on Governor Rockefeller 's refusal to have any role in the Republican convention . Talks Upstate Scheduled The Vice President 's next swing out of Washington will come on Tuesday and Wednesday , when he visits Auburn , Syracuse and Buffalo , N. Y. , for a series of speeches . On May 27 , he will also slip out to Illinois , where he had a sizable vote in the primary on April 12 , to participate in a testimonial celebration for Representative Leslie C. Arends , House Republican whip . Next month , he has engagements in Houston ( June 27 ) to speak to the Texas Press Association and St. Louis ( June 21 ) to talk before the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce . Mr. Klein also said that the Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undecided whether he would go to that volatile farm state , about which Republicans are worried . The invitation came from the American Legion for June 20 , eight days before North Dakota 's special election to fill the Senate seat vacated by the death of Senator William Langer , a Republican . Republican party leaders I have repeatedly urged Mr. Nixon to get into North Dakota , where they regard farm prices and policy as the major issue and Secretary of Agriculture Benson as a political handicap to the party . But North Dakota poses a problem for Mr. Nixon . He is seeking a farm plank for his campaign and holding Mr. Benson at more than arm 's length . Mr. Klein conceded that Senator Kennedy had run in one more primary , West Virginia , than the Vice President , but called particular attention to last Tuesday 's vote in the Midwest farm state of Nebraska . In Nebraska , he asserted , Mr. Nixon came within 7,000 votes of Senator Kennedy 's 78,300 votes , and gathered all his votes from write-ins without a " campaign and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ballot . , This , Mr. Klein said , was the " most dramatic proof " of Mr. Nixon 's appeal to farmers                     