@@725979

txt For the first time in 21 years the Germans are back again at front center of the world stage . ? A new Chancellor , a new coalition Cabinet , and a radically new attitude toward the world around them make Germany the central feature in the opening act of a new phase in European history . The other nations watch with mingled hope and anxiety . Also , they are restrained . None wishes to push the new , untried Ger- many in a wrong direction by foolish word or deed . Moscow is among those showing some restraint . Ever since World War II it has been reflexive for the Kremlin to hurl invective at the men of Bonn , whoever they might be and whatever their policies . But as the new government takes over in Bonn , Moscow cautiously moderates its propaganda fire even though the new Chancellor , Kurt Georg Kiesinger , has a taint of Nazism on his record . Coalition holds hope In Paris , Premier Alexei N. Kosygin warned of the danger of a revival of German militarism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new government in Bonn . Partly , the difference in Moscow is because the new West German Foreign Minister is Willy Brandt . And the Russians // Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . * Spotlight back on Germany // have been evidencing much interest of late in Mr. Brandt and his policies . The larger reason for Kremlin restraint is the same which inspires hope in other major world capitals . The basis for hope is the " grand coalition " which has emerged from the political crisis in Bonn . Government by coalition is seldom easy , but only a grand coalition could do the major things which the times seem to require from Germany and in Germany . The big deeds to be done are radical , and bound to be unpopular . A partisan government with a narrow majority would not dare take bold steps . Perhaps the grand coalition will be able to take them . The first task of the new West German Government , of course , is to regain the country 's economic well-being , which slipped recently . Presumably this will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truly great task for the new government in Bonn is to demonstrate by behavior on the world scene that Germany has learned from its mistakes and is capable now of being a good citizen of the world and a good neighbor in Europe . In effect , West Germany has for 21 years been living in a correctional institution . Occupied by foreign troops , and tied into a tight military alliance run by others , the Germans have had no freedom for maneuver in world affairs . Their foreign policies reflected a heavy influence from Washington . Now , they are free to move as they choose . The question is how they will choose . They could choose to continue to be a dependency of the United States . They are free to build their policies on France , and allow Charles de Gaulle to be their leader . The third road they can choose , if they like , is the so-called " opening to the East . " Indications are that this is the way they will go . East fork waymarks It means a positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . It means scrapping the " Hall-stein doctrine " of nonrecognition . It means West German ambassadors in all the Eastern European countries , perhaps even including East Germany . It means recognizing the Oder-Niesse Line . It means renouncing nuclear weaponry . It means everything necessary to free Eastern Europe of the fear of a Nazi revival . It is ironic but not entirely illogical that this course will ( presumably ) be taken under the chancellorship of a onetime Nazi . Extremists stir concern In the larger sense West Germany is on the threshold of an historic " second start . " From the day Kaiser Wilhelm II parted company with Bismarck down through World War II Germany played a destructive role in history ; so destructive that whole generations have grown up thinking of . the Germans as the enemies of civilization . The consequence has been the last 21 years of punishment . Germany was divided , occupied , and , in effect , imprisoned . Other nations seem to agree that the time of penance is over ; that the time has come for Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two states in West Germany should at this moment in history give electoral encouragement to an extreme right-wing party is disturbing . Perhaps it is also inevitable . The question is whether Germany has learned its lessons so well that this time it will itself manage and control its own extremists . That , too , is something which a grand coalition can probably do more easily than a partisan government . It is entirely logical that the Soviet Union 's Premier would be visiting Paris at the moment when West Germany finds a new Cabinet and sets forth on a new road . The fact of Germany " unleashed " is bound to cause concern to peoples living on either side . The Soviet Union and France are bound to talk it over . That is about all they can do . Vietnam crisis looms The Vietnam war is reaching a particular -- ly difficult and dangerous moment . According to latest reports Peking has banned the shipment of Soviet arms and ammunition across China . This means that the Soviet Union can supply North Vietnam only by sea . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of arms and aid by sea . But Moscow 's influence in Hanoi depends on the amount of military aid which reaches North Vietnam from Russia as against the amount coming from China . And WaShington wants to see Soviet influence in Hanoi increased on the theory that Moscow would use that influence in the direction of peace . It is merely one of the irrationalities of the Vietnam war that Washington is thus in an unresolved quandary . Does it mount a major blockade of the North Vietnam coast , or stand back and allow the Soviets to supply by sea what the Chinese Communists will not let them send by land ? And is the Chinese purpose to try to provoke a war between the Soviet Union and the United States ?                     