@@728139

txt Arthur J. Goldberg announced yesterday that he was supporting Mayor Lindsay for re-election , and advisers of both the Mayor and Controller Mario A. Procaccino agreed that the endorsement was the most significant of the mayoral campaign . " I believe that John Lindsay exemplifies the liberal traditions for which I have always stood , and I believe he is the best qualified of the three candidates , " said Mr. Goldberg , whose many job titles include those of . former United States Representative at the United Nations , former Associate Supreme Court Justice , former Secretary of Labor and chairman of the State Democratic Advisory Council . Mr. Goldberg is also considered - a potential Democratic candidate for the United ! States Senate next year , although he refused to discuss his own ambitions yesterday during a City Hall news conference with the Mayor , who is seeking re-election as the candidate of the Liberal and Independent parities . Emphasizing that " I am a Democrat , I will remain a Democrat , " Mr. Goldberg said that he had discussed his endorsement with Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but had finally decided that he could not support some of Mr. Procaccino 's positions , particularly that on crime . Mr.Goldberg is the lastest in a line of prominent Democrats who have defected to Mr. Lindsay , but his move caused the greatest concern at Procaccino headquarters . " Of all the people who have endorsed Lindsay , it 's obvious that Goldberg will have the greatest effect , " said an important Procaccino adviser . " He is one of the most respected men in New York . especially in the Jewish community . What can I say ? " There was undisguised elation among the men around Mr. Lindsay . They believe that the Mayor can not be re-elected unless large numbers of undecided voters in Jewish areas , choose Mr. Lindsay . Mr. Goldberg was asked yesterday about the effect of his endorsement on Jewish voters , and he answered : " I am no spokesman for the Jewish community . . . Jewish people are notably reluctant to have self-appointed people . I am speaking as a citizen of New York City . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , said in part yesterday : " I do not support the Mayor because I believe his administration has been without error . . . . Nor do I believe in any sense that either Controller Mario Procaccino or Senator Marchi is a racist . That is as unjustified as the unfounded charge that the Mayor has been biased in favor of one minority group to the prejudice of others . " I support the Mayor because , of the candidates , his principles and policies are closest to my own . " Mr. Goldberg said he had studied Mr. Procaccino 's position papers before making up his mind . " There are quite a number of issues I do not believe in , " he said . " I do n't believe , for example , in preventative detention of addicts  --  first of all , it 's unconstitutional . Under the decision handed down by the Supreme Court when I was there , addiction is a sickness , not a crime . " He then went on to say that he would favor adoption of the British system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to addicts . Mr. Lindsay also received support yesterday from a new Democratic committee that was formed to raise money for his campaign . The committee is headed by Marvin Rosenberg and Richard Ravitch , who heW positions in Hubert H. Humphrey 's Presidential campaign . Other members include former Under Secretary of State George W. Ball , Blair Clark , manager of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy 's Presidential campaign , former Secretary of the Army Cyrus W. Vance , am Paddy Chayefsky , the playwright . Last night Mayor Lindsay campaigned in Queens and was received warmly by 400 members of the Parents Association in the auditorium of Public School 196 , Forest Hills , by religious ' and civic leaders at a rabbi 's home in Forest and by the Adlai Stevenson Democratic Club .                     