@@727024

txt Vice President Humphrey remained silent today on whether he would enter the race for the Democratic Presidential nomination , but support for him continued to build up in various parts of the nation . However , there was a prediction that President Johnson , the man who could probably do more than any other to help a Humphrey candidacy , would not take sides in the race . The prediction came from Mike Mansfield , Senate majority leader , who said after a breakfast meeting with Mr. Johnson , Mr. Humphrey and Democratic Congressional leaders : " I think he the President will keep hands off and let the Democratic convention decide . " Mr. Humphrey arrived in New York Tuesday night and refused to take himself out of the race . Page 28 . Meanwhile , a meeting of Democratic Governors was called April 15 to discuss the Presidential situation . Page 29 . There was evidence that Mr. Johnson had told some party ' leaders he would not take part ! in the campaign . Jack Valenti. , the President 's longtime friend and adviser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ! Johnson would avoid endorsing : a candidate . He spoke on the , program " Victor Riesel Inter-1 views " on radio station WEVD in New York . Some backers argued that . i the President 's noncommittal position would make little difference to a Humphrey candidacy because . they said . the President 's political friends would work for the Vice President anyway . One indication of that came ' from the Democratic National Committee . Most members of Ithe committee staff , it is said , are ready to transfer their sup ! port from Mr. Johnson , now that he is out of the race , to Mr. Humphrey . Only a few are expected to leave and work for Senator Robert F. Kennedy . Texas party leaders endorsed Gov . John B. Connally Jr . as a favorite son today with the ' idea of throwing the state 's delegate support to Mr. Humphrey . Favorite son movements were under way in several ' other states with the same mo- : tix e . Mr. Humphrey , once ; heartily disliked in the South , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Marvin Rosenberg of New York , treasurer of the Hum phrey for Vice President Corn- ! mittee in 1964 , said that support for Mr. Humphrey was building up around the country . He said he had received a constant stream of telephone calls from persons wanting to work for Mr. Humphrey since Mr. Johnson withdrew Sunday night . Mr. Rosenberg said that many of the callers were fund raisers and contributors . He predicted that Mr. Humphrey would have no trouble raising campaign money this year , unlike 1960 , when money was a problem for his Presidential candidacy . View of Johnson Position The possibility that the President would maintain a hands- ' off policy was not construed ! here as an attempt to damage ' Mr. Humphrey 's candidacy . Rather it was-viewed as a continuation of Mr. - Johnson ' ' s - vow to keep the Presidency above partisan politics , ? while he searches for peace in Vietnam . Some politicians wondered whether Mr. Humphrey really expected or wanted Mr. Johnson 's open support , or whether he would prefer to have the President pass the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . The President told Mr. Humphrey and the Congressional leaders at breakfast that he would try to avoid partisanship in the coming Presidential contest . George Christian , the White House press secretary , said Mr. Johnson had told them he would " not try to tell them what to do . " Mr. Christian said he did not know whether Mr. Johnson would announce a personal I preference later . Mr. Mansfield . in predicting deleted 7 lines aides said the two would probably meet later in the week . Mr. Johnson has also agreed to meet with Senator Kennedy , at the Senator 's request . Two prominent Democrats . John M. Bailey , the national chairman , and Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago , continued to keep their own counsel on their Presidential choices . While Southern Democrats expressed their willingness to support Mr. Humphrey , there was uncertainty among Northern liberals who would once have been counted as his most ardent friends . One well-known liberal leader in Washington , who declined to be quoted by name , predicted that liberals would avoid Mr. Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war policy . " He has all the disabilities without any of the ' strengths That Johnson has , " he said . That - view was , disputed by Mr. Rosenberg , who is a member of the - beard of Americans for Democratic Action . it is- not true , he said , that Mr. Humphrey had " worn out his welcome with the liberals . " Southern expressions of support came from such varied figures as Edgar Brown of Barnwell County , S. C. , one of the region 's most determined conservatives , and Barney Weeks of Birmingham , president of the Alabama Labor Council . who is a leader in liberal causes . " Hubert could do better than Lyndon in the South because Lyndon was such a whipping boy , " Mr. Weeks said .                     