@@726976

txt Salem , Ore. , March 9 ( AP ) - Inmates at the politically beset Oregon State penitentiary rioted today , setting fires and grabbing hostages Convicts told reporters and prison officials at a meeting they would cut off the head of a guard every 20 minutes if the prison segregation cells were not opened . The convicts took over the prison control center , in which telephones and radio equipment are housed , about 4:15 p. m .. as they were returning to their cellblocks from the recreation yard . Still Have Control About 40 guards and employes were in the area . Deputy Warden Jean Long said all were hostages at one time , but by 7 p. rn. , all but five or six were free . ? The prisoners maintained control of the penitentiary . " We will move in on them at a time which seems advantageous , " a prison official said . Great plumes of smoke rose high above the prison , located within Salem 's city limits , about 40 miles south ' of Portland . Deputy Warden Long said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are 1,156 prisoners . About 350 milled around in the yard , but not all took part in the riot : Defends Prison Handling Only yesterday Gov . Toni McCall defended the administration of the prison . The speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives , F. F. ' Montgomery , had charged the governor , secretary of state , and treasurer " are sitting on their hands while there have continuing reports of weapons and narcotics in our state prison . " " We have nothing to hide , " said McCall , adding that he felt Montgomery , who is running for secretary of state , was playing politics . Both are Republicans . Six prison employes and one convict were taken to Salem General hospital . None of the employes was hurt seriously , but the prisoner had head cuts . One of those who escaped the inmates was Francoise Goeury , a teacher of French in the prison 's Upward Bound program for educating the prisoners . She clambered down a fiie truck ladder after taking off her shoes . Several Oregon papers had commented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the penitentiary . Report Marijuana Is Found Officials said marijuna was found on an inmate on Dec. 31 . He was indicted . Negotiations also were under way between the Oregon State Employes association , representing prison guard s , and George T. Randall , state corrections administrator . The warden of the penitentiary , Clarence T. Gladden , 73 , was sick with pneumonia . and sciatica . Randall Leads Efforts Randall led efforts to quell the rioting . He and reporters met with a group of prisoners in a no-man 's land not controled by either guards or inmates . A convict said the reason for the riot was mistreatment . A reporter asked , " What is your goal ? " . A prisoner said they did n't have a list of grievances , but mentioned medical problems and an improved parole system . Some of the inmates seemed shaky . One said , " I 'm drunk . "                     