@@725761

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times Geneva Provisions for Single Vietnam To the Editor : Your Sept. 3 editorial suggests that the de Gaulle-Sihanouk recommendations on Vietnam coincide generally with Washington 's peace proposals , " including respect for the independence and sovereignty of Vietnam and the pledge of noninterference in its internal affairs . " There is this fundamental difference : the de Gaulle-Sihanouk communiqu ? plainly refers to a single Vietnamese nation as decreed at Geneva ; whereas the Johnson Administration has rewritten the Geneva Agreement according to its own requirements , to invest South Vietnam with its own independence and sovereignty . As is known , Article 6 of the Final Declaration at Geneva reads : " The Conference recognizes . . . that the military demarcation line is provisional and should not in any way be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary . " In his memoir " Mandate for Change " President Eisenhower affirms that the division of Vietnam " was recognized as a military  --  not a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to be held in 1956 for a single all-Vietnam government . He affirms , too , that we pledged not to obstruct the agreement in line with our U.N . Charter obligation not to interfere with national sovereignty or territorial integrity . Basis for Intervention In order to justify our intervention as a response to " foreign aggression " from North Vietnam , however , the Johnson Administration has decreed that Geneva established the basis for an independent South Vietnam . In his prepared statement to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee at the public hearings last February , Secretary Rusk described the Geneva settlement in this fashion : " After a brief negotiation , France came to terms with the Communist forces that had captured the nationalist movement . The result was a division of Vietnam into four parts : a Kingdom of Cambodia , a Kingdom of Laos , and Vietnam was divided at the 17th parallel between the Communist forces in the North and a non-Communist Vietnamese Government in the South . " For Rusk , then , four equally separate nations were set up at Geneva . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor the Proviso for the 1956 elections appeared in his definition . When pressed by Senator Fulbright , however , he finally admitted : ' It did not establish Vietnam as two separate nations , but it provided some procedures by which this could occur if that is what the people wanted . " To put it charitably , the wish was father to the thought . The agreement provided no such procedures and indeed barred " two separate nations . " Both Eisenhower in his memoir and Rusk in testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on . Aug. 3,1965 , described our " stakes " in Vietnam as the rich natural resources of Southeast Asia and maintenance of our Asian power positions . Since our intervention can not be justified legally or morally on this basis , we redefined the agreement to find another peg . The Administration 's stated goals of an independent South Vietnam and a return to Geneva are incoherent , and its definition of the agreement is incompatible with the de GaulleSihanouk call for noninterference in Vietnam 's internal affairs . MAX GORDON New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Materials To the Editor : The Sept. 9 news story in The New York Times about the loss of two radium capsules in transit to a chemical company in Queens serves to point out a danger far greater than that arising from the actual loss of the capsules themselves . The increased use of radioactive materials in industry and medicine has not been accompanied by an adequate program of safety and protection for the public from accidental exposure . Unfortunately the public is generally ignorant of the danger from even microscopic amounts of radioactive materials . Radiation can not be seen , heard , felt , smelled or tasted , as can most dangerous chemical substances . Radiation can be detected only with special electronic equipment . Furthermore , the effects of radiation on the human body are often cumulative , so that small amounts of radiation will show their effects only after a long period of time . The official Government agency releases to the public to the effect that there is little danger from these incidents completely becloud the issue of safety to the public . Extremely small amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause very serious biological effects . Before we have a major tragedy , the public should demand the adoption and enforcement of strict regulations regarding the use , packaging and shipment of radioactive materials . RICHARD LAPIDUS Hoboken , N. J. , Sept. 9 , 1966 ? Hudson Development Bill Defended To the Editor : Your Sept. 7 news article reporting passage by the House of Representative Richard L. Ottinger 's Hudson Compact Bill really did not do it justice . As the first co-sponsor of Mr. Ottinger 's original bill and of his revised bill , and as a member of the House Interior Committee that reported the bill favorably , I should like to call attention to the bill 's very real accomplishments . This bill gives the official blessing of the Congress to the idea of a Federal-interstate compact between the states of the Hudson River Basin and the Federal Government , and thus strengthens the hand of the Secretary of the Interior in the negotiations for such a compact . The legislation sets important standards that the Secretary of the Interior must follow in negotiation of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a comprehensive plan and an effective means of enforcing that plan . These are vital requirements lacking in legislation passed by New York State to authorize such a compact . The state just gives advisory powers to the commission it establishes . ' Related Land ' Concept The bill is the first compact measure to adopt the " riverway " concept , involving the river and " related land " ; to set forth specific guidelines to assure the encouragement of commercial and industrial development ; to guarantee specifically the full participation of local communities in preparing and carrying out a comprehensive development plan ; to provide that the contemplated compact must deal with the problem of land use . It also requires that the compact deal with the need to abate pollution , protect clean water and develop the water resources of the Hudson Basin . This legislation is also needed to put our Federal house in order . It represents a clear warning to any Federal agency contemplating projects which could damage the riverway that a compact has been authorized by Congress . All such agencies are required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects affecting the riverway . Of course , the legislation does not provide as strong restraints against Federal action as did Mr. Ottinger 's original bill . But it should get the two states and the Federal Government started on negotiation of an effective interstate compact to bring the Hudson River back to life . JONATHAN B. BINGHAM Member of Congress 23d District , New York Washington , Sept. 7 , 1966                     