@@723175

txt Visiting old friends in Washington recently , Gov . George Romney suddenly found himself learning how to succeed in politics without really trying . Within hours after his reunion with the J. Willard Marriotts , published reports were circulating that he was cooperating with close associates of former President Eisenhower and former Vice - President Richard M. Nixon in a Romney push for the 1964 Republican presidential nomination . Characteristically . the furor surrounding the trip " amazed " Romney . A chronology of Romney denials shows a clear cut disavowal of any presidential ambitions ? at least in 1964 : ? Washington , May 2 : " My position is no different than it has been for months . I am not a candidate and I am not going to be a candidate for the 1964 nomination . " ? Washington , May 3 : " I am not a candidate . I am not going to be a candidate , I am not going to seek the nothination . " ? Lansing , May 7 : " There never was a political draft that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Washington , May 9 : " Well , I 'll say it again . I am not a candidate , and I wo n't be a candidate in 1964 . I am snot just saying that as a political pose . My concern is that things have been said and written that would tend to raise questions about my sincerity and the honesty of my position . This is the thing that disturbs me most . " ? Detroit , May 13 : ( Within earshot of a GOP team scouting Detroit as a possible ' 64 convention site ) " I 'll be glad to give any assurances I can ; I do n't want to stand in the way of Detroit 's being selected . " Then , he said he would adopt Gen. William T. Sherman 's classic refusal if it would help Detroit 's chances ? " If nominated I will not accept . If elected , I will not serve . " Therefore some of the recent statements made by fellow Republicans , like Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona . disappointed Governor Romney . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Gold-water 's recent charge that " kingmakers " of the GOP were massing behind Mr. Romney as the next presidential candidate . Assert ion Con fi ed Mr. Romney says he regards as equally inaccurate the assertions that Mr. Eisenhower , Mr. Nixon , and Leonard W. Hall , former chairman of the Republican National Committee , are interested in his candidacy to the point of launching a behind-the-scenes move . " I have n't communicated with General Eisenhower or Mr. Nixon since my election last fall , when they sent me congratulatory telegrams , " Mr. Romney said . " Len Hall and I have met only twice , and I have n't talked to him since 1960 . " Mr. Hall later confirmed this . Cynics regard Mr. Romney 's several national speaking engagements ( he will address the nation 's press in Washington this month ) as evidence of his growing interest in high office . But Mr. Romney points out he made most of the speaking arrangements several months ago as a means of " selling Michigan . " Mr. Romney says there are several good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldwater and Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York at the forefront . Governor Romney has actively encouraged all potential GOP hopefuls to Come to Michigan " to give voters a chance to look them over . " He has already invited Senator Goldwater and Governor Rockefeller and offered to arrange for them an appropriate forum . Many observers say Mr. Rockefeller 's marriage has heightened Governor Romney 's presidential possibilities . By Felix Palm Gov . George Romney No ! No ! a thousand times , No ! One newspaper commented last week : " Everywhere there is a marked upturn in Republican interest in the handsome , 55-year-old , first-term Governor . " Others point out that traditionally delegates , look to the middle ( i.e. Willkie-Romney ) ? vhen there is a sharp conflict . between a liberal ( Rockefeller ) and a conservative candidate ( Goldwater ) at a nominating convention . True , as they are , these facts do not serve in the opinion of this observer , to negate Mr. Romney 's declaration that he will not be a candidate in 1964 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would " lick Michigan 's problems " before giving any thought to seeking greener pastures . While he is oft to an impressive start , the major obstables still are ahead . One of the tackiest problems yet to be overcome is finding a way out of Michigan 's bizarre fiscal maze . It would seem Governor Romney will be hard pressed to solve Michigan 's proolems by the time his two-year term expires in 1964 . This could be one of the reasons , plus President Kennedy 's apparent invulnerability , that Mr. Romney. if he is ambitious , prefers to wait until 1968 . Meanwhile , he 's having trouble convincing his skeptics . " I 'm not just saying it like some of the others are , " he says , with jut-jawed conviction . " I mean it . "                     