@@727668

txt William McChesney Martin Jr . told Congress today that the Federal Reserve Board , after mistaken policy last year , now " means business " in stopping inflation . Mr. Martin , the board chairman , strongly implied that FedText of the Martin statement at hearing , Page 23. eral Reserve monetary policy would be kept restrictive all year . He said that the " critical test " of policy would be its ability to keep a " rebound in activity and prices from developing " in the second half of the year after a slowdown in the first . " We are engaged , " Mr. Martin said , " in an exciting effort to disinflate without deflating . I for one am hopeful it can be achieved . " Testifying before the Congressional Joint Economic Committee , Mr. Martin conceded that a " credibility gap " existed in the business and banking community as to whether the Federal Reserve would push restraint hard enough to check inflation . He said the board meant to do so and was unanimous on the point . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " monetary restraint is now fully reinforcing fiscal restraint . And fiscal restraint through last year 's tax increase and Government expenditure curb is becoming increasingly effective . " Mr. Martin was relaxed and lively in his responses to ques- , tions , which were occasionally , critical but hostile only when they were from Representative . Wright Patman , Democrat of Texas , chairman of the committee . Mr. Martin has appeared , before this committee regularly the last 17 years . A major difficulty in swiftly . checking inflation , Mr. Martin said several times , is a " heritage of errors " over the last three years in monetary and fiscal policy . He conceded that " the Federal Reserve was overly hasty last sinnmer , in expecting an immediate impact Iron ltscal restraint . " One problem , ho said , is that the Government has " raised the ghost of overkill at the first sign of a cloud on the horizon . " He strongly implied that this would not happen again and that restraint would persist even when there were clear signs the economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment . But " ' we are , at long last , beginning to make some headway " in dealing with inflation , Mr. Martin said , though he acknowledged that the price indexes hardly showed it yet . " ' I am optimistic . " he continued , " that the forces of fiscal and monetary restraint set in motion last year will grad-1 ually bring us hack to reasongime price v. ' Under questioning , Mr. Martin conceded that there were " risks " that the policy of restraint could be pushed too far , resulting in more slowing of the economy than he or anyone else wanted . " You are dealing with psychology , " he said , and one danger was that psychology could swing abruptly from doubt about " our capacity and willingness to maintain restraint " I to a fear that " we are going to grind business into pulp . " But lie added : " You must Lake risks . In the last few years we have not taken real risks . " Mr. Marlin gave a long and detailed account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in midDecemher was working its way into reduced total lending and spending in the economy . " The ability and willingness of banks to help finance creditbased spending is clearly becoming more and more limited , " he said . " Outside the banking sector , evidences of the effect of monetary restraint are also becoming somewhat more widespread . " He added that " monetary restraint has developed so far without an excessive burden falling on the housing industry . although new supplies of funds for the housing market are becoming increasingly restricted . " The Federal Reserve influences the amount of money that banks have available to lend and indirectly influenciu. funds a.tilable in other lending institutions . The key is buying and selling Government securities every day in the open market .. To the extent that the Feder21 Rescrve can reduce total lendinl and hnrrowinl in the conomy , it reduces total spend- , ing . A feud between Mr. Martin and Mr. Patman erupted again . Citing the rise in interest rates during Mr. Martin 's years in office , Mr.-Patman said that the board chairman was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world " and , that his policies had been " disastrous for the people . " Mr. Patman won no support ) from other Democratic members of the committee . Representative William E. Brock , Republican of Tennes-I see , said that Mr. Martin had provided " the finest job as , chairman this country has ever lhad. "                     