@@724848

txt Ray C. Bliss , the Republican National Chairman , said today that he was against political splinter groups in general and against Barry Goldwater 's Free Society Association in particular . " All such groups , " he said at a news conference , " are destructive of party unity . " If ' you believe in a free society , how better can-you preserve it than through a strong two-party system ? " The chairman 's meeting with newsmen was called for the ostensible purpose of announcing the appointment of Gen. Lucius D. Clay as finance chairman for the Republican National Committee , a post that has been vacant since shortly after the close of last year 's Presidential campaign . To Shun Campaigning Throughout the half hour conference , reporters ' questions concentrated on eliciting the chairman 's views about the " new crusade for political education , " the formation of which was announced here yesterday by Mr. Goldwater , last year 's Republican Presidential candidate . The Free Society Association , said Mr. Goldwatei ! , who will be its honorary chairman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigns . Its purpose , he said , is to provide a focus for the political interests of the millions of voters who supported him in the campaign last year . The association , he said , will not be the nucleus of a new political party . As titular leader of the party , however , Mr. Goldwater 's sponsorship of the new group appears to put him in direct conflict with his national chairman and with the designated Republican leaders in Congress . The Senate minority leader , Everett Dirksen of Illinois , told reporters at the Capitol today that he viewed the new group with some concern as a diversion of money and energy away from the central party organization . " There is no substitute for money in politics , " he said . " If their goals are high , this obviously draws away from the regular established Republican organization ? state , county and precinct . " The House Republican leader , Representative Gerald R. Ford Jr . of Michigan , said he had been told the new group would not try to set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to help the regular party . Doubts It 's Harmful " If that is the purpose , I can see no harm in it , " he said . At the news conference , Mr. Bliss said that the only advance information he had had about the new organization came about incidentally during a telephone conversation two weeks ago with Denison Kitchel . Mr. Kitchel was Mr. Goldwater 's campaign manager last year and is president of the Free Society Association . " I told Kitchel at that time I hoped he would n't go through with it , " Mr. Bliss said today . " I told him I thought any such effort would be harmful to the long-range interests of the party . " Mr. Bliss told reporters today that in his thirty years experience in politics he had become convinced there was no greater danger to the effectiveness of a party than the creation of splinter groups . Such groups are occasionally defended , he said , on the ground that some persons will not support a party but will support an individual candidate or the clique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bliss went on , only a strong united party can hope to be effective . Any success the splinter group has in collecting funds or in marshaling talent and energy , he said , is always at the expense of the main party organization . A Significant Step In introducing General Clay as the Republicans ' new finance chief , Mr. Bliss said he regarded the appointment as one of the most significant forward steps taken since he took control of the committee in April . The job has been vacant since the resignation of Ralph J. Cordiner in November , 1964 . " General Clay is a dedicated and conscientious man who is respected by all Americans , " he said . " We needed a man of his stature to place our Republican fund raising on a more systematic basis . " Solvent but Needy General Clay said he had accepted the post , " as a duty , and because I want to see the Republican party in a strong and competitive position again . " He said the party was " solvent " today but did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Committee believed was essential . The budget for the current year , he said , is $4.7 million . A reporter asked whether two " cachets " of money left over from the Goldwater campaign now belonged to the National Committee . One is a sum about $200,000 held by a campaign group in Washington and another is reported to be about 3300,000 , which is held in California . The general said he was not sure to whom the money belonged , " but I assure you we will try to get it . " General Clay was a close military associate of General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower during the war , and served in several civilian capacities in the Eisenhower Administration between 1954 and 1960 . He is now a senior partner of Lehman Brothers , New York investment bankers .                     