@@727218

txt Re1b12011 iron , Transivortd Features Syndicate FACE OF STARVATION : These children at an Ibo refugee camp at Olokoro in Biafra , the former Eastern Region of Nigeria , right , are among the thousands who are starving to death as a result of the dislocations of the civil war . It is feared that two million refugees could die within two months without emercttncy help . Africa Hunger as a Political Weapon in Nigeria LONDON  --  The starving Ibo tribesmen of Biafra are the pawns in a political and military chess game being played between the leaders of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the secessionist state of Biafra . The federal aim is to eliminate Biafra ; the Biafrans ' is independence or some form of far-reaching autonomy . The federals ' method is basically military . They have nearly won the war militarily , in the opinion of most outside observers . But they are finding it difficult to make the final kill in the deep Ibo heartland , whose population is 13 million . They are superior by far in numbers and material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guerrillas lurk in the undergrowth and along the banks of a thousand streams that criss-cross the jungle . Isolated The federal forces have surrounded a densely populated area in Ibo territory which normally depends on meat from the north . War and the fear of war have greatly reduced the production of local farms . Transportation from the north is cut off . As a result , the Ibo people are suffering from a rapidly progressive form of malnutrition , caused by protein deficiency , combined in many cases with absolute starvation . In the camps into which hundreds of thousands of Ibo refugees from other parts of Nigeria are crowded , missionaries and others from outside the country see to the maintenance of a certain level of sanitation and distribute such relief supplies as are available . In the villages where the local population looks after itself conditions are usually worse . This , then is the federal Government 's weapon in its attempt to break the last Biafran resistance . The issue is also a weapon for Biafran leaders who hope to save what can be saved of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horror of mass starvation-13,000 dying daily now , according to the International Red Cross , perhaps two million dead within two months ? will force the world to force the Nigerian federal Government to agree to a cease-fire and a settlement . To save the greatest possible number from death by starvation and acute malnutrition , the immediate need is for an airlift from Fernando Po Island off the African coast , where Oxfam , a nongovernmental , nonsectarian British relief organization , has already accumulated the necessary supplies , with more on the way . The organization took an option last week on the charter of a Hercules aircraft which . Oxfam officials calculate , could fly in 100 tons of food a day to an airstrip that the Biafrans have set aside for the purpose . The plane would be supervised by the International Red Cross and would be painted with I.R.C. insignia . In the long run , Oxfam officials emphasize , an overland relief program is essential . But it will take months to organize even if the Biafrans agree to it . This question of airlift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the federal Government are arguing this weekend through the intermediary of British officials and the head of the Commonwealth Secretariat , Arnold Smith . The federals are offering to open a land corridor with a local cease-fire for movement of supplies . The Biafrans are objecting that this is not only too slow but is unacceptable because Biafrans fear food coming through federal lines would be poisoned . ' Dishonorable ' Position Proudly the Biafrans are maintaining that they would rather die than touch food from Lagos . They have also declared they would not accept any part of the C250,000 which the British Government has allocated for relief in Nigeria . Their position is that it would be dishonorable to accept relief from a government that is at the same time arming their enemies . The British are deeply embarrassed by the suggestion of their responsibility for this frightful human tragedy . It has been British policy to deliver arms to the legitimate Government in Lagos except for aircraft and bombs  --  a distinction that the Commonwealth Office hopes would exculpate Britain from some of the blame for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's offer to let relief cargoes pass through its territory by land would put it in the position of controlling life-and-death supplies for the rebel territory . This undoubtedly accounts for the Biafrans ' initial refusal to accept overland relief through federal territory more than the Biafran claim that the food might be poisoned . The latter fear may seem irrational at a distance . but It is understandable in tha Poisoned atmosphere of the civil war in Nigeria . The effort to get political advantage out of the food crisis was made even more obvious last Friday , when Lagos said it would shoot down any planes flying to rebel areas , whether they were carrying relief packages or not . It is thus clear that the relief of starvation has become another aspect of the Biafran struggle to obtain independent recognition through contact with the outside world and the federal Government 's determination to prevent the same . FDA NA ADAMS sc1.7,1 I DT The Children of Biafra UMUCHU , Nigeria ? Here in Biafra , the breakaway region of Nigeria , villages bloom today with goldenhaired children  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a sickly , reddish-yellow gold . It is the color of starvation and death . Foreign priests and nuns , newsmen and representatives of international relief agencies now in Biafr report seeing these symptoms in about one out of three children in Biafran villages and refugee camps . That indicates that up to two million of Biafra 's estimated six million children under 12 years of age are in danger of starving to death . According to doctors , once children teach this stage they are likely to die within about a month unless they get protein nourishment . The 93 children at the Christian mission in Umuchu are the lucky ones . They were plucked from nearby villages by parish nuns . After a week 's diet of a powdered-milk-and-egg mixture three times daily , their feet are no longer swollen , they can hold up their heads , and they do n't have steady diarrhea . But not always does the nourishment come in time , even at the mission . Father Sean Guina , a tall 40-year-old Irish priest , told of his walk around the mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lying on a bed . One was dead and I could n't notice the difference . I saw a child suckling her mother 's breast and the mother was dead . " At the Ogwe refugee camp for 1,200 Okrika people 20 miles away , at least one out of every three children is yellowish and swollen . In all of Biafra there are fewer than 700 hospital cots for children with these symptoms . At Emekuku hospital in western Biafra , Dr. Aaron Ifekwunigwe , a pediatrician , said , " If help comes in two months , I wo n't say it 's too late because there will still be many to save . But a delay of even a month will condemn about a million people to death . If for nothing else than the sake of the children , this war must stop now . " Sister Mary Lorcan of the Holy Rosary Sisters , who run the hospital , said : " I ca n't understand the world . It 's not that they do n't hear us . They do . " ? DAVID ROBISON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           