@@724741

txt Sixty-five of the city 's business leaders called yesterday for " a single public agency or cooperating state agencies " to operate and modernize commuter railroad services . Their statement was made public by Morris D. Crawford Jr. , president of the Bowery Savings Bank , and Andrew Heiskell , chairman of Time , Inc. , as co-chairmen of a new Businessmen 's Committee for Action on the Commuter Railroad Problem . Those taking part , who Mr. Crawford said had been invited " in their corporate capacity , " included top-ranking officials of financial inStitutions , manufacturing concerns , department stores , and the publishing , advertising , insurance and utilities fields . " This committee , and public leaders generally , " their statement said in part , " are reluctant to advocate government support for activities that have traditionally been conducted by private enterprise . Private Operation Preferred " We would much prefer to see the commuting lines operate unsubsidized , under strictly private auspices . However , government already is granting aid in some form to nearly all other types of transportation through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ownership . " This makes it impossible for railroads to offer commutation service in competition with other forms of travel unless government aid of some sort is granted . Under present circumstances , then , the solution is demonstrably beyond the private capital resources of the railroad companies . " The solution , the business group went on , " will require a single public agency or cooperating state agencies that will plan and carry out complete modernization and rationalization of the lines . " " With Federal aid tinder the 1964 Mass Transportation Act , " the committee said , " this program would provide the region with a more satisfactory standard of service at manageable cost , and both private and public costs would be far lower than any alternative . " At City Hall Mayor Wagner staked out a claim for tying the city 's subway and bus lines into any such plan . In a news conference he noted that the Transit Authority was already taking part with the Long Island Rail Road in a mass transportation demonstration program in Queens and Nassau Counties under a $3,185,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transit Authority would have to be actively involved in any regional authority , " the Mayor declared . The businessmen 's statement reinforced a movement that has already seen Governor Rockefeller propose a Metropolitan Commuter Transportation Authority to run the Long Island Rail Road or contract for its operation . Last weekend the City Planning Commission offered a new proposal to integrate that line and the city subways . New York State and Connecticut last Tuesday proposed Federal-state aid to keep the New Haven Railroad 's commuter service here running for 18 months pending a long-range solution . This still requires Federal approval , and Interstate Commerce Commission hearings on the New Haven trustees ' request to abandon part of this service resume tomorrow . In an interview Mr. Crawford said he and Mr. Heiskell had discussed the increasing problem on March 1 . He said they had found Government officials wondering whether business leaders thought the problem could still be solved by free enterprise , or if it required still , more government involvement . " Business had frankly not ' opened its trap , " Mr. Heiskell commented in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out what business felt on this important issue , and it should take a stand . " Mr. Crawford said they brought together a dozen other members of an organizing committee drawn from enterprises with a heavy stake in commuting , in terms of employes and customers . They met at the Bowery bank on March 15 . Time , Inc. , alone has more than 500 commuters among its 2,000 employes here , Mr. HeisH kell estimated . By coincidence , March 15 was also the day the Regional Plan Association made public a report that all the railroads were willing to he relieved of responsibility for commuter service . The private group renewed its proposal for a public corporation to take over this responsibility , with New York State , New Jersey and Connecticut assuming operating deficits it estimated at ; 25 million to ; 30 million a year . The organizing group agreed on a statement embracing major elements of a 12-point Regional Plan Association memorandum , and it assigned its members to obtain further endorsements from businesses with major interest in the 200 , - 000 daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night 65 signatures had been gathered , with more coming in . The statement was sent to 100 officials , including Governors , Mayors , Senators , Representatives , state legislators and railroad representatives in the tristate area . " The committee is satisfied , " the statement said , " that there is no reasonable alternative to commuter rail service . In terms of cost and public convenience , the replacement of rail service by bus and private car is unthinkable . " The most feasible solution lies in : " 1 . The separation of the business organization , &; policymaking and financing of commuter t'from other rail services . " 2 . The operation of the commuter rail system by or for the account of a single public agency or cooperating state agencies . " 3 . The modernization of equipment , the coordination of services and appropriate tax relief , "                     