@@726241

txt There are likely to be two major underground forces in South Vietnam 's presidential elections five months hence . One of these forces will be the Buddhists . The other will be the Communist-led National Liberation Front ( NLF ) . This is the view of a number of American and Vietnamese observers in Saigon , who feel that official sources dangerously underestimate the votes deliverable by these two antigovernment forces . The official view is that while many Buddhists were elected to the Constituent Assembly in last September 's elections , none of them is responsive to the political direc tion of the now divided Vien 11 , - , a Dao , secular arm of the Unified Buddhist Church . The Vien Hoa Dao boycotted the election , and subsequently split between adherents of the northern refugees bonze Thich Tam Chau and the central Vietnamese bonze Thich Tri Quang . Tam Chau and about 200 , - 000 northern Buddhists support the military junta ; Tri Quang and the central Vietnamese Buddhists vehemently oppose it . As for the . National Liberation Front , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present rules , would not be able to put up candidates even if it wanted to . Analysts of the Liberation Front as a political force , however , believe that if the // Further reproduction prohibited without permission . *Election optimism questioned // elections were truly free , the front might muster up to 20 percent of the vote . Estimates of Buddhist voting strength vary widely . But it is generally conceded that if the Buddhists chose to contest elections and were given free rein to campaign , they could win several provinces of central Vietnam and several districts of Saigon . Since their crushing and humiliating defeat at the hands of the military junta last summer , central Vietnamese Buddhists of the Tri Quang faction have been sullenly antigovernment . They have become increasingly anti-American as well . Some observers see in these twin factors the dangerous possibility of a short-term tactical alliance , implicit rather than explicit , between the National Liberation Front and the Buddhists . Some doubt coalition Other observers believe that a Buddhist-Liberation Front alliance will not materialize so long as non-Communist options remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the Buddhists are a divided and insignificant force ; that their strength , even in their heyday , was vastly overrated , and that today they have little more than nuisance value . As for the Liberation.Front , official Americans are certain that it will try to obstruct elections by all means in its power  --  sabotage , terrorism , and repeated warnings to the population to tear up their ballots . But these same officials say they are convinced that the front will not be able to upset the voting process . They do not seem to be impressed by the past record of NLF electoral tactics , which have encompassed not merely terrorism and sabotage . but underground participation by offering ? through covert intermediaries ? to throw blocs of votes to selected antigovernment candidates . This procedure was already at work during the 1959 parliamentary elections under the presidency of the authoritarian President Ngo Dinh Diem . It was observed in some of the provincial council elections of 1965 . No avowed Communist has ever been elected , but several antigovernment figures , some with impeccably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ margins provided by the NLF . The NLF , however , is obviously handicapped by the electorate 's awareness of its Communist direction . To expand its appeal , it must gain allies among the non-Communist population at large . Among these prospective comrades , the most important in voting terms are the Buddhists . For their part , the Buddhists vehemently deny any intention of forming an alliance , spoken or unspoken , with the National Liberation Front . They see other options open to them ? notably that of coalition with southern non-Communist civilian groups . Ninth of a series based on Mr. Oka 's recent round-the-world trip investigating the Vietnam situation .                     