@@721007

txt the Americans have yet formed any clear conception of the military operations which they propose should be conducted against China if threats fail to produce the desired result . Nor have they weighed the consequences of this policy . " Sir 4. nthony 's view was that the United States Administration , particularly Mr. Dulles , appeared to be trying to intervene to support the French in Indochina without any clear view of what might happen if this intervention were carried out . He was also " aware of the pessimistic views which the Americans took of our ability to defend Malaya in the event of . a French collapse in Indochina . " He recalls that he made it clear to the United States that the British had " every intention of continuing to hold the position in Malaya . " Sir Anthony leaves no doubt that he feels that on the question of announcing the formation of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , as it later became , secretary Dulles did not abide by the agreement they had reached . He and Mr. Dulles met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close of that meeting a joint announcement said the United States and Britain would participate with other countries in examining the possibility of establishing a collective defense within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations to assure the peace , security and freedom of Southeast Asia and the Western Pacific . The British did not want to go any further than that , Sir Anthony says , lest the work of the coming Geneva conference on Southeast Asia be prejudiced . However , the former Foreign three days of the end of the London talks " it appeared that Mr. Dulles had taken steps to settle the question of membership in advance on his own terms . " Sir Anthony says that after Mr. Dulles had announced his action it was too late to retrieve the situation , " although I was still unhappy about the impression which the Washington ' get-together ' might create . " Sir Anthony , who resigned as British Prime Minister almost exactly three years ago after DULLES CRITICIZED 1.11 EDEN MEMOIRS Continued From rage 1 , Col p his Suez policy had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period in 1954 there was some difference of opinion between the United States and Britain on what mil-1 itary effort could be taken toy restore the French position at Dienbienphu . He pictures Secretary of State Dulles as intent on informing France and the other allies that the United States was " prepared * * * to move armed forces into Indochina and thus internationalize the struggle and protect Southeast Asia as a whole . " This , according to Sir Anthony , was said in a I letter to Georges Bidault , then ! the French Foreign Minister . The first installment of the memoirs ends with President Eisenhower ready to seek Congressional approval for intervention by aircraft of the United States Navy . This was to take place at Dienbienphul April 28 . The British Government , approached through the French Government on this point , rejected the American proposal .                     