@@725502

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Moses States View on Transit Legislation To the Editor : Your editorial of May 5 " Unifying Transport Policy " stating that I refused cooperation with City Hall is unqualifiedly false . Mayor Lindsay invited me to his apartment . I offered a suggestion to expedite cooperation . The Mayor subsequently called me , came to my apartment alone , at his own request . I offered another suggestion in detail . He said I would hear from him and suggested that we avoid the press . I did not see him again until we met at the Albany hearings on his legislation . At Staten Island just recently the Mayor was most complimentary in a public address . On the other hand , the Deputy Mayor has indicated it is the policy of the administration to get rid of me . My associates at Triborough and I have managed over many years to get along with Mayors of diverse views and temperaments . Full Cooperation Triborough representatives have repeatedly seen Transportation Administrator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him with information . We have also cooperated fully with other members of the city administration . I saw Mr. Palmer as late as Tuesday at Randall 's and arranged . for him to review a Triborough project in the New York City Building at Flushing Meadow . Your objective is not cooperation . It is to turn control of Triborough and the arterial program over to the city without any reference to transportation . This is wholly destructive of the authority principle of independence of politics , sale of bonds to prudent private investors on character and independence , and keeping faith with bondholders . Adverse Effects Triborough is a successful enterprise . It has never had a failure , but there is no large surplus which can be diverted to rapid transit or other transportation . Bankers from leading investment houses pointed out at the recent Albany hearings that the enactment of the legislation proposed by the Mayor would " materially and adversely " affect the credit of Triborough , result in " further erosion " of the city 's already precarious credit rating , " seriously impair " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority in the state to finance new projects , and reflect adversely on the state 's own " credit and integrity . " This legislation , if enacted , is the beginning of the end of independent public authorities everywhere . ROBERT MOSES Chairman , Triborough . Bridge and Tunnel Authority New York , May 5 , 1966 ? Rentals to Low-Income Families To the Editor : I believe it important to clarify certain points that were made in your May 5 news article on public housing . The New York City Housing Authority does have under consideration a plan to purchase an undivided interest in MitchellLama cooperatives so as to permit rentals to low-income families . It should be understood , however , that this will be used primarily with regard to cooperatives that are now in planning , and that apartments will not be available under this plan for a period of two to three years . Cooperatives that are now fully or substantially sold are not suitable for purchase of an undivided interest . It should also be noted that no purchase can be effectuated unless the sponsor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Public Housing Administration has not approved any specific plan for purchase of Mitchell-Lama cooperatives , and at such time as an agreement has been reached with an individual sponsor it will be submitted to the Public Housing Administration for its consideration . A similar proposal is now under consideration by the Public Housing Administration in connection with the Lavanburg Foundation project , which would be partially F.H.A.-financed , and an inference may be drawn that the principle there can be transferred to other types of real estate ownership . The article leaves the impression that the Lavanburg Foundation proposal will not go forward ; that is not the case . The city still has this project under active consideration , and every effort will be made to insure that it becomes a reality . Finally , the purchase plan is only one component of an overall low-income housing program being developed by the Lindsay administration . The administration believes that when it is combined with other tools , such as rehabilitation , vestpocket housing and the use of vacant land sites , the city will have a flexible , imaginative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deputy Counsel to the Mayor New York , May 5 , 1966 ? Draft-Prone Students To the Editor : One of the worst inequities of the draft is that it is assumed that a student who is working his way through college with a full-time job has as much time to study as a full-time student . All students are required to accomplish twenty-four credits a year . This is fair enough ; but a student with a full-time job is not allowed to ease his burden by going to summer school , thereby taking eight credits a semester rather than the twelve each semester that a full-time student takes . There is apparently no logical reason for this arbitrary regulation . It is a gross injustice to those young men who have the strength of character to put themselves through school . GEORGE L. LARNED Bedford Hills , N. Y. May 1 , 1966 ? Instant ' Parks To the Editor : The creation of an " instant park " by the planting of 6,000 trees in a former barren field in Paramus , N. J. , is inspiring . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have the youth , the zeal , and the parks that almost need reforesting . And we have the energetic new Commissioner Thomas Hoving who can spark the program . RUBIN FALK New York , April 26 , 1966 ? Respite for Airlines To the Editor : As May 15 draws near , the behind-the-scenes maneuversby the airlines to thwart the United States ' denunciation of the Warsaw Convention seem to be nearing victory with their apparently successful ploy of exchanging dubious promises foie the State Department 's withdrawal of the denunciation . The process of converting their promises to subject themselves to absolute liability up to $75,000 of necessity will be long and complicated . If accomplished by treaty , it would take about five years , allowing for selection and meetings of delegates , work of drafting , etc . If accomplished by the rather uncertain methods of tariffs and amended ticket contracts , it could nevertheless consume several years , apart from possible attendant litigation . In the meantime , the heat would be off , the Warsaw Convention would remain in effect , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole thing on indefinitely . THEODORE E. WOLCOTT New York , May 3 , 1966 ? Good Money Out To the Editor : The Washington Government and many businessmen are wondering why the silver halfdollar coins have virtually disappeared from circulation . Will somebody , please , ? call their attention to Gresham law ? STANLEY P. FRANCE Hackensack , N. J May 1 , 196 (                     