@@723956

txt WASHINGTON , May 10-  - -  The United States is prepared to , enter into a generous military , aid and sales agreement with , India , qualified sources said to-1 Although India may not immediately obtain the advanced supersonic jet fighters she is seeking , she is likely to get formidable jet fighters armed with air-to ? air Sidewinder missiles . In addition , tile Indians are expected to obtain substantial equipment for controlling air defenses from the ground , as , well as conventional arms and , transport for mountain combat troops . The Indians are credited here with having put together a rea'sonable , well-prepared series of ' plans to he considered in pent ! . negotiations for a longrange military assistance agreemeat . Defense Aide Arrives The agreement will replace the emergency program that was instituted after Chinese ( Communist inclusions on India 's border in 1962 , The basic negotiations will take place in Washington . The advance delegation under Defense Secretary P. V. R. Rao arrived here tonight and talks will start tomorrow . The delegation Includes leading civilians and uniformed officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' plans with United States defense and Treasury experts . The Indian Defense Minister , Y. B. Chavan , is scheduled to arrive here on May 17 for negotiations and a formal visit in response to an invitation from Secretary of Defense Robert S. last year . Mr. Chavan will spend 12 days in the United States and kill then go to London to seek additional military aid from Britain . At present , the United States and Britain share the cost of the emergency military aid program . Originally , the United States was to provide $60 million a year under the emergency program and this was matched by Britain and other members of the British Commonwealth . Recently the rate of United States support has risen slightly and that on the British side diminished proportionately . In the initial emergency aid program , the United States provided mobile and fixed radar installations for air defense . The Indians were concerned lest the Chinese , in addition to overrunning the frontier , attempt aerial attacks on major population centers . City Defenses Begun The fixed installations were begun in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Delhi . They were scheduled to be completed 12 to 18 months later . Indian officials feared that bombing attacks might have consequences far beyond the physical damage . These fears were based on the experience of a small Japanse raid on Calcutta in World War II . At the same time , it was believed that white the Chinese air force was numerically large , it had only a limited capacity for long-range bombing from Tibetan airfields . The United States and Britain sent fighter squadrons to India to support defenses . They also provided communications equipment and arms for the ground forces , notably the mountain troops . The amount of United States military assistance contemplated for India could not be ascertained , Official sources indicated that it would not be a large program compared with others . In addition , it was pointed out , it would - be a mixed program of grants and sales . To permit the sales , however , the United States appeared ready to provide substantial credits . The most important factor in the coming negotiations , it was indicated , will he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one source , " surprised " the United States experts with the quality of their estimates in view of the relatively few experienced people they had for the task . ? ' Emphasis Questioned On the other hand , it was stressed , the Indians showed a tendency common to many governments embarking on a new military buildup . This was to seek highly elaborate weapons at the outset and to seek to undertake the production of arms on a scale that might be economically exhausting . For example , the Indians want to build plants to manufacture jet interceptors . This is natural , it is recognized here , since no country likes to be dependent on others for basic arms . On the other hand , it is believed that a heavy investment in such plants is not warranted now . India would like to equip her air force with late-model supersonic aircraft . The Pakistani forces , for example , have obtained from the United States ? some early-model F-104 jet , fighters . Experts here believe that a more modest type of plane , . equipped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The Indians are also in ? terested in equipment for their navy . Officials here believe such aid to have low priority . While the basic assistance agreement will be worked out here , the details will be con ' eluded in technical talks between the United States supply mission in New Delhi , headed by Maj. John W. Kelly , and In. dian military officials . ? In undertaking the aid program for India , United States officials acknowledged that the Pakistan Government might be upset . They expressed the belief that Pakistan had by this time recognized the justification fm the Indian military buildup . Pakistan has been receiving United States military.aid since 1954.                     