@@726377

txt CAIRO , Egypt , June 10 Saturday I IUPII ? President G a in a Abdel Nasser withdrew his resignation today . ( From Tribune Wire Services ) CAIRO , Egypt , June 10 Saturday - Gamal Abdel Nasser announced last night that he was resigning as . president of Egypt but his national assembly said early today that it would not accept his resignation . Huge crowds paraded in Cairo shouting for Nasser to stay on as president . Arabs of other middle east nations joined in the appeal . Nasser , 49. had made an emotional address to his people . say log he was abandoning " completely and forever " all duties of office . Assembly Says " No " Later he said he had reconsidered and would leave the question to the assembly for decision . The assembly met in emergency session a few hours later and declared its strong rejection of any intention by Nasser to leave the presidency . " The people have stressed they do not agree with you and it always has been your practice to accept the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can affect Egypt 's work , it said , and that work " can be completed under your leadership . " Halt Mobs with Grenades The statement was addressed by the assembly directly to Nasser . Police and soldiers fired grenades into the air last night to drive back demonstrating mobs marching ' on downtown Cairo and a furious anti-aircraft barrage lit up the sky . The Egyptian ministry of information said an air raid was in progress . However , there were no signs of any planes in the skies and no bombs were dropped on Cairo up to 11:30 P. m . Nasser went on national radio and television last night to give his version of the middle east war and to say he was abandoning " completely and forever " all the functions of office . " Stay On , " Crowd Shouts Thousands of people  --  perhaps as many as 100,000-surged around Nasser 's home after the broadcast . They pleaded that they wanted him to stay at the helm . Men and women wept unashamedly in the streets . Crowds shouting , " Nasser , Nasser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stay off the streets to avoid a danger of mob violence . Then , 3 1/2 hours after Nasser had spoken , Cairo radio came on with a statement credited to Nasser saying he was putting the question up to the national assembly today . " Wait Until Morning " " The feelings shown by the masses of the people since my broadcast this evening on the development of the situation have profoundly touched me , " the statement said . " If God wishes and permits , I shall go to the national assembly tomorrow to discuss with members and before the masses of the people the decision I disclosed in the statement . " If I may ask something at this moment from the masses of our great nation of patient , struggling people , it is to request them to wait until the morning . " Every one of you should now be at his post . There are many risks connected with duties which are much greater and more sacred than anything else and should take precedence over other considerations . " I ask you all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my sake , that each of you should remain now where he should be . " Set Back Session The national assembly had originally been called into emergency session last night , but the session was put off until this morning . In the first broadcast Nasser had designated one of his four vice presidents and " my friend , " Zakaria Mohieddin , to take over the presidency . Cairo radio then told its listeners to expect a statement from Muhieddin . Instead it loadcast Nasser 's second statement . Shortly after the original announcement , the Middle East news agency , a semi - official operation , said Egypt 's commander in chief , Field Marshal Abdul Hakim Amer , who held one of the vice presidencies , also had resigned . It reported also the resignation of Gen. Shamseddin Badran , defense minister . Nasser conceded to his people that Egypt had suffered a dangerous setback in the war , and said he assumed total responsibility for the results . His First Report Mohieddin , 52 , founded the Egyptian intelligence service in its modern form . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the young officers who joined Nasser , with Maj. Gen. Mohammed Naguib as the front man , to overthrow King Farouk in 1952 . Mohieddin was described here and abroad as a moderate with occasionally pro-western views . Nasser 's resignation address was his first public ' statement since the outbreak Monday of battles in which Israeli armed forces chewed up his air force , captured the Sharrn el Sheikh base where he could bar Israeli traffic from the Gulf of Aqaba , and knifed across the Sinai peninsula to the Suez canal that he nationalized 10 years ago . Nasser reiterated the Egyptian charge , denied in London and Washington and shunned by Moscow-that Israel 's massive military successes were achieved with active backing by United States and British warplanes . He said he accepted the United Nations security council 's call for a cease-fire after receiving " certain statements " from the Russian and French governments . He said the French had assured him that " nobody can make regional expansion thru aggression . " The Arabs , who charge Israel with aggression , would interpret that to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territories occupied during their four-day blitzkrieg . " Revolution Not Ended " Nasser insisted that his resignation did not mean that the Egyptian revolution had ended . " The revolution does not depend on one generation , " he said . " I am proud of this generation . " He then enumerated works of his regime in the political , social , and industrial fields . " The imperialist powers used to say that Abdel Nasser alone is their enemy , " he said . " I want to make clear to them that their enemy is the entire Arab nation and not AbdelNasser by himself . " The Iraqi cabinet met yesterday and appealed to Nasser to remain in office " to lead the next battle against Zionist imperialism , " the Middle East news agency reported from Baghdad . March in Beirut BEIRUT , Lebanon , June 9 I Reuters ? Thousands of demonstrators thronged in torchlight processions thru Beirut tonight , demanding that Egyptian President Nasser withdraw his resignation , and chanting slogans attacking , Israel , imperialism and communism . Lebanese President Charles Ilelou wept when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed the hope the resignation would be withdrawn " in response to the will of the masses . " Baghdad radio said huge crowds of weeping demonstrators besieged the Egyptian embassy in Baghdad tonight , threatening an all - night sit-down strike there unless Nasser withdrew his resignation . Sudanese Weep KHARTOUM , Sudan , June 9 I Reuters ? Hundreds of Sudanese wept here tonight when they heard President Nasser 's broadcast announcing his resignation . A cabinet meeting was called immediately after the broadcast .                     