@@722675

txt Although Soviet Russia continues to tnreaten war over Berlin and Cuba , the great struggle between the Communist bloc and the free world tliat dominates our age is most likely to be fought out in the political , economic and propagandistic fields . That is the battleground dictated by the vast transformation of the world following two world wars . Fortunately , in these fields , despite some setbacks and in contrast to the uneasy military balance , the tide of battle is shifting in our favor . The Western colonial empires are being replaced by a mutiplicity of new and free nations while the Communists impose on more millions the worst colonialism the world has known . The advanced free nations enjoy an unprecedented prosperity which , though at far too slow a pace , aids the underdeveloped countries while the Communist-dominated lands suffer economic reverses and food shortages to the point of industrial and agricultural collapse , as in China and Cuba . Europe and the United States have both now taken two mighty steps to consolidate and expand these gains . The Commonwealth conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economic Community and political union that promises a new world superpower as a bulwark against Communism . And Congress passed by overwhelming majorities President Kennedy 's trade expansion bill , envisaging an Atlantic partnership to liberalize and expand free world trade for the benefit of all nations . But these gains are to some degree put in jeopardy by the backward step in which the House meat-axed the foreign aid appropriations . Quite apart from the silly game of first authorizing a foreign aid total that raises hopes throughout the world and then dashing them by withholding the funds , the House action marks the height of folly . It is folly because , as President Kennedy warns , the drastic cut constitutes a threat to our own and to free world security . It impugns our good faith . It impairs our own economy , in which 80 per cent of foreign aid funds are spent . Finally , it retards the less developed countries in their desperate struggle against ignorance , poverty and disease and therewith opens the doors to Communist penetration in which Soviet foreign aid , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of our foreign aid is that it can he replaced in time by expanding world trade . That is what happened in Europe , where the Marshall Plan sparked an economic boom that now makes Europe our most important market . That is also the aim of what is in effect a global Marshall Plan  --  to do whatever is possible for the less developed lands , not only to meet our moral obligations to them but also to develop new markets on which our future prosperity may depend . Western Europe and Japan , recognizing the importance of such a program in their own enlightened interest , have already joined us in it . The undertaking is so vast that mistakes , even some waste , are inevitable ; and the self-help of the recipients leaves much room for improvement . But we dare not quit in the midst of the battle or curtail our program to the point of crippling it and losing the cold war .                     