@@723278

txt President Kennedy ended his 10-day tour of four European countries tonight and flew back to Washington . His last appearance , in Naples , like his first a week ago in Cologne , Germany , was a smashing success . This hot and humid Mediterranean city gave the President one of the wildest receptions of his tour and provided a fitting climax to it . President Kennedy 's plane landed at Andrews Air Force Base , Md. , at 1:34 A.M. Wednesday , Eastern daylight time , after an 11-hour flight from Naples including a stop at the Azores . About 150 people greeted Mr. Kennedy , who flew to the White House by helicopter . Partnership ' Growing Reality ' As Mr. Kennedy took off from Capodichino Airport , he carried with him some unexpected satisfaction in an Italian visit that had turned out better than expected and a European swing that was viewed as having proved almost entirely successful . President Kennedy , in a speech delivered at the Naples headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , said : " I return to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have given us a common destiny and that the Atlantic partnership is a growing reality . " Mr. Kennedy also said he was encouraged by what he called " the strong and irresistible desire for unity " of the people of Western Europe . The need for a " fully cohesive Europe " has been one of his most frequent themes while here . Against Spread of Weapons - In a communiqu ? on the talks between Mr. Kennedy and Italian leaders , the United States and Italian Governments agreed on the need for a treaty prohibiting nuclear tests and for a halt in the spread of nuclear weapons . On European unification , the communiqu ? said : " There was agreement as to its significant value , and , on the Italian side , there were reaffirmed the will to encourage its development , increasing the efforts directed toward creation of an integrated Europe . " Mr. Kennedy said he believed that , " whatever path is chosen , whatever delays or obstacles are encountered , " the European unity movement would go forward . " The United States welcomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " We did not assist in the revival // of Europe to maintain its dependence on the United States , nor do we seek to bargain selectively with many and separate voices . " We welcome a stronger partner . For today no nation can build its destiny alone . The age of self-sufficient nationalism is over . The age of interdependence is here . " That was a repetition of one of the two major points the President had sought to make to the people of Europe in his numerous speeches , television appearances and dinner toasts . He also hammered again at the second of these . " I came to Europe to reassert as clearly and persuasively as I could , " he said , " that the American commitment to the freedom of Europe is reliable . " This is so , he told his audience of . NATO officers and invited guests , because " this commitment rests upon the inescapable requirements of self-interest . " Two Helpful Developments The relative success of Mr. Kennedy 's Italian visit , officials said , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Italian officials and a number of party leaders at the opportunity it gave them to meet and talk With the President and Secretary of State Dean Rusk . The other development was the slight forward motion achieved for the United States ' proposed nuclear force of missile-bearing surface ships manned by international crews . The Italians proved more receptive than the British had been . The communiqu ? said Italy had " expressed a favor ' able attitude toward participating in studies on this subject to be carried out subsequently among all the Governments concerned . " This was a reference to meetings to be held this fall by United States , West German , British and Italian officials . Only West Germany and the United States are pledged to join such a nuclear force . When President Kennedy discussed the plan with Chancellor Adenauer last week , they were agreed that , in view of the instability of the political situations in Britain and Italy , they would not push for the participation of these nations until later . Later Action Planned Mr. Kennedy , in his speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him a number of convictions in addition to the inevitability of European unity . They were as follows : 9That Western Europe was committed to " progressive democracy ? to social justice and gThat the Western European allies , in cooperation with the United States , were maintaining and increasing their military strength . " If we continue to build up our strength at all levels , " Mr. Kennedy said , " we can be increasingly certain that no attack will take place , at any level , against the territory of any N. A. T. 0 . country . " liThat " the purpose of our military strength is peace . " He added : " We do not believe that war is unavoidable or that negotiations are inherently undesirable . We do believe that an end to the arms race is in the interest of all and that we can move toward that end with injury to none . " That Western Europe is beginning to look outward , to seek increased trade with the United States and other allies , and to provide increased capital and markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanding their economies and increasing their living standards at a faster rate than the Communist bloc . Mr. Kennedy also visited Ireland and England before coming to Italy . In separate talks last night with Aldo Moro , leader of the Christian Democrats ; Pietro Nenni , leader of the Left-Wing Socialists , and Giovanni Malagodi , secretary of the Liberals , Mr. Kennedy assured them of the United States ' support for both Europe and Italy , The President spoke briefly with Palmiro Togliatti , secretary general of the Communist party , which polled 25.3 per cent of the vote in elections last month . They met in a receiving line at a party at Quirinal Palace .                     