@@726897

txt Hundreds of eighth grade pupils  --  surging through corri ? dors , trading blows , barging into classes , shouting , jeering and turning in a false fire alarm  --  created havoc yesterday in a Bedford-Stuyvesant junior high school after demonstrating to win better food , more freedom and more dances . Only when half a dozen policemen were rushed to the school was order restored and the children ' herded back to their classrooms , where there was no further instruction for the day . As'istant Superintendent Henrietta B. Purcell ; who was summoned to Junior High School 258. at Marcy Avenue and Macon Street , said a complete investigation of the disorder would be made by the Board of Education . She said there were indica // tions that the Du Lb real : in thci school , where more than MI per cent of the 1,480 pupils are Negro or Puerto Rican , had been planned and the youngsters mcitec --  " although I have no positive information now . " In a prelude to the mass disruption , 60 of the pupils gathered at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aloft placards with crayon scrawls listing their demands . " We want McCassey Out , " said one sign , in a reference to Miss Mary A. McCassev , who is white and has been the principal of the school for the last 18 months . " We want Good Teachers Kept , " said another sign in  --  : apparent reference tot the dismissal on Jan. 22 of George , Fuccillo , who was popular with the youngsters , even though he allegedly struck one . By 10:30 , the crowd had swelled to a hundred  --  most of them eighth graders . Mrs. Joy Berry , executive assistant principal , persuaded the youngsters to enter the school to presenti their demands to Miss McCassey . The demonstrators were led to the cafeteria ; but they were joined by about 600 eighthgrade pupils , who had been attending , classes until they were disrupted . With the throng overflowing the cafeteria , the pupas wet , taken to the auditorium , where Miss McCassey expressed her willingness to discuss the demands with class representalives if the pupils would return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hut dis order erupted as they surged into the corridors . Bedlam Starts Racing up and down hall ways and stairways , breaking into classrooms , shoving , pushing , shouting down appeals and instructions from teachers who were jostled by their charges , the pupils roamed ( heedlessly and at will . " Return to your class , " shouted a teacher . " What class ? " retorted a youngster . Fights among pupils flared , and on the third floor lights were switched off . In the midst of the turmoil , a fire alarm rang , but in an instant , loudspeakers were telling the pupils to ignore it . Teachers said that during the past week 11 false fire alarms had been turned in and that three fires had been discovered in wastebaskets . I In a hallway , Miss McCassey ) was trying to calm the pupils . Most ignored her : But one girl came running to her , complaining that she had been " shoved " ' by a teacher : Miss McCassey tock the girl in her arms and promised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss McCassey heard reports of fights , in classrooms to which she dispatched teachers . None of the scuffles was serious , but the constant shuttling of teachers on peacemaking missions seemed to heighten the air of ' disorder . The one . policeman normally assigned to the school  --  Patrol:man Cecil Greenidge  --  hurried ' from one trouble spot to and ' other , but could not restore calm . Only at noon , when six paItrolmen commanded by Capt . Norman Weiner came on the scene and fanned out through the building was relative peace attained . Only eighth-grade classes had been involved . Promises Made With the students again in their classrooms , Miss McCassey visited them , offering to meet some of their demands after agreeing that the food was not up to par . She promised a cleaner cafeteria , French fried potatoes ? instead of the usual potatoes boiled in their jackets , and more dances . She also said the cafete/a. would be provided with fresh vegetables and with pretzels , potato chips and candy that the pupils could purchase " instead of sneaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school during lunch time , she said she ' would meet with their mothers , the teachers , the police and others involved to determine whether such a move ' would be ' feasible . At a later meeting with about 75 student representatives , Miss McCassey repeated the promises , agreed that everything was not perfect and asked the pupils to tell her what was good about the school . There was an embarrassing silence until one pupil cried , " Nothing ! " The others laughed . Teachers , who refused to be quoted , insisted there was too much permissiveness in the school and too little communication with the principal and her staff . One pupil , who wanted the principal ousted , gave this explanation . " She does n't keep promises . She promised us better food long ago and we still get slop . "                     