@@723362

txt Overseas Editor of The Christian Science Monitor The dragon roared , showed his teeth , and spewed forth warning blasts of fire and steam from his lair this past week . Around the periphery of his vast domain , neighbors reacted as befitted their size and power . The Soviet bear growled right back . The American eagle alerted its forces in Korea to be more watchful on the , I suddenly restive armistice line . It was the less powerful denizens . of the jungle who trembled  --  a lot or a little  --  at the Chinese Communist fireworks display . Even mighty India , like an elephant seldom aroused and nonpredatory , shuddered apprehensively and trumpeted warnings of Chinese Communist forces massing once more along the disputed northern frontier . Only last November , Jawaharlal Nehru 's men had felt the searing tongue of the dragon 's breath in Ladakh and the North East Frontier Agency . Laos Hears Rumble Little Laos , hard by the waters of the Mekong , the Nam-Hon and the Nam-Ta , and already infiltrated by pro-Chinese Communists , lifted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a monster 's thunder not far to the north . So too , tiny South Vietnam . already threatened from the outside by Viet Cong Communists and from inside by restive Buddhists . Offshore in the Pacific , for the Chinese Nationalists on Formosa the time had come once more to wonder when it would be their turn to be threatened afresh  --  or when , if ever , it would be possible to strike back at the mainland . Finally , in the Land of the Morning Calm , sturdy South Koreans likewise looked north from Seoul , their capital , to Uijongbu and Musan-ni , the towns astride the historic invasion route . Beyond lay only the fortified ridges  --  and Panmunjom where the uneasy truce was signed . Antics Watched Yes , it was an uneasy Asia that watched the dragon 's antics . That the hissings and rumblings were intended to intimidate , no one in the immediate forest or lands across the sea doubted for a moment . But did they also signal Communist China 's determination to do more than express displeasure with the Sino-Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fury ? That was the key question  --  and no one outside Peking could penetrate with certainty through the smoke and steam . Some said the dragon was not yet ready for a major foray ; they pointed out his nuclear furnace was not yet functioning . Others however . recalled the experts who claimed Peking was not ready for action in October , 1961 when Chinese Communist hordes first hit and crumbled American units in North Korea . Everyone conceded that a new sense of aggressiveness was what the Red regime in Peking was out to foster . And few would go so far as to rule out some further probing by the Chinese Communists along sensitive borders . But most experts . as they studied maps or intelligence assessments , came to the conclusion the mainland Chinese would be foolhardy indeed if they insist on embarking on a The World This WeeI major trouble-making expedition at this time . Meanwhile , the test - ban agreement was receiving widespread support despite criticism from Paris as well as Peking . In the Far East . key nations such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to affiliate . In Central Asia , Afghanistan , located alongside the hot triangle between India , Pakistan , and Communist China , said it was ready to sign . Premier Mohammed Yousuf added moreover that the accord is an example of how other problems affect- ing the big powers could be solved . In the Mideast , both Egypt and Israel found it possible to submerge their other differences and agree on this one point . In Europe , the Soviet satellites were expected to line up in favor of what the Kremlin favors . And most of the Western Allies , with France an exception , likewise were ready to endorse the ban . Problem Pose ( The two Germanies however posed a problem . West Germany was reluctant , East Germany too eager . Bonn remained suspicious of the next move to be engendered by the test-ban agreement . And Pots-clam 's Walter Ulbricht clearly predicated his willingness to sign on the fact this action would imply a certain amount of official recognition for his wretched puppet state by all other signatories . Approval by the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aside from such difficulties , the outlook for this particular piece of Soviet-West cooperation appeared favorable . Plans went ahead for the official signing in Moscow on Monday . No wonder the dragon roared and looked around for weaker folk upon whom to vent its spleen . No wonder the result was a dangerous pattern emerging in uneasy Asia . Pact permits arms development : Page .1 .                     