@@721977

txt President Kennedy said to-I day that he had found nothing new in Premier Khrushchev 's latest discussion of the Berlin crisis . But the President promised to use " every device : available " to find a peaceful solution . The President pledged that all diplomatic techniques wouldU he employed to get a more pre-I cise definition of the phrases , ; words and thoughts of the Soviet leaders on Berlin , Germany and Central Europe . But he gave no timetable for negotiations and no hint of what ' concessions the United States ' might consider . On the contrary , Mr. Kennedy indicated that Soviet /pressure on Berlin would be countered with diplomatic and propaganda offensives designed to prove that Moscow was disrupting the peace in Europe , blocking a , nuclear test ban and flaunting ' . its nuclear might before the , world . Silent About Fighting The President refused to entertain questions on the kind of fighting that might result if the Berlin crisis was not resolved at the conference table . He clearly looked ahead to new discussions with the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summit confrontation , the President said , must await low-level talks that will ' insure " some success . " A summit meeting of the heads of the ; Western governments , he indicated , is far more likely later this year if it proves important to the coordination of Allied policy . Question 21 , Page 6.1 Mr. Kennedy declared he wanted a personal report from Secretary of State Dean Rusk before commenting . on the degree of coordination achieved at the recent meetings of the Western foreign ministers in Paris . Mr , Rusk arrived back from Europe late tonight . President Kennedy said he was still " hopeful " that the nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization would meet their defense commitments , " particularly during these difficult days . " Question 5 . The President expressed " concern " about the unstable situation within East Germany . Hel knows , he added , that it is a ' matter of concern to the Communists . as well , especially because the steady flight of refugees is providing " illuminating evidence " of the attractions of freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tension in East Germany , which the Administration fears could lead to violence involving the big powers , Mr. Kennedy said the United States would neither encourage nor discourage the movement of refugees . Question 8 . Possibly for the same reason , he did not again refer to the Western desire to see the German problem resolved on a basis of " self-determination . " The Administration is eager to exploit the evidence of discontent in East Germany but not at the Irisk of encouraging an uprising there . The President was prepared with an assessment of Mr. Khrushchev 's televised address Monday night . He said he thought the Soviet leader had merely restated the position he heard directly at their meeting in Vienna in June . Question 1 . In response to Mr. Khrushchev 's stated desire for negotiations on Germany , Mr. Kennedy recalled his own " strong conviction " that every diplomatic means should be employed to determine whether a peaceful solution could be achieved . Question 1 . People 's Rights Stressed Mr. Kennedy expressed interest in any peaceful solution that would protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Western Allies . But he thought Mr. Khrushchev 's promise that a blockade of West Berlin was " out of the question " had to be read in context . The Khrushchev speech made it plain that the West would have to negotiate with East Germany for the rights of access , the President said , and he implied that this was unacceptable . Throughout his news confer- , ence , the President gave indi cations of ? diplomatic countermoves that the West was preparing for the developing , East-West contest . His closest advisers leel that Berlin and Germany are only a part of the broad diplomatic struggle shaping up for the fall . Another new tactic was revealed by the President 's refusti to be drawn into discusisons of war or weapons . He shook his head in a " no comment " attitude even before a newsman had finished asking his assessment of Premier Khrushchev 's statement that a war over Berlin could not be contained or restricted to conventional non-nuclear combat . His head shook negatively , too , when he was asked to discuss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutron bomb is a proposed missile that would kill ' personnel in a target area with a burst of neutron radiation but create only limited devastation through blast , heat and radioactive fall-out . The President 's attitude was not merly reluctance to discuss the issues raised . Mr. Kennedy is reported to be determined to let Mr. Khrushchev dominate the " war " headlines to point up the contrast between Soviet talk of rockets and powerful new bombs and the Western search for a " peaceful solution . " Any Berlin war , Washington believes , must be made to appear as " Khrushchev 's war . "                     