@@721226

txt The Right Rev. Horace W. B. Donegan , Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Diocese cf New York , told churchgoers yesterday that religion had no part in the Presidential election of 1960 . " We are not electing a Protestant , a Roman Catholic or a Jew  --  we are electing a PresiAent of these United States , " he said . His words bore special significance as voters went to the polls in the West Virginia primary yesterday to choose between Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts , a Roman Catholic , and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota , a Protestant . The Bishop 's address before the annual convention of the diocese on the grounds of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine was regarded by observers as one of the most forthright of his career . In addition to his plea to keep religion out of the Presidential ' campaign he scored the South African policy of apartheid as " morally unsupportable , spiritually unpardonable and shamefully tragic in its consequences . " Bishop Donegan 's comments on the Presidential election were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lay delegates from the 225 parishes and missions in the diocese . Observing that the United States has many men of Presidential timber , the Bishop pointed out that " we must decide , as between these men , on that one who shows most clearly that he dares to be guided in the final analysis by God and not by either ' church ' or state . " " If , as churchmen , " he% went on , " we can move through this election year to the polls with ' bur minds alert and our ears open to the guiding word of God , we need have no fear for the future of our land . " Bishop Donegan warned , however , that " any man who wears his religion on his sleeve and asks us to vote for him ? or challenges us to vote against him  --  because of his religion , is ' using ' God for his own selfish purposes . " Backs African Prelates " We dd not need to be warned against such men , " he added . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Bishop was also greeted with applause when he extended the " full backing and support " of the New York diocese to Archbishop Joost de Blank of Capetown and Bishop Ambrose Reeves of Johannesburg , the two Anglican prelates who have been fighting South Africa 's racial policies . " The present tragedy of South Africa causes anguish and humiliation to every member of the family of Christ , " he said . " I know you share my conviction that the policy of apartheid is morally unsupportable , spiritually unpardonable and shamefully tragic in its consequences . " In this connection the Bishop announced that he had designated June 5 , Whitsunday , as a Day of Prayer for South Africa . Indignation Not Enough " It is not enough to be righteously indignant , " he asserted . " We must pray for our brethren and their leaders . Racial tension exists here at home because there are people  --  some of whom are members of our own communion  --  who are unable to rise above the conflicting interests presented by the Gospel on the one hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Later , the convention- adopted a resolution commending the work of two organizations interested in improving race relations : Episcopal Churchmen for South Africa and the recently organized Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity . Other resolutions urged the abolition of capital punishment and supported the National Council of Churches against charges that it was infiltrated by Communists . The Rev. Dr. David Barry , director of the New York Ctiy Mission Society , addressed the convention and six laymen received the Bishop of New York Cross for distinguished service . They were Walter Baker of St. Thomas Church ; Charles Bound of St. Mark 's , Mount Kisco ; Frederick Hassler of Trinity ; Norman Pritchard of All Souls , Harold William of Trinity , Pawling , and Dr. Theodor Oxholm , treasurer of the diocese .                     