@@728041

txt Mayor Lindsay defended the city yesterday against Federal charges of mishandling the Medicaid program and disputed recommendations of auditors that the city be disallowed $15-million in aid . In a statement issued at City Hall , the Mayor promised " most careful consideration " of the critical audit by the Department of Health , Education and Welfare . But the Mayor said that " we do not know of any reasons for the Federal Government 's withholding reimbursements . " The Mayor conceded that some early parts of the program " were not as carefully controlled as later experience would show to be desirable . " But he said the city had met its basic obligation to provide medical care to the poor " despite constant legislative and administrative changes " by the Federal and state governments . A Model Program ' " In many respects , ours is a model program in that it provides the broadest possible coverage under carefully controlled quality standards , " Mr. Lindsay 's statement said . The Mayor is vacationing on Long Island . The recommendation to disallow Federal aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city and state have had an opportunity to respond to the 131-page audit . Strong opposition was promised yesterday by both the State Commissioner of Social Services , George ' K. Wyman , and the city 's deputy commissioner of social services in charge of Medicaid , Albert F. Moncure . The city welfare agency , supervised by the State agency ; administers the Medicaid program , which offers free medical care to 1.6 million low-income and welfare families . In their report , Federal auditors charged there was a variety of weaknesses in the city 's System , including improper procedures for validating the eligibility of applicants , a failure to pursue " potential fraud " by applicants and a backlog of paperwork that has delayed the payment of millions of dollars in credits to the Federal and ; state governments . End of Backlog Pledged City and state welfare officials have defended the eligibility procedures , have said the backlog of work would be eliminated by the end of this year , and have insisted there is no evidence of widespread fraud . Basically , the auditors contend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to compile the data needed to safeguard and evaluate the program . Mr. Moncure replies that a " first-class " computer system currently is being implemented , but that it is a " monumental task . " ? Mayor Lindsay said that many of the auditors ' recommendations , which focused on the first two years of the three-year-old program , had already been put into effect . " Of course , we will continue to make improvements as the need for them is indicated , " Mr. Lindsay said . " Virtually no month has passed without some directive from state or Federal agencies requiring adjustments in a program serving more than 1.5 million persons , " the Mayor said , echoing the complaint of Mr. Moncure that the program was rushed into existence and then repeatedly altered without any planning time allotted to localities . Commissioner Wyman , the state welfare director , said that his department had improved considerably since the finding . by Federal auditors of a lag in the moitoring of upstate and city Medicaid programs . Audit Progress Detailed At the end of last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 63 upstate programs , the Federal audit noted , with only 16 completed , while three audits of parts of the city 's program were under way . Currently , Mr. Wyman responded , the state has overcome the program 's initial rush and has completed 28 upstate audits , with four , more under , way , and has finished five audits of parts of the city program , with four more under way . Federal officials said that a . main recommendation of the audit , which was prepared under the direction of Albert Hirt , the H. E. W. regional audit director , was that the city should establish an inde.pendent " internal review secetion " within the welfare department to review the program 7 on a systematic basis and report to the Commissioner , Jack R. Goldberg . Mr. Moncure said such an innovation was being planned and should begin operations next month . One of the first to obtain a copy yesterday of the Federal audit was the campaign staff of State Senator John J. Mar chi , the Republican and Conservative candidate for Mayor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urging a " massive administrative reform " of the program . He attributed " bungling and incompetence " to both the Mayor and Controller Mario A. Pro , caccino , the Democrat mayoral candidate . The Controller is responsible for checking parts of the Medicaid program , and the Federal audit found a lack of cooperation between his office and the welfare agency . A spokesman for Mr. Procaccino said that the audit was being studied and that there was no immediate comment . Other Federal criticisms that were disputed yesterday by Commissioner Moncure included the following : lThe city has no way of detecting duplicate payments to medical practitioners . He replied that for a year the city had required practitioners to sign affidavits that they were not submitting duplicate bills , and that an automated detection plan was to be included in the program 's computer system next month . ilThe city has $734,000 in delinquent accounts by hospital patients . The . commissioner said this arose from accepting patients on the basis of medical need first , then ascertaining their financial resources , with later attempts to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative is to deny people care , and that 's not city policy , " Mr. Moncure said . cThe city has obtained " unwarranted enrichment " of $39 , - 000 fl urn 600 Medicaid enrollees by violating Federal standards on the manner in which applicants are to turn over excess income to the city . Mr. Moncure said that the Federal recommendation of acIcepting excess income only during months when Medicaid actually was used was impossible to administer . The city requires the excess on an annual basis , which by the eligibility standards for a family of four requires the surrender of any income beyond $5,000 a year . ' IThe city is lagging on paying practitioners ' hills . The commissioner said " the vast majority " of practitioners pre paid within the city 's guideline of 60 to 90 days . ( 9The city has failed to supply income data to tax officials and medical practitioners . The commissioner said this had been corrected for tax officials , but that practitioners were not yet included . City Councilman Bertrand R. Gelfand , Bronx Democrat , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medicaid program out of the man Resources Administration , which supervises the welfare agency , and set up a special department for Medicaid and for Medicare , which is the health care insurance system for the elderly .                     