@@722630

txt Letters to The Times EDWIN M. SCHURJOSEPH R. NAHON.L.K . WHEELOCK , Letters to The Times To Curb Traffic in Drugs Sociologist Recommends British Plan of Low-Cost Prescription TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter published Sept. 6 Dr. Robert W. Baird makes some sensible suggestions for steps toward a more medically oriented approach to the problem of drug addiction . . Unfortunately he does not , it seems to me , carry his line of thinking to its most logical conclusion  --  at least not explicitly . He is quite right in asserting that , " If the profit were taken out of narcotic addiction , the syndicate could no longer survive . " Yet he never explains how increased treatment facilities ( with after-care ) , stringent measures to curb illicit trafficking , and increased education ( the measures he mentions ) will accomplish this end . Such measures are surely desirable , but it is questionable whether the profit can really be taken out of the drug traffic without a clean break from the punitive approach embodied in current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic incentives supporting the drug traffic is to provide lowcost legal prescription of drugs to addicts by responsible medical practitioners . Such an approach is in force in Great Britain and I am convinced ( on the basis of two years ' research there on this matter ) that it is effective , humane and eminently sensible . British addicts do not need to commit crimes to buy drugs , and no large-scale illicit traffic has developed . While our addiction situation in America is admittedly quite a different one , there is no evident reason for believing that a policy patterned after the British model could not work here . No one has ever explained how an illicit drug traffic could continue to thrive in competition with a well-administered program of lowcost legal drugs for addicts , Nor has it ever been shown that addicts would continue to commit crimes under such conditions . Modest Reform Legislation providing for the civil commitment for treatment of some addicts ( as exemplified by a recent New York statute ) is a humane but rather modest reform . Such an approach is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably apply only to very minor violators and first of , fenders , because criminal charges can be reactivated where a " cure " is not successful , and because the option is merely an alternative disposition available to addicts after arrest . We may assume that under such a law the " war against addiction " will go on much as before , except that some addicts who are caught may get better treatment than heretofore . Unfortunately it is just not possible to cure an addict ( in the longterm sense ) against his will , and only a policy which abandons punitiveness in favor of compassion can hope to attain ultimate success . Prescribing drugs for diagnosed addicts would not decrease addiction in the first instance ( nor would it increase addiction ) , but it would be very likely to reduce sharply illicit traffic and addict-crime . It might also produce an atmosphere in which the ' addict would be more likely to cooperate in treatment efforts . By treating the addict as a criminal , we have made him into one . No major inroads into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until we unequivocally decide that the addict needs help rather than punishment . EDWIN M. SCHUR , Assistant Professor of Sociology , Tufts University . Medford , Mass. , Sept. 6 , 1962 . Soviet Resumption of Tests To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In The Times ' Aug. 29 news article on the rejection of the latest United States-British proposals for a total or a limited ban on nuclear weapons tests it is said that " the Soviet Union resumed atmospheric testing last year after repeatedly pledging that it would not do so . " This statement is not true . In 1958 the Soviet Union pledged that she would not carry out any nuclear weapons tests in the future so long as no Western power carried out tests . Immediately after the first French test  --  Feb. 13 , 1960 ? Premier Khrushchev announced that the Soviet Union was no longer bound by the ' pledge . President Eisenhower had announced six weeks before that the United States was free to carry out tests , the fourteenmonth period of our pledge having expired on Dec. 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total 50 per cent more than those of all earlier years . The Soviet Union , with 250 , megatons tested versus 150 megatons by the U. S. , leads the world in the immoral act of contaminating the atmosphere with ' radioactive nuclides in the course of preparation for the catastrophe of nuclear war . To meet this catastrophe , it is imperative that an international agreement to stop the testing of nuclear weapons be made : The achievement of this goal is not aided by misinforming the American people . LINUS PAULING , New York , Aug. 29 , 1962 . Against Rent Control Restriction Is Held Contrary to Principle of Free Enterprise To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Mary Waldo 's blithe , complacent assumption in her letter published Sept. 5 that " in the mind of most reasonable people , rent control is necessary " must not go unchallenged . Miss Waldo might view with surprise the number of " reasonable " people to whom rent control is abhorrent . Whether or not it can be legally proved that a wartime emergency housing shortage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artifi'daily restricting the earnings of the many small individuals who rent part or all of their residential possessions for legitimate income is wrong . It is wrong by the principles of free enterprise , the economic basis of this country . Transit companies and utilities , it is true , have their earnings regulated but the individual who rents out half of his four-story house is not a transit company or a utility . If rent control is right , then the vegetables and meat we eat should be price-controlled , also the suits we wear and the charges for plumbing and carpentering . They are all small , free enterprises . Rent control , if right , should be introduced throughout the nation , not restricted to one city in one state . It is intolerable that a politically motivated measure such , as this should exist only in one small fraction of the nation . Control of slums , the great false argument for rent control , should be effected by requiring proper sanitary and safety observances , by honest inspections of conditions and by persecution of lawbreakers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Property owners will never rest content until this matter is brought before the U. S. Supreme Court on the issue of free enterprise . If the court rules rent control acceptable and constitutional on that ground they will accept it with resignation , but , by the same token , . the hosts of tenants throughout the nation should then be able to avail themselves of its benefits . JOSEPH R. NAH ON . New York , Sept. 5 , 1962 . Mr. Ammann as Engineer To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The well-deserved editorial tribute to Othmar H. Ammann ( Aug. 30 ) is disappointing in that your great newspaper , renowned for its attention to accuracy and completeness , at no point recognized Mr. Ammann as one of America 's outstanding engineers .. I would venture to suggest that the omission in the editorial of the principal profession , calling and practice of an individual so honored is unique and would not have occurred in the case of others wherein the public identification might be more readily apparent , such as medicine or law . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great engineering and technological innovation , when general public understanding of the nature and dimensions of the engineering profession is most important . We are reconciled with the difficulties of conveying to the public a proper image of the complexities of engineering , but are distressed when the truly great representatives of the profession are not so identified in public tributes . L. K. WHEELOCK , Secretary , Engineers Joint Council . New York , Sept. 5 , 1962 . Dogs Worse Than Pigeons ? To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I note you published on Aug. 25 a letter from Fanny J. Wald stating that pigeons are a serious danger to the health of the city 's inhabitants and that the feeders of pigeons should be fined or otherwise punished . Pigeons have no masters or owners to feed and pamper them , the way dogs are fed and pampered and brought outdoors to pollute our streets and sidewalks . Pigeons ' nuisances are nothing compared with dogs ' . It is the dog lovers , not the pigeon feeders , who should be jailed . JOHN C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    