@@725578

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , June 10 Friday 111PD - Capt . Bill Carpenter , West Point " lonesome end " football hero , called down a napalm air strike on his own paratroop position yesterday in an effort to wipe out a battalion of North Vietnamese overrunning his company . Early today , fresh American troops battered their way to the rescue of Carpenter 's surrounded men and another company he had linked up with . The troops swept in after the Americans had held out thru the night . American officers in the mountain jungle battle 300 miles north Of Saigon reported that at least 429 crack North Vietnamese regulars and their guerrilla outriders have been killed in four days of fighting . It came in a battle called one of the largest in the Viet Nam war . 3d Day of Battle The desperate exploit by the former Army all - American came on the third day of the furious running battle between paratroopers of the United States 101st airborne division and thousands of communist troops . Leon Daniel , United Press International correspondent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to retreat because it would have meant leaving his wounded , was directing the hacking out of a helicopter landing zone at the battle site . Suffer 758 Casualties In Saigon , a United States spokes ma n disclosed that American forces had suffered 758 casualties last week ? 109 killed , 636 wounded , and 13 missing in action ? to mark the fifth consecutive week that United States casualties exceeded those of the South Vietnamese . The South Vietnamese suffered 363 casualties during the same week while the Communists lost 902 killed and 120 wounded . In the air war , the United States lost three more planes over North Viet Nam . Two pilots died after their Skyraidera collided in the air . The third pilot was rescued after his air force F-105 jet was downed during a raid against the communist north . Carpenter 's paratroopers and a nearby company commanded by Capt . Walter R. Brown of Chattanooga , Tenn. , were trapped when a North Vietnamese force that had been put to flight by the airborne troops suddenly turned and counter-attacked. 400 Overrun Position The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position and pinned down Brown 's men in bamboo so thick that paths had to be cut thru the jungle with machetes . The communist strength kept the two American companies split from their own battalion which also was receiving enemy fire from all sides . Paratrooper artillery pounded the Communists in an effort to keep Carpenter 's C company and Brown 's A company intact thru the night . Carpenter 's men fought handto-hand , but the odds were stacked against them . Col. Henry E. Emerson , of Milford , Pa. , listened at a forward command post as Carpenter , of Monroe , N. Y. , radioed that North Vietnamese hordes were sweeping thru his company positions . Calls for Napalm " Put the napalm on us , " Carpenter said . " They are overrunning us . At least we will get some of them , too . " Emerson called in the strike planes that swooped in and dropped their flaming jellied gas . Daniel , the UPI correspondent Who was at the forward post , reported that he could smell flesh burning from the flaming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Emerson said as the West Point AU-American end of 1959 directed the air strike on himself and his men . The colonel got on the radio and told Carpenter : " Just in case things do n't work out I want you to know I 'm putting you in for the medal of honor . " Most of Company Lost " I 've lost most of the company out here , " Carpenter replied . Somehow Carpenter and his band lived thru the napalm attack . American strike pilots can dump the flaming jelly with stunning accuracy . Carpenter had been wounded previously in action in Viet Nam and was decorated with the silver and bronze stars as well as the Purple Heart . In December , 1963 , he was wounded in the right arm while knocking out a Viet Cong position during heavy fighting in sugar cane fields 12 miles from Saigon . Even after he was hit , he managed to toss a hand grenade at the Communists . Find Red Leaflets At first Carpenter and Brown could not link up the survivors . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Earlier in the battle the paratroopers retook a position they had lost to_the find that the communists placed leaflets reading , " This could happen to you , too , " on the bodies of American dead . But as darkness blanketed the bamboo jungle , Carpenter and Brown linked up and managed to form a defense perimeter . The Communists had opened the big battle early Tuesday in the Dak Ta Kan valley 300 miles north of Saigon with a mortar barrage that may have been the opening guns of their vaunted monsoon offensive .                     