@@723503

txt The non-Communist world 's 10 most powerful industrial nations announced today that they would start the first major negotiation and study of the world 's financial system since the Bretton Woods Conference in New Hampshire 20 years ago . The Bretton Woods Conference led to the establishment of the present system by which international transactions are conducted . The system has worked well to date , but it has recently shown strains . The purpose of the new study and negotiation is to see whether the system can be improved and reinforced , with the aim of assuring that world prosperity will not be disrupted by a purely international financial factor as it was in the nineteen thirties . The 10 nations announced their decision in a communiqu ? during the annual meeting here of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development . The Monetary Fund will conduct an independent study of the problem , but the results of the 10-nation talks will determine the outcome . Paris Talks Planned The talks will 15e conducted in Paris by high-level officials from the 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Under Secretary of the Treasury . The vice chairman will be Emil van Lennep , director general of the Netherlands Finance Ministry . All ideas for improvement of the present international monetary , system and for elimination of its flaws except two will be considered . Those ruled out are any change in the present gold price of $35 an ounce and freely fluctuating - exchange rates among currencies . Douglas Dillon , the Secretary of the Treasury , issued today 's communique in his capacity as temporary chairman of the " Group of Ten . " The chairmanship at the ministerial level will rotate according to rules still to be established , but the United States will have the chairmanship of the actual study . Spring Report Is Target The first Paris meeting of the study group will be in early . November . Mr. Dillon said the target was a preliminary report by next spring and decisions , ff possible , in time for next ) year 's World Fund Meeting in Tokyo in late September . The 10 nations hold about 80 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dillon explained today that their studies would not be limited to changes or improvements in the International Monetary Fund itself , which has 102 members . He said that " sovereign decisions " by governments would also be considered . These would include such matters as how much gold to hold and how to grant , credit to nations suffering deficits in their balance of international payments . The Monetary Fund , one keystone of the present system , was established at the Bretton Woods Conference . ) The 10 nations in the study group are the United States , Britain , France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands , Sweden , Canada arid Japan . The main exception among the leading financial nations was Switzerland , but Mr. Dillon indicated that the Swiss would be brought into the study in one way or another . Switzerland is not a member from the outset only because she does not belong to the International Monetary Fund . Underlying Aim The underlying aim of all the members of the study is to prevent the kind of financial chaos that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time nations withdrew credits from each other rather than granting them , and nation after nation , virtually devoid of gold , had to impose restrictions on foreign transactins and trade , as well as imposing domestic restraints on economic growth . No member of the group foresees such a crisis in the near future . But the purpose of the study is to make sure that one could not arise . The members are also agreed , however , that international credit should not be so easy that individual nations could freely pursue inflationary policies at home and disregard their international payments . Authoritative sources from the various countries involved ' were unanimous in private conversation in saying that the reults of the negotiation were impossible to predict . However . r there was also unanimity that any results would be evolution . ary rather than revolutionary . There could be such results . as changes in the means of granting international credit and possibly an enlargement of the sources of such credit . There could be more precise rules or the holding of foreign curren ? cies  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No Basic Change Seen But the basic international system ? by which nations have fixed exchange rates , hold their reserves in gold and foreign exchange and borrow reserves from the International Monetary Fund or from each other if they need to ? will not be changed . The chances of significant results from the negotiations were difficult to predict today , It was clear that the 10 nations would start with views that differ both on problems and on the solutions to be proposed . For example , the Continental European countries are interested in a more orderly system of granting credit to deficit countries , such as the United States . Britain is urgently concerned with the problem of " international liquidity "  --  the total ) f countries ' reserves and their access to credit  --  particularly when the United States deficit ceases . All are agreed , however , that he first priority of business is for the United States to reduce Ind then eliminate its deficit , neanwhile to assure that the ' deficit does not disrupt the international system . Today 's formal proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World Bank , which is not di ? ectly involved in the interlational monetary system . It nakes loans for the economic development of poorer countries . The speeches today generally welcomed the bank 's new policy , tnnounced Monday by its president , George D. Woods , of slightly liberalizing lending terms .                     