@@727033

txt The following are excerpts from a statement by Representative Melvin R. Laird , chairman of the House Republican Conference , setting forth a Republican program for the 91st Congress . The statement appears as the guest editorial in the current Ripon Forum , the monthly bulletin of The Ripon Society , a liberal Republican organization . The House of Representatives very likely will be gaveled to order next January by Republican Speaker Jerry Ford of Michigan . If that happens , House Republicans will take power better prepared to use it than ever before in history . To some , I suppose , it may seem odd that the best hope for innovation and effective problemsolving lies with the G.O.P. ; but that happens to be where most good ideas reside these days . To others who blindly accept the stereotyped image of Congressional Republicans as " obstructionists , " it will seem odder still for me to claim that the best chance for enactment of innovative programs lies in a Republican Congress . But that happens to be what all the activity in the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In barest outline , the agenda for a G.O.P. House , as I see it , would include three broad categories ; reorganization ; redirection ; and innovation . Reorganization  --  Here I 'm talking about the Congress itself . The reorganization bill passed by the Senate ham been bottled up by the Democratic majority for more than a year . A Republican House would shake it loose . We would seek to make Congress more than a bill factory and try to restructure its internal makeup to allow for much greater oversight and review of existing programs . Congress 's neglect of its oversight function validates to some extent charges that Congress must bear a substantial part of the blame for domestic ills and inadequate programs . Redirection  --  One of the greatest needs is to organize more logically some of the major programs administered by the Executive Branch . Many programs have outlived their original purpose ; others actively compound the problems they were designed to relieve ; still others are loosely administered and very wasteful . A Republican Congress would seek to squeeze as much effectiveness as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are on the books until such time as many of them can be consolidated into functional grants , transferred to more proper locations , or replaced . Examples would include transferring community health centers from O.E.O. to the Public Health Service and merging Head Start now administered by O.E , O. with the preschool program in the Office of Education . Another fertile area because of its direct cause- effect relationship to civil rights problems and the crisis in our cities would be the manpower programs . They now overlap and duplicate each other in such different departments as Labor , Defense , HEW , and the Poverty Program and should all be consolidated under a single administrative department . In short , a Republican House would work to compress the hundreds of existing programs into a smaller , more sensible ar ? ray of functional programs . This would not necessarily reduce the number of Federal dollars expended ; it might even increase it . But the potential of getting a much greater return on every dollar spent would be greatly enhanced . Innovation  --  The most hopeful area  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our present array of programs with their reliance on the categorical technique , are not working . If we are going to meet the problems of jobs and crime , the need for better education and housing , and the need for greater opportunities for all Americans , we clearly must strike out in new and different directions . It has been said that it takes a Democrat to conceive a new and bold program but that it takes a Republican to run It properly . If that was ever true , I do n't believe it is today . Republicans have always been better managers , certainly . But today at least we seem also to have a corner on the bold new programs . The more exciting concepts being bandied about today are mostly Republican-inspired ? revenue-sharing , human investment , tax incentive programs , and the proper harnessing of the private sector , to mention a few . In the field of welfare , I think we should give serious study to such programs as the Negative Income Tax . But the major first step of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pave the way for the earliest possible enactment of a broad system of revenue-sharing . My own legislative package ( H.R. 5950 ) , which was followed in its major elements by the latest Coordinating Committee statement , contains the two crucial Ingredients of tax rebates coupled with tax credits . We need both a return of a portion of Federal income taxes to the states with no strings attached and tax credits for the costs of education and for state and local taxes paid . Another Opinion An Agenda for the G.O.P.                     