@@728035

txt Russian tanks dominated both Prague and all of Eastern Europe during this past week as the first anniversary of the invasion of Czechoslovakia went by . There was no doubt about the physical power of the Soviet military machine nor that it stands today between the peoples of Eastern Europe and their well-wishers in the West . But Soviet repute and prestige in the world are a very different matter one year after the Kremlin 's resort to naked military . power in Czechoslovakia . The list of those who remembered the deed and commented on it unfavorably on the anniversary was ? legion . It ranged from a restrained and dignified comment from the Secretary of State of the United States ( " grim reminder " ) to colorful abuses from Communist Albania and Communist China . In between were moving words of reproach to their own government from Russian intellectuals themselves . One can not assume that the decline in Soviet prestige and influence over the past year traces entirely to the deed of shame of Aug. 21 a year ago . Yet it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found themselves more dependent than ever before on naked force and more isolated from the rest of the human race . They have prisoners , in Eastern Europe ; they have pensioners , in the Middle East . But even such a highly dependent pensioner as Fidel Castro in Cuba was careful to keep his skirts clear of the invasion of Czechoslovakia . Parties  --  and parties The time came during the 12 months between August of 1968 and August of 1969 when Moscow could not expect loyalty and approval in such a matter even from regimes which would collapse without their subsidy from Moscow . ( The Cubans get a million dollars a day . ) The time also came during those 12 months when Moscow no longer could exer cise its influence through the world Communist movement to any degree of significance or importance . Is there still a " world Communist movement " ? It is a question with more negative than positive answers . Yes , there are scores of Communist parties , most of which are still in correspondence with Moscow , and many of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there are also Communist parties which will not even speak to the men of Moscow , except in terms of abuse or derision . And of those who keep the lines of communication open the most respectable have openly denounced the invasion of Czechoslovakia and declared their own right to independent thought and deed . Perhaps this fragmentation would have come anyway . Perhaps the invasion only hastened a process which was inevitable . Perhaps this last year merely exposed more clearly a condition which in fact already existed . But at least during the past 12 months the condition became more visible and more formal than it ever had been before . If Moscow is still the nominal center of Communist faith for orthodox Communists , then that nominal position has lost much of its practical political meaning . In Eastern Europe something else happened . In the days before the suppression of independent communism in Czechoslovakia something was still left of Russia 's biggest dividend from World War II . The German occupation of Eastern Europe during that war left a deep and bitter imprint on the memories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontiers of the Soviet Union . Back in 1945 they had seen the Russians as " liberators . " Distrust of the German was a very real bond which linked the Russians with those other // *Soviets ' rule by force reasserted in Czechoslovakia // Slavic people whom they had rescued ( with Western help , of course ) , from the Nazi heel . ' Liberator ' role fades Today , it is difficult to remember the emotions of those days of " liberation . " The Germans have " worked their way back " with remarkable success . Their behavior toward their neighbors has been impeccable . Some still remember the older times and the ruthlessness of the conquering German in Hitler 's day . But the Russians have done a remarkable job of destroying that goodwill which fell into their laps at the end of the war . Who in Eastern Europe today thinks of Russians as " liberators " or of Germans as " oppressors " any more ? The truth of the matter is that Soviet behavior in Eastern Europe has turned the hearts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberators . The people of Eastern Europe of today would , if free to do so , seek libration from Russian bondage and would welcome German help were it available . Other methods forfeited It took years of stupidity and brutality to wipe out the goodwill of Eastern Europe for the Soviet Union . The Brezhnev-Kosygin team has succeeded . And now they have no choice . Eastern Europe can be held for Russia only by an exercise of military power . The Soviet Union stands today the supreme example of a government which , has relied so heavily and so exclusively on military power that it has forfeited every other method of exercising influence . Has Russia a single sincere friend today anywhere in the world ? ' The nearest perhaps would be Mr. Nasser 's Egypt . But the Egyptians are not happy about the strings which restrain Egyptian policy . They are pensioners because it is to their present advantage . There is little love lost in that relationship . India , for purely material reasons , has become a recipient and beneficiary of Soviet military and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . There-is no ideology involved , or admiration for Soviet policies or principles . It is simply that India shares with Russia a pro found distrust of their mutual Chinese neighbor . So they share a common interest in containing the range of Communist Chinese power . Perhaps the most interesting thing to emerge during the past year is the tenacity of the memory of the event of 12 months ago in Czechoslovakia . The world has been more deeply disturbed , and more lastingly influenced , by what the Soviets did there than by what they did 12 years earlier in Hungary . The Hungarian suppression was far more sanguine and more cruel . The world was shocked . But the reaction was different . The explanation of the difference is the time context . Outside opinion was shocked by the Hungarian repression , but it was not surprised . This time , it was surprised . There was a tendency in 1968 , even among hardened Western diplomats , to assume that Hungary could not really happen again ; that some- , how the world had progressed beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union in 1968 than had been expected in 1956 . There was an atavistic quality about the invasion of Czechoslovakia . The deed was as surprising as would be the sudden entry of . a true caveman into a modern social gath : ering . Real cavemen , so far as we know , dc ; not any longer exist . Yet Russian tanks did stamp out freedom in Prague a ? year agor The big question left over is , how long can an empire be supported on sheer military power alone .                     