@@724438

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. ** Atomic Energy Commis-1 sion disclosed today that it had cautioned manufacturers ) against selling other countries equipment that could be used in the development or ' testing of atomic weapons . The specific object of the commission warning was France , which has refused to sign the treaty for a limited test ban and is now preparing for atmospheric tests of hydrogen bombs near Tahiti in the South Pacific . The commission , in. response , to inquiries , made public today tWo letters sent by its San ' Francisco operations office in October . The letters warned manufacturers of the United States obligation under the treaty not to assist any country in the testing of atomic weapons in the atmosphere . Treaty Article Cited The letters went to companies that had supplied equipment to the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory , a weapons laboratory at Livermore , Calif. , and therefore were in a position to furnish equipment " which could be of interest to France in its nuclear weapons program . " The first letter , dated Oct. 6 , called the attenion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test-ban treaty , which reads : " Each of the parties to this treaty undertakes furthermore to refrain from causing , encouraging or in any way participating in the carrying out of any nuclear weapons test explosion , or any other nuclear explosion anywhere which would take place " in the atmosphere , outer space or under water . Under this article , the letter pointed out , " the United States is obligated to refrain from providing assistance which could be used in nuclear tests to any // Country which contemplates tests " in such environments . The second letter , dated Oct. 22 , was even more specific in its warning . The letter called on the concerns to notify the commission of any procurement orders placed by France or a particular company . The commission declined to identify the company on the ground that the San Francisco office had made a " mistake " in including its name in the letter initially . It was learned , however , that the company was an import-export concern that in the past has purchased equipment for such countries as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also called upon the companies to notify the commission of any procurement aciion by foreign countries that under the circumstances would " reasonably indicate an intent " to use k the equipment or information in a nuclear weapons test program . The letters represent one of the first explicit steps taken , by the Administration under the test-ban treaty to prevent atmospheric tests by other nations , especially France . From a series of less ex plicit , unannounced steps , it was apparent that the Administration , as it becomes increasingly concerned about the problems of " proliferation " of atomic weapons in other countries , was imposing tighter restrictions upon the export of equipment that might be used in developing or testing atomic weapons . French Order Computer The tightening of controls was illustrated by the problems that have arisen over an order placed by France for a large electronic computer built by the International Business Machine Corporation . Prior to the signing of the test-ban treaty in 1963 , France purchased a similar computer with no difficulty and with the approval of the United States Government . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pending for months , the Government has not given its permission for the sale . The reason for the delay is an uncertainty and consequent debate within the Government over whether the sale of the computer would violate the vague but embracive terms of the test-ban treaty or the developing policy of the Administration to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons . Neither United States officials nor French Embassy officials were willing or able to state the intended purpose of the computer . It is reported to be of a type widely used in this country for military research , leading to the design of atomic weapons , as well as for peaceful and commercial applications . The State Department is having trouble defining where and how to draw the line on equipment that could be used for either weapons or Peaceful purposes . Similarly , the State Department is having difficulty drawing the line between special flights of French planes carrying men and equipment to Tahiti and regular commercial flights that land in the United States with supplies or technicians destined for Tahiti . The first and thus far only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a KC-135 jet tanker carrying " naval stores " to Tahiti to land in the United States for refueling . Permission was finally granted ; but on the ground that the plane was not carrying any atomic weapon over the United States .                     