@@723289

txt Washington President Kennedy returned to a capital seething over the politics of civil rights . Both parties are deeply affected . On the Democratic side Mr. Kennedy 's popularity , though still relatively high , has fallen materially since he sent his omnibus civil-rights bill to Congress . The biggest drop has come in the South . On the Republican side the conservative wing has just elected a chairman of the national organization of Young Republicans , and the political leaders of the party are going through a soul-searching over the civil-rights bill with an eye on the once Solid South . It is known that President Kennedy was aware of his decline in popularity before he left for Europe , and that he deliberately accepted the risk when he finally decided to plump all-out for immediate legislation . On the Republican side , in turn , leaders in Congress are debating what attitude to take toward a scheduled Negro mass meeting in Washington called by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for Aug. 8 , with a possible march on Washington later in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romney of Michigan put himself personally at the head of an anti-segregation march through a Detroit suburb June 29 . Herald Tribune Plea Mr. Kennedy was absent . only 10 days but the face of civil-rights politics changed materially . ? The President 's own stock is substantially lower . ? The Republican right wing is more militant . ? Republican leaders are more hopeful of carrying the South , with liberals like Sen. Jacob K. Javits ( R ) of New York , and Hugh Scott ( R ) of Pennsylvania , concerned lest the GOP yield to the temptation of going " lily white " in order to woo Dixie . " Keep the party Republican , " pleads the New York Herald Tribune in a lead editorial , July 2 . Mr. Kennedy returned to find his brother , the Attorney-General , testifying for the third day on the civil-rights bill . At an off-the-record meeting at the White House , June 22 , President Kennedy told Negro leaders that his popularity was already slumping because of his stand for racial equality . Those who attended say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would show his popularity below the 50 percent level " for the first time . " Split Within GOP In fact a poll made by Louis Harris and published this week showed that the national response was slightly unfavorable on his handling of civil rights . 49 percent favorable ; 51 percent unfavorable . The South responded , 25 percent favorable ; 75 percent unfavorable . In spite of this , Mr. Kennedy 's personal popularity , nationally , is about 59 percent favorable , on the Harris poll . On the Gallup poll , while it has declined from its peak , particularly since the civil-rights debate , it is also comfortably above the 50 percent mark . Meanwhile the Republican " moderates , " sometimes called " Eisenhower Republicans , " show disarray . Elements of the GOP far right , who helped take control at the Young Republican convention , strongly back conservative Sen. Barry Goldwater and frequently criticize former President , Eisenhower 's internationalism . Popularity of  --  Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York has declined compared to Senator Goldwater . Mr. Eisenhower may play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be a deep split within the party , not unlike that in 1912 between conservative William Howard Taft and former President Theodore Roosevelt .                     