@@724548

txt This is the first of three articles based on a survey by The Christian Science Monitor on the use of mechanical voting machines and electronic vote recorders and counters . By Edgar M. Mills New England Political Editor The Christian Science Monitor Easton Voters are demanding faster , more accurate , and fraud-free elections . Modern technology is responding with mechanical and electronic systems that slowly are revolutionizing the nation 's balloting . A punch-card " Votomatic " system was tested in 10 Oregon precincts last November . It won unqualified approval from high state officials . All 50 states permit use of mechanical voting machines . Forty-five use them , at least in part . ; Safeguards Sought The trend to streamlined voting comes to the fore today with new demands in Massachusetts for modernized voting systems . Secretary of State Kevin H. White is pushing a bill in the Massachusetts Legislature to require use of voting machines in all 31 Bay State cities by September , 1966 . The Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associations and a number of legislators want to go even farther . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a pattern mapped out by the Council of State Government for consideration by various legislatures . The council 's model act spells out detailed safeguards for the use of electronic units . The makers of such units already have approached numerous states seeking election law revision to open the door to their systems . Progress already has been made in a number of states . After ' 64 Test .. . A survey conducted by The Christian Science Monitor into the use of mechanical voting machines and electronic vote recorders and counters in the various states shows that Massachusetts is a typical state . About 25 percent of its voters now ballot by mechanical voting machines , including those in 10 of 31 cities and 14 of 312 towns . Secretary of State White presently has major reservations about electronic systems which involve transfer of punch-card ballots or regular ballots from a precinct to a counting center . He envisions the possibility of greater election frauds under such a plan . However , after a test of the Harris Votomatic punch-card system in 10 Oregon precincts in November , 1964 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . gave the system his unqualified approval for further use in that state . He also approved three mechanical systems and another electronic unit . R.I. a Pioneer Nine states now have mandatory voting machine laws . Seven of these states are 100 percent voting machine equipped . They are Connecticut , Delaware , Kentucky , Louisiana , Maryland , New York , and Rhode Island . Under a 1961 New Mexico law voting machines are mandatory in all New Mexico voting precincts or districts with more than 100 voters . In 1963 Wisconsin adopted a new law requiring voting machines in all communities of 10,000 population or more to have voting machines in service by September , 1966 . Rhode Island pioneered in the mandatory voting machine law field . Its law was adopted in 1935 , followed by New York in 1936 . Connecticut joined the mandatory fold in 1952 . Bought or Leased Rhode Island is the only state in which all the voting machines were purchased by the state with state funds . In Louisiana , which adopted a mandatory law in 1953 , the state has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Prior to the 1953 act , the office of the Secretary of State reports , the state provided about 50 percent state aid . In most states the machines or electronic units are purchased or leased by the counties or the cities and towns . The only states now not using mechanical voting machines , at least in part , include Arkansas , Idaho , Nebraska , Oregon , and Utah . Even the nation 's newest states Alaska and Hawaii , are among the states using voting machines . In Alaska the city of Anchorage ballots by machine . In Hawaii , about 15 percent of the November , 1964 , vote was cast on voting machines .                     