@@727824

txt The Paris talks for Vietnam peace have taken on what may be a momentary and even deceptive appearance of revived activity . A move by the Communists to get their point of view accepted as a basis for negotiations here is causing American officials to give especially careful attention to the 10-point " peace program " proposed by the Viet Cong . The plan has enough unhidden traps in it to suggest that there may be many more well hidden ones . But even so it is welcomed by some Western diplomats as a possible springboard for more serious discussion than has been possible here for many weeks . Not that they regard the plan itself as a serious effort by the Communists to find a compromise basis for settlement of the Vietnam problem . But it may mark a new readiness to talk on the Communist side . American and South Vietnamese caution is doubled by the plan 's apparent aim to move negotiations off their present Paris base . At present , the negotiations are primarily between the United States and North Vietnam . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam 's future in the hands of North Vietnamese and Associated Press Tran Buu Kiem . . . has presented a 10-point peace plan by the National Liberation Front . the weakened grasp of a South Vietnamese transitional government . The latter already would have been conditioned to accept North Vietnamese views by the presence of Communist members . One-sided withdrawal This effort is reinforced by the plan 's demand for a one-sided withdrawal of American forces . from Vietnam . It is underscored in the plan 's proposal for a coalition government for the transition period between war and peace . One point stands out above all others in the new 10-point plan the Viet Cong leaders here have offered as a road to peace in Vietnam . This single salient point is the plan 's 0 ? rnand that the United States withdraw all its forces from Vietnam before North Vietnam even - considers withdt awing any of its forces ' from South Vietnam . ' On this point , neutral diplomatic sources here say , the plan appears to . be an invitation to the United States to leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are plenty of promises in the plan that mercy , , plus reason , will prevail in the settlement which would follow an American total withdrawal . But it would appear that , if the withdrawal takes place , the North Vietnamese would have a free hand to . administer the promises very much as they saw fit . This is an early on-the-scene estimate at the Paris peace talks of the plan that Tran Buu Kiem proposed here May 8 . Lodge holds back rejection Henry Cabot Lodge , chief of the American delegation , said on the same day : " We do not accept the demand for unilateral withdrawal of U.S. forces without any mutual action on the part of North Vietnam . We believe that a withdrawal of all external forces from South Vietnam is required which is truly mutual . " Mr. Lodge 's statement is not regarded here as a rejection of the Viet Cong plan as a whole . But the Lodge statement goes to the heart of the matter , it is said . On this the Viet Cong statement said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ *Cong peace plan sifted despite obvious traps // South Vietnam shall be resolved by the Vietnamese parties among themselves . " What parties would these be after the American military forces had left South Vietnam exposed to Communist military and political pressures ? This at the moment is anybody 's guess . But there is no doubt in the minds of diplomats here that non-Communist South Vietnam leaders would have a small say in arranging when and even whether North Vietnamese troops should leave South Vietnam . And if this question remains unanswered , then the whole basis for selection of a transition coalition government remains questionable , it is pointed out here . The plan 's demand for coalition governments in South Vietnam is seen as its second outstanding point . As in the case of military withdrawals , so in this point about coalition government , the Communists are insisting on old claims . They refuse to do business with the present regime at Saigon . Although this was elected by the South Vietnamese , the Communists say it does not represent South Vietnamese opinion . The Communists also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation of the present regime is becoming very shaky and that soon Saigon may be overwhelmed by inflation throughout South Vietnam . Saigon criticizes plan While the Viet Cong leaders here presented the plan as something new , the South Vietnamese here said it was a repetition . Nguyen Xuan Phong , acting head of the South Vietnamese delegation in the absence of Pham Dang Lan who is in Saigon , criticized the plan .                     