@@723204

txt An abundance of high-class Democratic talent in California is paradoxically setting some obstacles in the path of President Kennedy 's political strategists . At the very time that the California Republican Party faces a . shortage of well-known . proven leaders . Golden State Democrats boast a plentiful supply of able and ambitious chieftains . These men . sometimes quietly and sometimes openly , are jockeying for position and power ? feinting. jabbing. occasionally landing solid blows on each other . This feuding poses immediate problems for the already embattled legislative program of recently re-elected Gov . Edmund " Pat " Brown . It strongly suggests a bitter war of succession in 1966 or whenever Mr. Brown decides to step down . But perhaps of greatest national import is its potential impact on the 1964 Presidential race . Though each of these Democratic leaders is completely committed to the re-election of John F. Kennedy . their rivalry , unless carefully contained , could turn the 1964 campaign in California into a fratricidal melee that would weaken the President 's chances of capturing the state . Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this danger , and the President is certain to get a further earful when he arrives here tomorrow for a weekend of fleet and missile watching . nonpolitical speech-making and party fundraising . But he is unlikely to announce any major move to ease the situation this weekend . for the Kennedy solution is not yet decided . The Contentious Cast The Democrats ' contentious cast includes the governor and four men who almost everyone assumes would like to be governor some day : State Assembly Speaker Jesse Unruh : State Controller Alan Cranston : State Attorney General Stanley Mosk , and LL Gov . Glenn Anderson . The 58-year-old Mr. Brown , trying to push California along a New Frontiering welfare path , seems more relaxed and confident than in his first term . But he feels he Is not nationally recognized as the governor of the most populous state and the giant-killer who defeated former Senate Republican Leader William Knowland in " 1958 and former Vice President Nixon last fall . " The pundits always find someone else was responsible for those victories . " he complains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close confidant of Kennedy Administration leaders . He 's been trying to bring tough Eastern machine politics , with emphasis on party discipline and full-time paid party workers . to hitherto undisciplined California . State Controller Cranston , 48. is the longtime president of the liberal volunteer group , the California Democratic Council ( CDC ) . The articulate Mr. Cranston has taken encouragement from his own victory last fall by the largest margin in the state 's history . Vote-Getter Mosk State Attorney General Mosk. 50 , is another top vote-getter. who tries to steer a middle course between Mr. Unruh 's " assembly crowd " and Mr. Cranston 's CDC crusaders . Mr. Mask . also California 's Democratic national committeeman. works hard on such " safe " issues as the fights against drug addiction and racial discrimination . Lt. Gov . Anderson . 50 , a liberal who led the move in the California delegation in 1960 for Adlai Stevenson 's nomination as President , has the least chance of the quartet to win the governor 's mansion on his own . But a more attractive job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could move Mr. Anderson there at some point He 's striving to build enough support to stay there if that should happen . It is not ideology these men are fighting over : they almost certainly agree on 90% of the major state issues today . They differ purely over personality and power . The current feuding has a backdrop of Democratic success . There was party unity following 1958 's first gubernatorial win in 16 years and again in the face of last year 's Nixon threat . Now , with continued Republican disarray , some Democrats feel that California is safely in the Kennedy bag in 1964 , that 1966 is still far off , and this is a good time to build up power bases . " Explosive Situation " But most Democrats disagree . " It 's a very explosive situation . " declares one of the state 's top officials . " Frankly , it worries me tremendously . " Says another : " When we were out of power and first got back in , we had a helluva party . Now everything seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and partly to hold down the intramural jousting , more and more Democratic leaders are suggesting that Mr. Brown will run for a third term in 1966 . Nonetheless , each of the four gubernatorial possibilities is speaking furiously around the state , dropping in to chat with editors , holding small lunch and dinner sessions for Democratic legislators and other party leaders . Gov . Brown resents a portrayal of Mr. Unruh as the man who really beat Mr. Nixon last fall with a Los Angeles get-out-the-vote drive ( actually . statistics suggest the Los Angeles turnout was about on a par with the rest of the state ) . He does n't like the way Mr. Unruh trumpets his close White House ties , the fact the speaker was asked to the President 's box at the Army-Navy football game last fall , and stories that Prdclaim Jesse Unruh as " the man to see in California . " Mr. Brown 's lieutenants believe that Speaker Un . rub , seeking to establish an Independent and more moderate image . has n't pushed the governor 's program as hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat contradictory course , perhaps reflecting deep indecision on whether to chance a gubernatorial run himself or merely to try to put into the governorship some ally with a better public image . He is trying to improve his own reputation : he periodically diets to slim his 260-pound bulk , has given up the big cigars he loved , and asks friends to lay off the " Big Dadd ? " nickname . He tries to appear less abrasive and more easy-going . He and Senate pro tern President Hugh Burns hold a weekly televised press conference dubbed the " Hugh and Jesse show . " But he frequently flaunts his power to pass or kill bills and pushes lieutenants into fights for party posts around the state . Having failed in recent attempts to expand his rather slight influence In the loosely organized CDC. he now is seeking to weaken its power . He is pushing a bill to restrict its authority to endorse primary candidates . And a recent widely publicized speech attacked " crackpots " and " fanatics " in both parties . The CDC. for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference in Bakersfield in late March passed a resolution attacking the increasing use of money in politics . It cited as a horrible example a quote widely identified with the speaker : " Money is the mother 's milk of politics . " Council leaders opposed the current Unruh-backed legislation HS " power politics " and attempts to " build a party boss . " Mr. Unruh has struck at Mr. Cranston personally by supporting a bill to take away the controller 's right to appoint some 200 in heritance tax . appraisers  --  a potent political 1 . army . Messrs . Cranston and Itforik both have privately ' warned the White House of the need to " back Pat " : the message Is correctly read by Kennedy men as " do n't boost Jesse too high . " The White House has been attempting to smooth the California frictions by seeming to back Pat ' Officials rushed hint a last-minute bid to sit next to the President at the opening . baseball game this spring . White House lieutenants Larry O'Brien and Pierre Salinger have avowed there 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Almost certainly hell have at least the title of California campaign manager for Mr. Kennedy next year , and the President may find occasion to say as much this weekend : Mr. Brown will be with him from the moment he arrives in San Diego tomorrow until be leaves Los Angeles late Saturday . But troublesome questions will remain : Whether Mr. Brown will be campaign chairman in name or in fact and what Mr. Unruh ' , role will be . Certainly the Kennedy men want to give the speaker a major role . They are grateful for his early pre-convention support of their Presidential . driVe , for his 1960 and 1962 campaign efforts and his masterful gerrymandering of state legislative and Congressional districts to aid Democratic candidate . last fall . In a state where so many Democrats seem to talk a foreign tongue , he talks their language . But they recognize Mr. ' Unruh could be a campaign liability . Regular - party leaders In Northern California , who 've never particularly cottoned to him . warn the COP will run against " Boss Unruh " if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteer leaders in Southern California do n't want him even as No. 2 man there . " A lot of people will interpret that as the Kennedys trying to pick the next governor . " asserts one CDC leader . " and they 'll fight it all the way . " Several solutions have been offered : T have a less controversial No 2 man in Southern California . with Mr : Unruh heading a state wide get-out-the-vote effort : to have an out-otstater or some neutral in active charge of the California campaign  --  just under Coy . Brown . with . Mr. ' Unruh dropped to a third ' level hi Southern California : to remove Mr. Unruh from the , state by giving him supervision of the Rocky Mountain region or perhaps a role in a national registration drive in Washington . The Kennedy team is putting off its decision until the last possible moment .                     