@@728073

txt Cornell University 's failure to enforce its disciplinary procedures " over the last two or three years " led to last April 's ' student disorders at the university , a special investigating committee of trustees said yesterday . The committee , in a 61-page report that was filled with general recommendations aimed at preventing future disorders , was critical of both James A. Perkins , then Cornell 's president , and of the university 's board of trustees . It said that the university administration at Cornell was " not well prepared by planning " to deal with the seizure of a building by black students last April , and It noted that during the takeover " the lack of visibility of the leadership of the university was most apparent . " The report said that the  - -  -  - // entire area of Negro studies and Negro student goals had been misunderstood  --  not only by the university but by white society as a whole , and that at Cornell at least one such program had been started with hardly anyone at the university knowing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better methods of communication with the rest of the Cornell community . The report noted that , without good communication , " goals can not be understood , can not capture the support and enthusiasm of the groups that must pull together to achieve common objectives . " In a general sense , the committee of trustees found that the university , to avoid future disorders , must , take positive steps to preserve order , to define and enforce academic freedom , to help the campus community understand fully Cornell 's programs for black students and to find a better way of communicating the universis goals and philosophies to Those who work and study on the campus and to outside society . " We do not contend that the facts have been established beyond a reasonable doubt , " the report said . " It is not our purpose to hold any person or group of persons up to public criticism . It is our purpose to report faithfully and fully to the board of trustees the results of our weeks of study and inquiry . " Seizure Condemned The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student union building , on April 19 by Negro students , who later armed themselves . It said : " There can - be no such thing as a nonviolent building occupation . The very act is a threat of the use of force . " Describing this as the incident that had crystallized the trouble at Cornell , the committee made this general state-ment : " This committee has the strong feeling that , had discipline at Cornell been enforced over the last two or three years , simply by fair but firm adherence to the disciplinary code and judicial system in force , a tragic event of the dimensions of the Willard Straight incident might well have been avoided . " But the report raised almost as many philosophical questions as it answered . For example , the committee said that the agreement between the black students and the university  --  which ended the seizure of the hall ? " exacted an enormous price from Cornell . " It 1. , continued : " Cornell had no bloodshed , no headlines of murder , no substantial property damage , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was returned to relative peace . " The Price of Peace However , the report continued : " No one will ever know is this the right way to settle this disruption . These men made the decision to place the protection of life above the reputation of the university . They knew that the ? price to themselves and to Cornell was great  --  but was it greater than the price of human life ? " The eight-man committee , called the Special Trustee Committee on Campus Unrest at Cornell , submitted its report to the full board of trustees last Friday , arid released it here yesterday . The ' committee was headed by William R. Robertson of Boston . In its inquiry , the full committee held nine two-day meetings . A large number of other meetings were held by smaller groups of the special committee . The special committee retained James F. Henry of the New York law firm of Lovejoy , Wasson , Huppuch and Lundgren to study the university 's judicial system . It also retained Douglas Williams Associates , Inc. , a New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( students , faculty members , ad ministration personnel , trustees and alumni . " It should be pointed out that on three occasions student members of the Students for a Democratic Society were invited to testify , and at no time did they appear , " the special committee said . " Certain blacks also declined invitations , although we heard from many Iblacks , including students , facility and others . " I The Cornell S.D.S. chapter supported the demands of the black militant students , including the demands that none of ( the Negroes involved in the , seizure of buildings be dislciplined . The report 's section on discipline and the judicial system at Cornell was completed prior to July 15 , and , the special committee noted , many of its recommendations have already been put into effect . In general terms , the report said that any judicial system on the campus " must ' be based ion the fundamental principle that the individual is responsible for his own actions . . . and must be applied equally to all students , without regard Ito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rejects Arbitration " We have raised and rejected the employment of arbitration " in disputes between the students and the administration for two reasons , the report said . One was because arbitration presupposes two separate factions , it explained , and the other because " arbitration is Ian admission that the university and offender are equals in controversies ; that is simply I not the case . " " The university must not in the future negotiate under duress , " the report said This was an apparent allusion to incident last April when Cornell officials entered Willard Straight Hall . Many observers considered l this to be a victory for the blacks . The report did not condone the carrying of guns by the , black students who had seized the building . However , RI pointed out that rumors were widespread on the campus at the time that a bomb would go off in the seized building , that a dormitory house for black women students would be burned and that a group of fraternity men and others were collecting arms to drive the blacks- from Willard Straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t ecame truly frightened , " the report said . Negro Student Programs Fourteen pages of the report were devoted to the university 's Committee on Special Educational Projects , and to the AfroAmerican Studies Program . Both programs involve black students . The special-projects committee was instituted in 1963 to recommend and to start programs for the culturally disadvantaged  --  in this case , Negroes . However , the report said , " although it raised important issues of educational policy , its existence was communicated to only a limited number of faculty and few alumni . " This secrecy , the report went on , " bred misunderstanding and , resentment " and was the first ' of several " misjudgments " leading . five years later , to the disruptions . " To this day , there is no mention of COSEP or AfroAmerican Studies in the University 's General Information catalogue , " the report said . It listed two consequences . First , it said , white students suddenly found themselves in classes with blacks who were not prepared academically and resented it . Also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white students from their local schools were not offered admission to Cornell but black students with less-impressive records were . " The report also noted that when the program was started it was believed that Negroes I Wanted to be integrated with whites " and to acquire common values . " " The Cornell ) community was stunned to find that this was not so , " added the report . The committee recommended that the entire program be reviewed and that a qualified person , preferably a Negro , be given responsibility for recruitment into the special-project program . Urging that the recruiting he expanded to cover Negro slums in large urban areas , and in smaller cities and suburban areas as well , the committee said that recruiting by Negro students be " as carefully controlled as possible in order to avoid involving primarily militant students . " Other recommendations were that admission be offered to the best black students , as well as those with less impressive records ; that recruitment and admissions be conducted through regular university channels , and that a full report on the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the " members of the hoard arc not without responsibility for recent campus problems , the trustees ' committee urged the hoard to deliberate longer before making decisions . In addition , the committee asserted that the hoard must make more visible its presence on the campus ; must take greater responsibilities in representing Cornell outside the university , and that it must clearly explain and delineate the responsibilities of the president , the trustees and the faculty .                     