@@721818

txt There was a woman who lived in Poland and died there some years ago , and of her life and death only a few things are known . It is known that she was Jewish . This is known because testimony has been given at the trial of Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem that she was murdered near the grave 's edge in one of the Germans ' massacres of Jews . It is known that she was young . This is known because the child torn from her arms and ripped apart like a rag doll by a guard was a baby and because she had the strength to crawl a few feet toward the pieces of its body . This much is known , but nothing else . Not what she looked like or what her parents called her the day of her birth or the name her husband gave to her the day of her marriage . But she lives again now and has a face , and this is her pale triumph . Somebody reads about her in France or in Australia or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns of printed horror , but for at least a moment those who read see her face in their minds and hear her cries and remember her anguish . They evoke her and resurrect her . And this is the story , the mystery and the meaning of the trial of Adolf Eichmann . The nameless and faceless dead have received the blessing of remembrance and are again alive , vivid as a scream in the night , in the minds of men . Each person who reads the testimony brings the dead back to life and gives them faces . There was a boy in the crowd of Jews being flogged to the grave . He turns around in the mind of some living person and suddenly he has a face and is remembered . There was a father who wept when he told his son he could no longer give him a father 's advice ; he has a face . The teacher who rode with his children to death and on the way told them not what he knew was coming but that at last they would see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the beauty and sweetness of his soul is , for others , a matter of tears and remembrance . But how long will they live in the memory now so newly fresh ? How long before they are returned to the final grave of the forever-forgotten , returned by men 's desire to turn away from pain and by the very fact that their sufferings were so great and their number so many that sane men can not  --  or will not  --  really retain comprehension of it all ? How long before their resurrection ends ? This will be the real verdict of the Eichmann trial and it will not be given by the judges in Jerusalem , but by each person who has read of the suffering and humiliation of the dead and heard their cries and seen their faces .                     