@@727452

txt A sharply divided electorate is awaiting the decision at the polls in one of the most tumultuous Presidential campaigns in American history . A turnout of 73 million would represent about 81 per cent of the nation 's registered voters and well above half of the 116 million Americans of voting age . The voting today will also elect 34 senators , 435 members of the House of Representatives , 21 governors , and a most of state and local officials . Good weather for the election was forecast by the Unitec States weather bureau . Sunni skies and cool temperature : were predicted for most of the nation . Polls Show Nixon Ahead The campaign ended Iasi night with the three contender : for the White House makinE their final bids for support in nation-wide telecasts . Most public opinion polls and independent surveys placed Richard M. Nixon , Republican , ahead of Vice President Humphrey , Democrat , and George C. Wallace , candidate of the American Independent party . However , the opinion polls hesitated to name the winner , preferring to view the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at about 7 per cent of an expected 73 million voters , will make the choice . House Election Possible There was an outside possibility that the election might not name the next President . The contest could be thrown into the House if Wallace should get enough electoral votes to prevent the two leading contenders from winning the 270 electoral votes necessary for victory . The 37th President will be inaugurated next Jan. 20 . Nixon and Humphrey have representatives working on inaugural 11 plans . The inaugural stand in front of the Capitol is nearly finished and work is about to begin on the reviewing stand in front of the White House from which the new President will view the inaugural parade . Nixon and Humphrey both ended their campaigns in California . In fact , they closed the show they have had on the road since August in the same town , Los Angeles , by speaking over rival TV stations . It was in Los Angeles eight years ago that Nixon got the news of his defeat by an eyelash at the hands of the late President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his defeat in 1962 when he challenged Edmund G. Pat Brown for the governorship of California . Hopes to Make History In this election , Nixon hopes to make history by becoming the first man to win the Presidency after failing in his first try since Andrew Jackson did , it in 11328 . Grover Cleveland was elected in 1892 after having been defeated in 1888 , but he had been elected President the first time in 1884 . Many have tried to break the second nomination jinx , but were unable to do so . Wallace closed his campaign in Atlanta , predicting victory , altho most observers believe he is aiming at another race in 1972 . Curtis E. LeMay , former air force general and Wallace 's running mate , visited Texas , Utah , and California in making his final appeals for the third party ticket . Agnew Visits Virginia Gov . Spiro T. Agnew of Maryland , who will still have a job as governor if he loses , closed in Charleston , W. Va. , and Richmond , Va. , in seeking the Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Me. , who also will have a job if he fails as Humphrey 's running m ate , closed with Humphrey in Los Angeles . There are as many as eight Presidential candidates on the ballot in some states , like New Jersey , but only three are considered as having any kind of a chance at the hands of the nearly 73 million voters . Would Set Record Such a turnout would be about two million above the record of 71 million voters set in 1964 when President Johnson won his landslide victory over Republican Barry Goldwater , who is seeking to recapture his seat in the Senate in today 's election in Arizona . Polls will begin closing at 3 p. m . Chicago time and some will not close until 1 a. m . Wednesday Chicago time . The election campaign has been the most costly in American history . Humphrey spent about 12 million dollars , Nixon about 20 millions and Wallace from 10 to 20 millions . It could be that the spending may reach $1 a vote . 250 Millions Seen Some estimates are t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 states and the District of Columbia may run as high as 250 million dollars , which makes politics very big business indeed . Humphrey bested Sen. Eugene McCarthy D. , Minn. and Sen. George Do S. D. in the Chicago convention . Sen. Robert F. Kennedy D. , N. Y. was assassinated in Los Angeles as he was celebrating his victory in that state 's presidential primary in June . Nixon won the GOP nomination at Miami Beach over Gov . Nelson Rockefeller of New York and Gov . Ronald Reagan of California . He forced Gov . George Romney of Michigan out of the race on the eve of the New Hampshire first-in-the- nation primary last February .                     