@@721913

txt The nation headed for a new record traffic toll for a summer holiday early today , even as the highway casualty rate diminished . The National Safety council reported the traffic toll at 483 deaths early this morning and said the fatality rate dropped from an average of five to six every hour yesterday afternoon to about two to three an hour by evening . " It appears that drivers are beginning to get the message that great care and common sense must he exercised when driving in holiday traffic , " said George C. Stewart , executive vice president of the council . They got the message too late , however , Stewart said . Even with the reduced fatality rate , the traffic toll appeared likely to top 500 . The old record of 491 deaths was set on July 4 week-end in 1950 . Homebound Traffic Heavy Homebound traffic last night was the heaviest in history for any holiday , Stewart said . Locally , driving was unusually light because of showers and slippery pavements . Death struck hardest in California , where 45 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois had 17 . Floyd B. Koster , 33 , of 3010 Grand ay. , Waukegan , was fatally injured last night when his automobile was struck by another car in Green Bay road near Washington street outside the suburb . Koster , a maintenance man at the Lake County General hospital in Waukegan , died a short time later in St. Therese hospital , Waukegan . Res D. Harrison , 28 , a sailor attending the service school command at Great Lakes Naval Training station , driver of the other car , said Koster , who was northbound in Green Bay road , pulled into the path of his southbound car . Harrison and three passengers in his car were injured . Gust Anderson , 70 , of Wasco , Kane county , a retired farmer , was fatally injured yesterday when his car collided head-on with one driven by Lawrence G. , 23 , of Mount Pleasant , Ia. , at Illinois highway 47 and the St. Charles-Burlington road , four miles north of Lily lake in Kane county . and his wife , Phyllis , 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles . 316 Injured Here Up to midnight last night Chicago police reported there were 1,707 accidents , in which 316 persons were injured . In the same period , sheriff 's police investigated 44 accidents in unincorporated areas of Cook county . These caused injuries.to 33 persons . Up to midnight Monday , 237 persons had been killed in traffic accidents in Cook county since Dec. 31 . Of these , 143 were killed in Chicago , where 19,250 persons had been injured in the same period . ChiCelee 'S 1961 Traffic Toll .64                     