@@727728

txt The following are excerpts from introductory remarks to a lengthy statement on student unrest made before the House Special Sub-Committee on Education last week by Dr. Bruno Bettelheim , the Chicago psychiatrist . While history does not repeat itself , and while the present U.S. situation is radically different from that of pre-Hitler Germany , given these vast differences , some of the similarities between the present student rebellion and what happened in the German universities which spearheaded Hitler 's rise to power are striking . Both Extremes Of course , the German student rebels embraced politically the extreme right , while here they are of the extreme left , but what is parallel is the determination to bring down the establishment . In Germany the philosophy which gained them a mass following was racist and directed against a discriminated minority ( the Jews ) , while here the radical students intend to help a discriminated minority . While this is an important difference , it does not change the parallel that universities then and now were forced to make decisions in respect to the race of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racial origin .. . Hitler insisted all along that his movement was a revolt " of the coming generation against all that was senile and rotten with decay in German democratic society . " There was a prevalence in pre-Hitler days of an ideology that pitted the sons against the fathers , an insistence that The generations can not understand each other , are deadly enemies ; in short , in this respect they said exactly the same as do our rebellious students who insist that nobody over thirty is trustworthy . Thus , then , as now , these rebellious students were pictured as the new generation , disgusted with the complacency of their parents , fighting courageously for a better world . And what were then the mass media often depicted them as idealists , as young people concerned with the real issues of society . In short . they were in their time the wave of the future . . . . If I read the signs or the time correctly , I do not think that the rebellious students in and by themselves are a serious danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the universities . Greatest Danger The danger I fear Is rather an opposite one : that the disgusting behavior of a very small group of students . . will arouse a severe counter-reaction , so much so that their left radicalism may lead to a fascist type of backlash . This I believe is the greatest danger inherent in their efforts to create chaos . In desperation they try to test and exhaust the patience of what they call the establishment arid thus do succeed in creating desperation  --  and to prevent such chaos , repressive measures might he embraced which would be dangerous to our democratic institutions . . . . To understand why pressures erupt in adolescence on a ; growing scale nowadays , and why controls seem to grow weaker , we must recognize that adolescent revolt is not a state of development that follows automatically from our natural makeup . What makes for adolescent revolt is the fact that a society keeps the next generation too long dependent in terms of mature responsibility and a striving for independence . Those Who Rebel And it is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which creates a climate in which a sizable segment of students can , at least temporarily , be seduced into following the lead of the small group of militants . It seems to give them a chance to prove themselves as real men . . . . The most rebellious students , here and abroad , are either undergraduates , or those studying the social sciences and humanities . There are no militants among students of medicine , engineering , the natural sciences . They are busy with doing things that are important to them , they are working in the laboratory and at their studies . It is those students who do not quite know what they are preparing themselves for , and why , the students who sit around waiting for examinations rather than doing active work , which form the cadres of the student re . . . In my opinion there ere , today , far too many students in the colleges who essentially have no business to be there . Some are there to evade the draft , many others out of a vague idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs , though they do not know what jobs they want . And again many go to col- ' lege because they do not know what better to do and because it is expected of them . Their deep dissatisfaction with themselves and their inner confusion is projected against the institution , of the university first , and against all institutions of society secondarily , which are blamed for ? their own inner weakness . Another Opinion Disturbing Student Parallels                     