@@721771

txt President Kennedy 's goal of a neutral and united Laos remains several steps away despite brightening prospects for a cease-fire in this Asian land 's stalemated struggle against Communist insurgency . Moscow 's conciliatory but cannily-worded reply the other day to Britain 's peace proposal does appear to have lessened somewhat the risk that the U.S. might become involved in Laotian jungle warfare . The London government called for an **26;904;TOOLONG " cessation of hostilities " to be followed by a 14-nation conference to hammer out Laos ' political future . Russia 's answer  --  left the order of these two steps up in the air . However , the U.S. regards a cease-fire as an essential prelude to negotiations . Already , North Vietnamese and Red Chincise ? propaganda broadcasts are dressing down the U.S. for failing to agree right away to a conference . The confidence expressed by some American officials here that Russia will finally meet U.S. terms is rooted in a simple judgment : That the Soviet Union probably is reluctant to poison its overall relations with the new Kennedy Administration by further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomats here ? Western and Asian  --  concede that heavy Soviet intransigence undoubtedly will be felt once more in the difficult political negotiations ahead . The Communists will fight hard fo'r clear political rights and guarantees within Laos , it is believed here . Matters for Settlement Likely to cause tough debates at the negotiations are such prickly matters as the number of Communists to be admitted into a neutralist Laotian government , the timing of general elections and the manner of integrating Communist troops into a small royal army or police force. , Other complex problems such as immobilizing the opposing armies , drawing up lines , dividing them and curbing infiltration will have to be dealt with from the instant a ceasefire is called or before . Even given an enforceable truce . American diplomats privately concede the cumbersome 14-nation conference will leave the West with little more than a slender opportunity to salvage anything from the mess in Laos . At best a settlement will open Laos to subversion by a vastly strengthened , legal Communist political machine . Washington 's hope is that the new royal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity and loyalty among the populace to counter such subversion . In the past , however , the Pathet Lao rebels have demonstrated more success at winning over Laotians , whether by intimidation or persuasion , than has the government . Divided Laos ? At worst , a conference will fail to reach an agreement at all , leaving Laos divided in the manner of Vietnam , Korea and Germany . One probability as negotiations drag on : The Communists will consolidate their political administration in the areas they control and conduct independent foreign relations . Already . the rebels have started ' a " cultural exchange " cgram with North Vietnam . bringing in Vietnamese dance teams to entertain natives in rebel-held Sam Neua province . Now a postal agreement is being worked out between these h.o regimes . The more deeply entrenched and autonomous a government in Communist Laos becomes , ' the more difficult it will be to compromise , it is reasoned here . For the average Laotian , largely indifferent to the weighty deliberations of the big powers and hungry for any kind of an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple fashion . Here in Vientiane , Wat Chan Burial , a large Buddhist temple on the bank of the Mekong River , has just wound up an exuberant three-day festival of native dancing , boxing matches and gambling to raise money for a new temple roof . And the newly-reopened Lido , one of the capital 's two ramshackle cabarets , manages to draw a sizable nightly crowd with the aid lot several dozen imported Siamese dancing hostesses and a Filipino band . But other signs point to growing nervousness , at least among the more sophisticated Laotians . Every fourth or fifth shop on dusty Rue Samsenthai , a main shopping street here , displays a padlocked ) steel grate before its closed doors , signifying that the owner , shaken by recent events , has fled his business . Minimum Stocks All manner of French luxuries  --  cognac , perfume , jewelry -- are still available in stores , but one shopkeeper says he 's not ordering any more . Even retailers of shoes , textiles and other essentials keep their stocks at a minimum . Hoarding has pushed up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jewelry dealers report a run on easily carried solid gold necklaces and bracelets . The ! main reason for the gloom among the more knowledgeable people is the now obvious fact that Premier Boun Oum 's much-trumpeted offensive begun earlier this year against Communist rebels has met with almost no success ; . ne royal army in recent weeks has been suffering one setback after another . Despite the rebels ' gains . there is as yet no indication that the Communists aim now to take over all Laos militarily -- or even that they necessarily ever intended to grab more territory than they need for political bargain . ing purposes . Western diplomats here suspect the Russians are deliberately hedging on a cease-fire to preserve the Red military advantage as long as possible before the international conference opens . Geographically , this Asian kingdom , wedged between Red China , neutral Bui ma , Communist North Vietnam , pro-West Thailand , pro-West South Vietnam and neutralist Cambodia makes an ideal buffer state . The catch will be , diplomats here figure . what the Reds demand politically within Laos beyond mere neutrality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent dissent within the royal Lao government on acceptable terms foi a ceasefire . King Savang Vatthana is said to favor peace at practically any price and Defense Minister Phoumi Nosavan. stung by recent defeats of his army , seems at least to go along with this notion . On the other hand , Information and Justice Minister Bouavan Norasing the other day took a relatively tough stand . He announced flatly that prior to any conference the Soviet air lift to the rebels must be halted and Red Vietnamese advisers to the rebels withdrawn He added that he was prepared to accept a reciprocal halt in U.S military aid . But the U S. does not insist on a halt in Soviet shipments until the 14-nation conference has begun work on the broader political issues Nor have the Russians brought this up as a first step . When a truce finally is reached here . an international commission undoubtedly will be named to supervise it . The probable components : India , Canada and Poland  --  the same nations named by the Geneva conference of 1954 to supervise the Indo-Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission have full access to Communist territory by helicopter and other transport and that the commission be allowed to make decisions by simple majority rather than unanimous vote . Veto Power In Communist North Vietnam . the similar commission long has been hamstrung by government restraints on its attempts to detect possible military buildups . Because the Polish member of the commission often endorsed the curbs on the truce team 's movements , such veto power prevented the team from insisting on- its inspection rights Getting the two sides in Lags to stop shooting at each other is probably the easiest part of the truce experiment . The U.S. is demanding , too , that opposing sides be immobilized in their own territory . The idea here , admittedly very difficult for even a large truce commission to enforce . is to prevent wholesale infiltration by rebels into government territory during the cease-fire and conference A tough point in immobilizing the armies is the fact that the Communists as well as the government employ many armed irregulars in civilian clothes . Once they drop their guns . these men become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiom traveling about . And this brings up a further problem . Much of southern Laos , where there has been little fighting . is already heavily infiltrated with pi o-Communists who will almost certainly turn to open political subversion under the piotection of the truce . Question : Will the royal government have the light to cuib such activities in its territory in order to avert more losses should the confeience break down entirely ' Or will the Laotian administi atmir lie forced to proceed cautiously in arresting agents foi fear of provoking the ire of the Communist side ' Question of Disarmament Another tiicky element in the truce is that neither side would likely be disarmed until the final conference settlement This raises the possibility of minor clasheli which could stir up new trouble and certainly bring charges of truce violations . Furthermore . some rough territorial lines presumably will have to be drawn and patrolled ? no easy task where both sides are busy outflanking each other and pockets of rebels are dotted throughout the government-held portions of the land . Even if all the problems relating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installed in Laos , there will remain the difficulty of keeping the government independent under democratic prbcedures providing for periodic free elections The U.S is naturally most concerned about the possible rise of a Communist government And the Communists presumably will want guarantees that another rightist government will not in the future come to power . One way out might be by boosting the king 's power to Include some sort of veto over possible deviations from neutrality and the right to curb acts of an extremist government of the left or right . A constitutional change might insure Laos ' international neutrality by forbidding alliances of any sort . Yet there are obvious limits to the extent any international conference can iegulate the internal affairs of a sovereign . nation . Some Asian diplomats hope that once the confrontation of East and West in Laos halts . tension will ease and the bulk of Laotians will follow what seems theit natural bent of neutrality and detachment ( tom world conflicts . But other authorities fear that unlike such neutral nations as Cambodia and Indonesia , whose leaders are firmly entrenched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in check , Laos will face a prolonged period of weak , non-committed governments which will be relatively easy prey for subversion and eventual takeover by the well organized and militant Communists .                     