@@725043

txt The slow , steady growth of a new , multinational and multiracial United States passed another milestone during the visits of Pope Paul VI and President Johnson here . Both are expected to have tremendous impact on an America founded and developed largely by Protestant North Europeans . President J-linson 's signature on the new immigration bill , under the shadow of the Statue of Liberty , admits henceforth a larger proportion of Roman Catholic South Europeans , Latins , and others of different backgrounds . The first visit of a Pope to the United States signalized the new attention of the Catholic leadership to the American scene . The fact that the Pope visited Negro Harlem and Spanish New York in his brief tour here , and that this coincided with the appointment of a Negro Roman Catholic Bishop in New Orleans , was recognized by the President 's entourage here as of equal importance to his talk with the head of the Democratic Party who has a large Catholic following . So was the fact that the Pope 's visit coincided with the wind-up of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vatican are aimed , among other things , at adjusting certain church policies to modern political and social concepts in countries like the United States . Gradations of people The make-up of the gathering of congressmen and political figures and of a small tourist crowd by the Statue of Liberty was the same as the makeup of the crowds on New York streets greeting the Pope . It was of many gradations of color and national origin . Referring to the new immigration law , a historian with the party said that a cycle in American history had reached its logical end . He pointed to the large and now empty buildings on nearby Ellis Island , which ushered 20 million immigrants into the United States in the period of the " poor . . . huddled masses . " The masses were brought in , he said , by the mill owners of North European origin to do the heavy labor of the developing country . Their children now are weighing the ethnic balance in the United States away from the early stock . President Johnson spoke of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country whose men named " Fernandez and Sajac , Zelinko and Mariano and McCormack " are dying in the war in Vietnam . It was noticed by correspondents that he stressed their part in the American heritage " nourished by so many cultures and traditions and peoples " rather than the na- tional groupings represented by the names of Washington , Hamilton , Paine , Jefferson . The emphasis of the present-day political leader was on the South Europeans . The political policy which the President cited , as he signed the immigration bill , was that of equal access to the United States on the basis of family connections and individual merit . Declining tensions It was noted that he did not mention the counterpolicy , so often put forward by those who question the new emphasis on a multinational United States , of preserving the special characteristics of the national groups that dominated American national politics until recently . The President merely referred to the immigration quota system which favored North Europeans as a " deep and painful flaw in the fabric of American justice , " as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a policy " twisted and distorted by . . . harsh injustice . " The Pope 's visit similarly marked a period of decline in the Protestant-Catholic tensions of earlier American history . He was welcomed to a country which had had its first Catholic President and where the shift of political power away from its earlier orientation ensured that he would not be unwelcome . It was pointed out in President Johnson 's entourage that he stands in general for the separation of church and'state , although he endorsed some breaches in the traditional line of separation in this year 's Education Act , in order to get it passed .                     