@@722009

txt President Kennedy said tonight that " countless billions " for military defense would not insure the nation 's security if it failed to help the world 's " hungry and impoverished " ' people to a better life . The President Issued the statement from his summer house here . Just yesterday , the ! House Appropriations Comniittee approved a reduction of 1 . S896.000,000 in the $4,253,500 , - *0 foreign aid authorization ; bill approved by House and Senate . Mr. Kennedy urged the Congress to appropriate funds " of a magnitude as close as possible to the original request . " Both he and former President Dwight D. Eisenhower . he said , consider this " the minimum amount necessary to meet our : basic commitments and responsibilities . " Eisenhower Statement General Eisenhower issued a 44atement yesterday at Gettys-. ; burg , urging the House to over- ; rule the committee action . The President 's statement : said that " the fight for freedom is in a climactic hour . " The under-developed nations ; of the world " and especially of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are looking to the United ' States as their only hope for leadership and assistance . " If the nation allows them to ! fail , Mr. Kennedy said , in their ! effort to bring a better life to . their people , " their failure will : inevitably bring the dissolution ; of democratic governments and greatly increase the threat of the Communist advance . " The reference to the nations of this hemisphere was a reminder that the Kennedy Administration already has pledged , massive assistance to the other ' American nations through their . participation in the President 's ; Alliance for Progress . flusines , i and Boating Mr. Kennedy 's appeal for restoration of the S396,000,000 ? which is 2:i per cent of the total , authorization -  --  came after he , had spent a day of routine husiness and boating . When he went out  --  this aft erlimn on the Marlin , his fiftytwo-foot cruiser , he was reported to he " sticking a little , closer to shore " than usual in , case of urgent news from Wash- ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. ( Hatcher. said the President was keening in close touch with the ; White House and members of the Cabinet . He added that it was " a fair assumption " that many of the ' telephone conversations had to ? do with the Soviet Union 's resumdtion of nuclear weapons testing , . Ho would not identify Tie officials to whom Mr. Kent etly was talking . Among official matters at- tended to by the President , who is on his tenth holiday week-1 end at Hyannis Port , was the appointment of Roger L.I Stevens , a New York theatrical , land real estate figure , as chair ! man of the board of trustees of , the National Cultural Center in Washington . The President flew here from Washington late yesterday after ; announcing that the Soviet Union had exploded a nuclear device in Central Asia . The blast was described as being no surprise either to the President or his aides . Mr. Hatcher said Mr. Kennedy had received no more information about the Soviet test since he was first informed of it at 3:15 P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House , Mr. Hatcher said , on the possibility of radioactive fall-out from the explosion . It took place in the atmosphere and was described as having had " a substantial yield in the intermediate range . " I Another problem obviously on the President 's mind was the ' ' question of a resumption by this ' country of its own nuclear tests . Few officials doubt that there will be such a. resumption , but the immediate policy is to delay it until full propaganda advan tage has been taken of the Soviet action . One possibility receiving study was that President Kennedy might make a personal appeal to the United Nations General Assembly on the issues of nuclear testing and disarmament . If so , the resumption of tests by this country probably would , not come before such an appeal . I The General Assembly opens , Sept. 19 in New York , White House aides denied , however , a report that Mr. Kennedy might make a public report on the nuclear testing situation and on the nation 's nuclear arsenal . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . The appointment of Mr. Ste - yens to head the board of trustees of the National Culture Center brings a noted fundraiser to a project that needs one . Mr. Stevens is a former finance chairman of the Democratic National Committee and is a director of the Metropolitan Opera Association . He has long been active in civic affairs . The National Cultural Center is a Washington project roughly similar to the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York . It is designed to provide an opera house , a concert hall , a theatre and two smaller auditoriums under one roof on the bank of the Pdtomac River near the Lincoln Memorial . Congress provided land for the center several years ago but stipulated that funds for the building be raised by subscription . The project 's cost is estimated at $75,000,000 , and raising that sum will be one of Mr. Stevens ' primary concerns . The New Yorker once headed a syndicate that purchased the Empire State Building , and he has been involved in urban redevelopment projects in Washington , Seattle , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a producing partner for " Tea and Sympathy , " " Bus Stop , ' " West Side Story , " " The Best Man " and other shows . White House officials and Secret Service men were showing little concern about a report that a man who escaped from a Texas mental institution was in the vicinity and had threatened the President 's life . The man is Howard C. Cooper , 48 years old , who escaped sixteen years ago from an Austin , Tex. , institution . He has Since been living in Maine and Massachusetts , it was reported . The report was from the Massachusetts State Police , who posted special watches at bridges over the Cape Cod Canal and at near-by airports . The Secret Service , after dispatching an agent to the man 's home in Brookline , Mass. , and learning that he was not there , expressed no concern and did not advise the President officially of the matter .                     