@@723341

txt Latin America Editor of The Christian Science Monitor No matter how you stretch it , it 's still the ambivalent " Castro line . " The arrival in Cuba of a 10-man Chinese ' Communist military delegation sets the Havana stage for an unusual and curious 10th anniversary celebration this Friday , July 26th , of Premier Fidel Castro 's unsuccessful attack on Moncada Barracks . Premier Castro may find himself on the spot in the Sino-Soviet ideological dispute , which , in the past , he has sought to rationalize by espousing the " unity " line and urging that the two Communist giants bury their differences and not air them in public . I Strength As4essed Ever since his recent trip to the Soviet Union , Premier Castro has been purring the Soviet " coexistence " line , but at the same time preaching and practicing the tougher Chinese Communist line that revolutions will overtake all of Latin America , and giving substantial support to violence and subversion there . Cuban Industry Minister Ernesto " Che " Guevara said in Algeria this week that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolutionary movement . . But we do not say who is right because we are small .. . and even our ideological strength is small . . . . " Major Guevara said the United States will have to learn that the Cuban Revolution is not the last in Latin America , " but the first . " He added that fifth column commandos are operating in Venezuela and Guatemala . Part of the salient context in which the Chinese Communist military delegation arrives in Havana is that : ? The Castro government has never been totally sure how closely it wants to be Sino-Soviet Rift identified with the " agrarian reformist " movement of the Chinese , especially since Cuba 's primary economic support comes from the Soviet Union . But Cuba pays considerable attention to Peking . Most of the top Communists in Havana have visited Peking in recent years . ? Antonio Nilfiez Jimenez , former Cuban agrarian reform authority , has been visiting Communist China for the last month with other Cuban " scientists . " He is listed in Peking Radio broadcasts as president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Castro-Communist violence is still continuing in Venezuela . So many United States citizen-owned petroleum and other business installations have been bombed there , that while insurance companies arc getting jittery , the citizenry is beginning to roil up with indignation against the Communist left . ? More aggressive , reckless Castro - Communists are attempting to seize the power reins from older Stalinist Communists in Latin America , especially in Colombia and Ecuador at the moment . ? The ideological complicity of Communist China in Latin-American affairs is on the increase . Recently the China Peace Committee in Peking , without the slightest show of redundancy , announced it was " foursquare behind the Venezuelan people in their struggle against United States imperialism and for complete national independence , democracy and freedom ... and that the armed struggle waged under the leadership of the Venezuelan national liberation front ( the Casto - Communist FALN groups ) has dealt powerful blows to United States imperialist aggressive forces and inspired the people of other Latin-American countries in their struggle for national liberation . " ' ? Costa Rica is looking for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cayman Island south of Cuba , which Britain was permitting Cuba to use for transfer of plane passengers . The United States objected to use of the island for such transfers of " potential subversives . " Cuba denied the men were subversives and objected to demonstrations at the airport . ? A total of 18 Cubans arrived in British Guiana last week , ostensibly for the purpose of reactivating the strikebound British Guiana Airways which had already resumed operations when they arrived . Two other Cubans , already in British Guiana on " commercial business , " are known to be active among youth groups , especially the Progressive Youth Organization , a wing of Marxist Prime Minister Cheddi Jagan 's Peoples Progressive Party .                     