@@727034

txt Czechs Watch for Clues on Dubcel PRAGUE  --  An important phase of the Czechoslovak experiment in combining democracy with Communism came to an end last week . The new leadership , under Alexander Dubcek , rid party and Government of the men of the past and put in its own . , The largely negative  --  and easier  --  task of criticizing the past Is over and the difficult work of proving the old system wrong by improving on its performance has begun . All eyes will now be on the works of Mr. Dubcek instead of on the sins of his predecessor , Antonin Novotny . Although he has held the most important position in Czechoslovakia for three months now , he has made only the slightest personal imprint . He is popular but unfamiliar . There is no recognizable Dubcek style , unless it be just this absence of a public personality . A Freer Life Little is known of how much of the course of action of the last three months was due to Mr. Dubcek 's own initiatives or of joint decisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in leading positions are closest to Mr. Dubcek . What is quite obvious Is that the shots have been called by master tacticians . In three months , the Communist leaders " who could have served as centers of an opposition have been ousted . The Central Committee , which met throughout the week in plenary session , has not renewed its membership of 110 since the Novotny days but most of its members have seen which way the wind is blowing and talked pure Dubcek where they used to talk pure Novotny . Life has become freer in many respects . But the leadership , helped no doubt by a certain natural Czech discipline , has maintained control . In foreign affairs , Czechoslovakia has staked out an area of greater independence from her suspicious Communist allies without bringing down on herself the wrath of the Russians . The big question to the most thoughtful Czechoslovak observers is whether Mr. Dubcek and his associates are establishing a kind of Communist democracy because they believe in it or because that was the most efficient issue with which to defeat the opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which brought a higher degree of freedom to the Soviet Union , largely for the tactical reason of defeating what later became as the antiparty group of Vyacheslav M. Molotov , Lazar M. Kaganovich and company . Having defeated his opponents , Mr. Khrushchev turned the clock back on freedom . Mr. Dubcek 's possibilities for taking complete control of the party are great . The wave of resignations of party functionaries throughout the country , set off by an officially initiated campaign of airing all grievances , has left the party organization in a skeletal state . Those who will be appointed to the vacancies will , in all likelihood , be " clients " of Mr. Dubcek . Dubcek 's Patronage Similar resignations and ousters have occurred in industry , labor organizations and other institutions . It is doubtful that any Communist country has ever had so many jobs to give out at the same time and all the patronage is Mr. Dubcek 's . The depth of Mr. Dubcek 's liberalism will be tested daily as the party adopts and executed what it calls its " action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechoslovaks , the Dub ? cek leadership passed its first real test with less than flying colors . The party and Government leaders named last week included as Premier Oldrich Genik , who as longtime chairman of the state planning commission , does not enjoy a reputation for liberalism . At the same time , the man whose liberal economic reform program helped to set the spark for the revolution Czech style , Ota Sik , was denied a place on the party 's ruling body , the Presidium . Questions Arise Czechoslovakia will be watching with great concern how far the Dubcek leadership will go in guaranteeing by law some of the new liberties . Even if , for example , Mr. Dubcek called in his keynote speech to the Central Committee last Monday for a law on freedom of the press , the question has arisen whether the law will also assure editors freedom from interference by such powerful bodies as , say , the Ideological Department of the Central Committee . One factor that assures worried liberals is the personality of Mr. Dubcek , as far as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have had contact with him is that of a genuinely modest , affable man who listens to all corners , not that of a man interested in power for the mere joy of exercising it . That , in the final analysis may be the best guarantee for decency in Czechoslovakia , which remains determinedly a Communist state with the most limited checks and balances on its leaders . ? HENRY Azsoclated DESTINATION UNKNOWN : New Czechoslovak leader Alexander Dubcek , right , shown here with the new figurehead President , Gen. Ludvik Svoboda , is the symbol of a new question : Where is Prague heading now ?                     