@@721692

txt President Kennedy congratulated Premier Khrushchev today on the Soviet Union 's " impressive scientific achievement " in launching a space vehicle toward the planet Venus . In Moscow , a Soviet scientist said that the rocket was now expected to reach the vicinity of Venus a month earlier than originally planned , United Press International reported. ; The White House said that Mr. Kennedy 's personal message was sent to the Premier last night through diplomatic channels . The message read : " I wish to extend my con gratulation and those of the American people for the impressive scientific achievement represented by the launching of your space vehicle to Venus . " We shall watch its progress with interest and we wish you success in another chapter in man 's exploration of the universe . " The message was the first in which a President of the United States sent personal congratulation to the Soviet Premier on a space accomplishment . It was viewed as another overture to the Soviet Union for peaceful cooperation in exploring space . President Dwight D. Eisenhower issued congratulatory statements on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending the first payload to the moon , but he never conveyed personal congratulations to the Soviet leader . Mr. Kennedy set the theme for this cooperative approach in his State of the Unton Message . In that address he invited " all nations ? including the Soviet Union  --  to join with us in developing a weather prediction program , in a new communications satellite program and in preparation for probing the distant planets of Mars and Venus . " The President 's first overtures met with rebuff . The Soviet Union declined to send a representative to a meeting here last week of scientists seeking , to develop cooperative use of weather satellites under the World Meterorological Organization . One specific cooperative step under consideration within the Administration is an offer to , place the United States ' deep- , space tracking network at the disposal of the Soviet Union for receiving signals from the 1 , - 418-pound Venus-bound vehicle . This network , designed to track such interplanetary shots , consists of eighty-five-foot receiving antennae at Goldstone , Calif. , and Woomera , Australia A precedent for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the United States offered to make its world-wide Mercury tracking network available for any Soviet man-in-space flight . The Soviet response then was noncommittal . For the moment , the Soviet Union is showing no signs of desiring international cooperation with its Venus probe , which was launched Sunday . For example , it has not given official notice of the launching through Spacewarn , an international network for disseminating information about new scientific satellites . One of the regional centers for this network is located in Moscow . The United States has continued to notify Spacewarn of launchings of scientific satellites . The Soviet Union has not notified Spacewarn of any of its space shots since Lunik III was placed in orbit in October , 1959 , to take pictures of the other side of the moon . Partly as a result of this , United States tracking stations have been unsuccessful in their attempts to receive signals from the space probe . Officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration believe that the space vehicle is being commanded to transmit only once every five days . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency , told a National Rocket Club luncheon that the United States was handicapped in matching Soviet space feats until it could develop more powerful launching rockets . He estimated that five years from now the United States would still be behind the Soviet in space unless the Russians stopped building ever bigger rockets . The space agency itself said that the satellite from which the Venus rocket had been launched had broken into two parts , both of which were being tracked by the United States space surveillance system . One of the parts was in an orbit ranging from 123 to 201 miles above the earth , the other in an orbit ranging from 124 to 186 miles .                     