@@725230

txt Phoenix , Ariz. , Jan. 4 Special ? The Arizona Supreme Court today ordered a Superior court judge not to proceed with contempt action against two Phoenix newspapers which had called the citation threat a violation of freedom of the cress . After a hearing before the five justices , the high court issued a writ of prohibition against the action of Superior Judge E. R. Thurman in order . ing executives of the Phoenix Gazette and the Arizona Repub. lie to show cause why they should not be cited for contempt of court . The two newspapers had published stories of proceedings in open court before Judge Thurman  --  part of a murder ? case ? after he had ordered that nothing be printed . Blocks Further Action The Supreme court writ blocks further action in the matter by Judge Thurnian , 73 , who had ordered the newspaper men to appear in his court tomorrow on a contempt citation . Mark Wilmer , attorney for the newspapers , argued that their right to report the proceedings in Judge ? Thurman 's ccurt is guaranteed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contended that Judge Thurman had exceeded his jurisdiction , ? and added : " I find no case which says the court can do what the court did do in this case . " Wilmer cited a United States Supreme court decision which held that public trials are public matters and that newspapers have a right to publish these proceedings . Shepard Weinstein , defense counsel in the murder case that precipitated the action against the newspapers , contended that his client 's right to a fair and impartial trial was endangered by the newspaper coverage . The contempt matter grew out of the trial last month of Donald Chambers who was charged with murdering Charles E. Hill , an auto store owner , it a robbery . Ban on Details Ordered During a hearing on the defense attorney 's petition for a writ of habeas corpus , in which he charged the state lacked sufficient evidence to bring his client to trial , the attorney made references to an earlier hearing which w a s legally closed under Arizona law . Because of these references , Judge Thurman ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corpus hearing , except that he had denied the petition , on penalty of being cited for contempt . During Chambers ' trial before a jury , he suddenly changed his plea to guilty and was sentenced to life imprisonment .                     