@@726749

txt The shock of Britain 's devaluation appears to have broken the deadlock over economic policy in Washington . The Federal Reserve has raised the discount rate ; the wnite House nas revive ( ' its proposal for speedy action on a 10 per cent tax surcharge ; and Wilbur D. Mills , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , is prepared to approve a tax hike provided it is accompanied by a sizable reduction in spending . There is obvious need to erect stronger psychological as well as economic defenses against inflationary fears at home and suspicions about the dollar abroad . The chronic deficit in the nation 's balance of payments , the current upsurge in the wage-price spiral and the soaring deficit in the Federal budget have clearly suggested that things are out of control . But it should be just , as obvious that the paralysis that has characterized policy must not give way to panic . There is no reason to resort to economic overkill . The objective must be to change the prevailing psychological mood by combating inflation and reducing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity . Unfortunately , Washington appears bent on firing off all of its available weapons in one overwhelming barrage . If it acts too drastically to enforce more expensive credit , an increase in taxes and slashes in spending , there is a real risk and perhaps more than a risk that it will check the present moderate upturn ' and , at the same time , provoke a dangerous recession in world trade . What the situation calls for is a measured approach . The threat of inflation could be checked in part by a gradual reduction in the rate of growth of the credit supply , which has swelled excessively since the beginning of the year . The fears of an uncontrollable budget could be lessened by definite cuts in nonessential spending  --  highways , space , the supersonic transport and non-Vietnam defense projects are good examples . It becomes increasingly likely , however , that if spending is going to be cut now , on the eve of art election year , it will be in the politically vulnerable area of social services instead of in the pork-barrel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already at a level that the most orthodox economies of Europe would consider intolerable , such a reduction in spending for social services seems to us unacceptable and , if this is the alternative , far less preferable than an increase in taxes . It would be a mistake , however , to accept the Administration 's proposed surcharge as the only desirable form of tax increase . The question remains whether this proposal will in fact halt inflation and hold down interest rates , as the Administration says it will ; there is still fear that the surcharge will add to costs and to demands for credit , which could impair the recovery in housing and could encourage fresh inflationary pressure . In contrast , there is no question that the Imposition of excise taxes on nonstaple goods would be an effective but limited fiscal brake , quite apart from the fact that excises on luxuries are particularly appropriate in time of war . Since the war in Vietnam is also responsible for a good deal of the payments deficit , direct measures must be taken to reduce outflows abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration can not continue to procrastinate . It Is necessary to remove all doubts about its determination to defend the dollar , replacing the present voluntary controls over business and banks with a capital issues committee and mandatory controls or , if need he , even a temporary moratorium on toreign investment . Such a program would convey a sense of leadership ad purpose in economic policy , ending the drift and uncertainty that have been so damaging to confidence at home and abroad . In our view , effective leadership in the current situation does not require shock treatment for the economy . It demands direct action to convince the skeptics , that the dollar will be defended , and some modest measures to demonstrate to the doubters that noninflationary prosperity will be maintained .                     