@@725251

txt ATLANTA , Jan. 10 ? The Georgia House of Representatives tonight barred Julian Bond , a Negro pacifist , from its membership because of his criticism of the United States military action in Vietnam . The vote was 184 to 12 . The majority adopted the view that Mr. Bond had committed " disorderly conduct " and made himself unfit to serve in the Legislature by advocating violation of the draft law . Mr. Bond told a packed House chamber during a dramatic public hearing this afternoon that he had advocated no such thing . However , the majority chose to follow Representative Jones Lane , from rural Statesboro , several petitions challenging his seating had been filed . The 73 new members among the 205 in the House included eight Negroes , all but one from Atlanta . The seven others were seated without objection ? the first Negroes to sit in the chamber in 58 years . The Negroes were elected last November as a result of a courtordered reapportionment . One Negro was elected to the Senate in 196 ? . Another has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported Mr. Bond in the full House vote were all from Fulton County ( Atlanta ) . They were six Negroes and six whites . The seventh Negro , Albert W. Thompson of Columbus , abstained . Before the reapportioning began in 1962 , the last Negro to serve in the Georgia LegislaContinued From Page 1 , Col. 4 who had initiated the move to bar Mr. Bond , one of eight Negroes elected to the House last year . Mr. Lane said : " Anyone who gives aid or comfort to the enemies of the United States or the enemies of the State of Georgia is guilty of treason . Do you feel that the people of your district want you to uphold irresponsible citizenship ? " Charles Morgan Jr. , a white Alabama lawyer who is Southern regional director of the American Civil Liberties Union , helped defend Mr. Bond at the hearing . which was held in the House chamber . Mr. Morgan , his great hulk arched over the rostrum and his voice quivering with emotion , said : " If Mr. Bond has committed treason , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in a court of law . But that is not what this is all about . The issue here is the right of every Georgian to speak . " Court Appeal Planned Mr. Morgan said later that Mr. Bond would ask a Federal court to overrule the House . " We will base our appeal on everything --  - the First , Fifth . Sixth , Seventh , 13th , 1 ? th and 15th Amendments to the Constitution , " lie said . The ouste ?  - -  brought about on the opening day of the 1966 Legislature -- seemed certain to set off protest demonstrations here . The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , of which the 25-year-old Mr. Bond is communications director , had threatened before the House voted to demonstrate if Mr. Bond was barred . The House acted after a debate that followed a recommendation by a special House committee . The committee had conducted the public hearing during the afternoon and had voted 23 to 3 to exclude Mr. Bond . The controversy began last Thursday when the student committee denounced the United States action in Vietnam and expressed sympathy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Bond supported the statement then and repeated his support in front of the hushed legislative body this afternoon . T ' ? committee hearing came after a day of turmoil in the Capitol . Gov . Carl E. Sanders , fearful of making a martyr of Mr. Bond and of giving the student committee an issue . ture had been Representative W. H. Rogers of County . He was elected in 1902 and resigned in 1907 during a wave of Negro disfranchisement that swept the South just before and after the turn of the century . One of the petitions challenging Mr. Bond accused him of treason . Another said he " adlheres to the enemies of the United States and the State of Georgia , contrary to the Constitution of Georgia . " Another charged him with advocating violation of Federal laws concerning the draft . He was challenged under an article of the Georgia Constitution that gives  --  each house of the Legislature the power to judge the qualifications of its members . The article says the House " shall have the power to punish them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imprisonment or expulsion . " Senators Back Bond Denmark Groover , a Macon lawyer retained by the legislators opposing the seating of Mr. Bond , contended that his support of the student committee statement of sympathy for " those unwilling to respond to the military draft " amounted to advocacy of lawbreaking and made him unfit to serve . The two Negro Senators , Leroy R. Johnson and Horace T. Ward , spoke in Mr. Bond 's behalf . Senator Ward said he believed Mr. Bond had been misunderstood . Senator Johnson said he was convinced of Mr. Bond 's loyalty to his country . Mr. Bond told the special committee holding the hearing that , as a pacifist , he opposed the draft and thought others who felt the same way should seek legal alternatives , such as working in hospitals or working for the Red Cross . He said he also believed working for civil rights should be a legal alternative . He said he did not consider his position advocacy of draft evasion . Mr. Groover played for the committee two tape recordings , of a radio newsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them Mr. Bond said he was " eager and anxious to ' encourage people not to participate in it the war for any reason they choose . " The second recording included remarks that Mr. Forman made earlier today outside the House chamber , The white legislators listened solemnly as the voice of Mr. Forman asserted : " This is a racist Legislature . " Mr. Forman said also in the recording that two years ago he and Mr. Bond had been shoved and punched by a white legislator in a hallway of the Capitol . Looking down on the House chamber as the recordings were played was a gallery full of young Negroes and whites sitting together . Four years ago Mr. Bond was with a group of Negroes evicted from the same gallery for refusing to leave the " white " section . Wilkins - Urges Seating Roy Wilkins , executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , telegraphed House Speaker George T. Smith in Atlanta yesterday that the worked behind the scenes to stop the ouster movement . Hanging over the frenetic struggle was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young militants associated with the student committee , some from as far away as Lowndes County in Alabama . James Forman , executive secretary of the student committee , walked the halls bushy-haired and intense . buttonholing Negro leaders and legislators and directing strategy . He told reporters the student committee was prepared to demonstrate and perhaps even start a boycott of Georgia products ff the ouster went through . Mr. Bond , gray-vested and clean-cut , remained seated when the other House members rose to take the oath of office this morning . The House clerk asked Um to do so , explaining that N.A.A.C.P. " does not approve " of the student committee stand on the Vietnam war but urged that Mr. Bond be seated . The telegram said the " Logislature ought not attempt interpretation of First Amendment guaranteeing freedom of speech especially In highly emootional atmosphere tense with both racial and patriotic fever . " It said the question should be decided In the courts .                     