@@723946

txt SANTO DOMINGO , Dominican Republic , May 4 ( RI  --  Troops moved with fixed bayonets into Santo Domingo 's streets today in an effort to crush the mounting violence threatening the country 's triumvirate regime . The government gave orders to 2,000 army , navy , air force and police troops " to proceed with extreme energy " after fighting between police and rioters had erupted in the city . Royted Crowds Reassemble The rioters hurled stones , with police responding with barrages of tear gas Shells . But no sooner was one crowd scattered than another formed to start another demonstration . Dockworkers walked off the job to join university students in support of a three-day strike by taxi and bus drivers . A police cordon was put around the dock area , and the government said that sailors would be used , if necessary , to keep the port functioning . Government Maps Fight The civilian triumvirate met with the-armed services chiefs of staff to map action against the growing wave of antigovernment disturbances . Violence broke out in the city 's workers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who attacked him with a knife . It was the first fatality reported . At least 20 persons were wounded and 150 persons arrested in rioting yesterday . The Federation of University Students issued a statement saying that it was joining " the working class which has taken the lead in seeking a return to constitutionality . " Fear General Strike Donald Reid Cabral , a member of the triumvirate who often acts as president but without the title , said the government would take all steps necessary to break the illegal transit strike , which he called a political maneuver . One of the regime 's primary aims is to keep a general strike from developing . As tree and tire barricades burned in streets littered with garbage and scrap iron , fears increased that the nation faced a military dictatorship if order was not restored . Supporters of exiled President Juan Bosch were working to achieve his return . Political sources said that Bosch 's Dominican Revolutionary party was working with the Social Christian party and the new Reformist party to find a return to the constitutional government usurped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was understood that one formula being considered was to bring Bosch back to a congress with a 40 per cent representation from his party instead of the overwhelming majority he enjoyed when he was deposed . Bosch was exiled by a military junta on charges of being soft on communism . Later the military turned over control of the government to the threeman civilian regime .                     