@@727624

txt The medical profession announced today establishment of the new specialty of family medicine . The step is aimed at halting a quarter-century decline in general practitioners . It seeks to provide continuous personal health care for more families . The new specialty , the first since preventive medicine achieved this status in 1945 , was approved in meetings here over the weekend by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association and the Advisory Board for Medical Specialties , on which all 19 existing spezialties arc represented , Approval came after two years of consideration . At a news conference this morning in the Palmer House , Dr. Maynard I. Shapiro , president of the American Academy of General Practice , called the action a milestone in medical history . He said it would end " the country 's nonsystem of delivery of health care " by making available again family doctors who will know intimately the medical history of an entire family . They will minister to 85 per cent of their patients ' needs and offer counsel about where to go for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the new fami , ly doctor will be trained in psychology , sociology and other behavioral sciences " to a level never attempted before " to recognize and treat " the emotional overlay " that often accompanies disease and family strain . Recognition of family practice as a specialty , he said , will give it the status , privileges and pay to induce medical students to enter it in both urban and rural areas . Of more than 300,000 physicians in the country , only 72,000 now are general practitioners . The number has been declining about 2 per cent a year since World War II . Most are elderly and serve rural areas . Fewer than 2 per cent of // all 1967 medical school graduates selected general practice over specialties . Nearly half the doctors entering general practice in the United States in recent years were trained abroad , often not to the best American standards . Dr. Shapiro , clinical associate professor at the Chicago Medical School , said he hoped creation of the new specialty would eventually reverse present figures of 21 per cent general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making family medicine a specialty in its own right would restore entree to hospital staffs for general practitioners hicreasing:y shunned in recent years by medical centers and teaching hospitals . Will Become Diplomates Physicians passing new certification board examinations will become diplomates in family medicine , with the same specialty rank and status of diplomates in surgery , psychiatry , internal medicine and the other specialties . The examination , devised by the National Board of Medical Examiners in Philadelphia , is to be offered for the first time by the end of this year . The examinations will be conducted by a new Board of Family Practice . Study and residency requirements . will be comparable to those for most other specialties , with three years of graduate work following four years in medical school . Residency training progra-ns are in operation or under development for the new specialty at 32 medical schools and hospitals , including Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington , N. J ? and West Jersey Hospital in Camden . Dr. Shapiro said the new specialty would mean significant changes in medical school cbrriculums . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the schools , " he said . " General practitioners will return to teaching . Students must be exposed to real practicing physicians . Now most students just do n't believe we exist . " The major changes in curriculum , he said , will be to increase exposure of students to the behavioral sciences . " Many old-time family doctors dealt in environmental and interpersonal relationships without even realizing it , " he said . " Today we can teach it , and this is what the new specialty is about  --  teaching young doctors to practice in a scientific context those things that made the best of the old-time general practitioners great . " Doctors now in general practice may take the examination , upon completing 300 hours of accredited postgraduate study in medicine . There is no clause in the qualifications document for the new specialty that permits automatic certification . " The American public has a right to expect the highest degree of technical ability and full comprehension of the lat. est advances in medical science from all its doctors , " Dr. Shapiro said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physicians through this new board . " Unlike any other specialty , the family practice board will require periodic recertifications , also by examination . Dr. Shapiro said establishment of the new specialty was a demonstration of the medical profession 's " recognition of its responsibility to devise a practical response to the nation 's rising health care needs . " The shortage of general practitioners has become so severe , he noted , that thousands of patients must go to internists or other specialists for periodic checkups and referral . Patient Will Gain The principal gainer with creation of the new specialty , Dr. Shapiro said , will be the patient , who once again may have " a personal doctor " whol is closely acquainted with all his health problems and consequently can offer preventive as well as emergency care . The periodic checkups many people now get , at clinics or elsewhere , he said , are too limited and impersonal to constitute preventive medicine or to look to emotional problems . Because they do not know where to turn , he said , many people now do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should not be necessary to wait till you get sick to see a doctor , " he said . Dr. Shapiro said the new specialty would help close the gap between the best care available and what many citizens actually get . In line with the name for the new specialty , the American Academy of General Practice , with headquarters in Kansas City , Mo. , may change its name to the American Academy of Family Physicians , said Mac P. Cahal , executive director . He said the academy 's journal , GP , also might be in for a name change .                     