@@725839

txt American ocean scientists are watching the race to adjourn Congress . They wonder if this might be the year when oceanography will get its much-needed boost . Both Senate and House have passed versions of the " Sea Grant College " bill . It would provide money to strengthen education of marine scientists and technicians who could turn scientific knowledge of the sea to practical benefit . Such specialists are in short supply . The House bill calls for a two-year , $15 million program . The Senate has passed a bill involving $45 million for a three-year program . There are other differences in the measure . A number of oceanographers and sympathetic legislators have been working a long time to get government support for this kind of oceanographic education . Now , as the United States finally moves more boldly to open up the undersea frontier , it is hampered by a lack of practical-minded experts . Today the goal seems almost within legislative grasp , if Congress could find time to hammer out differences in the two bills . The oceanographers are waiting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a home . Several years  --  and several hundred million dollars  --  from now , it should be ready for work . Then impatient physical scientists will have another go at their exciting sePrch for order in the chaotic study of subatomic particles . But right now the Atomic Energy Commission is still holding off any public announcement of the big decision  --  where it goes . The joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy says the AEC should hurry up . But privately members admit that the announcement will probably set off a last-ditch furor by congressmen from disappointed areas . So the decision may well not be known until after Congress goes home . Trends .. ? With uranium for sale , one would n't expect to hunt for customers . But right now Canadian uranium producers are looking a round . The United States stops buying its uranium this year because its own stockpiles now are deemed adequate . Without new customers overseas , Canadians would have only a limited market at home . So far no new large sales abroad have been announced . But observers expect such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reported growing fast . Recently a three-man team representing the Japan Atomic Fuel Corporation and the Japan Atomic Industrial Forum was in Canada investigating purchase of uranium . It is speculated they might even have been interested in investing in the Canadian uranium industry . The federal Water Pollution Control Agency probably will give states about six months ' leeway before actually enforcing new water pollution regulations . All 50 states have now decided to establish their own water quality standards . They are now churning toward the deadline of June 30 . Officially the WPCA wo n't give states extra time to present their proposals . But in practice it will be lenient . It will wait until about the start of 1968 before enforcing the statutes . Meanwhile the agency is helping states set up water-pollution monitoring systems to determine pollution levels . So far more than 35 stations for 11 states have been designed and installed with federal government help . The number is ex ? pected to rise as the rush continues . How and why ... Public authorities and railroad officials continue to press efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were lost last month , apparently in transit . Their shipments clicked over thousands of rail miles through 20 states on their journey to the East coast . The United States Public Health Service now wants to put radiation detectors on trains traveling these routes . It hopes to detect the radium if it is still lying along the roadbeds . One vial contained 30 milligrams of radium . It was lost when its wooden crate broke during handling . The other , holding 50 mg. , appears to have slipped free when its box became dislodged during shipment . Both the Interstate Commerce Commission and the shipper are tightening precautions on radium shipping to prevent a recurrence.                     