@@724440

txt An American electronics engineer and a Soviet citizen were sentenced to long prison terms in Federal Court today for conspiring to give United States defense secrets to Russia . John W. Butenko , a 39-yearold bachelor of 366 Park Avenue , Orange , N. J. , was ordered to serve 30 years in Federal penitentiary . Igor A. Ivanov , 34 , a chauffeur for Amtorg , the Soviet trading agency , was given : a prison term of 20 years for his role in the plot to pass secret information concerning the communications and counterstrike operations of the Strategic Air Command to Moscow . A jury of eight women . and four men found the two men guilty on Dec. 2 of conspiring // to commit espionage along with three Soviet diplomats attached to the Soviet Mission to the United Nations . The latter three , protected by diplomatic immunity , escaped 4eiaj , They were expelled from the United States 48 hours after two of them were arrested with Butenko and Ivanov near the Englewood , N. J. , railroad station Oct. 29 , 1963 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : trial and passed the sentences today . Before sentence was pronounced , Butenko told the judge : " I realize I have been found guilty according to our form of justice by a jury . However , I know I am innocent . I have done nothing to harm the security of the country . I just want to ask the court for mercy and clemency . I hope that some day time will vindicate me . " In his pre-sentencing statement , Ivanov said : " I came to this country to work as a chauffear and I worked here only as a chauffeur . During my stay in the United States , including up to today , I did not come to break any laws . I consider my arrest an unfortunate misunderstanding . I fully and completely reject the indictment in this case .. I am not guilty . " Death Was Possible Judge Augelli , who could have pronounced death sentences on both men , sentenced Butenko to 30 years on a charge of espionage conspiracy and to two concurrent five-year terms for acting as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge then sentenced Ivanov , a Russian citizen , to 20 years on the conspiracy charge and five years to be served concurrently on a charge of being a Soviet agent . The sentencing , before a crush of spectators in the courtroom , was followed by a flurry of motions from Raymond A. Brown , Butenko 's defense lawyer , and Samuel A. Lamer , who defended Ivanov . Judge Angela denied Mr. Brown 's request that Butenko be given credit on his sentence for the nearly 14 months he had been held in the Federal Detention section of Hudson County Jail . The court also denied Mr. Larner 's request that Ivanov remain at liberty on the $100 , - 000 bail provided by the Soviet Embassy shortly after his arrest . Sanford M. Jaffe , chief of the Criminal Division of the Federal District Court here , who prosecuted the case , vigorously Igor A. Ivanov , a Soviet citizen , at U.S. Court in Newark . He got 20 years . opposed continuation of Ivanov 's bail . Butenko had been denied bail . Later yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Circuit Court , Philadelphia . Mr. Brown said he would do so early next week . Butenko and Ivanov were . taken after sentencing to Hudson County Jail in handcuffs by United States marshals . Both took the sentences calmly and showed no emotion as they were escorted from the courthouse . At the time of his arrest Butenko , an honor graduate of Rutgers University , was control administrator of S.A.C . Project 465L at the offices of International Electric Corporation , Paramus , N. J. , a subsidiary of International Telephone &; Telegraph Corporation . Butenko , who was born in New Brunswick , N. J. , to Russian immigrant parents , was convicted of taking specification documents on the project from the laboratories of I. T. &; T. and passing them to Ivanov , Gleb A. Pavlov , Vladimir I. Olenev and Yuri A. Romashin , the diplomats .                     