@@726473

txt Sophisticated electronic equipment and warning devices are being tested in Korea as a possible prelude to their use in a barrier across Vietnam . The Pentagon has taken advantage of a North Korean infiltration campaign to try out various secret devices that hopefully could be put to use should a barrier be extended across Vietnam south of the demilitarized zone . Although the administration has not officially announced whether a barrier is to be built as a modern-day , electronically sophisticated Hadrian 's Wall , there are indications that such might be the result of a massive effort now under way , Basic flaw in plan Early this year , construction was begun on a cleared area south of the demilitarized zone . Originally seven miles wide , it was extended in recent weeks to a total width of about 11 miles . Now an additional extension is being started . It will be 12 miles long and will run inland from the Conthien area west . The total distance covered of about 23 miles will be roughly half the length of the border at that point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definite decision is the wide disagreement in high-government circles as to the efficiency of such a device . The military view is that any barrier , if militarily effective , would bring on such financial , manpower , and political problems as to make the whole idea of dubious merit . If such a barrier system were to be built all across Vietnam , however , ' it still would // *Viet border ' walls ' tested // leave one basic flaw . North Vietnamese infiltrators still would be free to go south via Lao trails with little more than a passing thought for the expensive , extensive American effort . To prevent this , it would be necessary either to turn the barrier south at the Vietnamese border with Laos , running south for a considerable distance to cut off trails now being used , or to run the barrier across Laos to the Mekong River . The first solution would be fraught with difficulties , considering the mountainous , rugged terrain that would be involved . As for pushing the barrier on through Laos , State Department sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " As one State Department observer put it , " Phouma is nervous . He was installed as a ' neutralist ' Premier in 1962 . He knows he does n't control the northern part of the country , or the ' Ho Chi Minh Trail ' area along the Vietnamese border . If a barrier were to go across his country it would mean the end of the last tattered remnants of his ' neutrality ' and probably the resumption of civil disorders . " Moment of decision nears Despite the obvious difficulties attendant upon any effort after the barrier is brought to the western limits of Vietnam , the administration appears to be slowly moving toward that moment of decision . It has not been made clear , however , whether the barrier is to become more than a half-way , half-hearted project . So far , the United States efforts in South Vietnam and the bombing of the North have not had the hoped-for effect of cutting down substantially on infiltration of troops and supplies into the South . Although it is hoped that a barrier would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no means certain . Indeed , the barrier represents another of a series of relatively unfruitful efforts . There are no indications so far as to what effect the present 600-yard-wide strip has had in deterring over-all infiltration , but it has apparently made the task of American troops somewhat easier ? at least in that area . When the project was initiated , it was to involve basically clearing to allow better fields of fire . Now , however , some detection and warning devices are reportedly being used . Proving ground advantage Korea is considered an excellent proving ground for these devices because of a somewhat similar problem . Although the whole matter is highly classified , there are indications that Korean and American forces have had some success , at least partially because of the sophisticated devices , in cutting infiltration . In earlier times , North Koreans were fairly successful getting through to the South on the Pyong Yang-Seoul corridor and other relatively easy routes . Recent reports indicate that infiltrators have been forced to use much more difficult routes in order to bypass the concentrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In an effort to try as many of the new devices as possible , the Pentagon has cut short the normal supply procedures to rush the new equipment to Korea . There are indications that some of the equipment tested in the United States and proven in Korea may already be in use as the barrier in South Vietnam is extended into the mountainous jungles . Devices under study include various types of heat , sound , and light detectors as well as small explosive devices that go off with a loud report when stepped on .                     