@@727563

txt 1 . Proposes that the income surtax be extended . ( President-elect Nixon concurs m this proposal. ) 2 . Warns that the tension between Israel and the Arabs threatens world peace . i3 . Asserts that relations between the United States and Ru ssia still are strained , but calls for disarmament talks . 4 . Declares Mr. Nixon will take office with a legacy of both domestic and international problems . 5 . Finds that a large part of the agenda for social and economic change in the nation was finished during his administration . 6 . Sees inflation as the nation 's biggest economic challenge . Nixon Washington , Jan. 14 - President - elect Nixon said tonight that he will go along with President Johnson 's recommendation to continue the 10 per cent surtax unless Congress or his advisers can justify different action . Nixon 's statement , issued from his transition office here , coincided almost precisely with Johnson 's statement in his state of the Union message . " It remains my conviction that the surcharge should end as soon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic conditions will permit , " Nixon said . Will Support Suggestion " It is my understanding that President Johnson shares this same view , " he continued . " However , until the new administration and the Congress car ascertain that the facts we face justify permitting the surtax to expire or to be reduced , I will support the President 's suggestion that the surcharge be continued . " Johnson disclosed that he had talked with Nixon about the surtax , contradicting recent reports that he had failed to secure the President-elect 's support of his plan to recommend continuance of the tax without change . There w a s additional evidence , moreover , that the outgoing and incoming administrations agree generally on fiscal policy below the White House level . Fiscal Views Agree Charles Zwick , the budget director , speaking with reporters earlier today , said that the Johnson administration 's views on over-all fiscal policy , including the sur tax , were shared by David M. Kennedy , treasury secretary - designate , and Robert P. Mayo , budget director-designate . During the Presidential campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current adnimistration 's fiscal policies , charging again and again that they had led to undue inflationary pressures . " I think that once the war is ended , we should get rid of the surtax , " Nixon said at one paint during the campaign in reply to a blanket statement by Vice President Humphrey , his Democratic opponent , that it should be continued .                     