@@726337

txt If no such resolution were adopted , the plan could be put into effect . Last week the Senate passed draft legislation without such a potential veto clause , by extending the Selective Service Act for another four years from this June 30 , when major portions of the law expire . Mr. Rivers 's legislation would , also extend the law for four ? years , but would change it as the committee proposes . If the House passes the committee bill as submitted , Mr. Rivers will thus still have to obtain Senate approval in a conference session for the changes . Mr. Rivers and Mr. Hebert want to begin drafting the youngest men first ? the 19-year-olds ? rather than inducting the oldest men first , as the present system does . But they want to preserve the selection process now used of taking the men in the order of their birth dates . The specific provision for undergraduate deferments , practically unstated and left to executive authority ' under law now , would grant such deferments to college students until they complete their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 24 . In March , the President announced his intention to eliminate graduate school deferments except for medical and dental students , but called for more debate on the question of undergraduate deferments . The committee legislation would thus provide him specific Congressional guidance in this regard . It allows the President to eliminate undergraduate deferments , however , if he decides that " the needs of the armed forces require such restriction or termination of student deferments . " The committee legislation also seeks to preserve graduate school deferments other than medical and dental ones by providing for the creation of a national manpower resources board that would make recommendations to the President for deferments in areas of graduate study termed critical to the naThe New York Times Representative L. Mendel Rivers , chairman of House Armed Services Committee . tional interest . But such recommendations would not be binding . Where conscientious objection is concerned , the new legislation would revert to a procedure somewhat similar to that followed in World War I , when all conscientious objectors were inducted . Conscientious objectors are now divided into two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but who are not opposed to noncombatant service in the military , and those who object not only to war but to military service of any kind . Not Actually Inducted Under procedures , now , members of the second group are not actually inducted , but are simply ordered by their local draft boards to undertake two years of work of a humanitarian or social nature . If they fail to fulfill the obligation , they can be prosecuted under civil law but are technically not under military discipline . The legislation proposed by the committee would eliminate some of this distinction by inducting all conscientious objectors into the armed forces . Those who object to military service as well as to war would be immediately granted leave to perform two years of work , but they would be under military discipline . The second change proposed by the committee would eliminate from the present law a clause attempting to define what Congress means by " religious training and belief " as a basis for conscientious objection . The clause attempted to define this in terms of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court used this clause to broaden the basis for conscientious objection in the Seeger case of March , 1965 , by Interpreting it to mean a belief In a universal moral imperative , which would parallel the ordinary religious belief in God . Mr , Rivers and other members of the committee are understeod to fear that this interpretation may be used by individuals who object to the Vietnam war in particular to escape service . The committee legislation thus seeks to undermine the Supreme Court decision and to narrow the grounds for conscientious objection by deleting the clause on which the decision is based .                     