@@723854

txt A proposed ordinance which would provide fines of up to $200 and jail terms of up to six months for persons who annoy children or loiter near schools or school playgrounds was approved yesterday by the city council committee on schools . The proposed ordinance to deal with the problem of school violence will come before the full city council Wednesday . First Proposed in 1962 As amended yesterday , the proposal would ban loitering within 300 feet of a school or playground . It was first suggested by Police Supt. 0 . W. Wilson in 1962 after several instances of trouble near schools . On that occasion , it received committee approval but was not called before the council after Negro groups expressed fears it would ban sit-ins or picketing protesting school segregation . Ald. Nicholas J. Bohling 7th asked recently that the proposed ordinance be revived . The committee approved the measure after exclusive debate during which Negro aldermen again questioned whether it would prohibit legal school picketing . They were told it would not . Despres Assails Proposal Ald. Leon M. Despres 5th assailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or anti-Negro drive " which he said was brought on by recent publicity given school violence . He claimed there actually is no upsurge in violence , " only an upsurge in publicity . " " This is an attempt to discredit Negro Chicagoans , " Despres charged , " It is a bad ordinance and a smoke screen . " He maintained that existing laws governing loitering , disorderly conduct , and so forth , are adequate to deal with the problem . Bohling , in answer to Despres , said : " I think we are getting awfully silly in our approach to everything . Every time we consider an ordinance , particularly one asked for by the police department as . a tool to law enforcement , the racial question is brought in . " Two Oppose Bill Despres and Ald. Robert Miller 6th voted against the proposed ordinance . In a second action , the committee deferred action on a resolution by Ald. Robert J. O'Rourke 48th to conduct an investigation of school violence . The matter was deferred pending meetings of the Chicago Teachers union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deferral of the inquiry , accused other alderman of " buck passing " and " dodging responsibility as public officials by not launching the investigation . " John Fewkes , president of the teachers union , said last night that some persons have drawn wrong inferences from his recent comments on school violence . Wo n't Blame Boycotts " I do not believe the school boycotts are responsible for the increase in the violence in schools as indicated by School Supt. Willis , " Fewkes said . " I have said that they may have caused some interruption in the education process but it would be absolutely unfair and untruthful to attribute a wave of violence to the boycotts . " Fewkes made his statement after meeting with representatives of the Negro-American Labor council . Timuel Black Jr. , president of the group , said after the conference that Willis is trying to discredit " the civil rights " movement among white persons . " The superintendent issued misleading figures about violence arranged to give the impression that Negro children are jumping all over their teachers , " Black said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I , and others in my group , see no increase in violence . " Some teacher attitudes have been hardened as a result of the school demonstrations leading them to become much more abusive to the children . "                     