@@725882

txt The 10 years since Britain 's Atomic Energy Authority ( AEA ) inaugurated the world 's first industrial nuclear power station at Calder Hall have brought the country to the brink of a new era of cheap electricity . The 10th anniversary of Calder Hall is observed this month . But it has not been allowed to pass without a significant amount of public worrying by leading British nuclear physicists . Sir William Penney , chairman of the AEA , brought the spotlight onto the problems ahead when he stated in his annual report , just released : " The principal target of the authority 's research and development effort has been economically competitive nuclear power . Now that this is within foreseeable distance of being achieved , it is natural that the research and development effort should be reduced . " The difficulties now looming arise largely from the success of the nuclear power program . That program set out to provide Britain with a new source of electricity for the national power grid  --  a source which might ultimately displace coal and oil generating stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first phase of the AEA 's program is drawing to an end : the last of seven full-sized generating stations built on the Calder Hall principle will soon be working . It will provide electricity at a price per unit of 1/2d  --  on a par with power from conventional stations . Lower rates expected But the AEA success story does not end here . The second phase of the program , using the Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor ( AGR ) will lower the price of electricity still further . By 1975 the last of a series of AGR stations will bring total nuclear generating capacity to 13,000 megawatts . The rapid progress rate of the AEA program derives directly from the heavy and expensive research effort put into it . More than 33,000 specialists are engaged on that effort and total expenditure so far is ? 850 million ( $2,380 million ) . With the main lines of the future program fairly sharply etched , the need now arises for a hard look at the research effort . It is the direction of the authority 's future activities that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete sweeping-out process is envisaged . There is still considerable research to be done on the application of power reactors in fields other than electricity generation . One such field is desalination of seawater , and the AEA has a big team working on it . More work must also go into the AGR as well as the fast-reactor system expected to provide the basis for Phase 3 of Britain 's power program in the 1980 's . Shift of emphasis urged But the main job of the AEA research battalions now is nearing an end . Within a year or two it will be impossible to justify retaining stalls at current levels if there is not a quite different emphasis in the authority 's work . There are some in the government who believe that the need is simply one of pruning , allowing the AEA to run down over a fixed period . Others believe the government should take the lead in finding new research work beyond the power reactor industry for the scientists who will eventually become " redundant . " But the influential magazine New Scientists has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an editorial , should switch ils attention from research to reactor design and play a leading part in a national effort to sell more British reactors abroad . Britain has a big start in the export field , and the AEA is well placed to take on such a job . The need to compete with the large American producers also seems to call for a centralized design authority .                     