@@721463

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 2 ? President Eisenhower rejected today the proposal made by five neutralist leaders that he meet now with Premier Khrushchev .. " The President indicated that his conditions for meeting with the Soviet Premier had not changed . " If the Soviet Union seriously desires a reduction in tensions it can readily pave the way for useful negotiations by actions in the United Nations and elsewhere , " he said . United States officials , including Secretary of State Christian A. Herter , are " always available , " the President declared , if the Soviet Union wishes " to discuss concrete measures to reduce tensions ! ' He Gives Terms for Meeting " Should such exploratory discussions reveal that the Soviet Union is prepared to return to the path of peaceful negotiations with some prospect of fruitful results , " President Eisenhower said , " then I per- , sonally would be prepared to . meet and negotiate with the representative of the Soviet Government and with the heads of other governments . " President Eisenhower made known his decision in a letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indonesia , President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic , President Tito of Yugoslavia and Prime Minister Jawaharlal ' Nehru of India . The five neutralist leaders , who have been attending the United Nations session in New York , proposed an EisenhowerKhrushchev meeting in a draft resolution submitted to the General Assembly Friday . Two Fly to New York The President 's letter was drawn up after he had held an eighty-minute conference at the White House this morning with Prime Minister Macmillan of Britain and Prime Minister Robert Gordon Menzies of Australia . The two Commonwealth Prime Ministers flew to New York late in the day for tomorrow 's session of the United Nations General Assembly . The three Western leaders , in a joint communiqu ? , urged that the United Nations attend to " the problems confronting it , notably that of disarmament . " The statement said the three men were " agreed in the hope that the General Assembly will now be able to achieve real progress " on these problems . Diplomatic informants considered that this was their way of seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call for a meet // AWAITS A CHANGE IN RUSSIAN STAND Letter to 5 Leaders Notes Willingness to Talk if U. S. Conditions Are Met // ing between the Soviet Premier and the United States President In his letter to the neutralist leaders , President Eisenhower noted that the Soviet Union had refused a United States proposal for an impartial investigation of the downing of a United States RB-47 reconnaissance plane July 1 by the Soviet Union over the Barents Sea . The President has repeatedly made it known that he would not meet with Mr. Khrushchev until theH  --  Soyiet Union freed two members ' of the plane 's CieNat. ** have been imprisoned since:incident and face a Soviet trial on spy charges . President Eisenhower left no doube , that he saw little pros= pectof his conditions being met . " There is nothing in the words or actions of the Government of the Soviet which gives me any reason to believe that the meeting you suggest would hold any such promise , " he told the neutral leaders . He said that In present circumstances he would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might mislead the peoples of the world . The President 's letter paid tribute to the motives that had led the five neutral leaders to propose that he meet with Mr. Khrushchev . He also recalled his frequent expressions of willingness to explore every possibility of , solving international questions .. He said the statement made by the three Western heads of government after the breakdown of last.May 's summit conference in Paris , pledging willingness to negotiate " at any suitable time in the future , " still represented the United States attitude . ? He recalled also his speech to the United Nations General Assembly , On ? Sept. 22 in which he . , offered= ' " serious negotiations , " especially in the field of diSarmarnent ... ? Recalls ' Soviet Threats - Ant , the. - :United States has nee* : ' frustrated by Soviet threats , the President said . He asserted that the Soviet Union , " instead of avoiding threats of the use of force , " . had " threatene.d rocket retaliation . against Many ' Members of the . United NAtionS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tinued and imaginary intentions on the  --  part of these countries . " - - He also.drew attention to the disruption of the ten-nation disarmament talks at Geneva by the Soviet bloc 's walkout last June . As an additional reason for not engaging in bilateral talks with the Soviet Union now , the President observed that " the chief problems in the world today are not due to differences between the Soviet Union and the United States alone and ? therefore are not possible of solution on a bilateral basis . " Copies of the letter were delivered individually to the delegations of the five neutralist ! leaders in New York before the text was made public at the White House . Mr. Hagerty said the general Substance of the letter was discussed by the President with Mr. Macmillan and Mr. Menzies but was drafted after the British and Australian leaders had left the White House . United ' States officials are eager to avoid offending public opinion in areas outside the two Major rival blocs . They recog , nize the five neutral leaders ' concern for world peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wrong method of seeking to insure the peace . RepOrt , Bolsters Determination Their : belief , and President Eisenhower 's determination to stick to : his conditions for a meeting ' with Premier Khrushchev , were reinforced by Mr. Macmillan 's personal report- to the President on his conversetions with the Soviet Premier last Thursday . In spite of his past record in favor of " summit " conferences , diplomatic informants said , Mr. Macmillan neither urged the President to meet Mr. Khrushehev nor discouraged such a meeting . Instead , he let the facts speak for themselves . The informants said that Mr. Khrushchev had been " extremely aggressive " in his meeting with the British Prime Minister and had given every indication of fellings of personal hatred for President Eisenhower . At the same time , Mr. Khrushchev was said to have indicated that he was prepared to have another negotiation on the Berlin question in the spring . From these two points , dipiomats drew the conclusion that nothing was to be gained from General Eisenhower 's meeting with Mr. Khrushchev in the Soviet leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not force the Berlin issue to a crisis before next spring , at which time there will be a new United States President for him to deal with . President Eisenhower met with Mr. Macmillan and Mr. Menzies from 9:30 until 10:50 A. M. Also participating were Secretary of State Christian A. Herter , the British Foreign Secretary , the Earl of Home ; the Australian Ambassador , Howard Beale , Brig . Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster , White House staff secretary , and Mr. Macmillan 's pritte secretary , Philip de Zulueta . Later in the morning the President conferred with Mr. Herter ; Charles E. Bohlen , Mr. Herter 's ' SPecial . ' Adviser on Soviet-Affairs ; - Under Secretary of : ? State Douglas Dillon ; Livingston T. Merchant , ' Under Secretary of State for , Political Affairs ; and , Foy D. . Kohler , Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs . Mr. Herter and Lord Home continued , the exchanges at the British Embassy after lunch . Following is the text of the communiqu ? issued after the White House meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour and : a half at the White House this morning with the President of the United States and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom . They continued the discussion of current problems at the United Nations which the President and Mr. Macmillan had started in New York on ' Tuesday last . They adjourned their meeting at 10:50 A. M. " All three were agreed in the hope that the General Assembly will now be able to achieve real progress on the problems confronting it , notably that of disarmament . " The United States and British Secretaries of State . plan ? . to meet again this afternomf ' at the British Embassy at 2:30 ; to carry forward the review ' of certain of the points ' under discussion this morning . "                     