@@728256

txt The Nation Cities Look in Vain for a Lifeline ' The nation 's big cities , staggering under a mountainous burden of unmet problems , found themselves increasingly isolated last week in their search for a lifeline of Federal or state financial help . The already bulky shelf of official reports testifying to the gravity of the urban crisis got two impressive additions during the week , but the combination of 1rampaging inflation and Congressional enthusiasm for tax cuts made it plain that no golden pipeline from Washington would pour money into the metropolitan centers next year . The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations , set up by Congress 10 years ago to try to bring some balance into the responsibility for essential public services , warned that the cities were being pushed into bankruptcy by the failure of Federal and state governments to pick up the full tab for welfare and education or to do anything like enough to modernize urban mass transit . And the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence echoed the two-yearold warning of the Commission on Civil Disorders that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price of national failure to insure social justice through peaceful political process . Underlying both reports was one blunt message : The cities are in desperate need of more money ? money they can not get from local tax sources . That message was underscored by a letter Mayor Lindsay sent Governor Rockefeller estimating that New York City 's budget gap for the fiscal year beginning July 1 might reach $1-billion unless it got bundles of cash from Washington and Albany . Even with the desired aid , the city would be merely holding the line on existing services ? all made more expensive by higher wages and contract costs ? and doing little to attack its backlog of accumulated neglect in housing , pollution control and other fields . But the men to whom such appeals were directed in the White House , Congress and state capitals throughout the country had priority problems of their own that seemed sure to , get in the way of any lavish response . To that limitation was added the special unpopularity the big cities have as political plague spots in the estimation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bipartisan bloc in the House brushed aside Administration calls for a straight two-year extension of the existing Federal antipoverty program and moved to shift control to the states . What worried big-city mayors about the attempted coup was that the states would divert much of the poverty money before it ever got to the poor . That worry was heightened by charges , now under investigation by the United States Office of Education , that millions of Federal dollars for school aid simply became a substitute for funds previously spent by the states . A report by a Governmental analyst to the White House Conference on . Hunger charged that half the Federal money for school lunches to needy children had been similarly misapplied . Not Popular But the cruelest blow of all for the metropolitan mayors last week was the discovery that they were not very popular even in their own house . The mayors of small cities and incorporated suburban communities banded together at the annual conference of the National League of Cities in San Diego to dump the choice of their metropolis-dominated executive committee for future president . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trumpeters of the urban crisis , John V. Lindsay of New York , fresh from his own electoral triumph here . He lost in the league balloting to the youthful Republican Mayor of Indianapolis , Richard G. Lugar , as emphatic a supporter of President Nixon 's domestic policies as Mr. Lindsay is a critic . What made the upset particularly galling to the Lindsay forces was that Mayor Lugar had defined the central issue in the contest as one of scrapping the gadfly role in favor of a cooperative relationship with the Nixon Administration , the statehouses and all other levels of government . The extent to which the rebuff to Mr. Lindsay was based nn anti-New York feeling is likely to reinforce the elements in the Nixon circle endorsing the so-called " Southern strategy " ? a strategy that is increasingly being widened to identify all sections outside the Northeast as favoring a more conservative trend in Federal policy . So far as Mayor Lindsay is concerned , no one at City Hall believes he is likely to change his style if for no other reason than the hopelessness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal and state aid . The hobgoblin that refuses to go away is the crushing size of the problems that hang over New York and every other large city . If more testimony is needed on that point , it has been supplied by the President 's chief adviser on urban affairs , Daniel P. Moynihan . In an article in The Public Interest , he lists the poverty and social isolation of Negroes and other minorities in core cities as the single most serious urban problem and urges vastly expanded Federal aid to help combat it . In general , he believes that Washington should double the amount of help it gives the states and localities , bringing its contribution to roughly a third of their total revenue , But he hitches that proposal to an important caveat : The policy should be adopted after the end of the Vietnam war . That gulf between immediate urban needs and the availability of more Federal cash may explain why , when the President met the nation 's governors at a White House conference on narcotics last week , he sent them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large-scale financial assistance . -A . REISKIN                     