@@728090

txt The House of Representatives approved overwhelmingly today the first major change in 165 years in the nation 's system of choosing its President . A proposed constitutional amendment abolishing the Electoral College and making the total popular vote decisive was passed by a vote of 339 to 70 , or 66 more than the two-thirds majority required . The surprisingly large House vote for the direct election plan appeared to improve chances of its approval in the Senate , where prospects have not been very encouraging up to now . Outlook for Adoption Even if the electoral reform , program passes the Senate , iL must still be ratified by the state legislatures of threequarters of the states , or 38 , to become part of the Constitution . Opponents predicted throughout the debate that this would be extremely difficult . Voting for the amendment were 185 Democrats and 154 Republicans , while 44 Democrats and 26 Republicans were opposed . The proposal received 82.8 per cent of the vote . Winding up six days of debate on the measure , Representative Emanuel Celler , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its approval would be " the crowning achievement of my whole life . " The House , about to begin what was expected to be a very close vote , applauded . Just before final approval , the House defeated by a 245-162 vote a motion to send the Celler amendment back to the committee with instructions to report one of the alternative reforms , the district plan . Under present law , a Presidential candidate who carries a state wins all its electoral votes , however small his plurality . The candidate with a majority of the electoral votes wins the election : If no one gets a majority the House decides the election , with each state delegation casting one vote . Under the Celler amendment , the candidate with the largest total popular vote would become President , whatever combination of states produced it . But if no one got 40 per cent of the popular vote , there would be a runoff election between the two top candidates . Theoretically , the direct election plan could become effective for the 1972 Presidential contest , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this would require ratification by the legislatures to be completed by Jan. 21 , 1971 , and a number of legislatures do not meet in 1970 . The plan that the House approved today meets all of the following major objections to the present election system : It would end the " winner take all " awarding of electoral votes within the states , the effect of which has been to discard the votes of all those who supported the candidate who ran second in the state . By abolishing the Electoral College it would eliminate the possibility of an elector 's voting for someone other than the candidate who carried his state . One elector did just that in 1968 , and there have been previous examples . It would eliminate the possibility that the candidate who gets the most votes can lose the election , as is true under the present system and under all the alternatives put before Congress . By substituting a runoff for a House vote to resolve close elections , it would remove the threat of a stalemate that is implicit in the contingency machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorize Congress to set uniform residence requirements for voting in Presidential elections , applicable to all states , but it does not deal with the question of a uniform voting age . The last major revision in the Presidential election machinery was made in 1804 when the 12th Amendment to the Constitution , which established the Electoral College as it now exists , was ratified . Before 1804 , the electors from each state were entitled to cast two ballots  --  one for the President and one for Vice President , as directed by the Continental Congress in 1788 . There was no distinction between the two offices on the ballot . The person having the greatest number of elector votes was declared President . The outlook for the election reform measure in the Senate remains questionable despite today 's positive House action . A two-thirds majority would require the votes of 67 Senators , assuming full attendance , and direct election backers have never yet counted more than 60 votes . A Senate Judiciary subcommittee has approved an amendment embodying the district plan and sent it to the full committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the votes to substitute their proposal and send it to the floor . Under the district ' plan , a candidate would get two electoral votes for each state he carried and one for each Congressional district . If no one got a majority of the electoral vote , the decision would go to a joint session of the Senate land House with each member casting one vote .                     