@@722196

txt An agreement was reached today in this city 's racial controversy . It paved the way for the release of the Rev , Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . and about 300 other Negroes from prison . Dr. King , head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , left jail ' after a $400 security bond had been posted for him . Others among the 750 persons arrested during five mass demonstrations last week were brought here from jails in surrounding counties tonight and were going through the bonding process . The agreement brought relief to Negroes , but little enthusiasm . A leader said : " It 's nothing to shout fo the rafters about . " The plan calls for ending mass protests and an organized boycott against white merchants . Negroes also agreed to wait at least a month before initiating new negotiations on their demands for lowering racial barriers and obtaining better job opportunities . In return for these concessions , Mayor Asa D. Kelley and other city officials agreed to take the following steps : elAssure police compliance with an Interstate Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gRelease all prisoners who are property owners , or can show evidence of employment , on signature bonds . 9 Reduce bonds for two local Freedom Riders facing a state charge of unlawful assembly from $750 to $200 and for eight other riders from outside the community from $1,000 to $400 . Give the Albany movement ' an opportunity to present its demands for other changes in racial customs to the new City Commission Jan. 11 . Charges filed against the demonstrators for parading without a permit , congregating on a sidewalk and obstructing traffic will be held in abeyance at the discretion of the police chief . It was indicated that they would not be revived except on renewal of the demonstrations . Marion S. Page , secretary of the Albany movement , announced the terms to an overflow meeting at the Shiloh Baptist Church . He termed them a " first step . " Chief of Police Laurie Pritchett has agreed to accompany him to the commission meeting and recommend that the sevenmember body consider the Negroes ' other demands , according to Mr. Page . Mayor Kelley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Atlanta lawyer retained ' by the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , worked out the plan in talks that began at 9:30 A. M. and ended at 4:30 P. M. Whites expressed satisfaction over the outcome of the negotiations and that no violence had erupted in this southwestern Georgia city of 56,000 . Chief Pritchett said the Ne groes had been promised nothing that marked a departure from the city 's established policies . The remarks of some leaders seemed intended to convey the impression to white residents that no concessions had been made . While this was not wholly true , it appeared that the concessions were minor . There was considerable doubt , among observers , based on pri-1 vate comments by white leaders ) that a renewal of negotiations would bring major gains for Negroes unless accompanied by pressure . Dr. King reversed his previThe New Tart Thaw RELEASED : The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther Ring Jr. , who was freed from Albany , Ga. , jail on a bond of $400. ous refusal to be released by posting bond . He indicated he was less than satisfied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of talks with W. G. Anderson , chairman of the Albany Movement , it seemed the practical course to take . " I would not want to stand in the way of meaningful negotiations , " he said . Mr. Anderson , who was arrested with Dr. King Saturday while the two led a march on the city hall , signed both their bonds . ' Leaders of organizations in the Negro protest movement met today in a show of unity . A. split in their ranks had become apparent yesterday . At the meeting were officers of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , which Dr. King heads , and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee . " If there was an indication of division , it grew out of a breakdown of communications , " Dr. King declared after his release . " The unity is far greater than our inevitable points of disagreement . "                     