@@722865

txt House Democratic leaders confidently looked ahead today toward a substantial erosion and eventual demise of the conservative coalition of Republicans and Southern Democrats . They based the outlook largely on the impressive support f or the Administration b y Southerners in yesterday 's battle over control of the House Rules Committee . . " The Democratic Party in the House is becoming more and more united , " Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana , the party whip , told reporters . " The moderate view is prevailing . You are going to see it more and more as the session progresses . " I tell you , the coalition is ceasing . " Gain Over ' 61 Noted In yesterday 's 235-to-196 Administration victory in the House , 50 Democrats from 11 states of the old Confederacy voted with the Administration forces . Fourty-four voted with the conservative opposition . On the same issue two years ago , Democrats from the same Southern states div'ded 62-35 against the Administration . A major factor in the shift was the effective job of recruiting done for the Administration by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is chairman of the Armed Services Committe and " dean " of the House , having Served continously since 1914 . He was credited with delivering all 10 of Georgia 's votes and several from other Southern states to the Administration . Only two Georgians supported the Aaministration in the 1961 rules fight . A Reward Is Indicated There were indications today that Mr. Vinson would be promptly rewarded by the assignment of a protege , Representative Phil M. Landrum of Georgia , to a coveted seat on the House Ways and Means , Committee . House Democrats will caucus Monday to fill two Democratic vacancies on the powerful committee . Mr. Landrum , generally classified as a conservative , and Representative Ross Bass of Tennessee , known as a Southern liberal , appeared to be the leading candidates . Another liberal , Representative W. Pat Jennings of Virginia , is also seeking one of the seats . Mr. Landrum 's candidacy got an unexpected lift today with the disclosure that Representative James Roosevelt of California is a supporter . Mr. Roosevelt told colleagues he w a s backing the Georgian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and said several other Californians would also do so . This brought into the open a split among militant House liberals who are active in the Democratic Study Group , an organization . of 10 0-odd representatives . ' Mr. Roosevelt is a vice chairman . Other leaders of the group are supporting the Jennings a n d Bass candidacies . They had hoped , until the split developed , to defeat Mr. Landrum . Assignments Held Critical The Ways and Means assignments are regarded as critical for the Administration because the committee has jurisdiction over tax , trade and Social- Security legislation , including medical care for the aged . President Kennedy has informed House Democratic leaders that the two appointees must , above all else , be supporters of t h e Administration 's medical care bill . Mr. Landrum has not publicly committed himself on the medicare issue . It was reliably reported today , however , that he had assured party leaders that he was willing to vote to report a bill to the floor , even though he might oppose it , to give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to discuss his position when questioned by reporters but remarked that he was not an " obstructionist " and would not be one if named to the Ways and Means Committee . The shift in Georgia votes on the rules issue has aroused much speculation over , the possibility that Democratic leaders h a d made a " deal " to support the Landrum candidacy for the committee . This has been denied on all sides . Democratic leaders have not disclosed which of the three candidates they intend to support . Signs that a number of big-city Northern Democrats were backing Mr. Landrum lent weight to assumptions that Speaker John W. McCormack of Massachusetts and other party leaders favored him . Mr. Boggs predicted that deterioration of the conservative coalition would be demonstrated as the session progressed in the voting on medical care , tax revision and a number of other ! issues . He attributed the situation to the November elections , in which Southern voters in several states evidenced a swing away from ultra-conservative candidates . He cited races in Florida , Georgia and Texas . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is becoming a whole lot stronger in the House as a party and not as an adjunct of the Republican Party . " Mr. McCormack hailed the rules victory as " a most favorable sign . " " Of course it augurs well for the President 's program , " he told reporters . The House vote continued the Rules Committee at 15 members ? 10 Democrats and five Republicans ? to assure the Administration an 8-to-7 majority on most issues . The victory was regarded as of the highest importance by President Kennedy and House Democratic leaders because of the committee 's power to block or delay bills approved by the legislative committees of the House . The Rules Committee would have reverted to 12 members under conservative domination if the Administration had lost the battle . Much of the President 's legislative program thus might have been obstructed .                     