@@723782

txt A dynamite blast derailed 14 cars of the strike-1 plagued Florida East Coast ' Railway tonight , exploding a tank car full of liquid petroleum and setting fire to the woods I nearby . Authorities said one man in the caboose was injured , apparently when he jumped from the ' train . He was taken to Fish Memorial Hospital for treatment of minor injuries . W. L. Thornton , vice president of the railway , said the explosion was " attempted murder ... obvious sabotage . " Union officials said they deplored the incident . Contracts Awaited " I do n't believe that the unions had anything to do with this incident , " said George E. Leighty , chief negotiator for the striking workers . " We have continually cautioned our people against violence . We are not iriterested in seeing the railroad damaged because we expect to have new contracts with them , within the next few months and we would like to see a prosperous company at that time . " It was not determined immediately exactly where the explosion struck as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Mr. Thornton said four engines and 62 cars rolled over the twisted tracks before 14 loaded cars  --  includ- ' ing several tankers  --  spilled off the tracks . Last Sunday morning , an explosion blasted a Florida East Coast train off the tracks in Miami , sending more than 30 , burning ' cars hurtling into a creek and onto a busy highway . No one was seriously hurt . Year-Long Strike Wednesday night , the police , reported that a group of boys yanked the fusing mechanism off 45 sticks of dynamite tied to the line 's tracks seconds before a train passed . Eleven unions have been on strike against the company for more than a year , and the company charges that there have been about 150 cases of sabotage since then . The incidents increased this week when the line began serving the Cape Kennedy space center . Union pickets at the center caused a halt in construction there for two days until a Federal judge enjoined them from picketing . The union involved is the Order of Railway Telegraphers . Meanwhile , in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the dispute between the railroad and its employes at Cape Kennedy . The commission decided unanimously to attempt to settle the dispute , in which picketing of a , Florida East Coast spur entering the Government space sites on Merritt Island and Cape Kennedy halted space work earlier in the week . The commission adopted a statement calling on the Railroad Telegraphers Union to refrain from picketing while the commission has the dispute under consideration . The statement also called on the union and the company to maintain " full and continuous operations at the sites " while the matter is under consideration . Construction was halted Monday and Tuesday at the space installations when telegraphers picketed the sites . Work resumed Wednesday after a temporary injunction had been issued by a Federal judge to ban picketing at construction locations . The telegraphers union promised yesterday not to picket for at least five days pending a hearing on the dispute , which is primarily over wages . Wage Rise in Dispute Eleven nonoperating unions began a strike against the Florida East Coast Railway Company on Jan. 23 , 1963 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 10 cents an hour . Since then , the railway has contended that it has been racked by violence and sabotage that have slowed its freight-only service along the Eastern Coast of Florida . The labor dispute recently brought picketing at both Cape Kennedy and Merritt Island , two of the country 's major centers for space exploration .                     