@@726067

txt Representative Emanuel Celler , Democrat of Brooklyn , will head the special committee that ' will investigate Representative Adam Clayton Powell . Because Mr. Celler is chairman of the Judiciary Committee , his selection suggested that House Speaker John W. McCormack would draw all five Democrats for the special committee from Judiciary , as suggested by Representative Wayne L. Hays , Democrat of Ohio . Mr. Celler , whose 23 consecutive terms make him the senior House member , would not confirm his appointment but said that " as a good soldier I am willing to take over the task . " In the event he was assigned , he said , he would be " entitled to commiserations , not congratulations . " Panel to Have 5 Weeks Mr. Celler was originally considered a target by Negro groups fur the next election because he had failed to help Mr. Powell . But today A. Phillip Randolph , a key civil rights leader , said there were no plans to wage warfare against Mr. Celler , whom he described as a stanch champion of civil rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The committee will have five weeks to report on the qualifications of Representative Powell , who was temporarily barred from his scat on Jan. 10 . The ranking Republican on Judiciary is William M. McCulloch of Ohio . Party leaders have been trying to persuade him to take the assignment . Both sides are looking for members who have not been embroiled in the Powell controversy and who have no political circumstances in their districts that would inhibit them from serving objectively on the committee . Representative Celler 's district takes in an area that includes some Brooklyn slums , Canarsie and the Rockaways in Queens . About 40 per cent of the district 's 425,000 residents are Jewish and about 20 per cent are Negro . Many of the others are of Italian , Irish or Puerto Rican extraction . Mr. Powell , who is under a criminal contempt of court cita ? tion in New York City , as well as under three civil citations , lost a move in the Supreme Court today to block a New York judge 's order for his arrest if he enters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without comment . He also refused to block enforcement of a $164,000 damage award to Mrs. Esther James , the Harlem woman that Mr. Powell was convicted of defaming . He had been charged with calling her a " bag woman , " a go-between for the police and gamblers , on a television program . Mr. Powell had contended in his petition that the arrest order , issued Nov. 28 by State Supreme Court Justice Arthur Markewich , was " repugnant to the Constitution " because it would keep him from attending sessions of the House . Actually , Mr. Powell has been barred by the House from attending session , but there is no indication that Justice Harlan relied on that point in rejecting the petition . The committee on committees , meantime , inconclusively debated the question of Mr. Powell 's committee rights , then decided to refer the issue to the Democratic caucus , which voted to give his chairmanship of education and labor to Carl D. Perkins of Kentucky . But it did not determine whether to slot the New Yorker just below Mr. Perkins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No date has been set for another Democratic caucus . Suits Seek to Aid Powell Federal Judge David N. Edelstein reserved decision yesterday on an attempt by a Harlem group for a lull hearing on its suit to enjoin the Government from taxing Harlem residents as long as Representative Adam Clayton Powell remains unseated . Later in the day , 92 of Mr. Powell 's constitutents filed another suit with Judge Edelstein in an attempt to have a hearing to enjoin the Sheriff of New York county from arresting Mr. Powell if he comes here . Decision was also reserved on this suit . The suit by the 92 constituents , headed by A. Philip Randolph , president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters , challenged an all inclusive arrest order in State Supreme Court calling for the arrest of Mr. ' Powell for his defiance of the state court in a $164,000 defamation case . The first suit brought by the constitutents was thrown out Jan. 9 because of technical defects in legal papers . The suit filed yesterday sought to correct those errors . Preliminary argument in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kendall Smith , chairman of the Harlem Citizens for Community Action . He claimed that President Johnson and the Congress should be enjoined from taxing citizens in Mr. Powell 's district as long as the Representatives was denied his Congressional seat . The group based much of its The New York Times Studio REJECTS PLEA : Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan refused to upset New York judge 's decision in the case of Adam Clayton Powell . : ase on the theory of " taxation without representation . " In reply , Assistant United states Attorney Arthur S. Glick said that the suit had technical : aults and that in any case the zourt lacked jurisdiction over the President and that the ' separation of powers embodied n our Constitution " prohibits Federal courts from issuing injunctions against the President or Congress .                     