@@727971

txt Neither the lull on the battlefield nor the impasse at the conference table is being taken at face value by the men guiding Vietnam policy for the Nixon Administration . They expect new moves by the enemy in both places that will accelerate both the fighting and the bargaining . President Nixon and his aides also expect the summer to pass without a clear indication of Hanoi 's basic current strategy . They are said to believe that North Vietnam will try to remain poised for two courses , wearing out the United States with reduced but prolonged military action or settling in Paris for a fairly swift deal if it seems to promise long-range political benefits . Withdrawals Discussed Faced with this ambiguity , officials here are finding it difficult to settle upon a single course for themselves . For instance , President Nixon ' is generally expected to announce another set of troop withdrawals next month . If the fighting continues at a low level , he may act early in the month rather than late , as originally planned . But deeper calculations must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is expected to be at least 25,000 men but possibly as many as 45,000 . In weighing these choices and wondering what additional inducements to offer at the negotiating table , even the highest officials here do not pretend to possess a reliable explanation for the enemy 's decision to avoid major ground action . Moreover , the officials are no longer so sure as they were a short time ago that the lull will end with another resounding offensive throughout South Vietnam . They think now that North Vietnam may prefer a more modest level of fighting and a larger number of hitand-run terror strikes that keep American casualty rates well above 100 every week but avoid huge losses for the enemy . Simultaneously , the officials here expect Hanoi to amend its bargaining position in Paris in ways that would tempt American public opinion but further frighten the Saigon GovernI went , which fears a hasty and total American pullout . As seen here those military ' and political moves would be designed by Hanoi to play upon American impatience with the war and to exacerbate relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration lies a basic assumption that both the United States and North Vietnam are now finding the war a physical burden and a political liability . Without knowing which side is hurting more , the officials sense a situation in which both boxers are struggling to stay in the ring in the hope that the other will falter first . The pressures here are felt in the need to demonstrate , through troop withdrawals and other devices , that the end is in sight . President Nixon , like Lyndon B. Johnson before him , is beginning to feel handicapped by the dissent and by calls in the Senate and elsewhere for a quick withdrawal and for the ! public extraction of further concessions from the Saigon Government . Officials are privately expressing the wish that those pressing for a quick end of war would address at least half their pleadings to Hanoi . Republican leaders , apparently reflecting the Administration 's sense of weakness , argued on the Senate floor today that excessive criticism was encouraging Hanoi to wait out the United States instead of negotiating with it . Weariness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take to be evidence of restlessness , weariness and dissent in North Vietnam . They cite political speeches in Hanoi that point to a widespread malaise , impatience with shortages and other costs of the war . They think they detect the existence of a leadership faction that would be willing to postpone the reunification of Vietnam to another day if their southern allies could gain a fair share of political power through a peace agreement or virtual cease-fire . A distinct but still minority share of the power is what the , Nixon Administration has so far offered the Vietcong . If Hanoi should choose to accept these invitations and move quickly toward a political deal , the Nixon Administration believes that such devices as an " electoral commission " and the elections themselves could be adapted to meet some of the Vietcong desire for a share of ' I the power in Saigon itself . But officials here are not dis- , posed to speak openly of " coalition government " or otherwise keep sweetening the pot on the Paris table . They think they have moved far enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signal their interest in a deal and want Hanoi and the Vietcong to engage them and the Saigon leaders in direct talks . If Hanoi should choose instead to fight on , at least at reduced levels , the hope here is that the challenge can be met even as tens of thousands of I American troops are withdrawn and more combat assignments are given to the South Vietnamese Army . The Administration 's planners see risks for both sides in either course . Their major concern at the moment is that Hanoi , rather than Washington , has the basic choice of strategy . Lacking the strategic initiative , officials here appear determined to cling at least to the tactical initiative of continuing search-and-destroy operations to keep the enemy from massing for major attacks and to challenge bases and routes of supply .                     