@@722338

txt ALBANY , March 14 -- Two bills authorizing New York City to seize the strikebound Fifth Avenue Coach Lines were approved in the Assembly today by votes of 146 to 1 . But a political fight in the Senate threatened to delay passage there , perhaps until Monday . The Senate majority leader , Walter J. Mahoney of Buffalo , was reportedly irked because Governor Rockefeller and New York City had not consulted him on the drafting of a citystate agreement on the measures . In New York City , State Supreme Court Justice Irving H. Saypol offered to serve as a peacemaker in the dispute between the city and the bus lines . He invited their attorneys to private talks in his chambers , but they declined . Final Session Today The Senate will hold its final session of the week tomorrow and will not meet again until Monday . This means that the 1,500,000 daily riders of Fifth Avenue buses may have to'wait until next Wednesday for service , because the Transit Authority , which would operate the lines under the legislation , has said it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly , Democrats and Republicans exchanged only a few political shafts before approving the bills . In the brief but sharp debate , both sides sought to claim credit for the compromise between Nfayor Wagner and Governor Rockefeller . The Assembly majority leadGeorge L. Ingalls of Binghamton , chided the Wagner administration for having sent .. tp " bills that would have allowed the city to evade its responsibility for setting fares . " He said the Governor 's staff lad insisted on amendments continuing the fare-regulating authority for the Fifth Avenue lines with the Board of Estimate . He said the state had also insisted that any condemnation of the lines be authorized by a State Supreme Court justice and not , as the city had proposed , by just a resolution of the Board of Estimate . Anthony J. Travia , the Assembly minority leader , insisted that the compromise agreement arrived at last night between the Governor 's counsel , Robert MacCrate , and the city Corporation Counsel , Leo A. Larkin , had been " dictated " by Mr. Larkin . One of the measures passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and garages of the Fifth Avenue company and abolishes the right , of the bus company to hold franchises to operate certain routes in the city . The second measure establishes the authority of the Board of Estimate to set bus fares on the lines by contract with an operator . A version of this bill submitted by the Mayor would have stripped the board of the power to authorize higher or lower fares . The Governor 's staff argued that this would have had the ultimate effect of throwing back to the state Public Service Commission the responsibility for any fare increases . The only Assemblyman voting against the two bus bills was Joseph Younglove , a Fulton County Republican . He said he had opposed both bills because he believed New York City should continue operating the Fifth Avenue lines once it took them over . He said the city might escape its responsibility to operate the lines properly if it was able to turn them over eventually to a private operator . A third measure to facilitate the city 's efforts to take over the lines was agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To Be Set Up It would set up a subsidiary corporation under the Transit Authority to operate the Fifth Avenue lines . It would be a temporary agency , expiring in September , 1963 , by which time , the city would be required to make a permanent decision as , to public or private operation . The city would either grant or lend $5,000,000 to this corporation to finance its bus op- ' erations for the immediate , future . Senator Mahoney Is now the ' only obstacle to city seizure of the lines . He is known to be angry over what he feels is the usurpation ' of legislative authority by the Governor . He feels strongly that Mr. Rockefeller should have consulted with him and with other legislative leaders at every step .                     