@@727223

txt HONG KONG  --  As far as the Chinese Communist public news media are concerned , there are no Vietnam peace talks . Chairman Mao Tse-tung and his regime were opposed to the Paris talks to begin with . The talks implied that the Vietnamese Communists might be willing to compromise with the United States and its allies short of a full Communist victory in Vietnam , and this the Chinese Communists did not want . They wished to see " U. S. imperialism " defeated , weakened and discredited in Asia and to find vindicated the Maoist thesis that " people 's liberation wars " such as the Vietnamese struggle can bring total victory if pursued with the right tactics and determination . The Peking leaders , moreover , have wanted the Vietnam war to continue as a source of tension between the Soviets and the United State , and have feared that its ending without a Communist victory would damage Communist China 's revolutionary image and power position . It there is one thing that pleases them about the news from Paris , it is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they have preferred not to relay even that news to the Chinese people . Hsinhua , the Peking press agency , and Chinese Communist newspapers reported President Johnson 's proposal to Hanoi for peace talks , labeling the overtures a " peace-talks fraud " engineered in collaboration with the " Soviet revisionists . " But they have never recorded the fact that the North Vietnamese accepted the proposals and entered into discussions at Paris . Nor have Chinese Communist news media eve ; reported that the United States has ceased to bomb most of North Vietnam . Hanoi 's chief delegate to Paris , Xuan Thuy , passed through Peking on his way to France and discussed the prospective talks with the Peking leaders . This was reported by the North Vietnam news agency but not by any Chinese Communist press organ . The same thing happened with the stopover in Peking on the way to Paris of Le Duc Tho , top North Vietnam official sent from Hanoi in early June to assist Thuy . Since the Paris talks began , Peking press media have noticeably toned down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Vietnam war , and they have had to be silent , of course , about the intransigent attitude the North Vietnamese have taken at the nonexistent Paris talks . Yet despite their cleptr disapproval of the Paris talks , there is no indication that Chinese Communist leaders have so far done more than express their views verbally to the Vietnamese , doubtless in much stronger terms privately than those used publicly . Rail Supplies Cut Rail and road routes carrying Chinese and Soviet war materials through Communist China to North Vietnam were cut  --  seemingly temporarily  --  in mid-June , but this is believed by China analysts here to have been the result of factional fighting and flooding in Kwangsi rather than to any decisions by Peking to penalize Hanoi for the Paris talks . There have been reports of demonstrations against the Paris talks by Chinese before North Vietnamese consulates in Nanning and Canton , but these reports are Russian and could be distorted , like much of the Soviet reporting on Communist China . Though plainly still opposed to any Vietnamese yielding , Peking , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the United States . Whether this means Peking would also accept a Vietnamese Communist compromise with the United States permitting a substantially non-Communist regime to exist in South Vietnam is too early to tell . Possibly Peking still hopes and believes things will work out , abetted by Chinese arguments and intrigues in Hanoi , so that no Vietnamese-American settlement can occur except on the basis of a Communist triumph . There are no signs that Peking is preparing for the possibility of the Vietnam talks producing a d  --  tente between Communist and anti-Communist forces in Southeast Asia as a whole . Except for Cambodia , with which Peking maintains reasonably friendly relations , the Chinese Communists continue to scorn all other Southeast Asia governments and to back Communist revolutionary movements against them . A settlement in Vietnam would undoubtedly affect Peking 's attitudes to Southeast Asian countries , but Peking will doubtless wait and see whether a settlement eventuates before deciding on any policy change . What faction , moderate or extremist , is in control in Peking at the time of a settlement would also affect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company appear to be living with the unpleasant reality of the Vietnam peace talks while doing much thinking and probably some scheming about contingencies . 1 : ? L111.1311 ? 4                     