@@724269

txt J. Edgar Hoover warned the Warren Commission against tightening protection of the President to the point where the nation would have " totalitarian security . " " I do n't think you can get absolute security without , almost establishing a police state , " he said , " and we do n't want that . " Portions of the ' testimony of the director of the Federal Bureau of In- vestigation were printed in ' The Washington Evening Star today . It was generally believed here that Mr. Hoover or an aide had made the material available in an effort to rebut criticism of the bureau in the Warren report , The report said the bureau had taken " an , unduly restrictive view of its role in preventive intelligence work " before President Kennedy 's assassination last Nov. 22 . It ' said a ' wiser view might have led the bureau to warn the Secret Service about Lee Harvey Oswald , who the commission concluded was the assassin . Some Criticize Warren . This conclusion is known to , have stung - Mr . Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it as unfair , and some said privately that they thought Chief Justice Earl Warren , the commission chairman , had in animus against the bureau . The commission report was unanimously agreed to by the seven members . The passage on the bureau conceded that it was written with the benefit of " hindsight . " And brief note web made of the dangers of to6 sweeping security measures . Mr. Hoover 's testimony was going to be made public shortly in any event , along with the many other volumes of commission transcript . The feeling was that this advance leak was designed to produce a quicker and better-publicized response . A bureau spokesman , asked Whether ' any official had made the transcript available to The Star , said ; " I do not think so . " " I do n't know just where it came from , " he added . . In his testimony , which he gave on May 14 , - Mr. Hoover made two main points that related to the commission 's subsequent criticism of the bureau . . One was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all conceivably suspect persons in a city he was to visit , or placing them under . house arrest . This , Mr. Hoover said , would be intolerable . Secondly , he contended that information available on Oswald did not indicate that he was a potential assassin . He said the bureau had seen a " report of the State Department that indicated this man was a thoroughly safe risk . " The State Department issued a statement this evening saying that a thorough search of its files disclosed no document that had made or implied any such finding on Oswald . The - release of the testimony of Mr. Hoover , together with the State Department 's answer-1 ing comment , was the first crack in the Government 's unity and caution on the whole question of the assassination . ? Some observers were concerned tonight that there would be further inter-agency squabbles . Embassy Report Mr. Hoover 's testimony indicated . that he was referring to a report of the American embassy in Moscow concerning Oswald 's change of mind about defecting to the Soviet ? ' Union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asked for his estimate of Oswald 's motives , he replied that Oswald was " no doubt a dedicated Communist . " But Mr. Hoover discounted any claim that Oswald was a Soviet agent or had been acting on behalf of theU.S.S.R . He said he thought Oswald shodd have been allowed to renounce this citizenship at once when he made his one attempt ) in Moscow , and then not allowed to return . On the question of whit had been known about Oswald in Dallas before the assassination , Mr. Hoover emphasized ? as the commission report showed ? that no one except his wife had known Oswald had shot at former Maj. Gen. Edwin A. Walker . No Hint of Violence At the time , Mr. Hoover said , " we found no indication at all that Oswald was a man addicted to violence . " On the broader question of what precautionary measures could be taken when a President is visiting a city , Mr. Hoover took a position notably sensitive to civil liberties . He said that during a recent president trip to Chicago , local police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . and had held those persons " almost in a house arrest . " He saw a severe danger that local police would resolve all risks in the favor of tighter security and keep anyone on a Secret Service list , however broadly defined , In his house until after the President had left town . " That is what you would call totalitarian security , " Mr. Hoover said .                     