@@721980

txt Louis J. Lefkowitz , the Republican candidate for Mayor , has called on Frank Kenna , the Queens Republican leader , for an explanation of charges made against him by Mayor Wagner . Mr. Lefkowitz , who also is the State Attorney General , implied yesterday that unless Mr. Kenna provided a prompt and satisfactory explanation , he should resign , Mr. Lefkowitz made it clear in a statement that he demanded the " highest standard of ethics " not only from public officials but also from political leaders . " Those in public office and party position who are charged with irregularities or indiscretions also must act promptly in giving the public their side of the story , " Mr , Lefkowitz said , in an obvious reference to Mr. Kenna . Kenna , Is Silent " In their own hearts and minds , they know best of all whether they have gone beyond the bounds of public and political morality . " Governor Rockefeller has been reported favoring Mr. Kenna 's resignation " for the good of the party " and to spare it any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Queens leader have been at odds for at least a year over other matters . Mr. Kenna was not available for comment . The Queens Republican leader has been accused by the Mayor of " sordid use of political office for private profit " and of having " blackjacked " builders into paying for appraisals that were never made . The Mayor said he based his accusations on investigations made ' 337 the State Investigation Commission and city Investigations Commissioner Louis I. Kaplan . Entire Report Sought From time to time the Mayor has released portions of the reports detailing Mr. Kenna 's alleged dealings with builders , including the corporation that sponsored Lindenwood , a Federally aided housing development in Queens . Mr. Lefkowitz renewed his demand yesterday that the Mayor release the entire report " from which he has been feeding the public politically selected extracts . " He said he had asked the Mayor " several times " for the report , copies of which have already been sent to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and to Queens District Attorney ' Frank O'Connor . Accusing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he finds it expedient to ask me publicly to comment ion the report , but at the same film he refuses to let me see the dOcUment . " A spokesman for the Mayor ( denied last night that any reqUest had been made of the Mayor or anyone in his office for a copy of the Kaplan report on ' Mr. - Kenna . Meanwhile , Mayor Wagner renewed his demand that Mr. Lefkowitz repudiate Mr. Kenna , Mr. Wagner declared that Mr. Lefkowitz " knows what was in the State Investigation Commission 's report on Kenna , and the graft involved in the Lin denwood housing project in Queens . " He said Mr. Lefkowitz also knows how to get Mr. Kaplan 's report . He charged that Mr. Lefkowitz was " hiding behind technical excuses " instead of repudiating Mr. Kenna , because the Queens leader was one of the men who had " hand-picked " Mr. Lefkowitz for the Republican nomination . ' Look-Alike , Charged " My Republican and Democratic machine opponents are beginning to look alike , " he ' continued . " Neither is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five Democratic county leaders are supporting State Controller Arthur Levitt against the Mayor for the Democratic nomination . Mr. Kenna 's name was injected into the political campaign when Mayor Wagner revealed that Mr. Kenna was one of three political figures mentioned in a report submitted to the Mayor by the S. I. C. The report was sent to both the Mayor and Governor Rockefeller last June 21 . S. I. C. officials explained that it dealt with evidence not sufficient for a public hearing , but perhaps meriting disciplinary . action . The two others named were Philip Gilsten , former deputy city treasurer , and Armand D'Angelo , city Commissioner of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity . Mr. D'Angelo is on leave from his office to campaign for Mayor Wagner . The Mayor discharged Mr. ' Glisten , saying the report showed he had personal funds for which he could not account . Mr. Gilsten , leader of the North End Democratic Club in the Bronx and a former secretary to Representative Charles A. Buckley , charged later that he had been discharged because he had refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. I. C. report on Commissioner D'Angelo as having cast no reflection on his " integrity or ability . "                     