@@721497

txt Two major ' innovations in United States foreign policy Were proposed by Vice President Nixon today . In a speeckbefore the American Legion 's annual convention in Miami Beach , he called for a " quarantine " . of . Cuba , employing strong , , econornie measures , to , prevent the Castro regime from extending its . influence in Latin America . He also called for the . use of the . United : States veto power to bar Communist China from the United Nations until that ' nation ceased ? flouting international:law . The veto , which . applies only to the Security Council , could not keep the Peiping regime out of the General Assembly . There IS some question whether it could be used to bar the regime from the Council . The Nixon took sharp issue with him on the condition of American military strength and how to deal with the problem of Communist China . , In discussing the Chinese question , Mr. Nixon referred to a speech made two weeks ago in Denver by Adlai E. Stevenson , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a statement the senator had made on the subject during a television interview Sunday . He quoted Mr. Stevenson as making the proposition that the ( United States support seating Communist China in return for a promise to guarantee the freeRlorn of Formosa . " Such a promise , " the Vice : President said . " would be respected only as long as it serVed the Communists ' purpose . " In New York , Mr. Steven'son denied the charge ? and termed it " just another example of Mr. Nixon 's recklessness . " Referring to Senator Kennedy 's tevision interview , the Vice President continued : " Last Sunday it was suggested that we support the U. N. membership of Red China if they would renounce their official policy of belief in the inevitability and desirability of war and if they would disavow hostility to the United Nations . " When are we going to learn that it , is n't what Communists say but what they do that counts ? " Citing the Korean war , the seizure of Tibert , the imprisonment of American civilians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if President , " consider a veto fully justifed " in " any effort to admit this nation to membership . " As for Cuba , Mr. Nixon remarked that the United States had been extremely patient in its dealings with Premier Fidel Castro because the Eisenhower Administration recognized that America 's great power must be used wisely . The Vice President did not attempt to specify what the quarantine measures would be . NIXON PROPOSES CUBA'QUARANTINE ' // proposals were warmly applauded by Legion delegates , and the Vice President was interrupted by applause fifteen times during his speech . Senator John F. Kennedy , Mr. Nixon 's Democratic rival for President , addressed the convention about an hour earlier . Both are World War II veterans and members of the ; Legion . Some who heard both candidates believed Mr. Nixon had received the warmer reception . Mr. Nixon 's Legion speech was the highlight of a busy day of campaigning in Florida , where a number of newspaper and other polls indicate . He holds an edge over Senator Kennedy . Although for many years considered a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave its ten electoral votes to the Republicans in 1952 and 1356 and most political observers expect it to do so again this year . The Vice President also addressed large outdoor rallies in Jacksonville , Tampa and St. Petersburg . He flew to Wilmington , Del. , tonight for a morning rally tomorrow and then will go to New York City . He is scheduled to appear tomorrow night at the annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner with Senator Kennedy . The dinner is a nonpolitical fund-raising event for the , benefit of Roman Catholic charities . One apparent purpose of Mr. Nixon 's foreign policy discussion at the Legion convention today was to set the stage for his ! television debate with Senator ' 1Kennedy Friday night . r- Without mentioning the Senator by name today , the Republican Presidential candidate Presumably they might include withdrawal of diplomatic recognition and a severance of trade relations . Mr. Nixon mentioned that Cuba now owed the United States more than $150,000,000 .. Mr. Nixon 's quarantine proposal was understood to refer to measures President Eisenhower is expected to announce shortly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with other republics in the Western Hemisphere . But the United States is reported planning to put some economic sanctions into effect without waiting for joint action . In mentioning the subject today , Mr. Nixon was understood to be acting as a sort of Administration spokesman . He is said to have been urging the quarantine course on the President for some time . Henry Cabot Lodge , Mr. Nixon 's running mate for Vice President , is reported planning a speech.elaborating on the Red Chinese veto proposals Thurs day in Minneapolis . Derides Rival on Arms Mr. Nixon derided SenatorKennedy 's criticism of the Eisenhower Administration 's record on disarmament negotiations . The United States can not surrender its demand for an adequate inspection system to make sure the agreement is carried out by both sides , he declared . Mr. Nixon 's day began at Buffalo , N. Y. At Jacksonville on his first Florida stop , the Vice President and Mrs. Nixon were warmly applauded by a crowd estimated variously at from 5,000 to 15,000 persons . It completely filled a square in the heart of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Petersburg later in the day , where ? the crowd was even bigger . Mr. Nixon assailed Senator Kennedy 's " New Frontiers " program , To reach and cross them he has " retreaded the discredited and unworkable policies of the Truman Administration , the Republican candidate charged . Actually , he went on , ' Senator Kennedy is engaged in " several dangerous maneuvers of retreat " from the frontiers of freedom . In this category , he listed the proposal to exclude Quemoy and Matsu from the American defense guarantees in the Pacific . On the domestic front , Mr. Nixon said the Kennedy farm program would involve controls as drastic as those in effect in many Communist countries . He gave former Vice President Henry A , Wallace as authority for this estimate . The spending programs advocated by Senator Kennedy , he said , can lead only to higher taxes and inflation .                     