@@724745

txt President Johnson announced tonight that he had committed a total of 11,000 United States troops to the Dominican Republic and said that their mission was to protect lives and to " prevent another Communist state in this hemisphere . " Mr. Johnson said that what began as a " popular democratic revolution . ' eight days ago had been seized by a ' ' band of Communist conspirators . " He appealed to non-Communist rebels to lay down their arms and urged all the American nations to support him in the defense ' of " common principles . " The President spoke over television from the White House beginning about 10 P.M. , after the Administration had made vigorous efforts to obtain a formal hemisphere sanction and Latin-American contributions for the intervention . 0 . A.S . Group Pressed United States officials were said to have been pressing for a prompt assessment from a five-nation peace committee of the Organization of American States that has been sent to the Dominican Republic . The United States wants to know the extent of Communist infiltration and it also seeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , and , it was hoped , other Latin-American countries . The United States was also planning a " massive " shipment of food and other supplies to all parts of the Dominican Republic , an operation that might take its soldiers and marines into the countryside . But officials hoped that this project , too , would get the assent of the O.A.S . He Cites Tragic Turn ' Mr. Johnson reviewed some of the last week 's developments in the Dominican Republic . He said he ordered military intervention Wednesday with great reluctance only after he had been warned that failure to act would risk the lives of United States citizens and other foreigners in Santo Domingo . He said that " meanwhile " the revolt had taken a " tragic turn " and had fallen increasingly under the control of Communist leaders . He did not name them , but said that " many " had been ' trained in Cuba . " We in this hemisphere , " he asserted , " must use every resource at our command to prevent establishment of another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been killed in the fighting and that their bodies were still on the streets . He disclosed that earlier to // day he had ordered 2,000 more men into Santo Domingo ; other officials said brought the total number of United States soldiers and marines there to , more than ' 9,500 . This after- noon , Mr. Johnson added , he had ordered 4 ; 500 additional troops to the scene . The President did not direct- ly explain the reasons for the virtual doubling of the United States forces in a single day . He said 3,000 people from 301 countries had been evacuated , from Santo Domingo and that 5,000 other foreigners , including 1,500 United States citizens , ' still needed protection . Other officials , reporting earlier-today that the total United States commitment would rapidly rise to more than a division ? that is to at least 15,000 ? said the build-up was necessary to discourage further violence , by the rebels . The size of the rebel force has still not been reliably estimated , sources stressed , but the Administrition doubts that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many as 25,000 , however , and there are thought to be weapons for at least 10,000 available . Reports from Santo Domingo , however , are said to indicate that there are " some pretty determined fellows " among the forces that overthrew President Donald Reid Cabral a week ago . The Administration was said to have decided to prepare for the worst rather than risk greater bloodshed by underestimating the problems . Diplomatic canvasses of other American governments have thus far uncovered little en- ' husiasm for the proposal that they contribute troops . We . Averell Harriman , Ambassador at Large , began a tour of at least four Latin capitals to explain United States policies and to argue the case for troop contributions : It was hoped that Washing- ' ton 's requests would soon be underscored by a direct appeal from the O.A.S . peace commis-1 sion . Harriman in Peru Mr. Harriman , who arrived in Peru today , has already visited Colombia . He will go to Argentina and Brazil and perhaps several other countries . Another envoy , Teodoro Moscoso , former coordinator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sent to Mexico City and Caracas , Venezuela . Moves to chastise Washington In the O.A.S . Council meetlogs yesterday were averted ' when the organization refused to call for the withdrawal of United States troops . The organization finally accepted a compromise resolutilin elablishing a five-nation commission'and instructing it to work for the " restoration of peace and normality . " As soon as the committee was formed , officials expanded their , definition of the mission of United States troops to include the task of " help to the committee . " Seeks Elected Government The President gave no indication of how long he thought United States troops would have to remain in the Dominican Republic . He said that the United States wanted to see the emergence of a freely elected government dedicated to social justice . But he stressed that the Administration was not taking sides among non-Communist political factions and would regard the formation of a new government as ' ' solely " a matter for the Dominican people . President Johnson 's repeated appeals for understanding and support in the hemisphere demonstrated the serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unilateral United States intervention . The President emphasized his respect for the ideals and motives of many ? f the participants in the Dominican revolt and said that only the danger of a Communist take-over and the desire to protect innocent foreigners had prompted the military landings . He pointed to Washington 's restraint in the first days of the revolt and suggested that the O.A.S . had had time to consider the situation even before the marines went ashore . This was clearly a reply to several Latin nations , notably Venezuela , Mexico and Chile , that had expressed resentment of Washington 's handling of the situation and that have resisted attempts to sanction the intervention at this stage by what some Latin diplomats have called an " international fig leaf . " In a " personal word " at the end of his address , Mr. Johnson made it plain , however , that with or without further hemisphere support , the United States would take whatever action it deemed necessary to defend itself against Communist pressure , subversion and other threats , The passage appeared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make in recent weeks in both Vietnam and the Caribbean , He said : " I know that no American serviceman wants to kill anyone . And I know that no American President wants to*give an order which ' , brings shooting and casualties and death . But I want you to know , and I want the world to know , that as long as I am President of this country , we are going to defend ourselves . " Before the President 's statement tonight that Communist conspirators had " taken over and really seized " the Dominican rebellion , Administration officials had been stressing the " humanitarian " purposes of intervention . The President repeated his passabe on the takeover apparently because he reread one of his pages or otherwise was led to lose his place in the text , Yesterday , after the O.A.S . committee was formed , the United States cited the organization 's sanction for an international zone " in Santo Domingo , a strip of land including the grounds of the United States Embassy . The zone had actually been established before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been expanded today to include some other embassies . Officials confirmed also that United States troops were moving out from their other point of concentration at the airport in San Isidro , taking over positions previously occupied by the troops of Brig . Gen. Elias Wessin y Wessin , who resisted the rebels ' attempt to return former President Juan Bosch to power . The fear of spreading these troops too thin and thus inviting attack was given as one reason for the need to pour more troops in . The main reason , however , was said to be precautionary ; the greater the number of United States troops on the ground the smaller the chance of their being challenged . Spread of Rebels Feared There has been some speculation that a larger number of troops would soon be needed to prevent armed rebels from fleeing into the countryside , where they could mount guerrilla at . tacks . The situation preoccupied leading Administration officials . Secretary of State Dean Rusk sent his deputy , Under Secretary George W. Ball , to London to replace him at sessions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferred several times with Mr. Rusk ; Defense ' Secretary Robert S. ; Bundy , his special assistant for national security affairs ; Thomas C. Mann , Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , and Ellsworth Bunker , who represents the United States in the O.A.S . This evening , before making his television address , the President called 15 leading members of-Congress to the White House to meet with him and with his advisers to discuss the situation .                     