@@726321

txt The House of Commons tonight overwhelmingly approved the Government 's decision to apply for membership in the European Common Market . The vote was 488 to 62 . The " no " votes were cast by 34 Labor party members , 26 Conservatives , one Liberal and the one Welsh Nationalist Member of Parliament . Apparently more than 60 members abstained . Jean Monnet , the French economist who dreamed the dream of European unity , and gave it life in the market , watched from the gallery . He was there through hours of debate and during the tumult of voting . The presence of Mr. Monnet added to the emotions in the gilded rectangular chamber . For although the one-sided victory had been expected , the actual moment was the turning of a page for Britain . Previous Bid in 1961 The vote was evidence that both major parties now solidly wanted the nation in the market , or European Economic Community . The previous application was made by a Conservative party government in 1961 without Labor support , and without success . Government officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the French Cabinet had produced some kind words about the British application . A more definitive glimpse of the French position may come next week at President de Gaulle 's scheduled news conference , Tomorrow at 9 A.M. the British Ambassador to the market , Sir James Marjoribanks , is to walk into its offices in Brussels and present the application for membership in the Common Market , the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Coal and Steel Community . Short and to the Point ' It will be " short , clear , positive and to the point , " Foreign Secretary George Brown told the House today . " In the application there will be no ifs and buts , " he said . " No conditions or stipulations . We shall apply to join . " Mr. Brown took a ringingly optimistic tone about prospects for a quick start to negotiation . There can be no such start until the six members of the market ? France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg  --  agree . " We expect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he thought the market would accept the application soon enough sol that negotiations could begian " before the summer holiMany experts here have suggested that there is no chance of starting negotiations before next fall . The market 's members have considerable other business to deal with already . ? Mr. Brown said he expected to be able to " make formal contact , clear the ground and agree on procedures so that at the very least we can get down to business without any further delay when work resumes in the autumn . " Once the negotiations get ? oIng , Mr. Brown said , they must proceed quickly . " We simply can not afford to hang around , " he said . Whether this is a realistic ap ; ? praisal of the possibilities for Britain may depend largely on President de Gaulle . He vetoed the last British applications and has generally been reckoned no friend uf this one . Prime Minister Wilson and the Government are eager for quick negotiations because they are afraid morale , especially that of businessmen , could sag here if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign of a successful end . Mr. Brown said candidly that industrial buoyancy over the next year or ; so could " depend on general confidence that we shall succeed . " Foreign holders of . sterling could also be sensitive to the course of negotiations . The Foreign Secretary , in canvassing reasons for the Government 's decision to apply , dismissed the suggestion for a North Atlantic ? free-trade area as a realistic one now . He expressed doubt that ' the United States would be interested . And it it was , he said , " we should be a- small country in a group whibli inevitably would be ' dominated by its superpower meinber . " . He added : " Our ability to influence not only world affairs but the . very - organization of our own economy , would in these circumstances compare unfavorably with what we might expect would be ' the case ' in ' an enlarged European community . " When voting . began tonight , at 11 o'clock , the house was jammed . Many members stood at the bar in dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinner for King Faisal of Saudi Arabia , who is visiting here . The opponents who voted " no " tonight violated orders issued by the leadership of ' both parties . They . could be- deprived of their party labels , but they are more likely merely to be reprimanded .                     