@@725998

txt The First National City Bank said yesterday that although New York 's economic problems were substantial , the city already had the resources to solve them . In a study it described as probably the most exhaustive economic analysis ever undertaken by a private business firm , First National City gave in guarded terms its own prescription for the metropolitan area 's economic well-being . A spokesman explained that this was the first survey of the city that the bank had undertaken . " We make studies of economic conditions all over the world , and we felt that we should have a look in our own backyard as well , " he said . " Other studies of the region will be forthcoming . " The report pointed out that lack of space for industrial development threatened the city 's economy . It cited a study of 60 manufacturing plants that have relocated outside the city . In the study 14 companies said lack of space was their sole reason for migrating and 20 others reported that it was the primary reason . The net city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent , more than half of which the bank said is for activities wasteful of space , such as junkyards and warehouses . " Unless the space requirements of business are considered on a par with the space requirements of people , " the report said , " the city could face the prospect of further losses of jobs particularly in manufacturing . " Imaginative means of creating more space , such as industrial space rehabilitation , street demapping and landfill , projects , as well as new industrial parks should continue to be vigorously explored . " The process of street demap- ping means the elimination of unused or little-used streets or roads and making these former street areas available for other purposes . Turning to the matter of residential housing , the bank said the question must be raised whether existing local laws , " such as outmoded building codes and New York City 's anachronistic rent control , do not vitiate the objectives of more and better housing by interfering with the natural forces of supply and demand . " The survey said the city 's government needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people without injuring the local economy by prohibitive taxation . To accomplish this , First National City called for the intensification of a drive ; already being planned by the city , to promote greater , efficiency through such techniques as systems analysis , program budgeting and cost-benefit analysis . In the face of the influx into the city of poorer , less-skilled and consequently less-employed individuals , the report said that it was " difficult to envisage how this and other American cities can continue receiving a minor share of over-all governmental revenues while being called upon to assume the increasing burdens resulting from population shifts , which are nationwide in their genesis and scope . " " In view of this dilemma , means have to be found to ensure that metropolitan areas , which have become the crucibles of the nation 's domestic problems , are fiscally able to bear properly their increased burdens , " the survey said . " A number of distinguished persons , pointing out that the Federal Government has largely pre-empted the income tax , have recommended returning some of this revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs of the present and the future . " The survey , however , made the point that there was much that the region itself could and should do to ccpe with the increase of unskilled workers . It said the need to match people and jobs called for careful ? lanning , " for the crux of the matter is not to prepare people for jobs that are here today and gone tomorrow , but for those that are likely to be around for a long time . " First National City Bank recommended " an analysis in depth " of the metropolitan region 's economy , institutions and resources to facilitate the orderly development of those industries whose growth in the region would best fulfill the needs of the community . The survey , entitled " Metropolis New York , " was prepared by the bank 's economic department and written by Jac Friedgut , senior economist .                     