@@722221

txt Washington , Jan 4 . ? Gen. Lucius D. Clay , who is flying from Berlin to Washington to confer with President Kennedy Sunday , reportedly wants ' more authority f o r the American military commander in Berlin to deal quickly with Berlin border incidents . Clay , the President 's special representative in Berlin , was disclosed by diplomatic sources to have protested last month to Secretary of State Dean Rusk against limits placed by Washing ton on the Berlin commander , Maj. Gen. Albert Watson II . Plea Rejected by Rusk Clay was said to have protested that contingency plans worked out by Washington , in consultation with western allies , can not possibly deal with all emergencies that might arise . He urged that Gen. Watson be given more latitude to act without getting clearance from Washington . Rusk was said to have replied that he and the President realize there are disadvantages to keeping the Berlin commander on " short rein " but that tight control was deemed essential in the Berlin crisis . Rusk also was said to have emphasized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany , are considered necessary in case of unforeseen emergencies in Berlin . Cite Limited Authority As an example of the limitations on Gen. Watson 's authority , officials reported that Watson had to get explicit permission from Washington before the first United Stataes army vehicle could move over the Helmsted autobahn into West Berlin after the communist wall went up last Aug. 13 . The vehicle , one source said , was an army bus carrying three soldiers . Gen. Clay , commander in Berlin during the Berlin blockade in 1948 , was sent back to the former German capital by President Kennedy last August after the Red wall went up . Clay has no command duties in his present post . State department officials said Clay 's meeting with the President Sunday is not prompted specifically by Clay 's plea for more on-spot authority for Gen. Watson . They said Clay 's return to Washington for general consultations had been planned some time ago . Clay                     