@@725745

txt A temporary injunction drastically limiting civil rights marches and demonstrations in Chicago was issued yesterday by Judge Cornelius J. Harrington in Chancery court . It prohibits eight individuals , their associates , and three organizations from staging more than one march or demonstration a day within the city , and limits participants to 500 . Restricted to Daylight The temporary injunction limits the civil rights marches and demonstrations to daylight hours , and prohibits them during rush hour periods from 7:30 to 9 a. m. and from 4:30 to 6 p.m . It also requires 24-hour advance notice in writing to Police Supt. 0 . W. Wilson of any march or demonstration planned . The communication must give time and route . Could Seek Citations The petition asking both temporary and permanent injunctions had been filed by the city about four hours earlier in a surprise move . The action was brought in the name of the city and Wilson . It was based on the contention that the demonstrations Judge Harrington after isau- ' ing injunction. have become unreasonable and a threat to life and property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel , said citations for contempt of court will be sought if the injunction is violated . Raby Also Named " The Negroes assert the right to full-fledged participation in society , " Simon said . " We must make sure there is a society to participate in . " Defendants included Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , head of the Southern Christian Leadership conference , and three of his top aids ? the Rev. James Bevel , the Rev. Jesse Jackson , and the Rev. Andrew Young . Also named were Albert Raby , convenor of the Coordinating Council of Community Organizations , and these officials of the Oakland Committee for Community Improvement : Frank Ditto , Elbert Ransom , and the Rev. William Alvin Pitcher , the latter an associate professor of divinity at the University of Chicago . The injunction also was directed against the three organizations and all others acting in behalf of the eight individuals and the organizations . Attorney in Court Leo Holt , attorney for Raby , was the only representative of the civil rights groups in court when the temporary injunction was issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request , but he reported he still had been unable to contact Raby , As he issued the injunction , Harrington made no comment on it or the petition . Simon said he had made every possible effort to notify the defendants . The petition reviewed the marches and demonstrations in recent months and the injuries and property damage resulting , and increases in crime , resulting from diversion of police from normal duties to protection of demonstrators . Hit Pattern of Action It stated that the plaintiffs recognize rights of citizens to petition for redress of grievances , but asserted the " pattern of action does not constitute reasonable demonstrations . " The petition contended that if the marches and demonstrations continue without adequate notice during peak traffic periods and after darkness " irreparable damage will be done to the persons and property of the public in general . " Cites Number Used The petition related how the rights leaders had ignored re ' quests that 24 hours advance notice be given to police and stated that this resulted la " unreasonable waste of manpower which could and would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevention . " It enumerated the number of police assigned reecntly to the demonstrations at various times including 2,564 in Marquette park , 1,732 in the Bogan area , and 1,926 to the Belmont-C ragm district . Requests to the defendants that they cease the marches , because they have placed unreasonable burden on police and the rights of citizens , have led only to expansion of the demonstrations , " the petition stated . The petition continued : " If the defendants are permitted to proceed with simultaneous marches , it will be impossible for police to protect the defendants . the marchers , public and private property and the life of more than 3.5 million citizens who are not participating as marchers and protesters . " The petition termed actions of the defendants a danger to the " order , peace and quiet , health , safety , morals , and welfare of the city . " Tell Losses of Life The petition stated the defendants had advised city officials they intended to " embark on a program of developing creative tension in the city " during the summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the defendant 's organization for the campaign , major civil disturbances erupted , resulting in damage of " several million dollars to property , the death of 27 persons , and injury to 374 including 61 police officers . " It noted the National Guard had to be called to assist police , and 536 people were arrested . The petition was prepared by Sydney R. Drebin , head of the corporation counsel 's appeals division , and Thomas A. Foram , special assistant corporation counsel . In a prepared statement accompanying announcement of the suit , Daley said he regretted the need for seeking injunctive relief . He said he had appealed futilely and repeatedly for " voluntary recognition of the rights of others " and an end to the kind of street demonstrations which have been going on .                     