@@726742

txt Arab states are preparing for new high-level strategy talks to discuss the apparent failure of the United Nations peace efforts in the Middle East . A new Arab summit conference now is considered likely before the year 's end . Baghdad newspapers and broadcasts Nov. 14 predicted the new summit meeting . It would be the first since the Khartoum summit of Aug. 29 to Sept. 1 and the fifth since Arab summits began in 1964 . Cairo 's daily newspaper Al Abram Nov. 15 left open the possibility that Cairo might be the conference site . The Khartoum summit was reported to have tentatively fixed the time as December and the place as Baghdad . Baghdad newspapers said Nov. 16 the Iraqi Government of President Abdel Rah-man Areb would like first to hold a strategy meeting of the United Arab Republic-Iraq unified political command . This was set up in 1965 to coordinate policy between Baghdad and Cairo . President Nasser Nov. 14 saw his top aides , including Vice-President Ali Sabry and United Arab Republic Minister Amine Howeidi , who had just returned from Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nasser conferred Cairo newspapers and broadcasts Nov. 15 placed blame for failure of United Nations Security Council efforts on the United States . They termed the draft Brazilian resolution discussed Nov. 15 " the result of United States pressures . " There are numerous signs of Arab military preparations . An Iraqi military delegation led by the Iraqi Defense Minister , Maj. Gen. Chaker Mahmoud Chukry , began talks Nov. 15 in Damascus with Syria 's military chiefs . They were next expected in Jordan and possibly in Lebanon . Build-up reported Lebanese President Charles Helou has been conferring in Riyad this week with King Faisal of Saudi Arabia . Lebanon was one of the states delegated by the Khartoum conference to use its contacts in the West in efforts to secure Israel 's withdrawal from territory it conquered in the June war . Beirut newspapers Nov. 15 published otherwise unconfirmed stories of military build-ups both by Israel and by Jordanian and Iraqi troops in the Jordan River ceasefire zone . The pro-United Arab Republic newspaper Al Anwar said three unidentified Arabs advocating creation of an autonomous Palestinian state under Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added that Hamdi al-Taji al-Farouki , one of the projects backers in occupied western Jordan , was missing and reported either assassinated or in hiding . Arab papers reported with obvious satisfaction new sabotage incidents inside Israel and occupied areas . These included an explosion at the Dodge Motor Company plant in Nazareth and a raid on an Army barracks near Hebron . New signs of Soviet activity in the Arab world included arrival in Algiers Nov. 14 of several Soviet warships for a " technical visit of about a week , " Algiers Radio said . Other Soviet naval units are reported still anchored in Port Said , Egypt , and Latakia , Syria . A Beirut columnist , Michel Abu Jawdeh of the independent newspaper Al Nahar , wrote that " the Soviet Union has come a long way in the Middle East " and that " not one Arab port is ready to receive the Sixth Fleet . "                     