@@725568

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Slum Rehabilitation To the Editor : A good deal has been written about the 114th Street rehabilitation project in recent weeks . But one particular aspect of this program has not been given the kind of exposure it deserves . It concerns a great myth that still shrouds the question of rehabilitation of slum buildings  --  the commonly held conception that it is senseless to bring these structures up to decent standards because within weeks the tenants themselves will destroy many of the improvements that have been made . Within six months , the myth goes , rehabilitated buildings in underprivileged areas are already well on the way to becoming slums again . It is now fair to say that the 114th Street rehabilitation project has already done much to permanently shatter this dangerous fairy tale . On 114th Street , where we plan to rehabilitate thirty-six buildings between Seventh and Eighth Avenues , the first three buildings in the program have been completed and occupied for the past seven months . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will prove ? that the buildings and the apartments inside are as clean and well maintained as they were the first day they were occupied . Atmosphere of Trust It is obvious that the people who live there  --  the same people who lived on 114th Street before the rehabilitation program began  --  take pride in their apartments and have no intention of allowing them to decay . Why ? Largely because we at Community Improvement Corporation of Manhattan , the nonprofit corporation responsible for the project , recognize that if a landlord demonstrates concern for his tenants by providing the kind of services to which they are entitled , the tenants will respond with the kind of behavior that creates an atmosphere of mutual trust , where the interests of both are protected . We are hopeful that now that the results of the 114th Street program are beginning to come in , more and more property owners will see the good business sense rehabilitation makes in improving the plight of one million New Yorkers who today  --  still  --  live under conditions that would do shame to the Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan New York , June 1 , 1966 ? Colombian Oligarchy To the Editor : I am amazed that the distinguished Colombian intellectual Gerznin Arciniegas should make or at least propagate the error contained in his May 30 letter ? namely , that Colombia is not governed by an oligarchy . It is true that some members of that oligarchy are poor , relatively speaking . " He 's not a wealthy man , " one of them recently said to me of another . " I doubt if his assets exceed $1 million ( U.S. ) . " It is true that some came up from literal poverty , though usually from families impoverished by the oligarchy 's own factional wars , a feature of Colombian life since independence . But the fact that Colombia 's oligarchy has some of the ability to absorb new blood which characterized the oligarchy that ruled England for centuries makes it no less an oligarchy . ' An oligarchy is a group which , small in relation to the total population , monopolizes power and wealth for its sectional benefit , denying equal status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in question . Formerly it alternated rule between its internal factions absurdly dubbed conservative and liberal respectively . Today it rules by a coalition of these factions forced to close ranks and recognize the essential identity of their interest challenged by the mounting impatience and the mounting power of the Colombian people . The institutional Catholic Church has long formed and still forms part of this oligarchy , though many of its members ( even some in high office ) no longer approve . GARY MACEOIN Nutley , N. J. , May 30 , 1966 The writer is author of " Colombia , Venezuela , the Guianas . " He represents the International Catholic Press Union at U.N . headquarters . ? Library 's Gifts To the Editor : Macy 's full-page advertisement , published June 6 is a welcome tribute to the New York Public Library ? to its vast storehouse of catalogued knowledge , its variety of services ( gratis ) , its place as a treasured city landmark , and its ranking status among the great libraries of the world . As one of the countless writers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I add my gratitude to a library which welcomes us all : readers , writers , composers , students and scholars , tourists and passers by , lovers who rendezvous beside the lions . ANNE COLVER Irvington-on-Hudson , N. Y. June 8 , 1966 ? Laws Against Public Strikes To the Editor : The May 25 editorial entitled " Protection Against Public Strikes " treats the subject comprehensively . In advocating the perfection and expansion of machinery for the peaceful resolution of grievances over wages and working conditions , you are wisely pointing to the path leading to improved relations between government and its employes . May I , however , take issue with the view that public strikes be proscribed by law . This view the editorial bases on two principles : a parallel can not be drawn between public employment and private industry , since the latter seeks private profit while the former , by implication , does not ; a strike by civil servants is inconsistent with the orderly functioning of democratic processes . ? How valid is the first principle ? Are not the wages of public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic advantage to each taxpayer to keep those wages down . What difference , then , does it make if the economic advantage is in a business profit or a lower tax rate ? The second principle presupposes a kind of special sacredness in government processes which , by implication , does not attach to economic processes . Of what good are the former if , for example , the latter are disrupted by a railway or steel strike ? It must be borne in mind that in a democratic society such as ours , government is continuous with the people it represents , and that they are both interlocked in the general welfare as a single political , social and economic entity . Hence , to differentiate between government and industry as employers is unsound . If a strike against government is to be prohibited on the grounds that it interferes with orderly processes , then the same prohibitions should apply to a strike by workers in industry . And if the latter group has the freedom to strike , why should not the same freedom be enjoyed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential and nonessential categories , I agree with your view that the line of demarcation is hard to draw . In conclusion , then , it seems to me that the fair position to adopt is to forget about antistrike laws and to let the evolutionary process take its course . This process has been moving ( and it should be supported by all ) in the direction of the peaceful resolution of grievances , in both public and private employment . BENJAMIN BRICKMAN Brooklyn , May 27 , 1966 ? Toronto 's Phil . M. To the Editor : I am delighted to learn from your issue of May 15 that Yale University has established a master of philosophy degree " designed to help put an end to the shortage of first-rate college teachers . " I think your reporter is quite right in saying that if enough other universities adopt the degree " history will have been made . " He is less accurate , however , in calling the degree a " Yale device " and implying that it is an innovation by that university . The degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is awarded , were devised by the University of Toronto in 1962-63 , and went into operation in 1963 . They were reported to the 1963 meeting of the Association of Graduate Schools in the American Association of Universities , of which both Yale and Toronto are members . In June of 1965 the University of Toronto graduated the first Phil.M . By next year the numbers ( in this graduate school of well over 3,000 students ) should be substantial . The first university to adopt the Phil.M. after we established it was the University of Waterloo ( in 1964 ) . During the past three years representatives of the University of Toronto have explained our Phil.M. program to a number of other universities , including Yale , and I am happy to say that several of these are actively considering its adoption . We are , of course , delighted that the first American adoption was by so distin- , guished and influential a university . ERNEST SIRLUCK Cambridge , England May 25 , 1966 The writer is dean of the Saddl of Graduate Studies , UniverSity of Toronto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On a recent visit to your fair city I was somewhat surprised to see that the General William T. Sherman statue was being reglorified as a new plaza . J do n't know why he . should be rehabilitated for future genera tions to see . Winston Churchill in his " A History of the English Speak .... ing Peoples " has this to say Of General Sherman : " Georgia was full of food in this dark winter . Sherman set himself to march through it on a wide front , ' liv-. ing on the country , devouring and destroying all farms , vil ; . lages , towns , railroads and pirb- ' . lic works which lay within hiS wide-ranging reach . He left 1 ? . ehind him a blackened trail , and , hatreds which pursue his memory to this day . ' War is hell ; ' he said , and certainly made ' it so . " If we are to let " bygones he ' bygones " and enter into a rious century Of brotherhocni , surely this man should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North and the South . As I left my hotel and walked down to St. Thomas 's . Church I used to think about , this general who caused such . devastation to us in the South : , If Winston Churchill , who was also half American , thought as he did about Sherman , sure ly the New York Park CommiS. - sion should think twice before completing this glorification . WILSON L. ? Mug Camden , S. C. , June 2 , 1966 , ? Right ' of Vietnam War To the Editor : I am alarmed at your heading an editorial May 23 about . the Buddhist-military conflict in South Vietnam as the " wrong war . " Do you imply by this that our systematic destruction of the country is the " right war " ? , In view of your past editorials on the subject , one can hardly believe this . However , you are gravely in error in your view that the main thing which is now required is for the Bud , dhists and the military to compose their differences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietcong , to do this and to bring a true compromise peace to the area . Mr. Johnson 's actions in freezing us in yet another holy-war ' posture is making this increasingly impossible . JOHN E. ULLMANN , Hempstead , L. I. , May 26 , 1966                     