@@727003

txt Eau Claire , Wis. , March 19-Richard Nixon today called for a " new diplomacy " which would enlist other free world countries in the defense against communism . " The United States can not continue to carry the major burden for defense of the free world , " he said . " We can help them fight a war , but we can not fight it for them . " The former Vice President told more than 3,000 cheering supporters in a rally at Wisconsin State university here that it is possible to have " a new era of peace " in the last third of this century . " It will be difficult , but we can do it , " Nixon said . Hits Conduct of War He criticized the Johnson administration 's conduct of the war in Viet Nam for " wasting military power by using it gradually , failing to enlist fully the South Vietnamese people , and also the United States ' diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union , and failing to in- , form the American people about the facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted in the American people having lost faith in President Johnson . He said new leadership is required to " give the military men backing on the economic and diplomatic fronts to help win the war . " Nixon also called for a " new direction at home " to combat rising crime and disorders resulting from racial tensions . He said that " order and progress must come together " to solve those problems . Carrying his cammion for the Republican Presidential nomination into Wisconsin for the sixth time , Nixon told his backers his resounding New Hampshire victory showed evidence of the " tide of discontent running thruout the country . " Notes Independent Vote He said Michigan Gov . George Romney 's withdrawal from the race in New Hampshire made many observers think that the number of Republican votes would go down . He said , how ever , that the Republican vote there was the largest in history , and that twice as many Republicans cast votes as did Democrats . Nixon noted that more independents voted in New Hampshire than ever before , and he received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write-in candidate . Another Act of Discontent He said the strong showing of Sen. Eugene McCarthy D. , Minn. showed Americans are discontented with the present administration . Citing the recent en try of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy D. , N. Y. into the battle for the Democratic nomination , he said the Democratic party is divided " not two but three ways . This demonstrates it has lost its ability to lead . " Altho Nixon has almost no competition in the April 2 Wisconsin primary , he is campaigning in an effort to turn out a large Republican vote .                     