@@724592

txt London The European Economic Community ( EEC ) has taken one more step to unity . Once again the step has been taken only at the last minute , alter an all-night sitting of the Common Market 's council of agricultural ministers . And once again it may be seen as a step away from liberalism in trade , at least as the United States has tip to now understood it . This time the agreement is on common price , - , tor beef , veal , and milk products and a common system of protection for fruit and vegetable producers . As with cereal , ; , on which agreement was reached in December . protection is the essential element in the agreement . Price Drop Seen A common farm market in Europe that is not protected from outside competition ( notably American ) could not exist for long , it is said . On the small Inherited patches that many Europeans still farm , competition indeed could mean increasing poverty . But without a common farm market , the larger Common Market itself could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never find unity . Thus , it is argued , agricultural protection is for the moment vital to European unity . But Western Europe is a very great importer of food . It will remain so . And , as Europe 's age-old farm system is Unproved and modernized , prices will fall . Protection will become less and less necessary . Already , it is pointed out , Europe is prepared to freeze all the many measures and levels of farm support where they are for three years preparatory to an over-all liberalization ? if the United States is willing to do likewise . This general agreement , however , covers a wide range of diverse views . The Netherlands has been anxious lest these farm decisions should get the EEC into Trouble with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade . 4130 II Rd ' Duties Eight products involved are subject to " bound duties " under GATT . The Common Market could be called to account by its partners if its new measures effectively increased or " unbound " those duties . Italy has urged , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as safe a market as , for Instance , the wheat growers of France or the dairymen of the Netherlands . Others have been bothered by the prospect of high prices for beef and veal leading to overproduction . Still others have been disturbed over the possible reaction of United States fruit exporters . But overriding all objections , as always , Is the need to press on with the formation of a complete Common Market . For Europe now it is unity or nothing ,                     