@@722616

txt LONDON , Aug. 19 ( AP ) -A new translation of the Old Testament being made by a 10-man panel of scholars will contain revolutionary changes in wording which will give it a wholly new idiom and rhythm , the panel director said today . The 10-man board , chosen by the Joint Committee of the Churches , has spent IS years on its task . The new translation may be ready for printing in four years a year earlier than previously forecast . The joint committee includes representatives of all Protestant churches in Britain and the Irish Republic . The Roman Catholic church is not represented . Prof. Godfrey R. Driver , director of the panel , gave details of the radical changes in an interview . He said it is expected they will cause as much controversy as did changes in the new translation of the New Testament published in March last year . Eliminate Some Words Words like " virgin . " " Jehovah . " and " leprosy , " will be eliminated in the new version . Passages of poetry will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books of the prophets , and particularly Isaiah . In the process of translation . the scholars have made use of the Dead Sea scrolls , but found them of much less value than expected . Twenty-two of the Old Testament books of the Bible are ready for final revision ; nine are translated and are at various stages of checking . There are only two books on which work has not begun . Series of Checks Driver explained the panel is using the standard 9th century Hebrew text . It includes as one book some that are carried as two in the King James version , which has 39 Old Testament books . The new translation goes thru an even more complete series of checks and changes than the New Testament did . The trend of the new version , which together with the New Testament translation will be published as the New English Bible , has become clear . " Virgin " disappears from passages such as - behold a virgin shall conceive " in Isaiah because , Driver says : " It is known that the Hebrew words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a marriageable young woman , whether virgin or not . " The word " leprosy " disappears because it has changed its meaning , he explained . Disease Called Psoriasis " What the Greeks called leprosy signified a disease which produces a whitening and flaking of the skin . To our doctors it is the disease called psoriasis . Modern translations of Exodus say Miriam 's hand became ' as white as snow . ' " We could hardly say Miriam 's hand was ' psoriatic , ' so we shall probably use some phrase like ' had a disease of the skin . ' The word " Jehovah " disappears because it was merely a solecism produced in 1520 , said Driver . Archaisms such as " thou , " " thee , " " doth , " and " saith " also are dropped , except where characters address God . Speaks to God Only when Satan speaks to God in the prolog of Job will God be addressed as " You " ? " and then only because Satan is the devil and is allowed to I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " void " probably will disappear from Genesis . " Israelites " will replace " the children of Israel " ; " I see " replaces " mine eyes seeth " ; and expressions which are meaningless , as Job 's " I wash myself with snow water , " snow water has no special cleansing properties , becomes " I wash myself with soap . " One archaic word remains ? " shekel . " Driver explained : that they had not been able to find an exact modern equivalent .                     