@@727072

txt The important element in the on-again , ofT-again Rockefeller campaign is that now  --  for the first time  --  the New York Governor seems to have the will to go ahead . In early January Nelson A. Rockefeller told this reporter that he had come to the place where he.saw that the winning of the GOP presidential nomination was " possible . " But he said he just did n't see the " mechanics of it . " And right up to the moment that he bowed out of the race last month it can be said , with knowledge , that Mr. Rockefeller had never arrived at the place where he could see how he , or his supporters , could get the job done . Polls considered He got close , right up to the brink of putting his money on himself . But his last-minute assessment was that it just was n't a practical enterprise  --  and he pulled out . Rockefellers are just not the sort of men who take on what look to them to be impossible risks , But now the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision not // *Rockefeller musters a will to win // to run again . Suddenly it was occurring to Republican leaders across the land that it might well be Richard M. Nixon against a Kennedy again  --  and they were n't too sure that they wanted a repeat billing of 1960 . Then the polls started coming in , showing that Mr. Nixon could n't beat the chief possible alternatives to President Johnson ? Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and Hubert H. Humphrey . At least , he could n't beat them at this time . And there was a growing suspicion that Mr. Nixon might look worse in these poll pairings as time went on . At the same time Governor Rockefeller , himself , was n't showing up as a winner in the polls . Most surveys showed him behind Mr. Nixon , in fact , in these hypothetical races with Democrats . Ranks swelled But this was a Rockefeller who was not a candidate . This was a Rockefeller who had not , as Mr. Nixon had , made major pronouncements on the issues . This was a Rockefeller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls . The ranks of influential Republicans moving to support . Governor Rockefeller swelled . They tabbed Mr. Nixon as a - loser , picked Governor Rockefeller as the man with the best prospects of winning in November . Further , these top leaders , including five former GOP national chairmen , have convinced Mr. Rockefeller that the new political climate  --  together with their own political participation  --  has reduced the political risks considerably . Enough so that the business acumen of the Rockefellers now has been apparently satisfied  --  and the odds apparently accepted . Spending urged Governor Rockefeller may not think he is going to win . He must realize that Mr. Nixon is well nigh unstoppable . But he now feels , for the first time , that there is a realistic chance . And he is moving . His speech before the American Society of Newspaper Editors was a thoughtful message on the troubles in the cities . He counseled vast spending programs , tied to bond issues . He charged the administration with failure to set up proper priorities in terms of solving foreign and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healing approach from Washington . In Washington the Governor breakfasted with 23 top GOP leaders . Here he was made aware of " Project Stay Loose , " which is being undertaken immediately by these leaders . Trip under way Sen. Thruston B. Morton and former vice-presidential candidate William Miller , both former national GOP chairmen , are making a flying trip through 12 states in which they will be telling leaders , including delegates , to " stay loose for Rockefeller . " They hope to swing a certain number of delegates over to their side . More than this , they hope to convince Nixon backers that they should at least assume a position that would enable them later to support the candidate who would most likely win in November  --  no matter who he might be .                     