@@727189

txt WASHINGTON  --  When the House Judiciary Committee met last week to consider the Administration 's ? gun-control bill ; Representative Emanuel Celler , its ' waggish chairman , rolled in with a shopping , cart overflowing , with letters demanding controls . ' The tactics may ' have helped bestir a once hostile committee . Never " ' . before had Mr. Celler been  --  able to muster a committee majority for gun-control legislation ; but by the time he banged his gavel he had a surprising 25-to-6 vote for the Administrationbill . Since the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy , Congress has been subjected to a deluge of mail in favor of gun controls such as it has not received on any other issue in recent . years . As a result , there has been a flurry of activity centering on three proposals . One is the Crime Control Bill , signed by the President last week , . which contains , a provision - prohibiting interstate mailorder sales of hand guns . A second is the Administration bill , which goes beyond the Crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mail-order sales of rifles and shotguns , prohibition of over - the- counter sales of rifles and shotguns , to dut-of-state residents , and regulation of ammunition sales . The . ; third is a proposal that vies beyond the Administration bill and suggests stricter controls such as registration of all firearms and licensing of gun owners . In public statements and privately , the White House was trying to use the flood tide of Mail to move the Administration bill through Congress . In belatedly signing the broad and . controversial Crime Control Bill , for example , the President once:again chided Congress for ; having approved only a " halfway , measure ! " in imposing a ban on mail-order sales of pistols and revolvers . Such is the flood tide of public opinion for stronger controls that some on Capitol Hill , particularly in the Senate , were complaining that the ' Administration was proposing only halfway measures with its bill . Some , such as Senator Joseph D. Tydings of Maryland , were protesting that the Administration had submitted a weak - bill that could be made effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their objection , one that had considerable appeal in the Senate , was that the Administration bill would not prevent the criminal from acquiring a gun within his own state . To which the Administration replied that the role of the Federal Government , under the Constitution , was to regulate interstate traffic , providing a basis for the states to adopt controls within their boundaries . Given the reluctance of states to enact stringent controls , the efficacy of the Administration bill in stemming the traffic was probably being overestimated . But whether the Administration was proposing ? only a halfhearted measure depends upon a political appraisal of the chances of pushing any control legislation through Congress . For the moment , the chances looked good  --  so good , in fact , that some in the Senate were complaining that the Administration was missing a political opportunity in not pressing for stronger controls , such as registration and licensing . But the White House political appraisal was somewhat less sanguine . As seen by the White House , the present emotional support was ephemeral and the favorable balance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow , therefore , in the White House view , was to press for the Administration bill as quickly as possible without complicating the issue by introducing such controversial questions as registration and licensing . or Controls " Through the crossfire " Peb In the Philadelphia Inquirer There were some Indications that the White House was correct in its political appraisal . As the National Rifle Association and the rest of the gun lobby has swung into action , the mail opinion has begun to shift from its preponderant support of controls . To assure approval of its bill , the Administration would like Congress to act before the Fourth of July recess . After that , the emotional tide may ebb and the Congressional reaction may set in against controls . In the present touch-and-go situation , the Administration has one political factor working for it that in the long run may be ' Canfield In the Newark Evening News " Maybethert 's a message in all this ? " more important that the procontrol mail and may offset the opposition stirred by the gun lobby . Far inore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of'gun controls ; has become linked with the paramount political issue of crime ; and vio7 lence .. To vote against - gun controls , therefore , is to come . out on the wrong side politically of the crime issue . As one Senator with both urban and rural constituents summed up the political equation : " For every hunter who is worried about buying a gun , I have 10 women who are worried about crime in the streets . " - JOHN W. FINN lele Le Pettey In the Christian Science Monitor " The first letter is G. " UN CONTROL LAWS SHOULD BE sTRIcr grioam so war ii4E PuBLIC CAR ' SI AM COVEY ** .1.1.1 ? Nada Asa                     