@@721346

txt Wilson , Inc. , of the original four The Federal Communications Commission severely penalized today Boston and Miami television license holders accused , of improper associations with ! former members of the commission . The commission deprived Public Service Television , Inc. , of its right to broadcast on Channel 10 from Miami and disqualified two other applicants for the channel . The channel was awarded to Public Service , a subsidiary of National Airlines , on Feb. 7 , 1957 . The commission set aside its grant of Boston 's Channel 5 to WHDH-TV , a station owned by The Boston Herald-Traveler newspapers . But WHDH may continue to broadcast while hearings are held on a new license and may apply for autho  --  ity to broadcast on the channel . Three other applicants for the Boston license , granted to WHDH on April 24 , 1957 , may also apply again . In the Miami case , only L. B. applicants escaped censure . Wilson was given authority to construct a station and broadcast on Channel 10 for four months after construction . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases remanded to the agency by the courts on grounds of ex parte , or off-the-record , approaches and improper influence . Thus , they apparently ' laid down a rule of toughness , for similar cases . The Miami decision in particular followed exactly recommendations made last Nov. 8 by the Justice Department . Attorney General William P. Rogers said then that he favored a clear rule that approaches to a regulatory agency , outside its , regular proceedings , would , automatically result in loss of ' , the case for the offending appli-1 cant . In both cases , however , the commission overruled the findings of Horace Stern , a former Pennsylvania judge assigned by a Federal court to investigate the cases . Judge Stern reported improper influences in the Miami case , but not in the Boston case . In neither did he recommend disqualification or suspension of licenses . The cases were remanded to ( the commission by the United States Court of Appeals for further investigation after the allegations of improper influence and ex parte approaches were turned up by the House Special Subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two announced today , reflected the serious nature of the offenses alleged . ' In that case , Richard A. Mack , a former member of the commission , and Thurman A. Whiteside , a Miami lawyer , have been indicted and tried on charges of defrauding the United States . The jury was unable to reach a verdict in the trial , and Mr. Mack is now reported to be too ' ill to stand a second trial . The two were charged with having conspired to influence the Miami channel 10 procedings , Mr. Whiteside was alleged to have influenced Mr. Mack to vote for an award to Public Service , and Mr. Mack was charged with accepting $14,260 from Mr. Whiteside between September , 1955 , and October , 1957 . A. Frank Katzentine , president of KWAT , Inc. , another Channel 10 applicant , was alleged to have sought ex parte contact with Mr. Mack and with George C. McConnaughey , a former commission chairman . North Dade Video , Inc. , a third applicant , has also been accused of trying to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " misconduct " of these three applicants " reflects so adversely upon their character as to demonstrate that they lack the qualifications to operate the stations sought in this application . " The decision said this judgment left only L. B. Wilson , Inc. , " legally , financially and technically qualified " to operate on Channel 10 . It set aside Public service 's license , effective on Sept. 15 , and granted Wilson permission to operate on the channel . Wilson 's authority consists of an eight-month construction permit and a four-month operational authority . The brief authority granted Wilson , in view of the unusual circumstances , may be an indirect invitation to other applicants to seek the channel . The Boston case differed in the nature of the charges against the penalized applicants . The commission said Robert Choate , president of WHDH , only " demonstrated an attempted pattern of influence " in two luncheons with Mr. McConnaughey . Mr. Choate 's activities , the agency said , did not " demonstrate such a complete lack of character as to require absolute disqualification . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. McConnaughey and representatives of Massachusetts Bay Telecasters , Inc . These , it said , reflect adversely on the character of Massachusetts Bay , another applicant for Channel 5.                     