@@725011

txt Hong Kong Communist China is acting suspiciously like a nation pouring gasoline rather than water on the flames of the Kashmir crisis . In a slashing front-page editorial Tuesday , the official Peking Peoples Daily did its best to demolish the United Nations peace mission to Pakistan and India . Implicit in the editorial seemed to be encouragement to Pakistan to continue the fighting . Meanwhile , the Indo-Pakistani clash remains Peking 's No. 1 propaganda issue , overshadowing Vietnam . Red-bloc support In addition to its strident front-page editorial denouncing the United Nations , the Peoples Daily gives prominence to Pakistani statements " of their resolve to resist the Indian aggressors . " The Chinese Communists make much of support from their traditional allies within the Communist bloc . Featured for example is Albanian press support for Pakistan 's " just fight against aggression " and the Chinese note with glee an Albanian newspaper headline which says that the " new leaders of Soviet Union aid and abet United States imperialists to support India in its aggression against Pakistan . " Soviet reference Also prominently played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pakistan from D. N. Aidit , leader of the influential Indonesian Communist Party , and the press of Cambodia . The Peoples Daily editorial says the United Nations is playing a " disgraceful role " on the Kashmir question . The editorial continues , " In the name of mediation , it the UN is taking sides with the Indian aggressor and doing all it can to help the Indian reactionaires which have the support of United States imperialism and its partner . " That word " partner " apparently refers to the Soviet Union . As for Secretary-General U Thant , in Peking 's eyes he is " merely acting as Washington 's broker . " The newspaper editorial says he already has taken sides with India , so " how can one expect U Thant to uphold justice ? It is plain the United States is behind U Thant 's mission to India and Pakistan . " So vehement is Peking 's language that some observers wonder whether Communist China could now accept a seat in the United Nations even if voted one later this year . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seat in an organization of which Tuesday 's editorial says : " Reversing right and wrong and calling black white , the United Nations has always served the interests of the aggressor and branded his victim as the aggressor . " Indeed , in a final blast , the Peoples Daily says , " The United Nations has committed countless evils . It can not do anything good . "                     