@@728205

txt The moon that beckons Apollo 12 astronauts calls even more enticingly to lunar scientists who must stay behind on earth . They have already learned enough from the data and rock samples of Apollo 11 to know that an exploration of the moon presents one of the most intriguing challenges earthbound scientists have ever faced . Their " firsthand exploration " means studying the moon by instruments left there by astronauts and analyzing lunar material brought back to , earth . Already these scientists know the moon 's surface has rocks dating back to the origin of the solar system . Dr. G. J. Wasserberg and D. S. Burnett of the California Institute of Technology have put the age of Apollo 11 samples in . their hands at about 4.6 billion . years . That 's roughly the age of meteorites . It 's an age when scientists think the solid materials of the solar system formed  --  planets , moons , and the parent body of the meteorite . They formed , according to current theory , from the " leftovers " of the cloud of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the findings of scientists now studying the moon rocks wo n't be known until early January . That 's ? when the National Aeronauticts and Space Administration will bring the investigators together in a Symposium here at the Manned Spacecraft Center . But merely to know that the Moon 's ' surface has primordial material excites scientists . Some of them had thought that bombardment by meteorites or the " wind " of charged particles from the sun , plus other erosive processes , might have wiped out early lunar . - history . Now it appears the lunar rocks may be a kind of ! Rosetta stone " to help scientists decipher the early history , of the solar system . The Apollo rocks have been attacked by erosive processes . Indeed , they may have been blasted out of another position and deposited at Tranquillity Base by meteor impact or whatever process formed associated craters . In spite of this , the rocks apparently retain their primitive history . There seem to be basically two types of rock , according to a report by one of the lunar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ igneous rocks , fine- to medium-grained , that could have been formed as lava . They are broken up and probably were redeposited at Tranquillity Base from elsewhere . The lava could have come from a volcanic process as on earth . Or it might have formed in the heat of a meteorite Impact . ? *Knowledge about moon ... // Other rocks are conglomerates of preexisting formations . Geologists call this kind of aggregate breccias . Crystalline rocks different As befits the moon , the crystalline rocks are unlike those of earth . Compared with earth rocks , or meteorites , the moon stuff has too much titanium , zirconium , and ytterbium ( a rare-earth element ) . It is deficient in iron , magnesium , and materials of low melting point like lead . There is plenty of evidence of erosion . The samples are " sandblasted " and rounded , perhaps by bombardment by small particles . The solar wind seems to have impregnated them with such things as inert gasses  --  helium , for instance . Pits , often lined with glass , mark exposed surfaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't appear to be caused by micro-meteorites . Some of the rocks also have crusts of glassy matter . And there are glassl coated grains and glass particles within the rocks , as well . Noting the glass coating and glazing that shows up in close-up photos taken on the moon , Dr. Thomas Gold of Cornell University has suggested that the sun may have " exploded " as a miniature nova within the past 100,000 years or so . He thinks it may have increased its output a hundredfold in a flash lasting 10 to 100 seconds . Earth 's atmosphere would have protected the planet from this heat burst . But the moon 's surface would have been scorched . Perhaps this was enough to form the glazing . If this theory is true , the event came late in the surface exposure of the moon rocks . To judge from the amount of characteristic radiation induced by cosmic rays , the rocks have lain at or near the surface , undisturbed , for 20 to 160 million years . Ancient material identified Here , then , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the formation of the solar system . Yet it also shows the marks of later cosmic events . It 's a kind of geological history book which many record key events in our solar system 's evolution . Moon scientists are having to give up  --  or at least play down ? some of their romantic hopes of finding evidence of water or organic life on the moon . The rocks show no sign of water exposure . They contain no chemicals that could be remotely attributed to organic life , present or past . But they do show that the scientists probably have a key to the history of the solar system . And that could open a field of research with romance and excitement and challenge enough to satisfy a generation of lunar researchers .                     