@@725742

txt China 's 700 million people have awakened to discover that they apparently have a new Communist emperor . Climaxing months of foreign speculation , Defense Minister Lin Piao has emerged either as Mao Tse-tung 's designated successor , or the man who already has quietly succeeded him as China 's new ruler . For China 's own people , however . all this has been accomplished without their being canvassed , without their concurrence , and all the product of internal palace maneuver among an elite group of party infiuentials . Equality of position Marshal Lin , the man thus arbitrarily presented to them as their new ruler , is a battle-seasoned soldier of many wars . He is probably China 's greatest expert on guerrilla warfare . For a while he commanded the Communist armies in the Korean war . For China . his elevation means strict adherence to the hard and unyielding ideological line of Mr. Mao . His mission is to preserve and guard China 's Communist revolution as it passes to a younger generation of whose political fervor the old guard is doubtful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking was designed to stress the ascendancy of the Army and the fact that - Marshal Lin now is at least equal to Chairman Mao , if he is not quietly in charge . Chairman Mao himself wore the olive-green uniform of the People 's Liberation Army with red collar insignia . Marshal Lin was constantly at his side . The two were always a little apart from others in the leadership lineup . Comrades in arms Meanwhile , Premier Chou En-lai. in his speech , pointedly called on the people to " respond to the call of comrade Lin Piao . " And Liu Shao-chi , the head of state who has long been tipped as an interim successor to Mr. Mao until the real power struggle for the succession took place , was relegated to seventh place in the official New China News Agency 's list of leaders present . The import of all this in a land where such details are highly significant seems clear . Indeed the question now occupying many observers is whether Marshal Lin is merely the successor designate or whether he in fact has taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whatever the real situation , Marshal Lin can be counted on to follow Mr. Mao 's policies . Fifty-eight years old , he is one of Mr. Mao 's oldest comrades in arms . He was an early student at the famed Wampoa Military Academy under Chiang Kai-shek . There he also got political instruction from a man called Chou En-lai . A colonel in the Kuomintang Army at 20 , he switched to the Communists and fought brilliantly throughout the legendary Long arch Army in ascendancy With Marshal Lin either close to or in the seat of power . China can expect endorsement of the current purge of antiparty elements called the " cultural revolution . " However . there are some signs the party leadership is applying the brakes to the purge . and that it might end this fall , Marshal Lin , however , approves of the new " great leap forward " which now is getting under way . For the pragmatists in the party . and the intellectuals who favor modifications of Mr. Man 's policies , Marshal Lin 's elevation is a grim affair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will continue to be kept subservient to the party , as under Chairman Mao , now depends on Marshal Lin . However , he has consistently backed Chairman Mao on this point . Just what kind of power struggle may have gone on among party leaders must for the moment remain a mystery to foreign observers . It seems clear that Chairman Mao 's lengthy absence for part of last year and this was not routine . He may well have been ill . News-agency reports of Thursday 's rally said that although he looked fit a nurse helped him from time to time , Whatever the cause of Chairman Mao 's absence , it seems probable that Marshal Lin was either ordered by Mr. Mao into the vacuum , or himself seized the initiative .                     