@@727114

txt President de Gaulle invited Rumania today to march with France toward a Europe that would be united and undominated by any ideology or hegemony . The French leader issued his call for joint progress with this Communist country at a luncheon after his arrival for a fiveday official visit . His host , President Nicolae Ceausescu , did not publicly respond to General de Gaulle 's invitation , but his two speeches of the day also emphasized sovereignty of nations and refusal to allow outside forces to determine a nation 's policies . The two leaders , both among the most outspoken advocates of nationalism in Europe , spoke briefly at General de Gaulle 's arrival at the airport and at greater length after a luncheon at the Presidential Palace in the heart or Bucharest . The airport and the broad ' avenues leading Into the sweltering city were lined with large crowds of cheering Rumanians waving flags and flowers . Although the cheerers were trooped across Bucharest from early morning in organized style , the people seemed genuIndy to enjoy the spectacle of the famous man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to friendly shouts of " Vive la France  --  de Gaulle ! " The general , standing , with Mr. Ceausescu at his side , was driven in an open American automobile from which all inscriptions of " Cadillac " had been removed . In a neatly balanced political speech , President de Gaulle took pains not to offend the Soviet Union while inviting Rumania to seek national fulfillment along a road different from that of the Soviet bloc . Rumania . he said . has links with the Soviet Union that derive from their common bor ders , friendship and complementary economies , just as France has similar ties to Italy or Germany . He added a generous tribute to Moscow 's decisive role in World War II and called it a pillar in a continent that would be united . Such relationships , tar from working against unity , should contribute to general harmony , the French President declared . He continued : " France , Mr.i President , has resolved to march toward this goal and is very willing to do so side by side with Rumania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead our two countries to align their policies more closely . " After a recitation of the various fields of practical cooperation between France and Rumania , General de Gaulle defined the principal task of this cooperation as political . He said : " Because they are independent and , therefore , responsible to themselves and others , it is a combined political effort that is required of them by our times , and it is the union of , Europe , by a dictate of their own nature , that must be the objective . " Rumanian observers were quick to note the care with which the French leader took into account the fact that Rumania had already taken decisive steps from what in Gaullist terms is called Moscow 's " hegemony . " He did not mention Moscow in this context . The general deplored the division of Europe by the war ? the " partition of Yalta " in which France was not invited ) to participate  --  and the subsequent cold war . He said that he and his listeners knew that this division 's was artificial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of Europe , he continued . There are for this continent , the general declared , " no more ideologies or hegemonies that measure in comparison with the benefit of relaxation of tensions , of understanding and , cooperation between all of its parts . " For General de Gaulle , the visit to Rumania  --  his third to a Communist country , after the Soviet Union and Poland ? has as its principal aim a demonstration of the Gaullist concept of a Europe of independent countries from the Atlantic to the Urals . In this , a common sense of being European would . outweigh heavy ideological considerations . This belief falls on fertile ground here , where being European often is taken to mean not being Slavid . Rumanians tend to feel superior to Slays . For Rumania the visit is welcome as a further indication of this country 's growing stature . Moreover , Rumania would like increased industrial cooperation with France , which is at this time Rumania 's most efficient method of access to American technology . Through subsidiary and licensing agreements a multitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are unconfirmed reports also that Bucharest , is interested in the possibility of buying arms and military planes from France . Tomorrow President de Gaulle will speak to the Rumanian Grand National Assembly . He will spend Thursday and Friday touring the provinces before meeting again with Mr. Ceausescu Saturday . He will return to Paris Sunday .                     