@@723786

txt The Citywide Committee for Integrated Schools modified its position somewhat yesterday on a second boycott of the city schools . The Rev. Milton A , Galamison , chairman of the committee , said that " if it becomes necessary there will be a second boycott . " Last week Mr. Galamison announced that there definitely would be a second one-day boycott , between March 9 and April 17 . The committee coordinated the plans for the first boycott , on Feb. 2 . On that day , 464,000 pupils did not report to classes ; on a normal day , about 100,000 of the city 's one million public school pupils are absent . Mr. Galamison and three organizations represented on the Citywide Committee announced support yesterday of a " silent prayer " march on City Hall and the Board of Education on Sunday , March 1 . Turnout of 100,000 Seen The demonstration has been called by the National Association for Puerto Rican Civil Rights , which predicted yesterday that more than 100,000 persons of all races and religions would participate . The organizations that announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harlem Parents Committee and the Parents Workshop for Equality . The Puerto Rican group is also a member of the Citywide Committee , but has riot yet taken a stand on the second boycott . In a move growing out of the first boycott , it was learned , the Board of Education has asked city principals to turn in the names of the 3,537 teachers who were absent on that day , together with their reasons ' for not working . The teacher absence rate on Feb. 3 was two and a half times the normal figure , Data to Be Filed A board spokesman said that information showing that a teacher had ignored an " official warning about the possible negglect of duty "  --  and an explanation , if any  --  would be placed in the school files of those who had been absent without valid reasons . The day after the demonstration , James B. Donovan , president of the board , said that the action of teachers who had been absent without authorization " would be taken into consideration " in making promotions . Mr. Galamison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee meeting at the Urban League , 202 West 136th Street . The New York Urban League is an ex officio member of the committee and supported the first boycott . Alexander J. Allen , executive director of the league , said that the organization would decide whether to support a second boycott after its executive board met to determine policy . He said a major factor in its decision would be the school board 's acceptance or rejection of an integration program proposed by the league . In the same vein , Mr. Galamison said that the Citywide Committee would draw up its own integration program , which would be similar to that of the league , and submit it to the school board . He said that after the committee had received the board 's reaction , it would decide whether to conduct a second boycott . He indicated that the decision would be made before March 9 . Mr. Galamison also repeated denials that a split had developed among the representatives on the committee . Last week , the 13 city branches of the National Association for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the N.A.A.C.P. is cooperating with the committee and has said that it will support another boycott if one is necessary . The meeting of the Citywide Committee started at 1 P.M. , but was recessed for nearly two hours to allow Mr. Galamison and the others to attend a 2 o'clock news conference at which plans for the silent prayer march were announced . The news conference was held in the office of the National Association for Puerto Rican Civil Rights , 137 West 72d Street , which also serves as headquarters for other Puerto Rican groups . The Rev. Pablo Cotto read a statement calling upon " all peoples of goodwill , Christians and Jews , Negro and Puerto Ricans and all our fellow Americans , to join with us in this vital demonstration of our determination to end segregation and improve the quality of education in our school system . " Mr. Cotto , who is HispanoAmerican minister at Riverside Church , said that the demonstration would begin at 2 P.M. The participants will march to City Hall front . nearby subway stations . Then , following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ march across the Brooklyn Bridge to school headquarters at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn . Gilberto Gerena-Valentin , an organizer of the Puerto Rican association who is frequently its spokesman , also used the occasion to deny a charge that he had been a Communist . He denounced as irresponsible and without foundation the accusation made Monday night by an official of a new organization , the Puerto Rican Committee for Democratic Justice . Circular Sent Out The request for information about teachers who were absent during the boycott was contained in a special circular sent on Monday by Dr. Bernard E. Donovan , the system 's Executive Deputy Superintendent . The directive said the information should be submitted by today . It was understood that Dr. Calvin E. Gross , the Superintendent of Schools , had earlier informed the members of the school board of the intended action . The board had said that lit was up to the Superintendent to decide what , if anything , , should be done about unauthorized teacher absences during the boycott , besides the docking of a day 's pay . Before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight any attempt by the board to penalize teachers who stayed out during the demonstration " on grounds of conscience " other than through the loss of the day 's pay . The federation is the collective bargaining agent for the teachers . Last night , the board president , James Donavan , received a gold medal from the Interfaith Movement , Inc. , for " outstanding achievement " in attaining " goodwill , equality and mutual respect . "                     