@@726793

txt Servicing the giant SSTs and jumbo jets will cost so much that airlines already are planning to pool their maintenance facilities . The sprawling jet maintenance shops of Eastern Air Lines in Miami eventually will do a lot of the work on the Trans World Airlines French Concorde supersonic birds when they start flying in 1972 . Even before that , TWA 's Kansas City facilities will do the maintenance on the new Boeing 747 jumbo jet transports which are due for service with both airlines in 1969 . This agreement between the two carriers , subject to Civil Aeronautics Board approval , also calls for training crews for the big birds and leasing each other 's jumbo jets during periods of peak passenger loads . Eastern 's peak occurs in winter when it flies sun seekers southward . TWA 's top load comes in the summer vacation period . In the coming era of the costly supersonic transport , this kind of cross-leasing will be common . After several unsuccessful attempts , South Carolina now expects to open a truly representative state historical drama next June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written by Kermit Hunter , author of several successful productions . The play will be presented in a new amphitheater , ground for which has been broken in the Sesquicentennial State Park near the state 's capital , Columbia . Trends ... Attempts to solve city problems promise legislative Donnybrooks next year in both Virginia and Georgia . In Virginia debate springs from what appear to be unique plans for solving urban problems recommended by a metropolitan areas study commission . The report calls for a new layer of government between state and local  --  the " service district . " Instead of being merely a cooperative affiliation between neighbor cities and counties to provide joint services , the service district would have its own elected officials  --  plus others designated by participating localities . ? Also proposed is a permanent state commission on local government . It would be the final arbiter of district issues . County officials are objecting . They charge the commission would be too powerful . They say it would kill local government , destroying the counties to save the cities . In Georgia the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgia Municipal Association ( GMA ) , which speaks for the cities , says they 're in dire financial straits . Current state aid to municipalities is $21 million yearly . The association estimates the cities next year will need $175 million more than anticipated revenue to meet basic necessities . GMA is plugging for " local-option " legislation . It would allow any city or county to add a 1-cent local sales tax to the 3 percent state sales tax . Gov . Lester G. Maddox strongly opposes it , presumably because he thinks the state may have to hike its own rate within the next few years . Last year the House passed the local-option bill , but the Governor had enough influence to kill it in the Senate . GMA will try again next year . Its leaders say that if the state does n't help the cities , they will be forced to turn increasingly to the federal government . This has a dismal sound to many Georgia politicians who often berate " federal interference " on the local level . How and why .. . Civil-rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Klan 's last stand . " The firing of several homes comes as an ironic aftermath to the historic October convictions of whites in connection with the killing of civil-rights workers . Charles Evers , the state 's most influential civil-rights leader , terms the bombings futile efforts to turn back the integration clock ? to frighten into silence and inaction those whites now turning toward moderation . Most victims are known to be at least sympathetic to civil-rights activity . In the lust month they include : The informer whose testimony was crucial to the October convictions ; a woman in rural Anguilla who had opened her home ; 0 civil-right workers two years ago ; a Negro minister in Laurel , active in voter registration ; and a Jackson rabbi . Negroes increasingly press for arrests  --  and convictions .                     