@@727302

txt Members of the British Mission in Peking are being given exit visas by the Chinese Communist regime . But there is little hope of early release for a British newsman held prisoner in the Chinese capital . Anthony Grey , correspondent of Reuters news agency , has been under house arrest for more than a year . He has committed no crime but is apparently being held in retaliation for the imprisonment in the British colony of Hong Kong of a Chinese correspondent who took part in Communist riots last year . The British say the Chinese newsman was found guilty of a criminal offense and must serve his time . Speculation is that Mr. Grey will be held by the Chinese for a similar period . Japan 's China policy in the UN may veer slightly to the left this year . There will be no substantive change . Tokyo will again support the UN resolution designating the question of Chinese representation as an " important issue " requiring a two-thirds vote of the General Assembly . Significantly however , the Japanese have not committed themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in the past . , Foreign Ministry sources say Japan will not make up its mind until the time of the UN session . This new " flexibility " reflects a growing mood here that as the Vietnam war nears resolution Japan must seek to normalize its ties with Communist China . 0 South Vietnam 's looming economic crisis is causing almost as much concern to Vietnamese and American officials here as the oft-predicted , yet-to-happen Communist military offensive . Of particular worry to allied economic and financial specialists is that inflation is expected to gallop toward an explosively critical point in October or shortly thereafter . To counter this economic threat , allied officials have discussed five drastic and potentially unpopular measures , some of which are still secret . These five measures are : another devaluation of the Vietnamese piastre , another increase of Vietnamese taxes , rationing of necessary commodities , invalidating certain denominations of Vietnamese bank notes , and direct importing of commodities by the Vietnamese government instead of relying on commercial business channels , which now are in no mood to invest . A hero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combat unit returning home from Vietnam . The 27th Marines  --  regimental landing team of the 5th Marine Division  --  is scheduled to return to Camp Pendleton in California this month or early September . Withdrawal of the 5,000 men is not , however , the beginning of the much-discussed American phase-out . Trends ... A number of Southeast Asian countries are concerned about increased Chinese Corn . munist subversion in their area . Recently an American air base in Thailand was attacked by Communist terrorists for the first time . Peking provides sanctuary for the clandestine Thai Communist Party . Now the government of the Philippines is cracking down on residents of Chinese origin who might be in Peking 's pay . The Filipinos say they 've discovered some of their Chinese are making secret visits to the mainland , slipping in through Hong Kong . The object may be to stir up , at Peking 's instruction , the Communist-leaning Huk terrorists in the Philippines . How and why ... Australia wonders if it can close its big mouth  --  legally . The opening , 320 miles across , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a virtual sea of 100,000 square miles which deeply indents the continent 's northern coast . Recently a big Soviet fishing vessel sailed into the gulf to fish its teeming prawn grounds . Clashes between Australian and Soviet fishermen followed . The dispute was settled amicably on the diplomatic level , But Australia wants more fishing areas for its exclusive use . And the incident raises the question whether closure of such a massive body of water to foreign fishermen could withstand an International Court challenge . The government is burrowing into international law books to see if it can extend its fishery claims beyond the present 12-mile offshore limit .                     