@@721268

txt Senator Lyndon B. Johnson said today that Premier Khrushchev was trying to divide the American people but was not going to succeed in his effort . The Senate leader thus ' characterized a cablegram he and three other Democrats had received from the Soviet Premier . In the cablegram , delivered two days ago through the State Text of Khrushchev 's reply to Democrats , Page 7 . Department , Mr. Khrushchev once again asserted that President Eisenhower had wrecked the summit conference , chiefly by his refusal to condemn " perfidious and aggressive " intrusions of United . States reconnaissance planes into- the Soviet Union ' . ? Premier . Khrushchev ? said he knew " the doctrine of . aggression and provocation now proclaimed by the Government of the United States was not created by the American peoples " ' Arrogant ' Maneuver Mr. Khrushchev asserted that " broad sections " of the American public and " many prominent political figures dri the United States " were- seriously concerned by the foreign policy of the Administration . Shortly after making Mr.I Khrushchev 's message public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader was engaged in a divisive maneuver and that the maneuver would not succeed . . In a statement from the Sen ate floor immediately afterward , Senator Johnson characterized the cablegram as " an arrogant denial of the factz . " What was torpedoed at the summit conference , Senator 1Johnson declared , was " any confidence that the free world had in the desire of the Communists to put an end to the cold war . " Mr , Khrushchev , he said obviously did not understand United States bipartisanship on foreign policy . Mr. Johnson continued : " It is equally obvious that he does not understand that Americans of whatever their political creed  --  Republican or Democratic  --  will stand united against him in his effort to divide the country and weaken the hopes of freedom . We also stand united in our determination to preserve our freedoms and to promote peace in the world . " Premier Khrushchev 's message As in reply to one that four Jemocratic leaders had asked President Eisenhower to convey to him on May 17 , shortly before the break-up of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Johnson ; Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House of Representatives ; Senator J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and Adlai E. Stevenson , titular party leader . The Democratic leaders asked the President to urge Mr. Khrushchev to reconsider his suggestion for postponing the conference until after the 1960 elections . The aim behind the message was threefold : to demonstrate bipartisan support for the President ; to warn Premier Khrushchev that he would not find a Democratic Administration more pliable , and to discourage any temptation by the Republican party to suggest in the Presidential campaign that the Soviet ? leader would prefer to negotiate with the Democrats . Phrase Is Singled Out Thus it was noted that Prernier Khrushchev had pointedly repeated the sentence in the Democratic message about all Americans ' earnestly desiring peace . " I single out this statement of yours with satisfaction and welcome it , " Mr. Khrushchev said . In his statement to the Senate today , Senator Johnson said it was not necessary now to pass judgment on whether the United States did or did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , could be left to objective appraisal after the facts had been gathered in inquiries by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Subcommittee on National Policy Machinery . " The important thing , " Senator Johnson said , " is that whatever mistakes we have made , we were ready to negotiate on the issues of life and death . The Soviet Union refused to negotiate on these issues . " Republicans Hail Johnson Two Republican Senators were qquick to praise the majority leader 's statement . Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky said Senator Johnson 's statement , " served to strengthen the unity of our country . " Senator Kenneth B Keating of New York praised Senator Johnson 's " patriotic " conduct . In another development today the White House challenged the accuracy of a statement by Premier Khrushchev yesterday , blaming the President for the collapse of the summit conference . In an interview with Izvestia , Soviet Government newspaper , Mr. Khrushchev said he had told Prime Minister Macmillan that he was prepared to meet with President Eisenhower if the President showed any interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , recalled that President Eisenhower said on May 16 that he was prepared to " undertake bilateral conversations between the United States and the U. S. S. R. while the main conference proceeds . "                     