@@726660

txt Secretary of Defense Robert S. has expressed doubt that a reduced bombing of North Vietnam would lead to a marked increase in American casualties in South Vietnam . In testimony before the Senate Preparedness Investigation Subcommittee , Mr. said that the bombing had not significantly affected North Vietnam 's war-making capability nor seriously deterred the flow of men and materials to Communist-led forces in South Vietnam . Throughout his testimony , given on Aug. 25 and made public today by the subcommittee , Mr. minimized his differences with the Joint Chiefs of Staff over bombing targets and tactics in North Vietnam . Basic Premise Questioned But his testimony and that given earlier by some military leaders to the subcommittee gave fresh evidence of a basic division between the civilian and military leaders in the Pentagon over the military effectiveness of the bombing campaign against North Vietnam . In the weeks since Mr. and the military leaders appeared on Capitol Hill , there has been no indication of any change of mind by any of them . . While defending the bombing , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was a direct military relationship between the bombing campaign in the North and the level of fighting in the South . His basic argument was that while the bombing was having the political effect of increasing the " price " North Vietnam was paying for its aggression in South Vietnam , it was having little effect in reducing the military pressures in South Vietnam . The Best Evidence ' As in his written statement , made public on the day of his appearance before the subcommittee , Mr. , in the private questioning , expressed doubt that the bombing could break the will of the North Vietnamese people or drive Hanoi to the bargaining table . So skeptical was Mr. about the military effectiveness of the bombing that Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , finally asked toward the end of the day-long testimony : " Why do n't we stop all the bombings up North and save all American lives lost in the North and just continue to lose American lives in the South ? " " Because deleted testimony Ion balance we believe it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think the best evidence of that is Hanoi 's ' strestrenuous and vigorous propanuous campaign to force us to : stop it . " Mr. disclosed , however , that because of his ' dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the bombing , he requested the Joint . Chiefs last spring to consider alternatives to the present stategy . This included a proposal to concentrate the bombing below the 20th parallel in the narrow panhandle of North Vietnam just above the demilitarized zone between North and South Vietnam . Two other alternatives considered , he said , were a substantial increase in the air campaign , including attacks on the port of Haiphong and the mining of coastal waters , and , finally a continuation of the past strategy of gradually increasing the bombing pressure on North Vietnam . The third alternative was finally chosen , with the Administration giving approval in recent months to the attack of targets in formerly restricted zones around Hanoi and Haiphong and in the buffer zone along the Chinese border . Gen. Earle G. Wheeler , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would result in increased American casualties in the South . Mr. took issue with this statement as well as one by Gen. John P. McConnell , the Air Force Chief of Staff , that the United States would have suffered fewer casualties if the bombing had not been burdened by restrictions on targets . Mr. also disputed the contention of the military leaders that the bombing campaign would have been more effective and less costly if the United States had started off in 1965 with a severe application of air power , destroying 94 targets in 16 days , as recommended by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Since the subcommittee hearings were announced in July , the Administration has approved the bombing of many of the previously unauthorized targets so that by the time Mr. testified there were only 57 proposed targets not yet authorized . Mr. described " many if not most " of these as " relatively insignificant targets . " we can in the Staff . His basic objection was that closing North Vietnam 's main port would not result ' in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought in by other means . He cited the rail line from China , which , he asserted , was not being used to capacity , and lighters over the beach , which , he said , were used for petroleum supplies when the petroleum depots around Haiphong were destroyed about a year ' ago . Asked whether reduced bombing in the North would result in increased American casualties in the South , Mr. at first replied , " I do n't know " but then said : " There are many who believe , and there is much evidence to support the conclusion , that the flow of men and materiel into the South is not determined by the air campaign in the North , but by the ability of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese , operating , by the way , without , for all practical purposes , a single wheeled vehicle in all of South Vietnam , to accept the men and materiel from the North . Bottleneck Pinpointed " In other words , the bottleneck is not on the lines of communication in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the lines of communication in South Vietnam . " On political grounds , Mr. said that he would oppose any reduction in the bombing campaign , which , he said , would have the effect of giving " the North Vietnamese a free ride on their aggression in the South , " unless " we got something substantial in return for it . " While the bombing has caused economic dislocations in North Vietnam , Mr. said , " I do not think it has in any significant way affected their war-making capability . " Despite the bombing , he said , ' reading from intelligence estimates , " the North Vietnamese still retain the capability to support activities in South Vietnam and Laos at present or . increased combat levels and force structure . "                     