@@724829

txt Italian Red dilemma Italy 's Communist Party faces a paradox . Its support in the country , measured by votes , grows , but its hold over factory workers is slipping . This is a situation confronting the 1,200 delegates of factory cadres at a recent meeting at Genoa . The discussions were unusually frank . The leaders of the party organizations and of the Communist-domi- nated trade union CGIL freely criticized each other . Luciano Barca , who is responsible for mass recruitment to the party , had some Rome disheartening facts and figures to disclose ? at least disheartening for the comrades . First he had to admit a lack of enthusiasm among party members in the factories . Only one member out of every seven could be called an " activist , " he said ; the other six take little or no interest in Communist affairs inside or outside the factory . Figures Offered Second , he disclosed that the larger and more modern the factory , the smaller the percentage of party members . This he pointed up with the figures for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Fiat are only 1.5 percent of the total labor force , in Olivetti 1.6 percent , and in the giant state-controlled oil monopoly of ENI only 2 percent . This means that the aristocrats of labor are not Communists . It was also shown that while in factories employing less than 500 workers the percentage of Communist membership was 12.4 percent , in those with over 500 this percentage fell to 5.4 percent . All this was obviously very distressing to the delegates at the Genoa meeting . But it is something that has been suspected for some time . In fact the Communist Party is losing its appeal for the present-day skilled worker  --  the very person who used to be the party 's activist . This is especially so among the young . Young skilled workers with more money jingling in their pockets apparently feel they have better things to do outside the factory than to busy themselves with Communist affairs . Uncertain base ? This seems to prove that the increase in electoral strength must come from the hundreds of poor peasants who have migrated to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unskilled labor . They are often disgruntled and an easy prey to Communist propaganda . The question is where they will tend when they become skilled and better paid ; whether they , too , will be lost to the party . What was interesting at this Genoa meeting was the obvious split between the party 's political and trade-union sections . Each side blamed the other for the present state of affairs . The politicians accused the trades unionists of being too occupied with wage claims . The latter charged that the politicians were completely out of touch with modern conditions . The trades unionists said the politicians failed to understand the effect of advanced technology and improved working conditions on labor .                     