@@725939

txt The city is making basic changes in planning and executing projects ranging from housing to roads to hospitals : It is also changing key personnel who guide those operations . Some of the procedural changes were suggested in the report on city redevelopment programs drafted by Edward J. Logue of Boston , which Was submitted to Mayor Lindsay on Oct. 2 . Others differ from Mr. Logue 's recommendations , and represent policy disagreements that helped convince Mr. Logue to reject the Mayor 's offer to head New York 's housing and planning program . The Mayor said at a news conference yesterday that the capital budget , which allocates money for permanent improvements , and the expense budget , which governs operating costs , would be drafted with much closer cooperation with the people involved than in the past . The City Charter now mandates the City Planning Commission to draft the capital budget , which is financed by borrowing , and the Budget Bu- reau to draft the expense budget , which is usually financed by current revenues . The Budget Bureau also reviews the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The system is considered wasteful and illogical by many officials . They ask , for example , why the construction of a hospital should be planned separately from the staffing of the same hospital . Because of charter requirements the Planning Commission will continue actually to draft the capital budget , but will work closely with the Budget Bureau . Their work will be coordinated with the drafting of the expense budget . Local legislation may eventually be sought to transfer responsibility for the capital budget entirely to the Budget Bureau . The coordination of the expense and capital budgets is considered an important step in converting to a programbudgeting system , where the city would allocate money for a particular project  --  such as building health clinics for slumdwellers  --  rather than to a department . This would permit all possible costs  --  ranging from construction , to personnel , to loss of tax revenue on the site  --  to be figured together , something that is now impossible . Evaluation Easier Once the total cost of a speccific program is known , it also becomes easier to measure its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rand Corporation , a California research firm , and is widely used in the Defense Department and other Federal agencies . The city 's new Budget Director , Frederick O'R . Hayes , once worked in the Federal Budget Bureau and is gradually expanding program - budgeting here . The Logue report suggested that the Planning Commission be absorbed by a single agency with control over all aspects of urban renewal . One of Mr. Logue 's major conditions for coming here was that the agency have responsibility for the capital budget . But the Mayor rejected that suggestion , and insists on keeping the Planning Commission independent . He is expected to name his counsel , Donald H. Elliott , to replace William F. R. Ballard , an appointee of Mayor Wagner , as commission chairman . Many officials feel the debate over the independence of the commission ? is a " red herring . " The important question , they believe , is how willing the Mayor is to consult professional planners , no matter where they are in the bureaucracy . Plus Factors Despite losing control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Elliott , who reportedly enjoys the Mayor 's confidence . Its influence could be felt still further through the policy planning council . That body , dormant since it was created more than three months ago , consists of the Planning Commission chairman , the budget director , Deputy Mayor Timothy W. Costello and the Mayor . If it ever begins to operate the council could set citywide objectives and priorities to guide the Budget Bureau , which figures how much money is available for various city projects and apportions it . Mayor Lindsay has accepted at least one major Logue recommendation . He said he would issue an executive order combining city housing agencies under one administrator . He is expected to name Jason R. Nathan , now chairman of the Housing and Redevelopment Board , to that position next week . The new administrator will seek to eliminate overlapping functions and poor communications that now plague city housing programs . For example , at least four agencies have some role in the rehabilitation of slum buildings and at least three in keeping existing structures un to standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            