@@727390

txt The Fulbright program of international exchanges in higher education is heading for an end in Europe as a result of Congressional budget cuts . Funds available for the next academic year , starting about a year from now , will on the average be slashed 72 per cent . The State Department sent that news last week to the committees that run the program in 18 European countries . For example , the United States allocated $680,000 this year to send American scholars to Britain and Britons to the United States . Next year there will be $136,000 ? a cut of 80 per cent . Commissions Jolted In each country a binational commission of Americans and local leaders is responsible for the program . These commissions , in something of a state of shock , are now considering how to keep ) operating  --  if at all . The British-American commission has decided at this point to budget funds for only one specialized exchange program . This is an exchange of primary and secondary-school teachers , , in which an American teacher trades places with one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at its present level of 87 exchanges a year , costs about $55,000 . That , and administrative costs , some inevitable renewals of earlier grants and other inavoidable expenses would just about use up the entire reduced budget . Other Activities Lapse Thus the other and better known aspects of the Fulbright Plan would expire , as far as Britain is concerned . They include these provisions : llGrants for American graduate students to study here . There are 105 at present , costing S288.000 a year . 4IGrants for American university lecturers and researchers to spend a year here . There are 31 here now , among them department heads and other scholars from leading United States colleges , with this activity costing $271,000 . CGrants for British lecturers and researchers to work at American universities for varying periods . There were about 100 grants this year , at a cost of $130,000 . The commissions elsewhere in Europe are still making up their minds what to do . But the inclination there seems to be also that it would be unwise to try to maintain all the established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe , in fact , that it would be best to resign ? on the ground that there is really nothing left for these men , many of them influential civic and educational figures , to do . In addition to the commissions , elaborate selection systems have operated in the United States and the European countries to award the grants . The feeling here now is that it would be useless to have these large efforts made when only a handful of people could possibly be selected in the end . One British participant said . " It would just be an insult to those involved . " If all the available funds for the British-American program next year , for instance , were devoted to exchanges of lecturers and researchers , there would be enough money to bring perhaps two or three Americans here and send a dozen British scholars to the United States . Work in Some Countries Other European countries have been hit just about as hard as Britain , some worse . Denmark had an appropriation of $380.000 this year and will have $40,000 next year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will get more money under the program than any other nation in Europe . The reason is a special statute allotting Finland 's repayment of World War I debt for this purpose . By treaty with the countries involved , each agrees to match a part of the American contribution to the exchange program . The State Department , in telling the binational commissions of the budget cuts , urged each to try to persuade the local government to continue its contribution at this year 's level instead of cutting it pro- , portionately to the American reduction next year . The Fulbright program , established by Congress in 1946 , is named for its sponsor , Senator J. W. Fulbright of Arkansas . It has " been widely regarded as one of the most successful United States ideas in international relations .                     