@@727806

txt Weary legislators were told by their leaders tonight that a new compromise bill on New York City school decentralization , said to have the support of many groups , would be presented to them tomorrow morning with the hope that it could be passed during the day . The new compromise was announced after a 48-hour round of continuous negotiations , which capped a four-week impasse over the racially sensitive issue . The Republican leaders of the Legislature said late tonight that they had enough support to pass the bill . However , since the new bill came at the end of tortuous negotiations producing dizzying series of draft bills that fell apart almost as quickly as they were put together , some of the participants adopted an " I'llbel ieve - it- when - I - see- it " attitude about rosy reports of the bill 's prospects for passage . Services Arranged Because of the unusual Sunday session tomorrow , the legislative leaders arranged religious services  --  both Catholic and Protestant  --  for the members . Protestant services were to be held at 10 A.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to celebrate mass at the same time in the Senate judiciary room . Senator Samuel Greenberg , a Brooklyn Democrat , said last night , " in my 27 years in the Legislature I do n't even remember officially convening a session on a Sunday . " During the day today , as the Republican leaders scurried around the Capitol trying to win enough support for the overhauled bill to bring it to a successful vote , they kept the membership busy biding their time , plodding through a calendar of mostly minor bills . Proposal Is Reviewed The State Board of Regents , which came together at a special meeting , was reviewing the latest compromise that legislative leaders had reached with a caucus of Negro and Puerto Rican members of the Legislature . The leaders cautiously hoped for an endorsement by the Regents that would break // the logjam that has developed over the racially sensitive issue of who will control the city 's 1.1 million-student school system . The latest compromise measures that have been tentatively endorsed by the negotiators include a provision to replace the present 13-member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would serve under a chancellor appointed by the Mayor . Suggested language would abolish the present board immediately and allow the five Borough Presidents to select temporary commissioners . This method was chosen , sources close to the negotiations reported , to allow wide representation on the temporary commission that would serve until an elected commission could be seated . Of New York City 's five Borough Presidents , one  --  Percy E. Sutton of Manhattan  --  is a Negro , and one ? Herman Badillo of the Bronx  --  is a Puerto Rican . " We would expect them to appoint a member of a minority group , " the source reported . Other provisions that were tentatively approved by the negotiators and under review by the Regents , included : otIA provision to give the locally elected boards , which would operate the schools in 30 local districts , absorbing the three existing experimental school districts , the authority to contract for up to $250,000 in maintenance and repairs each year . t1A provision to allow disadvantaged school districts , which would be judged on the basis of reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel with more freedom than other districts . qProvisions for the locally elected school boards to have more freedom in preparing itemized budgets for the operation of their schools within a lump sum appropriation passed on by City Council , but with restrictions to protect the fiscal rights of teachers and other professional personnel working in the individual districts . These new parts of the plan were pieced carefully together by bill drafting experts . The words came from hectic conferences involving Governor Rockefeller , Senate Majority Leader Earl W. Brydges Assembly Speaker Perry B. Duryea , Negro and Puerto Rican legislators , representatives of the United Federation of Teachers , the Regents and other interested parties . I Evidence that the session was lingering solely because of decentralization came when the Assembly was about to recess for a two-hour dinner break . Minority Leader Stanley Steingut rose to say he had heard there had been substantial progress toward decentralization , but he said ; " I 'm not privy to the talks . " Speaker Duryea , facetiously replied that although he , too , " was not privy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been made . Mr. Duryea shattered hopes for a bill early today , only to find later that his pessimism was not shared by Senator Brydges , who was working on the bill across the hall . " I ca n't believe that a decentralization bill will be voted on today , " Mr. Duryea said after a G.O.P. meeting . Within minutes , however , Senator Brydges was announcing a recess in the Senate so work on a compromise bill could continue . He then met with Speaker Duryea and Governor Rockefeller after which he announced : " I do n't believe you can say the decentralization compromise has fallen down ... We are putting together a bill we expect to have later in the day . " Shortly after Senator Brydges ' statement , the Board of Regents  --  who notified the Governor earlier this week they would be on " a minute 's notice " to meet and consider endorsing a compromise bill ? went into session across the street from the Capitol . Word/ then spread that " the tentasonnet LEGISLATORS PUSH NEW SCHOOL BILL tive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill to a vote " late tonight . " The negotiators are trying to piece together a bill by drawing sections from the suggestions offered by many and varied interests . The following are among the many proposals : cDemands by the United Federation of Teachers president , Albert Shanker , that teachers ' rights be clearly guaranteed and that the central authority ( whatever form it might eventually take ) hold the power over hiring and assigning personnel ; and rejection of a suggestion by community control advocates that the Board of Examiners be abolished or its authority diluted . cDemands by community control supporters , including the black and Puerto Rican caucus , that local school boards be free to hire their own teachers and that qualifications not be set to exclude the kind of perthey believe their local schools require . l-The pledge by the Board of Regents that its approval will be withheld from any bill that does not offer a large measure of local control over the personnel and financial matters . CUrgings by John Doar , president of the New York City Board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schools broad powers to administer the program eventually devised and insulate him from political control . eiDemands by the Council of Supervisory Associations that the custodians ' powers not be tampered with and that local boards be given little power to contract for repairs and maintenance of schools . 11Pressure from conservative Republicans that the bill reflect some of the thinking of Senator John J. Marchi , the Staten Island Republican challenging Mayor Lindsay for the G.O.P. mayoral nomination , to give Mr. Marchi a political advantage .                     