@@721974

txt John W. McConnell , director of a five state area of the office of civil defense a n d mobiliza t ion , has been d i scharged by Frank B. Ellis , President Kennedy 's newly appointed director of t h e civil defense program . THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . McConnell , a Republican and former adjutant general and civil defense director of Indiana . confirmed that he will leave his post Aug ' 25 . He said he hopes to obtain . a position in the defense department . which was given control of some of the functions of the civil defense program Aug. 1 . McConnell said he was notified of his dismissal - in a letter dated July 23 and signed by Ellis . He said that he did not wish to relinquish the post and had asked Ellis to reconsider the action but was told that the decision would stand . Held Post a Year McConnell has held the post of director of region 4 for a year . The region includes Illinois , Indiana , Michigan , Wisconsin , and Minnesota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The letter from Ellis stated : " As you know , during periods of emergency , the occupant of your position is authorized to exercise thru me , under specified circumstances , certain extraordinary civil defense and defense mobilization powers for the President . The OCDM region director positions are unique in this respect . " The unusual nature and highly confidential relationship necessary to the appropriate performance of the functions of the position are , apparent . . . . It is inherent in the character of highly confidential and policy - determining positions that the incumbents thereof be individuals suitable to the lip , pointing authority , and persons whom he considers best able to determine and reflect the policies of his department or agency . Hoegh 's Departure " With the departure of Leo A. Hoegh appointed under President Eisenhower from the position of director of OCDM this relationship ceased to exist and does not now exist between you and me as director of OCDM " Ellis then said in the letter that McConnell 's services would not be needed after Aug. 25 . McConnell confirmed that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change his mind . " I did not solicit this , position from anyone except the civil service commission , " McConnell explained in his letter . " Nor did I solicit , or obtain , to the best of my knowledge , any political ' idorsement or suppor of any kind . Wanted to Serve " I assumed my job as regional director with an honest desire to serve my country in a position of great responsibility . You infer that this unusual relationship between me and the director of OCDM " ceased to exist " when Mr. Leo A. Hoegh departed the office . " I do not acknowledge that any relationship existed , or was necessary , between Mr. Hoegh and me except one of a professional nature , which is expected between a supervising officer of the federal government and a dedicated subordinate with specific responsibilities . "                     