@@725811

txt New York , Sept. 24 RI  --  Secretary of State Dean Rusk challenged North Viet Nam and communist China tonight to test American sincerity in wanting peace in Viet Nam by coming to a conference table and starting to diminish the fighting . " Then they will find out that we are genuine " in seeking a Viet Nam settlement , Rusk said in public response to HanoiPeking charges that the latest American peace proposals are a swindle . The secretary of state spoke to newsmen after a 41/2-hour dinner discussion meeting with Andrei A. Gromyko , the soviet foreign minister , on Viet Nam and other east-west issues . Second Such Meeting It was their second and final such meeting prior to Rusk 's return to Washington tomorrow after a week at the United Nation 's general assembly . Rusk declined to comment on any aspect of his meeting with the soviet foreign minister . The United States and Russia have been deadlocked over the Viet Nam dispute , but some believed progress toward agreements may be possible on some other issues such as a nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the North Vietnamese and the communist Chinese toughly-worded rejection of the American peace offer presented by Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg to the U. N. general assembly on Thursday , Rusk replied : " It was not entirely unexpeeled but it was disappointing . We had hoped that they would at least take time to think them over and come back with a more responsive answer . " We are serious about a measure of trying to find a peaceful solution , .. . " We did not welcome the suggestion that it the American offer was just a peace swindle . " If they want to test us , let them come to a peace conference , start the de-escalation of the violence and begin the process of making peace . " Then they will find out that we are genuine . " Earlier at the U. N. , a Russian resolution urging all nations to avoid actions that could block an agreement to halt the spread of nuclear weapons received a friendly reception from the United States . Russia Adds Topics In moves obviously directed against the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the general assembly : 1 . An inquiry into implementation of a resolution approved last year barring intervention in the domestic affairs of states . 2 . A proposal for elimination of foreign military bases in Asia , Africa , and Latin America . The general assembly rejected a resolution aimed at getting U. N. forces out of South Korea . The assembly voted 57 to 17 to exclude the report of the commission for reunifying Korea from the agenda . The Korean resolution was backed by 10 communist countries .                     