@@723444

txt Washington . Sept. 9 ( Special ? President Kennedy and Gov . George Wallace of Alabama hurled sharp words at each other today in public statements about integration in Alabama . The President issued a sl.:tement from the White House accusing the Alabama governor of trying to bait the government into using force to integrate Alabama public schools . The president charged that Wallace is acting for personal and political reasons . President Kennedy said the government has no desire to intervene but will do whatever must be done to see that federal court order , - are enforced . Proposes a Bargain Wallace responded from Montgomery with a statement that he will stay out of the integration crisis in his state if the federal government will do likewise . The President said he is still hopeful that Wallace will permit local officials and communities to meet their responsibilities . This brought a rejoinder from Wallace that the federal government 's forced action is the root of the trouble . Wallace said in an interview that he is willing to leave integration decisions to local communities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the federal courts will do the same thing . Defiance the Exception " If any local community wants to integrate , - Wallace said , " then it is a matter for them to decide . But if they want to continue segregation , then likewise that should be their choice . " " It should be clear that United States government action regarding the Alabama schools will come only if Gov . Wallace . compels it , " the President said . " In 144 school districts in 11 southern and border states . desegregation was carried out for the first time this month in an orderly and peaceful manner , " the statement continued . " Parents , students , citizens , school officials , and public officials of these areas met their esponsibilities in a dignified , law-abiding way . It was not necessary for the federal government to become involved in any of those states . Wallace the Exception " In the state of Alabama , however , were local authorities repeatedly stated they were prepared to carry o u t court directives and maintain public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law or the authority of local officials . For his own personal and political reasons ? so that he may later charge federal interference ? he is desperately anxious to have the federal government intervene in a situation in which we have no desire to intervene . " The White House said no decision on what steps to take will be made until tomorrow morning , when it will be known whether Gov . Wallace intends to comply with a state-w i d e federal court restraining order obtained late tonight by justice department representatives fn Alabama . The President said Wallace knows the government is obligated to carry out orders of United States courts and also knows that the great majority of citizens in Birmingham , Mobile , Tuskegee , and Huntsville were willing to face the transition with the same courage and respect for law as communities in neighboring states . " He knows there was and is no reason or necessity for intervention by the federal government unless he wishes and forces that result , " the statement charged . Wallace 's statement said forced integration by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the south . Huntsville No Exception " In every instance where schools were integrated , they either did so thru force of the federal government or threat of force , " Wallace said . " I am glad to see the President finally come around to our contention that this matter should be handled by local communities , and home rule should prevail , and that Washington should stay out of the matter . " Wallace said be does not intend to ignore Huntsville in his fight against integration , altho he permitted integration to take place there without intervention . " There are timetables , " he said . " We must decide when , where , how , and why . All cases are different . But we will fight integration on every front . " Wallace reportedly canceled plans to speak tomorrow at the American Legion convention in Miami , announcing that under the circumstances he thought he should remain in the state .                     