@@724422

txt Anchorage , Alaska Alaska is not only conquering its earthquake devastation but looking forward to record levels of prosperity in 1965 . The new year will see the full start of a two-year to three-year reconstruction program somewhat reminiscent of the heavy military construction here following World War II . The earthquake last March 27 caused property damage estimated at $380 million and the federal government has responded with generous amounts of aid for reconstruction work . These funds in turn have triggered numerous private rebuilding projects . Because of the need for passage of new federal laws and the time necessary for drawing of plans and letting of contracts a major portion of this reconstruction work will not be under way until spring . Despite obstacles , however , the mood now generally appears to be one of optimism and expectation . Key Area Damaged The earthquake and the resulting seismic sea waves caused damage in a relatively small area of this vast state but it was the area which contains the bulk of Alaska 's population . This includes the modern city of Anchorage ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coastal communities of Seward , Valdez , and Seldovia and the island village of Kodiak . Reconstruction is well underl way in Anchorage . In fact a visitor must now take a guided tour to find any of the buildings which were shattered and smashed by the quake . Schools and other public buildings are being rebuilt and repairs are nearly complete on utility systems . The major project still to start here is the construction of several large concrete and gravel buttresses which are planned to hold in place the hillsides on which the city it built . These buttresses  --  built much like dams on a river  --  will provide protection from slides in any future earthquake and permit additional private construction in the city 's downtown area . 15-Story Hotel Repaired Although a great deal of private construction remains for the spring much has already been accomplished . Several apartment houses and a 15-story hotel damaged in the quake have been repaired . A new theater has been built to replace the one which was dropped flush with the street level in the Fourth Avenue slide area . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store to replace one destroyed in the earthquake . Many home owners have completed their private repair projects but the majority of actual new home construction will start next year . In the coastal communities , which make their living from the sea and are huddled right at the water 's edge , far more remains to be done . These towns were extensively damaged by the great walls of water that swept in from the sea immediately after the quake . And now they face a new menace : the land area subsided , often several feet , during the quake and waterfront areas are flooded now during high tides . Urban-renewal projects have been established to fill and raise these sunken sections and one community , Valdez , will be moved to an entirely new townsite some five miles from its previous location . // Alaska Responds to Hope While this reconstruction work will be in the economic spotlight during 1965 other , more permanent , industries will also be active . Alaska 's growing petroleum industry , in particular , has scheduled an extremely busy year of exploration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setback immediately after the earthquake , is expected to stage a recovery and many tourism officials look for the biggest year since Alaska became a state . In the nearly six years since Alaska entered the Union the state appears to have come a long way toward economic self-sufficiency . The state Is now far less dependent on federal expenditures , particularly military expenditures , than in the past . In 1958. federal expenditures in Alaska just about equalled the gross business volume while in 1964 gross volume of business is expected to double the 6533 million federal expenditures for the year . Business volume and population have both shown a steady increase . Gross volume of business in 1958 was $578 million and that had increased to $977 million last year . The United States Census Bureau reported a population of 227 , - 196 in Alaska in 1960 . This September the bureau estimated the population at 250,000 and said Alaska was the fifth-ranking state in percentage of population growth . Steady Growth Reported The population is also more stable now and less transient . Formerly . many workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere but this year an estimated 92 percent of the labor force actually resides in the state . One factor In this increase in The ' permanent population has been the growth in year-round employment because of an increasing amount of private construction and use of new methods which permit a greater share of construction during the long winters . This winter , for instance , work is continuing on three major private construction jobs in Anchorage . These are the nine-story Captain Cook Hotel , an equally large office building being built by the First National Bank of Anchorage , and a J. C. Penney Company department store which will be twice as large as the one destroyed in the earthquake . But despite this growth of private construction the federal government will still be spending large sums here this coming year . One agency alone , the United States Army Corps of Engineers , estimates it will spend nearly $64 million for work in Alaska during the balance of the fiscal year ending next June 30 . This includes more than $30 million in earthquake reconstruction for the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the balance for Air Force and Army construction . New Area Mapped Out The largest factor in the private sector will be the state 's petroleum industry , which has scheduled an extremely busy summer both in exploration work and actual drilling . Much of next summer 's oil activity will be concentrated in an entirely new area . This is a section of the Arctic far to the north of Alaska 's populated areas and near the Arctic Ocean . Prospecting there has made the industry hopeful that a new , rich field can be developed . If it is developed the remote location will cause major problems of transportation and distribution but should stimulate new economic growth in this presently undeveloped area . Such new development of Alaska 's petroleum resources ? and its other rich resources in minerals , timber , and fisheries ? appear to offer the promise for continued growth for the new state not only in 1965 but in the years beyond .                     