@@721425

txt County Judge Harold Bode , who cooked up a hot tempest over his insistence on the comfort of an air conditioner , was cooled off Friday by a higher judge . The Wisconsin Supreme court ordered the release of County Clerk Richard Lindgren , whom Judge Bode had jailed twice after the clerk refused to approve use of taxpayers ' money to pay for the jurist 's air cooler . Furthermore , Judge Bode , who had flung about . " show cause " citations against the county clerk and the sheriff , was himself ordered to appear before the Supreme court in Madison next Thurs. day to show cause for his actions . Free Clerk from Cell Kenosha 's week long local squabble became a state affair thursday night when Gov . Gaylord Nelson directed the state attorney general to ask the Supreme court to take jurisdiction of the case . Chief Justice John Martin signed an order directing Lindgren 's release from the Kenosha county jail where he had sweated out three days of confinement in 90 plus degree heat . The clerk was freed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the official paper . Caught in Middle Judge Bode haled Lindgren into court on an order to show cause why he should n't be cited for contempt of court after the clerk , who also is county purchasing agent , refused to approve the county 's payment for a $250 air conditioner the judge Ind had installed in his chambers last week . Lindgren contends he was caught in the middle ? that he could n't approve the bill because the county hoard had not authorized it and because state law requires bids on purchases above $125 . When the judge would n't let him make an explanatory statement before entering a plea as to whether he was guilty of contempt , the judge found him in contempt of court for not answering . Other Judges Balk Af , Lindgren 's release was ordered by a Racine judge , in a neighboring county , who issued a writ of habeas corpus when other Kenosha county judges declined to act in behalf of their imprisoned fellow citizen . Sheriff Floyd Hughes then found himself in the middle , for , udge Bode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cited him for contempt of court for releasing Lindgren . The sheriff said he would have been in contempt of the Racine court if he had n't . Alter Judge Bode recommitted Lindgren to jail , ending his few hours of freedom between hearings , the governor entered the fight . Judge Bode must now show cause before the Supreme court why it should n't take jurisdiction in the matter involving his overruling the habeas corpus action .                     