@@723634

txt Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington A short , warmhearted , de Gaulle visit with President Johnson still leaves AmericanFrench relations in the freezer . The new United States President and his government already have learned that President de Gaulle refuses to pin himself down to a time or place for a substantial visit . Obviously he will try to keep the initiative in their relationship and choose the best political context for any discussion . Wryly enough , a top official here says of relations with President de Gaulle , " Plus ca change , plus c'est la meme chose '  --  the more things change the more they remain the same . " President Johnson , Secretary of State Dean Rusk , and American Ambassador to Paris Charles E. Bohlen all agree that the change in the presidency has n't changed the Frenchman 's basic policy and convictions about the United States oneiota . . , Impression Reftited President Johnson had the clear impression after his quick de Gaulle chat that the illustrious Frenchman would come back to the United States U.S.-French Ice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and extensive talks . But as soon as the de Gaulle mission returned to France the American Ambassador was adroitly disabused of any such firm de Gaulle plans for coming to Washington . Nov , truly , no official in either Paris or Washington knows when or where a Johnson-de Gaulle meeting will take place . President de Gaulle has only indicated , as he did to President Kennedy . that he will meet with the American President " in principle , " which to the French does not mean that a meeting is an assured fact at all . Policies Pegged So Mr. Johnson has learned at first hand , and immediately , the nature of his French ally , and that his policies are " antipathetic , " to use a polite and understated policymaker 's term . Sen. J. W. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , put it more bluntly this week when he said President de Gaulle is a " very disruptive influence " in the Western alliance . ? What the Johnson planners are having to face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of late spring visit to Western Europe the Johnson-de Gaulle discussions could well be in Paris , not in Washington . Already Mr. Johnson is being advised by some observers to go " more than half way " and have his first substantive de Gaulle talks in Paris . It is being pointed out that both Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy did this , and it can be argued that this is the graceful thing to do . Concern Noted No doubt President Johnson has heard that some Frenchmen are calling " le grand Charles " the " remaining captain of the Western world . " What concerns the Mate Department is whether or not the French leader will decide to challenge the new President on the agriculture-trade front or on the question of NATO 's strategy in Central Europe . Wherever the ? Johnson - de Gaulle meeting takes place , the Johnson administration realizes that the diplomatic ice between Washington and Paris has n't thawed even a few degrees . French Unhurried Trade negotiator Christian A. Herter argues that the United States will go right along with the General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva next spring and begin the difficult intricacies of implementing e " Kennedy round " of tariff reductions . But the French are in no hurry at all . French officials argue that because of the 1964 presidential year the " Kennedy round " will not really get going until the fall of 1964 . A reporter does not have to go far in American officialdom now to hear experts say that they will not be surprised if the " Kennedy round " is indeed partially delayed ; and they wonder out loud about President de Gaulle 's real attitude toward the Common Market .                     