@@728119

txt TOKYO , 0ct . 4 VI -- Red China tested a hydrogen bomb in the atmosphere and staged its first nuclear explosion underground last month , Peking said today . The hydrogen bomb test last Monday and the underground blast Sept. 23 were detected by the Atomic Energy commission at the time , but the Chinese Communists had remained silent about them until now . Both Termed Successful A Chinese-language broadcast by Radio Peking and an English-language dispatch of Peking 's Hsinhua news agency said both tests were successful , and should come as " great encouragement and support " for Vietnamese and others fighting against " United States aggression . " But the dispatch said : " At no time and in no circumstances will China be the first to use nuclear weapons . " A Japanese translation of the original broadcast said " a new type " of hydrogen bomb had been tested . But Hsinhua 's English version made no mention of the weapon 's being of a new type . It said : " A new hydrogen bomb explosion was successfully conducted over the western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to this , on Sept. 23 , 1969 , China successfully conducted her first underground nuclear test . " First II-Bomb Test This was taken to mean here that the hydrogen test was not of a new type bomb , but rather that the Chinese had tested another H-bomb . China 's first hydrogen bomb was tested June 17 , 1969 . It was dropped from an airplane . Other Chinese nuclear t ests have been detected in the west on Dec. 24 , 1967 and on last Dec. 28 . Peking has never acknowledged them . The hydrogen bomb and underground tests were Red China 's 9th and 10th nuclear explosions . The first took place Oct. 16 , 1964 . Bomb Size Untold Hsinhua did not mention the force of weapons tested , nor did it give any indication of how the hydrogen bomb was detonated in the atmosphere . Japanese scientists who tried to detect fallout from the explosions s aid communist China tested the hydrogen bomb either at a high altitude or used a " clean bomb . " The Japanese government 's radioactivity counter-measure head-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hsinhua said the nuclear tests are necessary for national defense and for breaking the nuclear monopoly . " The conducting of necessary and limited nuclear tests and the development of nuclear weapons by China are entirely for the purpose of defense and for breaking the nuclear monopoly , with the ultimate aim o f abolishing nuclear weapons , " the dispatch added . It claimed China 's successful nuclear tests " serve as another heavy blow at the nuclear monopoly by American imperialism and " social-imperialism. "                     