@@721315

txt ? President Mohammad Ayub Khan declared today that Pakistanis were " beginning to doubt " that the governmental machinery ' of the United States was attuned to the requirements of the nuclear age , The President said there was no doubt that the United States had the striking power to repel arty attack . However , he ' questioned whether the governmental machinery would permit it to act rapidly enough . This machinery " appears cumbersome , sluggish and a clumsy juggernaut , " President Ayub asserted in an interview here . " In my mind , that is the greatest danger to the freed world . " More Military Aid Sought The President 's remarks were made in reference to recent criticism in the United States of military aid to Pakistan . Field Marshal Ayub left no doubt , however , that . his Government still considered itself one of the United States ' stanchest allies . He said the United States had been approached about increasing its military assistance . Indications in diplomatic circles here were that the response would be favorable . Discussing Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States about providing information on birth control . He said it was " very selfish " and " very unwise . " If the United States , like Pakistan , were faced with a population growth Wit threatened its economic development , he said , there would be no controversy . He urged that , instead of arguing , Americans spur their scientists to develop a cheap , simple , effective method of contraception . In another interview , at nearby Nathia Gall , Foreign Minister Manzoor Qadir said it was his inclination not to reply to a second Moscow protest against the alleged use of a Pakistani air base by a United States U-2 plane . The plane was shot down May 1 on a spying mission over the Soviet Union . The note warned that if any aircraft made " provocative " flights against the Soviet Union Ilfrom Pakistan , the Soviet GovLernment would be forced to take ' such counter-measures as striking at the bases used . It said Pakistan , in rejecting an earlier Soviet protest , appeared to underrate the seriousness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the note would be discussed by the Pakistani Cabinet but that he doubted a reply would be sent . He said Moscow would take advantage of a reply only to make new charges and warnings . President Ayub asserted that he thought Pakistan had made quite clear to Moscow that she had " no aggressive designs against anyone . " " We are in military alliances purely for defense , " he declared . " We have every right to do this . There is no reason why Russia should misunderstand that . " The general impression among usually informed sources here is that Pakistan strongly suspected for some time that United States aircraft were using her base at Peshawar for flights over the Soviet Union , Pakistan is believed to have chosen to look the other way rather than cause possible embarrassment . High Pakistani opinion is believed to hold that all alert nations must gather information about their potential enemies and that the U-2 missions might have indirectly helped Pakistan by helping the United States . Lack of Understanding Seen Field Marshal Ayub said he had " no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and activities . " He added , however , that the East-West struggle presented a " difficult military situation " in South Asia that " sometimes our friends in America do not quite understand . " The intellectual , he said , is a " dangerous chap who may be good at debating but can not make up his mind . " The President declared : that the United States appeared to lack a " clear-cut policy " and , as a result , lost considerable prestige . The 53-year-old President was interviewed in his spacious office overlooking the . Himalayan foothills . He has been staying in Murree , at 7,000 feet above sea ; level , *bile Rawalpindi ; his , new capital , ; . thirtyfive mil  --  s ? to the southwest , has been= 1104:1egree heat . - The President 's - appearance was anything but  - -  . typically Pakistan : ; He wore a light-gray suit , a oream-colored ? shirt and a ' sky . blue tie . He sat erect in the . best British inilita.ry manner behind a huge Wooden desk covered with- green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying . very hard " to reach a settlement of outstanding problems : with neighboring India . He Said his Main objective - was disengagement of the Indian and Pakistahi armies that face each- other along long frontiers : He added , however , that he saw no real hope for this until a settlement was reached on the disputed state of Jammu and Kashmir . The President observed that he saw no reason why Pakistan could not " do business " with the Soviet Union . His Foreign Minister said that the Soviet Embassy in Pakistan had had talks about possible petroleum exploration but that there . had been no progress since the U-2 incident . Camera Preu-Pla CRITICAL OF U. S. : President Mohammad Ayub lib.au. of Pakistan . Re said Pakistanis were doubtful that American Government machinery would , work quickly in ease of attack .                     