@@725226

txt Thousands of policemen were placed on emergency duty last night , as car pools were being set up throughout the city . armories were lining up cots foi stranded people and railroad : made plans for extra service : today . By late afternoon , the first major impact of the transit strike was being felt and seer throughout the city in a steadily increasing flow of traffic . The increase , partly a result of the end of the New Year ' : weekend but mainly because of the transit strike , was a marked change from Saturday when the city and the highways leading to it were quiet . " The whole problem , " said Police Commissioner Vincent L. Broderick , " is essentially one of traffic movement and traffic control . " The Commissioner outlined a series of steps to cope with the strike , including a 12-hour day for all policemen instead of the usual 8 hours . About 10,000 policemen would be on duty in the rush hours . As he spoke , the city was preparing for the day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their homes in car pools . Businesses were arranging limousine services and hotel rooms for many employes . Taxi drivers were booking appointments for Brooklyn or Bronx residents who work in midtown . " What we 're really asking for on the part of the public . Mr. Broderick said . " is courtesy , patience , initiative and forbearance . " The Police Commissioner said that **28;761;TOOLONG parking restrictions had been suspended for the duration of the strike and that 100 tow trucks would be dispatched throughout the city to get stalled cars off traffic lanes as fast as possible . He also listed 49 pick-up and discharge points in Manhattan , the Bronx , Queens and Brooklyn for persons traveling in car pools . There will be no parking at these points . " If it is essential that you drive Into the city , " Mr. Broderick observed , " pool with other people . Make sure you have a full car . Make sure there are means of getting that car off the street . ' At another point Commissioner Broderick said he did not anticipate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we continue to let traffic in or out . " he added . " really depends upon the public . " Cooperation Needed " It depends , " the Commissioner said . " upon the extent to which the public cooperates with the ground rules which Mayor Lindsay has laid down . " The Mayor has urged New Yorkers to avoid the use of automobiles in the city and has asked that employers cut their work forces . He also has asked that work hours be staggered . The New York Central and Long Island Railroads announced that they were providing special shuttle trains during non-rush hours today to help New Yorkers get downtown . The Long Island Railroad said , however , that its scheduled trains would pass up most stations in Queens from 6:30 to 9:30 A.M. and from 3:30 to 6:30 P.M. , stopping only at Murray Hill , Broadway-Flushing . Auburndale , Bayside , Douglestown , Little Neck , Queens Village . Rosedale and Jamaica . Then , at about 8:50 A.M. , shuttle trains will start picking up passengers at the other Queens stations and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Adding Trains The New York Central will basically follow the same procedure . The Central , which daily transports 32,300 commuters from Westchester , Duchess and Putnam Counties , will provide special local shuttle trains at 5:45 A.M. and continue them until 10:55 P.M. , except during rush-hour periods . However . most Central trains that serve Westchester and points farther North will not stop at city stations en route to and from Grand Central Terminal . On the Harlem Division , the Central will run special trains at 5:45 , 6:15 and 7 A.M. and then at 9:05 , 9:25 and 9:45 A.M. After that they will run every half hour at 15 and 45 minutes past the hour until 10:45 P.M. The trains will make all local slops in the city : Wakefield . Woodlawn , Williamsbridge , Botanical Gardens , Fordham , 183d Street . Tremont . Morrisania . Melrose . and 138th Street . On the Central 's Hudson Division . special trains will run at 6:25 and 7 A.M. , and then at 8:55 , 9:20 and 9:55 A.M .. Thereafter trains will run hourly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will stop at Mount St. Vincent 's , Riverdale , Spuyten Duyvil , Marble Hill , University Heights . Highbridge , and West 138th Street . The New Haven Railroad and the Staten Island Ferry will maintain normal schedules for the day . Service on Long Island Service on the L.I.R.R. from the Jamaica , Queens , station into New York had been in doubt because Harold Pryor , general manager of Local 517 of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen , had announced that the trainmen would refuse to operate the trains from Jamaica in case of a transit strike . The railroad obtained an injunction in Federal Court forbidding the union from interfering with the railroad 's operations . Last night Mr. Pryor aid that the injunction would be honored but that train service might not be normal because of the difficulties many trainmen might encounter in getting to work . From the early morning until night , Traffic Commissioner Henry A. Barnes will remain in the seventh-floor room of his department , checking through a two-way radio with police and traffic officials at such key spots as bridges and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally Sunday-quiet yesterday , in various locales there was feverish - activity . At the 71st Regiment Armory on 34th Street and - .7 - -   , Park Avenue , for example , about 500 cots were being arx ; ranged for overnight guests tosm " People have actually phoned , and asked for reservations , " said Capt . Edward P. the division 's information 0M%ger . " We ? really do n't have the Zip , cilities- , for reservations , and have to be on : a first-come , " first served basis . "                     