@@725602

txt The House of Representatives issued a constitutional challenge to the executive branch today by ordering the Defense Department to construct two nuclear-powered frigates for the Navy . The immediate issue was whether the Navy should proceed toward construction of a nuclear-powered surface fleet , Underlying this controversial military question , however , was a deeper constitutional issue : whether Congress or the executive branch has the responsibility for determining the composition of the military forces . In acting today on a military authorization bill , the House emphatically claimed the primary responsibility . By a vote of 356 to 2 , the House approved a bill authorizing $17.8-billion in military procurement and research in the fiscal year 1967 , which starts July 1 . Money Not at Issue The bill provides $931-million more than requested by the Johnson Administration . However , the main controversy now developing between the executive branch and Congress is not over the additional money but over the mandatory language for the construction of two nuclear-powered frigates at a cost of $258-million . The bill specifies that the Secretary of Defense " shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile frigates as soon as practicable . " The language raises to the constitutional level a longstanding debate between Congress and Secretary of Defense Robert S. over construction of a nuclear-powered surface fleet . On the ground of cost-effectiveness , Mr. thus far has opposed construction of the higher-cost nuclear surface ships . Proceed to Pressure Only after three years of Congressional pressure did he approve this year a Navy request for construction of a second nuclear-powered aircraft carrier . He is still opposing construction of smaller nuclear-powered warships on the ground that their superiority over conventional ships does not outweigh their increased cost . He has declined , for example , to spend $20-million appropriated by Congress last year to start construction of a nuclearpowered frigate , and has specified that two conventional destroyers be included in the Navy 's shipbuilding program for the coming fiscal year . It was Mr. 's opposition that prompted the House Armed Services Committee , at the instigation of its chairman , Representative L. Mendel Rivers of South Carolina , to raise the constitutional issue . Committee 's Position It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the House , that Congress , not the Defense Department , has the primary responsibility to determine what weapons shall be built under the Article I of the Constitution giving Congress the power " to raise and support armies " and " to provide and maintain a Navy . " It is the executive branch 's position that the President , under his constitutional responsi-i bility as commander-in-chief has the power to determine how to carry out Congressional ! authorizations . The committee 's determina-i tion to push the fight was evi- ! dent from its report explaining ' the purpose of the mandatory language on the two frigates . " If this language constitutes a test as to whether Congresshas the power to so mandate . let the test be made and let this important weapons system be , the field of trial . " it said . The committee in 1962 " directed " the Kennedy Adminis- ' tration to build the RS-70 Re-. connaissance-strike bomber . Carl Vinson of Georgia , then , ' chairman of the Armed Services , Committee , eventually retreg t- ' ed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rose garden with President Kennedy. : Gives to Conference . At that time , Mr. Vinson ' found himself driven into a minority position by political maneuvering on the part of Republicans and the White House , forcing him to compromise . But now , if today 's vote is an indication , Mr. Rivers can count on the solid suppe-t of the House . Only Representatives George Brown Jr. , - Democrat of California , and Thomas Curtis , Republican of Missouri , voted against the bill . The Administration presumably is hoping that the language will be softened in the Senate-House Conference Committee , to which the bill now goes . However , some influential members of the Senate Armed Services Committee also are firm advocates of a nuclearpowered surface fleet . If the language is included in the final bill , it is far from certain that the Defense Department will feel bound by it . In a " cautionary note " in its report , however , the committee warns that " its attitude toward future requests of the Department of Defense for military Procurement and research and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own attitude in its execution of the programs authorized by this bill . " The House vote was a personal triumph for Ali .. Rivers , who has been building up to this constitutional fight ever since lie took over the House Armed Services Committee in January , 1965 . As Mr. Rivers opened the debate , the House gave him an unusual standing ovation , with more than 300 members rising and applauding him for more than a minute . It was apparent that the tribute was also designed as an endorsement of one of their senior colleagues , who this mourning found himself the target of a columnist 's criticism . House action on the military authorization bill has been postponed for two weeks , and Drew Pearson wrote ' in his column today that the reason was that Mr. Rivers " has been drying out from a drunk " in the Bethesda Naval Hospital . Much of the debate was given to personal tributes to Mr. Rivers . None of the speakers referred directly to the column . Mr. Rivers came the closest when he noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and said that he hoped to stay out of the hospital in the future " because of the publicity I get . " Mr. Rivers explained that he had been hospitalized because he suffered " lots of pain " from bursitis and calcification of joints in the neck . The United States has two nuclear powered frigates at present  --  the Bainbridge and the ? Truxton . Both are designated as guided missile frigates . The Truxton , the second of the two to join the fleet , is a 9,000-ton vessel 564 feet in length with a beam of 58 feet . Her armament includes two twin launchers for guided missiles plus guns and torpedo tubes . She is larger than some light cruisers in the fleet . The designation frigate was originally applied to a type of small , fast sailing vessel , but in the 18th century was given to large . fast-selling and maneuverabie men-o-war , smaller and less heavily armed than the battleships of those days , which were known as ships of the line . Later . when steam came . steam frigates were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1870 's . The name as a warship designation then fell into disuse , as chief surface vessels were called battleships , cruisers and destroyers . But it is now again ! used by the United States for vessels , larger than destroyers . chiefly designed for special tasks .                     