@@723651

txt The kidnaping of four United States officials in Bolivia as hostages for two Communist labor leaders appears curiously like the cold war in miniature . The pattern developing , after the kidnaping several weeks ago of a United States Army colonel in Venezuela by pro-Castro Communist terrorists , has sonic of the following ingredients that parallel cold-war maneuvering : ? This is not mass confrontation of nuclear forces , as occurred in Cuba in October , 1962 , but rather confrontation by means of assault on the individual . ? The kidnapers involved in both Bolivia and Venezuela are quite certain the United States will not go to war over individuals , much as the integrity of the individual is respected in the United States . Impact of Affrontery Yet , there is in the kidnaping act all the effect of affrontery to the United.States , especially since its government officials are involved . ? In Venezuela and Bolivia , leftists were associated with the kidnaping , according to available evidence . Tin miners of the Catavi area long have given the Bolivian Government trouble . Other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other unidentified foreigners and Bolivian technicians . The kidnapers said they would not be freed until two Communist union leaders now held by the Bolivian Government are released . Popular Device ? ? The affrontery of kidnaping the United States Army colonel in Caracas Nov. 27 took place in the context of events following the assassination of President Kennedy on Nov. 22 in Dallas and when the United States was in the throes of restoring continuity of government and presidential succession . In that instance , President Johnson did not become involved with the Venezuelan kidnaping , but the United States ambassador in Caracas talked with President Betancourt about it . ? There is no evidence of any logical or planned connection between any of the kidnapings nor any evidence that they have been directed by some central authority ? such as the Communist Party in the Soviet Union or its counterpart in Cuba , the ORI . Rather it seems to be a problem of contagion , or that the kidnaping of United States officials is becoming popular as a device , since they offer such spectacular possibilities as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using United States citizens as hostages , President Johnson Sunday lent his influence to the situation by offering Bolivia aid to free the kidnaped Americans . was showing its concern . The Bolivian President has sent troops to the Catavia mining area where the kidnapings took place . President Johnson sent the message to President Paz Estenssoro Sunday after he returned from the New York funeral of former Sen. Herbert H. Lehman and after conferring with Secretary of State Dean Rusk ; McGeorge Bundy , Presidential Assistant for National Security Affairs ; and Edwin M. Martin , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs . The White House issued a statement that " in line with his determination to protect United States citizens everywhere , President Johnson has offered full assistance to President Paz in his action on behalf of United States and other foreign citizens . " Assistance Defined Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , defined " full assistance " as meaning whatever the Bolivian Government might request in help . Meanwhile , there were indications the new Johnson administration is attempting to size up the entire Cuban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gainsville , Fla. , conference on the Caribbean , said the President is pushing forward in an effort to effect collapse of the Castro regime in Cuba . In Washington , President Johnson is reported to have asked several departments for a reevaluation of all efforts to isolate Cuba and of the attention being paid or not being paid to Cuban exile groups , some of which were so critical of United States policy that President Kennedy cut them off from all financial support . The statement termed the kidnapings of the American officials as " indefensible , " especially since the men were engaged in a visit to an Alliance for Progress project . This was a discreet way of letting President Paz Estenssoro of Bolivia know that the United States was supporting him in the situation and also                     