@@726236

txt The Ford Foundation sharply criticized yesterday the structure of the Communications Satellite Corporation , and said that the agency should not be allowed to expand its operations within the continental borders of the United States . The country 's largest philanthropic organization contended that if Comsat were authorized to add a domestic service to its present international operations the corporation would become a " world monopoly " without parallel in the history of utility regulation , In a brief prepared for submission today to the Federal Communications Commission , the Ford fund asked that Comsat be denied the right to conduct even an experimental test of a system of satellite communications over the United States . The foundation urged Instead that such a trial be undertaken by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Pilot Program Sought Comsat announced Saturday that it had asked the F.C.C. for immediate authority to introduce a pilot satellite system for the experimental domestic relay of television programs and telephone , telegraph and data transmission services . Tonight is the F.C.C. 's deadline for the latest round of briefs in the satellite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known by Bundy , president of the fund , in further support of the group 's bid last August for establishment of a separate nonprofit satellite relay sys- tem , to help support educational TV through revenues gained from distributing commercial video shows . A Comsat spokesman said last night that the corporation would not comment on Mr. Bundy 's attack . Previous Ford Foundation statements were designed primarily to champion the separate system and were relatively reserved in opposing the views of Comsat . Comsat has contended that a single system under its control , serving both TV and other communications users , would enjoy greater economies and technical efficiency . Fears Losses in Technique In yesterday 's brief the Ford Foundation went beyond past differences over competition in satellite TV . The fund instead pointedly argued that the composition of Comsat 's board of directors tended to delay the development of orbiting facilities in the sky , because such progress might jeopardize the existing profitability of relay facilities on the ground . Six of Comsat 's directors represent common carriers , such as the American Telephone and Telegraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relay . The board of directors consists of 15 persons in three categories . Six are elected as public representatives of the stockholders , They are David M. Kennedy , chairman of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago ; George Killion , chairman of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ; Bruce G. Sundlun , a lawyer of Providence , R. I. , and Washington ; Leo D. Welch , former chairman of COMSAT ; James McCormack , the present chairman , and Dr. Joseph V. Charyk , the president . Three are Presidential appointees , Frederic G. Donner , chairman of General Motors ; William W. Hagerty , president of the Drexel Institute of Technology in Philadelphia , and George Meany , president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . The directors cited in the Ford Foundation 's statement are elected by the commercial carriers . They are Harold N. Botkin , assistant vice president ; James E. Dingman , former board vice chairman , and ace P. Moulton , vice president and general counsel of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company ; Douglas S. 11Guild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westfall , executive vice president of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and Eugene R. Black , the former head of the World Bank , who is now a business consultant . These six directors , the Ford Foundation maintained , are not free to concentrate only on communications satellites , but must be sensitive to the large common carrier investment in microwave relay circuits and other land facilities . The Ford Foundation . brief . signed by Mr. Bundy , noted that Comsat is the chosen instrument for the United States in international communication by satelite . Comsat is both the dominant owner and the manager of the system , he said . World Monopoly Feared " To add to Comsat 's authority the exclusive franchise for a domestic communications satellite system , as proposed by Comsat , would give the corporation a world monopoly , " the brief added . " One entity would provide all communications satellite services . One company would be responsible for developing all satellite technology . One customer would procure all satellite equipment . " A monopoly of this sort would be unprecedented , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often considered a monopoly , there are many independent telephone companies in the United States , including several of considerable size , and many more in foreign coun-tries , " The Ford Foundation said that Comsat had not yet made clear whether its plan for a domestic satellite system would be a separate entity , or part of its over-all international operations . " At this stage we do not regard the subordination of all domestic communications satellite systems to a global system as realistic . " the foundation said . " It is predictable that some countries will wish to maintain the independence and individual integrity of their domestic broadcast and communications system . " Year 's Delay Proposed The Ford Foundation specifically asked the F.C.C. to delay for one year final authorization of any domestic satellite system and said that even an experimental grant to Comsat would carry the implication of a permanent arrangement . By having the National Aeronautics and Space Administration conduct a national satellite test program , the foundation said , technical knowledge could be gleaned without controversy over the ultimate management or ownership of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its outlay kg whatever entity or entities %m.e subsequently ** to go into the satellite relay business , the fund said ,                     