@@723464

txt The Soviet Union demanded again today that United States forces get out of South Vietnam . It charged that American troops " are conducting active military operations against the South Vietnamese people . " The Kremlin position , set forth in the leading article in Pravda , the newspaper of the Soviet Communist party , assailed the South Vietnamese Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem as reactionary . It denounced the United States for the help it has given the Ngo Dinh Diem regime in the war against the Vietcong ( Vietnamese Communist ) guerrillas . The article implied that the United States was also helping Ngo Dinh Diem in what it called the persecution of South Vietnam 's Buddhists . Pravda asserted that recent developments in Vietnam had created conditions more favorable to the Communists ' cause . It said sentiment against the Ngo Dinh Diem regime is " erupting even in the segments of the population which had not taken part in the struggle so far . " " This creates conditions for a still broader nationwide offensive on the Ngo Dinh clique , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " gross violation " of the 1954 Geneva agreements on South Vietnam . The United States was not a party to the accord , which settled the Indochina war . Pravda said the agreements had been intended to insure peace in South Vietnam and give the country an opportunity for democratic development , but that " violation " of them had led to " tragic events . " Tass Releases Editorial The editorial , made public here last night by Tass , the Soviet press agency , accused the armed forces of the United States of conducting military operations " against the South Vietnamese people . " It said 15,000 American soldiers were taking part in the hostilities , along with 400,000 troops of the Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem . " The direct armed intervention in South Vietnam is a logical consequence of the policy pursued by the American monopolies in Asia , " it said . The editorial described that policy as one " aimed at supporting the anti-popular , anti-national regime of Ngo Dinh Diem . The editorial said that the Geneva agreements prohibited the setting up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " imperialists " had grossly violated these agreements . It asserted that the recent treatment accorded the Buddhists in South Vietnam had compelled even the American press to admit that an " ever broader strata " of South Vietnamese people now oppose the regime . The 1954 Geneva agreement , divided Vietnam into North and South Vietnam . It prohibited any reinforcement of arms in either north or south and banned the establishment of foreign bases or the introduction of new foreign troops into Vietnam , as well as Laos and Cambodia . Hanoi Bids U.N . Solve Crisis TOKYO , Sunday , Sept. 15 ( AP ) ? Communist North Vietnam has asked 14 members of the United Nations to use their influence in the world organization to end the crisis in South Vietnam , Hsinhua , the Chinese press agency , reported today . A note dated Sept. 12 was made public in Hanoi by the North Vietnamese Foreign Ministry , the agency said in a broadcast monitored in Tokyo . The plea was reported to have been addressed to Afghanistan , India , Guinea , Mongolia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Indonesia. , Nigeria , Ruanda , Somalia and Ceylon .                     