@@728242

txt With 176 passengers only about one-half a full load  --  moving about in enormous cabin areas and an upstairs lounge , a Boeing 747 flew here from Seattle yesterday in the ' first public preview of what jumbo-jet airline service will be like . Twice as massive as any previous airliner , the plane is slated to be put into regular operation by Pan American World Airways early next year . The preview passengers , a majority of them newsmen , were struck most by the spaciousness , which even a full load seemed unlikely to tax . " I hate elevators , " said a woman journalist who is not an aviation specialist , " and I 'm always leery in planes . I 'm claustrophobic . But not in this one . " Among other appealing features of the plane were overhead storage space at each seat , bright reading lights and easily viewed wide movie screens on each center bulkhead . Perhaps the biggest surprise was that the plane , despite its tremendous bulk ( a wing area as big as a basketball court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it was . Still , it cushioned the turbulence better than current planes . And some things fell be.low expectations : interior noise levels at some locations , a gadget or two , and passenger comfort while on the ground . Charles A. Lindbergh , the first man to fly the Atlantic alone , was on hand to greet the crew after the big jet had landed at Kennedy International Airport . Mr. Lindbergh , a member of the Pan Am board of directors , mingled with other airline officials and then went quietly to the cockpit to congratulate the pilots . The Boeing 747 , which costs about ** including spare parts ( four times the cost of the original Boeing 707 ) , was to have gone into service in midDecember . But it was delayed about two months by an engine shortcoming  --  excessive fuel consumption and less-than-expected takeoff power in hot weather problems that took experts at Pratt &; Whitney , the engine inniifacturer , months to understand . A complet remedy has finally Been devised , company officials epott . A total of 185 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here and abroad . is:An American will arrange its seating for 58 in first class and 3Q4 in economy class . Many other airlines will accommodate similar loads  --  between 350 and 375 passengers . But the plane can take up to 490 passengers if some lines want to pack the customers in. - , - ; , There were 191 persons on board yesterday when the preview plane taxied out from an imposing line of six 747 's for a 7:25 A.M. takeoff from Boeing Field in Seattle : Of the passengers , five were cockpit crew , six were stewardesses , four male- pursers , 117 newsmen and the rest officials of Boeing , Pan American , other coMpanies and governmental agencies . ? Photographers clambered over the interior with bulks equipment , and a whole cerVal section of seats was fillec With boxes containing brochures7and souvenir 747 models . Nevertheless the 200-foot-long cabin , separated by bulkheads into four large areas , seemed anything but crowded . Boeing sources explained later ' that the buffeting had evidently been . Caused by hardening:of the nylon nose-wheel tires during three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seattle ramp being prepared far , ' the flight . They said it would not happen when planes Were being flown regularly . The compartments gave passengers more the impression of sitting in commodious , squarish living rooms . And this was accentuated by straight side walls and ample headrom , which would allow the tallest basketball player to stand erect , at his seat . Seating was nine abreast in the economy areas . To those who have come to dislike the confinement of six-abreast seating in many one-aisled jets today , this might seem like a perpetuation of discomfort . Not so . Aisles a Bit Wider The seats were separated by two aisles , each two inches wider than aisles on today 's planes . There were three seats along the port side , four down die center and two on the starboard side . The only row that was more than one seat from an aisle was the one on the extreme left . Furthermore , each seat was about two inches wider than today 's standard economy seat . And hand luggage did not have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overhead racks . The idea was fine , except that , to many on board , the racks appeared much too flimsy . One had already been pulled from its mounts by the time Jack Waddell , Boeing 's chief 747 test pilot , taxied for take-off . On take-off , passengers were startled by the severeness of the shudder as the plane 's wheels were buffeted by rough spots on the runway . The experience was dismissed as probably attributable to a ' worsethan - average surface at the Boeing field . But it was repeated when the plane touched down at Kennedy International Airport 4. hours ' 5mintites later . One other phenomenon produced a significant amount of criticism . This was the interior noise level in the rear half of the plane , back where the engines are mounted on the gracefully swept wings . The sound appeared at least as intrusive as on current jets .                     