@@727669

txt Leaders of the National , Goverriois Conference pledged their support today to efforts ; to keep the nation 's - campuses safe and open for " the vast majority of students who are seeking to exercise their educational opportunities . " " We join with others who share a responsible role in pledging actions which will insure the continuation of these opportunities , " the ' executive committee of the conference said in a resolution . The governors specifically endorsed President Nixon 's stern stand earlier this week against campus disruption and declared that " lawless acts by a small segment of the student population must not be allowed to interfere " with higher education for the majority . At the request of the President , all the governors will discuss the student unrest issue tomorrow with Vice President Agnew and some members of the Nixon Cabinet . Today 's resolution avoided // any call for Federal action or intervention in the spreading ' campus conflict . Mr. Nixon , in a congratulatory letter to the Rev. T. M. Hesburgh , the president of Notre Dame University , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the state and Federal levels . The conference chairman , Gov . Buford Ellington of Tennessee , told reporters before the resolution was passed that " whatever action is taken must be at the state level " but that the Governors would need the sympathetic understanding of the Administration and Washington officials . Congress has come under increasing pressure to take some legislative action against disruptive students by making i more effective the laws passed last year to deny them Federal , loans and scholarships . The laws , in effect , would ' permit the Government or the university to institute proceedings to withhold Federal schol ; arships and loans from any student convicted of disrupting ills school . The governors ' two-day winter meeting opened today at the Washington Hilton Hotel with the prospect that the conference would not take an official position on many controversial issues other than student unrest . states to help with their mount:ng welfare and education budgets . Mr. Rockefeller renewed at a news conference today the plea for Federal aid he had made at the White House two weeks ago . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had little chance of getting a favorable resolution from his fellow governors . At a morning news conference , Governor Rockefeller said ' the Nixon statement ' tn campus disruption had " struck a very , responsive chord with the American people " and properly emphasized the responsibility . of the presidents and trustees of each institution to solve their own problems . " I 'm afraid that public pressure will push Congress into interfering if the management a the colleges does n't do something , " Mr. Rockefeller said . Tomorrow , Vice President Agnew will present almost the full Nixon Cabinet to the Governors , for remarks and questioning , at an all-day closed meeting . On Friday , Mr. Agnew will take a number of the governors to Cape Kennedy for the Apollo 9 launching . ? - Text of Statement Following is the text of the Governors ' statement on student unrest : " The executive committee of the National Governors Conference extends its full support to the President of the United States relative to the preservation and advancement of higher education , which is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lawless acts by a small segment of the student population must not be allowed to interfere with the vast number of students who are seeking to exercise their educational op-portunities " We join with others who share a responsible role in pledging actions which will insure the continuation of these opportunities . "                     