@@727564

txt Events in Czechoslovakia cast a long shadow across the rest of Central-East Europe . But those East-bloc regimes which most feared their impact are breathing easier again . With the new year there is ' emerging a hopeful feeling that the worst is over . Czechoslovak leaders themselves are beginning to be cautiously hopeful that the federalization of the Czech and Slovak republics can mark a turning point toward stabilization of the nation 's internal problems . Concern well grounded They hope that last week 's compromise in the crisis over Josef Smrkovsky also will contribute to the calmer atmosphere deemed vital to the salvation of some of last year 's major reforms . Both Hungary , regarded as a reluctant participant in the Czechoslovak invasion , and Romania , an anxious onlooker , are now feeling somewhat more confident that intervention in East European affairs is not foreseeably going further . Unlike Poland . and East Germany , which supported and even spurred the Soviet decisions , both had special reasons for fear . Hungary had scant room for maneuver in its relations with the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with economic reforms similar to the Czechoslovak proposals frowned upon by the Russians . Since the Czechoslovak reforms , admittedly more radical , were vetoed , the Hungarians could not be sure the veto would not also apply to their own steps toward liberalization . Russians more realistic ? Roinania 's rigidly disciplined internal regime gave , the Kremlin no cause for anxiety or complaint . Still , it could not be sure that its independent attitudes in bloc affairs and its ' international stances would not provoke something more than words from the Russians . In the preinvasion period both regimes had supported Prague 's new leadership : the Hungarians because they were committed to ? liberal reforms ; the Romanians because Prague was standing for the kind of independence for bloc members which they themselves had pioneered and upheld for the past five years . But after the invasion both nations hastily trimmed their sails to wait and see the course of Soviet policy , both in Czechoslovakia and the Soviet camp as a whole . Now , however , East-bloc officials begin to reveal a more hopeful outlook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim to see it , is that the Russians themselves are apparently reconciled now to settling with Prague for something less than the all-out aim of replacing a reformist regime with a thoroughly " reliable " one . Another is the related belief that the Russions have been brought to that decision not only by the obdurate attitude of the Czechoslovaks themselves . They also believe that the Soviets have been influenced at last by the violently unfavorable reactions to the invasion by a large majority of those non-ruling parties the Russians must count upon in their efforts to restore some measure of unity within the international Communist movement . The Russians set out believing that " real " Communists in Czechoslovakia  --  those amenable to Moscow 's theories and policies ? would take over with ease if they were helped by military intervention . They also expected that opposition from the outside parties could either be ignored or talked over and subdued with relative ease once the deed was done . The Russians have since accepted the necessity to come to terms with the criticism of the outside parties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the parties within the Soviet orbit to be held in Moscow in May . It is expected that debate there will not be concentrated specifically on Czechoslovakia and last summer 's events . The main focus will be on the whole question of relations between parties , in particular between the // *East-bloc regimes easier // mighty Russian party and the others . Another important topic will be the doctrine . reoently propounded by the Soviet leaders of . the bldc 's right to intervene in any Commu , nist country its allies deem to be straying ? : from the orthodox path . Meanwhile , Hungary has quietly resumed its preinvasion conciliatory role and the view that political solutions are the way for coping with differences between Communist parties and states . Just as in the critical days of last July and early August their cautious party leader Janos Kadar counselled restraint in Prague , so now the Hungarians see a parallel between the " normalization " of the Czechoslovak situation and the Kadar regime 's " consolidation " process after the upheaval in 1956 . In effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greater promise seen They are reemphasizing their own reform aims and the merits of the more modest pro-grain sponsored by Kadar in the post-156 period . The regime 's road is a middle one . It maintains discipline against both " extremes " and sanctions no leniency toward its active political opponents . Still , that framework holds the promise of more democratization of public life and reaffirms the Kadar idea that all public posts are open to loyal and qualified citizens . Premier Jeno Fock and other leaders made New Year television appearances to talk not only about " more consultation with the masses " but also to accent progress and the necessity of reforms to replace the old methods of Communist rule . Romania has not yet launched economic  --  or any other substantial liberalizing  --  rereforms . Last summer 's events quickly muted a few tentative moves toward youth and the arts . After one sharp protest at the invasion , its leaders adopted a circumspect line and accepted commitment and responsibilities within the bloc alliance . Behind the circumspection they carried out a policy of internal consolidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " embracing the whole nation and councils for the minorities ( principally Hungarian and German ) . They also pursued certain reforms of local government . All were designed to stimulate popular unity and support for the regime , presumably against external threat . At the same time Romania has resumed a more strongly assertive note in reaffirming its insistence on national sovereignty , independence , and " noninterference " as the requisite basis of all relations between Communist states .                     