@@727109

txt The computer has joined the labor unions . And labor is delighted . Its leaders say their new electronic data-processing techniques were proved abundantly effective in the victory of John J. Gilligan over Sen. Frank J. Lausche in last week 's Democratic primary in Ohio . With a computer , AFL-CIO 's Committee on Political Education ( COPE ) can now track down union members in congressional districts , precincts , and blocks  --  and produce mailing addresses and telephone numbers for all of them . COPE used the computer to get out a big labor vote for Mr. Gilligan , a liberal , backed by labor to oust conservative Democrat Lausche for the party nomination . Now labor is saying that the computer ? into which names of millions of unionists have been fed  --  may play a significant role this fall in congressional districts where unions are strong . The union-convention season is on . Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey will speak and shake delegates ' hands at most of the big gatherings . He 's the official favorite of the AFL-CIO and is picking up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York has strong rank-and-file support in unions . And Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota has smaller but active backing as - aDemocrat with an almost perfect labor record . Meanwhile , an AFL-CIO analysis of the nation 's " complex political panorama " warns that George C. Wallace , former Alabama Governor , is " a real threat " to labor hopes of a liberal-Democratic victory in the presidential election this fall . A new federal law banning discrimination in employment because of age goes into effect June 12 . Its objective is to increase the employability of those between 40 and 65 . The law says that an employer ca n't refuse to hire because of age , if other qualifications are met . Age limitations ca n't be advertised . But the ban on age discrimination wo n't apply where the physical requirements of jobs are a bona fide reason for turning down older applicants . Trends .. . Hard bargaining and major strikes worry unions . The United Rubber Workers recently warned : " Our union is in trouble . It needs your help . " URW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of major strikes in the rubber industry " in 1967. . i Its president , Peter Bommanto , is urging members to assess themselves up to $5 a month ( on top of regular dues of around $4 a month ) to rebuild URW 's strike reserves . AFL-CIO economists call the Federal Reserve Board 's high-interest policy " dangerously wrong . " They warn it could be a move toward " a sharp recession " in homebuilding and other industries . They back instead " fair and equitable " temporary wartime tax increases to reduce the size of the federal government 's deficit and ease pressures in money markets . George Champion , chairman of the board .2f New York 's Chase Manhattan Bank , blames labor for some of the difficulties in ( ' making better housing available . He says that union policies and practices that sharply restrict work actually increase on , - the- site labor costs by as much as 24 percent . How and why . Changing living habits and rising costs are behind government consideration of new " standard " family budgets . Three are contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a second for a similar family living below moderate standards ; and a third for retired couples . The government recently said that a family of four with moderate living standards in an urban area needs $9,191 a year  --  or $9,376 in : metropolitan areas , or $8,366 in small cities . AFL-CIO economists say the figures omit several " common and necessary costs , " and should be revised . Here is the government 's budget : 22.6 percent for food ; 26.8 percent for housing costs , furniture , major appliances , TV and radio sets ; 10.5 percent for clothing and personal care ; 5.1 percent for medical-dental care : 2.9 percent " or social security ; and 11 percent for other taxes ; plus smaller outlays.                     