@@723465

txt THE HAGUE , Sept. ** Acheson lashed out tonight at President de Gaulle 's nationalist policies as a ' lethal danger for both European and Atlantic unity . " Mr. Acheson , an adviser to President Kennedy and Secretary of State under President Harry S. Truman , sharply criticized the French President 's view of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Mr. Acheson was also critical of General de Gaulle 's views on agriculture , which he described as " parochial nationalism . " He called for the organization of an international committee to act as advisers and consultants on mutual agricultural problems ? " men of the quality , though unhappily there are few of them , of Jean Monnet , Karl Gunnar Myrdal , Alberto Lleras Camargo and Lord Franks . " Econo , nie Authorities Mr. Monnet , a French economist , is regarded as the father of the European Common Market ; Mr. Myrdal , a Swede , is a world authority on economic and social issues . Former President Lleras Camargo of Colombia has been Secretary General of the Organization of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a member of the British Privy Council . Discussing monetary instability in the free world , Mr. Acheson remarked that the West would not " be cured of its monetary instability by the homeopathic treatment of treasuries and central banks , " The former Secretary of State said that any marked reversal by the United States in the deficit in its international balance Df payments would bring on a period of surpluses . That , he said , would begin a drain on Western European reserves with a resulting serious decline in European economic growth . Mr. Acheson addressed the Congress of the European Movement , an organization formed in 1948 to promote European unity . During an afternoon news conference before his speech , he . said he was speaking as " a guest of the European Move // ment , rather than an adviser of the Kennedy Administration . " But most observers here viewed his frontal attack on Gaullist policies as surprising , Considering his close identifi-I cation with President Kennedy 's Administration . Thus far Wash-. ington has attempted to handle the French President with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organization during a news conference July 29 , General de Gaulle remarked : " This organization was ' built on the basis of integration , which is no longer of any Value to us . " After he quoted this state-1 ment , Mr. Acheson said : . " To state this attitude is to reveal starkly a lethal danger which a revived European nationalism holds for both European and Atlantic unity , and for so ele-1 mental a necessity as the common defense , which rests upon both of these unities . " He declared that there was no appeal for the United States in " the concept of a united Europe revived and strengthened only to be controlled and directed by a European power for its own national purposes , as an elephant is controlled by a mahout riding on its neck . " National ambition has been the " very essence of European controversies , " Mr. Acheson added . " This is deeply disturbing to us in the United States , " he said , " not only because wherever we look progress in joint action seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this incipient counterrevolution of policy an attack upon the movement toward the unity within Europe , and an undermining of the alliance between Europe and America . " Discussing the community of interests between Europe and North America , Mr. Acheson said the world agricultural situation today presented not an economic , but a political and social problem of the greatest importance and perplexity . He added : " If the great nations which . are exporters or importers of agricultural products , or both , attempted 0 export their difficulties , as we all attempted to export the depression in - the nineteen-twenties or thirties , we shall bring disaster upon all of us . " The former Secretary of State said that achieving an exact balance in United States payments to and receipts from the rest of the world would , under the present international monetary system , " be only a little less undesirable than continued deficits or the inauguration of surpluses . "                     