@@723033

txt The Senate Investigating Subcommittee prepared ' today to turn to the substance of the TFX airplane dispute , with Secretary of Defense Robert S. convinced more than ever that he was right in overruling military evaluation experts . The experts , members of the Pentagon 's Source Selection Board , were scheduled to testify before the Senate panel tomorrow morning on their reasons for choosing the Boeing Airplane Company , which Mr. rejected . Instead the Secretary selected the General Dynamics Corporation , teamed with the Grumman Corporation , for the potential $6,500,000,000 contract . The contract is based on plans to develop and produce a new type of supersonic fighter plane for use by both the Army and Navy . Hearing Delayed a Day The members of the board , headed by Maj. Gen. R. G. Ruegg of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base , Dayton , Ohio , were supposed to have appeared before the subcommittee today . lout Senator John L. McClellan , chairman of the subcommittee , put the closed hearing off until tomorrow . The Arkansas Democrat explained he had other pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of preparation . According to the subcommittee investigators , who began looking into the contract award shortly after it was made last November , Secretary based his decision on erroneous estimates . No Change in View The Defense Secretary , however , told the subcommittee last Thursday , according to a transcript released yesterday , that his reappraisal of the disputed decision had further convinced him of the correctness of his choice . Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , asked the Secretary , according to the released transcript , whether he had learned anything since the start of the hearings that would change his opinion . " No sir , definitely not , " Secretary answered . " As a matter of fact , my reexamination of the entire decision in preparation for my appearance here today has simply further confirmed my view that the selection of General Dynamics was . the choice of the contractor who would provide both a militarily acceptable aircraft , meeting the military requirements , and do so with the highest dependability and the lowest possible cost . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Source Selection Board had chosen the Boeing design because they were impressed by a socalled " bonus performance . " On the other hand , Secretary continued , he and his civilian aides were more impressed by other factors , such as maximum dependability and minimum cost . He said he expected to save $1,000,000,000 by his choice of General Dynamics . Moreover , he said , some of the bonus-performance characteristics that appeared to favor Boeing now appeared to favor General Dynamics . The Source Selection Board is expected to ' be asked many questions on this point . The Secretary was supported by the civilian Air Force and Navy Secretaries in his final choice . The testimony released by the subcommittee confirmed that Secretary had expressed concern about his repuReproduced with permission of the tation as a consequence of the hearings . When Senator McClellan asked the Secretary whether his forecasts of " harm " as ; a result of the investigation meant he wanted the hearing ended , the Defense chief answered : " No sir , I am not suggesting quitting . I am just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous harm done to many individuals as a result of this hearing . " He said he knew that was not the Senator 's intentions , but he cited the effect on his family . " Last night when I got home at midnight after preparing for today 's hearing , " Mr. said , " my wife told me that my 12-year-old son had asked how long it would take for his father to prove his honesty . " According to published reports over the weekend , the Secretary broke down and wept at this point . But the Pentagon subsequently officially denied this . A spokesman reported that Secretary added , " I am saving my tears for the man who invented that story . " The Secretary 's admonition that the hearings would do harm brought rejoinders from Mr. McClellan and Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington . Senator - McClellan cited the copyright owner . Further reproduct leak of a memorandum by an Air Force officer charging subcommittee investigators with abusive tactics while interviewing civilians and military men in preparation for the hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at which an unnamed official charged for publication that the Senator had said he was pressing the investigation to placate his constituents . He had been unable to defend himself against the anonymous charges , Senator Jackson said . There was lengthy exchange between the Defense Secretary and the subcommittee chairman over the subcommittee 's tactics . Secretary said that he had been upset over-some of the wording in the memorandum but that he believed the ' charges were accurate . According to the memorandum , a subcommittee investigator was so harsh with the Air Force technicians that one of them collapsed and required medical treatment afterward . A subcommittee source said that the man had a history of heart diseases . Mansfield Praises WASHINGTON , March 26 ( UPI ) ? The Senate Democratic leader , Mike Mansfield of Montana , emerged from the ion prohibited without permission . White House today with high praise for Defense Secretary in his battle with TFX warplane investigators . Senator Mansfield said in reply to a reporter 's question that the TFX contract dispute had not been discussed during President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But then , echoing the President 's recent plaudits for Mr. , Senator Mansfield volunteered a statement of endorsement on behalf of the embattled former Ford Motor Company executive . " I think we all recognize that the Secretary of Defense has done an outstanding job in his two years in office , " the Democratic leader said . " We have all the confidence in the world in his discretion , his integrity and his ability . "                     