@@723509

txt New York A high official of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics estimates " that throughout the United States there are probably in excess of 3,000 " members of the Mafia , or Cosa Nostra , about whose chilling criminal operations Joseph M. Valachi is telling Congress . " There are a lot of these people in this mob that Vale-chi does n't even know , " says George H. Gaffney , assistant to Henry L. Giordano , Commissioner of Narcotics in Washington . In a telephone interview , Mr. Gaffney told The Christian Science Monitor that the Bureau of Narcotics believes that Valachi 's version of the syndicate " is accurate . " He says the bureau has known about and " has been working on the Mafia since the early 1930 's " and that its agents have so testified before Congress in the past . Despite this , he says , until the last couple of years , there has been persistent disbelief in many quarters that a nationwide crime syndicate exists . Plea for Wiretap " Joe Valachi , " he says , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than any other single thing that has happened . I think it is tremendous , because if you are going to fight an evil you are going to have to recognize it . " Mr. Gaffney says he thinks law enforcement officers in general also are convinced , and that the public is aroused . " Now , " he says , " I think we can expect some of the long overdue legislation to provide the weapons we need , such as the wiretap . " For two years United States Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy has been asking for congressional approval of a law that would permit wiretap evidence to be used in federal courts . He is also pressing for a statute that would empower the government to grant immunity in criminal cases to those who cooperate in trapping their criminal cohorts . Effort Dramatized It is obvious the Attorney General has brought Valachi to Washington to dramatize the plea for his legislation . " The one thing we are interested in is the wiretap , " says Mr. Gaffney . " It would give us that much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean that in the future these people could not conspire from one state to another with complete immunity . " The Bureau of Narcotics already has its immunity statute . The Narcotics Control Act of 1956 not only provided this but established stiff minimum mandatory punishments below which a judge can not sentence in a narcotics case . " When violators were convicted , " Mr. Gaffney says , " they had to go to jail for long prison terms with no parole and no probation . This resulted in more and more defendants making a decision to cooperate by talking . The Immunity Act , " Mr. Gaffney says , " has helped us tremendously . " The upshot is , Mr. Gaffney says , " that . the vast majority of people Valachi is talking about who are in prison or who have been in prison have been there on narcotics charges . " Apalachin Meeting Valachi himself is a narcotics violator ; Vito Genovese , whom Valachi calls the Cosa Nostra 's " boss of bosses , " is in prison on drug charges ; and Joseph Di @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was convicted on narcotics charges . Besides Genovese , Mr. Gaffney says , narcotics agents have obtained convictions against three others who attended the notorious gang meeting at Apalachin , N.Y . in 1957 ? " Big John " Ormento , Natale Evola , and Carmine Galente.                     