@@721234

txt The United States Government protested to Cuba today over a Cuban patrol boat 's firing on a United States submarine on May 6 . Lester D. Mallory , acting Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs , summoned the Cuban Charg ? d'Affaires , Dr. Enrique Patterson , and asked for an explanation " why an armed vessel of the Cuban Navy fired without provocation on the U. S. S. Sea Poacher while the latter was pursuing a peaceful passage on the high seas . " Meanwhile , Navy officials gave accounts of this incident and another on May 11 that differed greatly from those given by Premier Fidel Castro during a television speech in Havana last night . U. S. Voices Astonishment The State Department said that it was astonished at Premier Castro 's remark that a Cuban patrol . had " fired " upon the United States submarine on the high seas and " chased it for thirty miles . " ( A spokesman for Admiral Robert L. Dennison , Com , mander of the Atlantic Fleet , quoted the admiral as denying the Cuban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our fleet performing normal peacetime functions are attacked on the high seas they will exercise the indisputable right of self-preservation and will defend themselves with all means available . " ) The State Department said the Sea Poacher 's commander reported that a Cuban patrol craft had apparently tried to signal his vessel with flares while the submarine was running on the surface " in a recognized and well-traveled sea , " but that " the message was unreadable . " The State Department said it had made no reference to this incident " in accordance with its desire not to add to the tensions in the Caribbean area . " Was Not Taken Seriously " Neither the submarine commander nor this Government could take seriously what appeared to be a question of identification at sea and a failure of communications , " the State Department declared . However , since it appeared from Premier Castro 's statement that there had been intentional firing on the submarine , the statement said , the United States asked the Cuban Government for an explanation . The State Department rejected Premier Castro 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression " against Cuba . It reminded him that the United States had repeatedly expressed the desire to " achieve a fair understanding " through normal diplomatic negotiations . At the Pentagon , Navy officials produced reports of ships ' logs and navigation charts to support their denial of Premier Castro 's charge that Navy ships had violated Cuban territorial waters . According to these officials , the skipper of the Sea Poacher , Comdr L. E. Stahl , 37 years old , of Key West , Fla. , reported at the time that the Cuban patrol ship had fired what he took to be red flares at 9:30 P. M. on May 6 . Traveling ' Usual Route ' Navy officials said the Sea Poacher was traveling " its usual route " on a generally northwest course in Nicholas Channel , from the United States base at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , to Key West . Suddenly , the Navy said , the Cuban patrol craft Oriente , a former United States submarine chaser , began firing what were taken to be flares . Commander Stahl slowed the submarine to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thereupon , the Navy said , the Oriente swung in astern of the submarine and fired three more bursts of red flares , according to the original messages . At this point , according to the submarine 's log , the Oriente extinguished her running lights , but the Sea Poacher kept hers on . Commander Stahl decided that the other ship was not in trouble and resumed his course . Later , officials said , Commander Stahl concluded that what he had thought to be flares were I small-caliber tracer bullets . Did Not Return Fire Navy officials placed the meeting at " no closer than five miles " from Cayo Cruz del Padre . The Sea Poacher , they said , remained on the surface throughout her voyage , was not hit by the fire and did not fire back . According to these officials , Cuba is listed in a United States document of February , 1960 , as claiming a three-mile territorial limit at sea for purposes of security , criminal and fishing jurisdictions , and a twelve-mile limit for customs jurisdiction and pollution precautions . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among her reports was an unidentified so-. nar sounding that she had obtained after the incident with the Oriente , Navy officials continued . Sounds Are Checked The Pentagon spokesman said that to check the underseas sounds , which could have been a rock or . a fish as well as a submarine , a routine anti-submarine search was initiated with ships and planes . The Navy said that the frigate Norfolk , a former destroyer leader and about the size of a light cruiser , and the destroyer The Sullivans , joined the search in international waters north of Cuba . On May 11 , according to the Navy report , about 12:45 A. M. , the two ships were sailing on an easterly course with the destroyer about two and a half miles farther off the Cuban coast than the Norfolk . The Navy said that the Norfolk was twelve and a half miles northwest of Cap ) Cruz del Padre when the . Oriente closed in . " You are sailing in Cuban territorial waters , " someone on the Cuban ship shouted , according to the Pentagon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. A. Murray , merely acknowledged the message and continued on his . course , convinced that he was in international waters but unwilling to make an issue of it , the Navy spokesman said . A Navy official ridiculed the Cuban charge that the Norfolk had been sighted within two and a-half miles of Cayo Blanco , a small island and inlet north of Cuba . " If the Norfolk had been there it would have been impossible for it to get out without going aground on the rocks there , " the Navy official said . The Norfolk draws about twenty-six feet of water and the charts show the depth of only a few feet of water at Cayo Blanco even as far out as two and a half miles , the Navy officials pointed out . According to the sea chartn of the Norfolk her nearest approach to any Cuban islet was eight miles . State Department officials noted that Dr. Castro had again expressed a desire for the United States to quit the naval base at Guantanamo Bay . The United States has held the base at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often complained about the United States Navy 's presence there , but he has made no formal demand for an ouster . The Navy regards Guantanamo as a vital base , and officials have made clear that they would not regard lightly any Cuban demand for evacuation . According to the treaty , this can . be accomplished only by mutual agreement . The treaty also provides for free United States naval access to and from the base . Premier Castro , in a twohour-and-forty-minute telecast , charged eleven violations of Cuban territorial waters . He drew a parallel between . the United States spy plane incident in the Soviet Union and the Cuban ambush of the American private pilot last Thursday .                     