@@722159

txt President Kennedy announced today the replacement of Chester Bowles as Under Secretary of State . Nine other changes in the White House and State Department staffs were announced in the first big shake-up of the ten-month-old Kennedy Administration . George W. Ball will succeed Mr. Bowles in the State Department 's No. 2 position . Mr. Bowles , it was announced , " is moving to a new , high policy-making position , details of which will be announced shortly . " Mr. Bowles ' expected departure from the post of principal aide to Dean Rusk , the Secretary , was widely reported earlier this year . After a talk with ( the President , however , Mr. Bowles retained his position as the department 's chief adminisThe New York Times Studio trator . Kennedy View Reported Informed persons said that ' Mr. Kennedy was determined to overcome what he appraised as super-caution and lack of imagination among many of the career diplomats . Mr. Bowles had been expected to get the department moving , but apparently found himself stymied by the career men . In Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain United States foreign policy at conferences abroad and to articulate it at meetings within the United States . Mr. Ball has been Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs , The President made no appointment to Mr. Ball 's present post . However , George C. , present Counsellor of the State ' Department and chairman of its Policy Planning Council , will take over Mr. Ball 's duties with the title of Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs . New Job for McConaughy W. Averell Harriman , now Ambassador at Large , will become Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs . Mr. Harriman replaces Walter P. McConaughy , who will be shifted to " a major ambassadorial post . " Walt W. Rostow will succeed Mr. as counselor of the State Department and chairman of its Policy Planning Council . Mr. Rostow is now Deputy Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs . Richard N. Goodwin will be'come Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs . No one now holds that post . Mr. Goodwill has been deputy special counsel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State for Congressional Affairs , will be transferred to the White House as Special Assistant to the President . He will be replaced in the State Department by Frederick G. Dutton , who is now Special Assistant to the President assigned to liaison with Federal agencies and State Governments . Mr. Dutton 's White House post will go to Timothy J. Reardon Jr. , who is now Administrative Assistant to the President . The announcement from the President 's Cape Cod home was prefaced with the statement that " the President , in order to provide a more effective matching of people with responsibilities , tonight announces the following shifts in White House and State Department personnel . " Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , read the statement after prefacing it with his ' own announcement that " I wo n't answer any questions . " When Mr. Bowles ' resignation was rumored several months ago , and the rumors were published , the President called Mr. Bowles to the White House . A brief statement was issued by the President to the effect that no immediate change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interval since then , Mr. Bowles has made a number of long trips overseas . At the time it was reported that the President was disappointed with the department 's laxness in generating ideas and with unresolved policy frictions . Mr. Bowles reportedly had opposed the Cuban invasion last April , but this was not believed to have been a material factor leading to his removal . Mr. Bowles also had been a controversial figure on the Communist China question . Though not favoring formal recognition , he had urged open debate and recognition that the existence of the Peiping regime was a fact of life . All Were Notified Ail the individuals directly affected have been notified , Mr. Salinger said . Presumably the changes are effective immediately , except in the case of Mr. Harriman . The statement mentioned the time element only in his case . It said : " The timing of his assumption of these duties will I be determined by his work at the Geneva Conference on Laos . " The President 's timing of his announcement was not explained . The announcement came shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President had been busy on the telephone with all the individuals involved and decided that an official announcement was preferable to having the news " leaked " piecemeal . Mr. Kennedy planned to close out his four-day visit to Cape Cod tomorrow morning . He has scheduled a White House meeting on the 1962-63 budget with the Budget Director , David E. Bell . At 5 P. M. tomorrow Mr. Kennedy will receive a special envoy from the King of Morocco .                     