@@724567

txt Washington , Feb. 14 - Mariner 4 's television camera will photograph almost simultaneously the Martian seasons of fall and spring as it flies past-the red planet July 14 : The National Aeronautics and Space administration said today that Martian areas to be photographed had been pin-pointed following an analysis of Mariner 's flight paths by engineers of NASA 's jet propulsion laboratory in California . NASA asked both amateur and professional astronomers to observe the areas for purposes of comparison of Mariner photographs with those taken by ground-based telescopes . Areas to Be Visible The areas will be telescopically visible a number of times over the next several months before and after Mars makes its closest approach to earth in early March . If Mariner is still operating normally on July 14 , it will take up to 21 television photographs and make instrumental measurements of the Martian atmosphere which may indicate whether the planet can harbor life . The jet propulsion laboratory early Thursday flashed a series of radio commands 16.5 million miles to Mariner directing it to prepare equipment to be used in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed the lens cover from the spacecraft 's camera . Photo Covers 4.000 Miles The picture-taking will start about 7:25 p. m . Chicago time July 14 when Mariner is 8,400 miles from Mars and continue for 25 minutes . The last picture will be taken at a distance of 6,300 miles . Some 21 minutes after the final picture , Mariner will make its closest approach , about 5,400 miles , to the planet . Mariner 's camera will sweep an area of about 4,000 miles from the northern hemisphere of Mars , where it will be fall , down thru the southern hemisphere , where it will be spring . When the first picture is taken , the camera will be pointing at the northern Martian desert of Amazonis . It will then sweep southeast below the Martian equator , covering in the process areas known to astronomers as the Mare Sirenum , the southern desert of Phaenthontis and the Aonius Sinus.                     