@@723302

txt President Kennedy averted today a nationwide railroad strike set for midnight . He announced that the railroads and the five train-operating unions had accepted his proposal that they put off a showdown until July 29 . By then , the President will make recommendations to Congress to dispose of the issues in the case . The recommendations are expected to include a provision for arbitration of the dispute over the carriers ' plan to eliminate jobs they consider unnecessary . If Congress acts before the new deadline , there will be no strike . Mr. Kennedy said he had asked a six-man subcommittee of his Advisory Committee on Labor-Management Policy to review the facts and issues in dispute and the positions of both sides . The subcommittee 's report and the President 's recommendations for legislation will go to Congress July 22 . That will give the legislators a week to act before the new deadline . Concession by Railroads The railroads made the principal concession today , allowing Mr. Kennedy to put his plan across . They agreed to postpone until July 29 the date for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , opposed by the union , are designed to reduce drastically the number of railroad operating employes . Last week the railroads set a deadline of midnight tonight for the rules changes and the unions said they would strike if the carriers acted . When the railroads agreed today to postpone the changes , the unions ' reason for a strike disappeared . The railroads had insisted that they would not withdraw the deadline unless the Administration offered a way of finally resolving the dispute within a fixed , short period . The terms of Mr. Kennedy 's proposal presumably met those specifications . Asks No Further Delay Mr. Kennedy said his legislative recommendations would be designed " to dispose of the issues in this particular case . " He also said that the Administration would make no further request for a delay beyond July 29 . Mr. Kennedy 's proposal emerged from meetings he held in his office today with Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz , Assistant Secretary of Labor James J. Reynolds and Theodore C. Sorensen , Special Counsel to tile President . They conferred after the unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his proposal , made yesterday , to refer the disputed issues to Justice Arthur J. Goldberg of the Supreme Court for final settlement . The railroads accepted this plan . That proposal would have allowed Justice Goldberg to try to mediate a settlement , but it also envisioned that he would arbitrate the dispute if no agreement were reached through bargaining . The unions have consistently rejected any proposal that included a possibility ' of arbitra- tion , no matter how far below the surface . The railroads have just as consistently favored ar-1 titration. , Mr. Kennedy and his three aides apparently decided today that there was no other way to settle the dispute except by Congressional action . But they were also aware , after confirring with legislatiNT ? leaders , that Congress was not going to act immediately . They therefore proposed a delay to give Con ? congress time to act . The role or the labor-man ? agement subcommittee will be limited . In reporting on the facts of the dispute . it will be going over well-trampled ground . The dispute ' has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report by a Presidential Railroad Commission , and of a report by a ? residential Emergency Board . The subcommittee is not intended to try to bring about a settlement , nor is it supposed to suggest to President Kennedy what he should recommend to Congress . Arbitration Is Favored But the time its activities will take will also give Mr. Kennedy a chance to prepare the ground for legislation . Administration officials have not disclosed what they intend to ask of Congress . But it was understood that they favored a proposal for arbitration of this dispute only and have indicated as much to the railroads . Such a recommendation would probably be vigorously opposed by the railroad unions and by the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . But the Administration is understood to believe the events of the last few days have persuaded Congressional leaders that a genuine crisis is near and that Congress must act . The President spent most of the day working on the railroad dispute . He took time out only to see the Guatemalan Ambassador , Carlos Garcia-Bauer , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After receiving the unions ' rejection of his proposal of yesterday , the President told both sides to stand by for another meeting on 30 minutes ' notice . He then met with Mr. Wirtz , Mr. Reynolds and Mr. Sorensen . Later , the Democratic Congressional leaders fame in . Then Mr. Kennedy resumed the meeting with his three aides . When they had finally worked out the new proposal , they told Congressional leaders about it by telephone . Throughout the day , the White House group was also in touch by telephone with both sides in the dispute and with the members of the Labor-Management Advisory subcommittee . Called to White House In midafternoon , the White House summoned both sides to another meeting With the President at 4 P.M. It took only 10 minutes for Mr. Kennedy to state the proposal formally and receive the acceptance . He then went to the Fish Room to read before television cameras a brief statement announcing the agreement . The members of the labor management subcommittee will be Mr. Wirtz , chairman ; Secretary of Commerce Luther H. Hodges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Inland Steel Company ; George M. Harrison ; chief executive of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks ; George Meany , president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , and Stuart T. Saunders , president of the Norfolk &; Western Railway . Mr. Saunders will become board cvhairman and chief executive officer of the Pennsylvania Railroad on Oct. 1 . J. E. Wolfe , chief negotiator for the railroads , said that the railroads had deferred the rules changes reluctantly but had done so because " the deferment was demanded by the public interest . " Roy E. Davidson , Grand Chief Engineer of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , said that the unions had accepted with the understanding that their agreement would not hamper them in pressing their demands . Mr. Davidson has been acting as chief spokesman for the five operating unions . The dispute has centered on demands by the railroads for changes in work rules that would allow them to eliminate 65,000 workers whose services they say are unneeded and cost $600,000,000 a year . The unions contend that most of the ' men the railroads want to cue are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 195 railroads and switching and terminal companies involved include all major carriers in the nation except the Southern Railway , which bargains separately . The five unions , representing nearly 200,000 men who move the trains , are the'Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers , the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enignemen , the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen , the Order of Railway Conductors and Brakemen , and the Switchmen 's Union of North America . '                     