@@724884

txt The United States , in a major initiative , proposed today a world conference aimed at " substantial improvements " in the 20-year-old international monetary system . The proposal was made by Secretary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler , who said President Johnson had authorized it . The last such world conference was at Bretton Woods , N. H. , in 1041 . The system then evolved has worked well and has been a major factor in the spectacular prosperity of the industrial world . Strains Develop But the system has recently come under strain , first because of the persistent deficits in the United States balance of international payments and now , prospectively , because of the ending of those deficits . The dollar is a keystone of the system . Mr. Fowler disclosed the United States initiative in a speech to the Virginia State Bar Association in Hot Springs , Va . The text of his remarks was made available here . Mr. Fowler conferred with the President about the speech two days ago . The Secretary said that a world conference , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful preparation and international consultation . " " Before any conference takes place , there should be reasonable certainty of measurable progress through prior agreement on basic points , " lie declared . Time Called Appropriate " Our suggestion , " he continued , " is that the work of preparation be undertaken by a preparatory committee which could he given its terms of reference at the time of the annual Meeting of the International ) Monetary Fund this September . " ' Mr. Fowler said the " happy , concurrence of three crucial facts " made the time appropriate to act on reform of the system . The crucial facts , he said , are these : gThe United States balance ' of payments " is approaching an ' equilibrium . " c3There is a " rising tide of opinion " that the world system ! " can and should he substan-1 tially improved , " building on the present system . tiThe necessary technical studies have been completed , 1 chiefly by the leading financial nations known as the Group of Ten . The balance of payments is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreigners and total receipts from foreigners . As Mr. Fowler explained today , world financial reserves , called international liquidity , have grown in the last 15 years , largely because of deficits in the United States balance of payments . These deficits have pumped both dollars and gold into the reserves of other nations . The United States was spending more abroad than it earned abroad , even though exports regularly exceeded impdrts . As foreign dollar holdings ) grew and the United States gold stock declined , it became necessary to end these deficits to keep the dollar " as good asl gold " and assure other nations that their dollar holdings could always be converted into gold at $35 an ounce . After long and frequently ' frustrating efforts by the Government , the deficits now appear to be ending . In any event , the Government , as Mr. Fowler said , is " determined " to end them . But this will automatically stop the growth in world reserves that is needed to finance internation transactions , a condition that Mr. Fowler called the " paradox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an innovation , which may well take . he form of some new Lind of reserve asset in addition to gold and dollars . Nations use their reserves to settle deficits in their international transactions . While reserves do not have to grow exactly in line with world trade , there is agreement that they must grow over a period of time so that nations can handle temporary deficits without clamping restrictions on imports or imposing deflationary domestic policies . Mr. Fowler quoted today a sentence from President Johnson 's balance-of-payments message to Congress last Feb. 10 : ' : Unless we can make timely progress , international monetary difficulties will exercise a stubborn and increasingly frustrating drag on our policies for prosperity and progress at home and throughout the world . " Mr. Fowler gave no hint today of what the United States would advocate at the world conference and in the preparatory stage . But he said the Government was now moving into a stage of " intensive internal preparation " to determine " those proposals which will be acceptable to the United States , those which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for negotiation . " France Opposes Expansion In discussions on reform that have been under way for nearly two years among the Group of Ten countries , serious differences of opinion have emerged . Essentially , the continental European countries , above all France , have opposed reforms designed to expand world liquidity , contending there is al1 ready too much . Britain , the United States and Japan have been more expansionary . The end of the United States payments deficit , assuming that the recent improvements continue , could sharply alter the ' negotiating situation . It would improve the United States bargaining power and might persuade many Europeans that a method of adding to world liquidity was needed . Mr. Fowler disclosed in his speech that he planned to meet later this year with the " ranking financial officials of other ' Group of Ten countries , to ascertain first-hand their views on the most practical and promising ways of furthering progress toward improved international monetary arrangements . " He has already seen the British Chancellor of the Exchequer , James Callaghan , and will confer next week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Member Nations Other members of the Group of Ten are France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands , Sweden and Canada. * Switzerland sits with the group as an observer . Mr. Fowler made it clear that the United States had no intention of trying to impose its Own ideas . " We must be prepared , " he said , " not only to advance our own proposals but ' to carefully consider and fairly weigh the merits of other proposals . " The idea of a world monetary conference has received strong impetus from Congressional Republicans. , Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York has long advocated it . Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa , speaking for the Senate Republican leadership , endorsed the idea last week . Ellsworth Speech Cited Also last week , Representative Robert F. Ellsworth of Kansas , speaking on behalf of an informal group of House Republican liberals and moderates , made the proposal in a major house speech . Mr. Ellsworth has been in touch with leading world financial figures , such as Jean 14fonnet of France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference . Mr. Fowler quoted today from the Ellsworth speech . A plan for improving the monetary system that has considerable backing , though there is much disagreement on detail , calls for creating a new com , posite or collective reserve unit , labeled CRU for short . The reserve would be made up of the 10 or 11 leading currencies in fixed proportions , held in nations ' reserves along with gold and dollars . It could be used to settle international accounts . The idea is supported in varyling degrees in Europe , in Japan and in Canada . Britain is known to be sympathetic , provided the new unit could be firmly linked to the existing International Monetary Fund . The United States has long resisted the idea , mainly because some versions of it would seek to diminish or abolish the role of the dollar as a world reserve currency and a " working " currency for a host of private international transactions . But if the plan could be worked out in such a way as to leave the role of the dollar intact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the United States is understood to be willing to consider it . A new version of a CRU type of plan will be published next month by Robert V. Roosa , former Under Secretary of the Treasury , who was the leading United States international monetary official for the first four years of the KennedyJohnson Administration . This could indicate a move in the United States position toward more sympathy for the basic idea . Mr. Roosa is a member of a committee , ' headed by former Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon , that was named to advise Mr. Fowler on interr.iational monetary reform . Mr. Fowler disclosed today that the group would have its first meeting Friday .                     