@@723193

txt I was struck by your editorial speculations on June 3 about the true intent and meaning of Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment . Since that section was promptly superseded by the Fifteenth AmendMent , speculation about its gleaning is academic but nonetheless interesting . It calls for " manhood suffrage " or else . Its fascinatingly ambiguous words are : " But when the right to vote . . is denied to any of the male inhabitants of such State , being twentyone years of age , and citizens of the United States , or in any way abridged , except for participation in rebellion , or other crime , the basis of representation therein shall be reduced . ? . " Let us first consider some aspects that are not ambiguous . The framers of the amendment ( the Radical Republicans ) obviously thought that Section 1 of the same amendment did not give anybody the right to vote . They could not foresee that any court would imagine that the equal protection clause had anything to do with the right to vote . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be denied by any state on the ground of race , color or religion . The state is not forbidden to deny the right but is penalized if it does . Reduced Representation Now for the ambiguities . The penalty of reduced ' representation in , the House of Representatives is imposed not only if the right to vote is denied altogether , but also if the right is in any way abridged . If the right to vote is made conditional on paying a tax or joining the Episcopal Church or being able to read , the right is not denied but it is certainly abridged . In New York State no male inhabitant can vote unless he can read . Therefore , the New York representation in Congress should be reduced to one . Next , let us speculate on what they meant by " rebellion , " In those days a rebellion was usually commenced by erecting barricades to block traffic in the streets . But the reason for erecting barricades no longer exists . In those days riots were broken up with Gatling guns and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for protection because the whiff of grapeshot is no longer in use , and you can block traffic by just standing in the street . Suppose 2,000 New York City landlords with their wives and children gathered for six hours every day in the middle of Fifth Avenue to petition for redress of their grievances . Would that be " participation in rebellion " ? The Fifteenth Amendment was adopted because nobody thought the Fourteenth Amendment gave anybody the right to vote , and because the Radical Republicans thought that the freedmen would vote the straight Republican ticket . The Republicans were not , however , radical enough to want freedmen voting in Washington , D. C. So they repealed the charter of the city of Washington . You often hear Washington called a city , but there is no such city . RALPH T. CATTERALL , Chairman , State Corporation Commission , Commonwealth of Virginia . Richmond , Va. , June 5 , 1963 . Tonle EniToROF THS NEW YORK TIMIS : The letter by Walter E. Miller published May 30 appears to imply that the sole cause of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and hungry and turn to the Communists for help . Such is actually not the case , although a country with very low living standards is a fertile field for Communist propaganda . There is a great tendency on the part of many , especially among clergymen and teachers , to hold that the success of Communism results solely from social injustice and that the only thing one can do effectively to oppose Communism is to correct these social injustices . This idea is a fallacy and it leads democratic governments to dangerous tolerance toward the Communist apparatus , which , in addition , it sanctifies to some extent by presenting it as a reaction to poverty when actually it is an appendage of dictatorship . The surest strongholds of Communism have in the past often been , and are increasingly today , the social strata best provided for ( the labor aristocracy in France , in Weimar Germany and in the Czechoslovakia of Benes ; intellectuals in Asia , business men in Japan ) . The idea that in Asia and Africa the masses are in no need of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this is the reasoh they turned toward Moscow --  is doubly wrong ; first , because political freedom is the most effective means of raising standards of living ; second , the very worst way for a poverty-stricken people 10 itet bread is to accept Communist dictatorship , a systematic producer of underconsumption . The struggle against social injustice must surely be carrie , d on with vigor , but . to regard it as the only weapon tor fighting Communism is an illusion that aids the Communist cause , FRANCIS PATTON TWINEM. , M. 1 ) , New York , May 30 , 1963 . Berle Endorses Kaplan To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINt ES : Louis Kaplan has been proposed by Mayor Wagner for a judge of the Civil Court , Although the appointment has been criticized in some quarters , I think it is a good one and wish to say so . I have had occasion to observe Mr. Kaplan 's work when ho wale magistrate and later when he wa Judge of Special Sessions , The cases were unheralded , of no importance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unregarded person could have been easily broken . Judge Kaplan handled all of the cases with patience , thoroughness and sympathy , as well as with great legal competence . He has been , and in my judgment will in the future be , a good judge . I personally approve the nomination and will support Judge Kaplan should he later come up for election . ADOLF A. BERLE . New York , June 7 , 1963 . Lawyers Backing Kaplan To THE EDITOR OF TIM NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of June 7 criticizing the contemplated appointment by Mayor Wagner of former Judge Louis I. Kaplan , now Commissioner of Investigation , to the Civil Court is unfair in its tone and in its omissions . You write that the Bar Assoeie ? tion of the City of New York found Judge Kaplan unqualified , but omit reference to the fact that the Neat York County Lawyers Association , an equally respected association , found him qualified , as did other organizations , including the Assoc ciation of Lawyers of the Criminal Courts of Manhattan ; nor do you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Bar Association of the City of New York does not speak for or represent the majority of the ments bets of the New York bar . speaking as a member of the New York bar and as a member of the New York County Lawyers Association , and Association of Lawyers of the Criminal Courts of Manhattan , I shall support Judge Kaplan if he is noini Hated to run for a full term . MAX FEIGIN . New York , June 7 , 1963 . A.M.A. Stand on Federal Aid TOTHE EDITOROF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his article on " Aid to Medical Education " in The Times for May 26 Dr. Howard A. Rusk made two erroneous statements that should be recalled to the attention of your readers . First , he mentioned that provision of scholarships for medical , dental and osteopathic students is a feature of legislation pending before Congress . In fact , a scholarship provision is not included in the current legislative proposals . Secondly , he stated that one factor in the failure of Congress to adopt a Federal aid program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Medical Association toward Federal aid to construction of schools . The truth is that the American Medical Association , as early as 1951 , endorsed the principle of grants-in-aid on a matching basis for construction , equipment and renovation of the physical plants of medical schools . That policy was reaffirmed most recently in 1957 , and on three occasions of which I have personal recollection A.M.A. witnesses have testified in its behalf before committees of Congress , HUGH H. HUSSEY , M.D. , Director , Division of Scientific Activities , American Medical Asso- ' ciation . Chicago , May 28 , 1963.                     