@@721549

txt Three firemen were trapped and killed last night in a savage blaze that swept a downtown loft building and touched off fires in five near-by structures . Five other firemen were injured and sent to the hospital . At least six more were treated at the scene for cuts and bruises . The fire broke out shortly after 5 P. M. in the basement of the five-story loft building housing textile concerns at 463-7 Broadway , on the northwest corner of Broadway and Grand Street . Nine alarms were eventually turned in  --  five in Manhattan and four in Brooklyn . Fifty-four pieces of equipment and 350 firemen battled the blaze , which was not brought under control until 1:14 A. M. Fire Seen in Jersey The fire mushroomed quickly through the five-story building . Flames and smoke spurting a , hundred feet above the roof could be seen both across the East River in Brooklyn and I along the Jersey shore of the Hudson . As tons of water were poured into the burning buildings , three of which extended along Broadway above the BMT subway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street , The Fire Department directed the Transit Authority at 6:56 P , M. to shut down service on the subway 's northbound and southbound tracks from Canal Street to Thirty-fourth Street . Service was restored at 11:12 P. M. Fire Commissioner Edward F. Cavanagh Jr . arrived as the second alarm was turned in . He // assailed housekeeping condi-1 in the building , saying firemen had found piles of lumber and bundles of textiles in the halls . Shortly after the arrival of firemen at the scene , five went into the basement of the burning building . Their only means of escape , a stairway leading from the street floor , became enveloped in flames . For a few minutes , the five men were able to talk to firemen outside with a walkie-talkie radio . When the connection went dead , the firemen outside fought through the wall of fire to reach their trapped comrades . The rescuers , clinging to hand lines , used a high-pressure hose to beat the flames around the stairway . When the fire - abated for an instant , they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back up the stairs.I The three other men were unable to escape . Other Buildings Burn From its start at 463 Broadway , the fire moved into the two adjacent buildings , 469 and 471 Broadway . Other tongues of flame set off a major fire in another five-story loft building , at 112-14 Grand Street . Two buildings at 44 and 46 Mercer Street were slightly damaged by the fire . The fire and water combined to cause a five-story section of the building on Grand Street to collapse into a parking lot . Bricks and mortar crashed down on several cars in the lot . In his criticism of conditions inside the building at 463 Broadway , Mr. Cavanagh told re-porters : " When I arrived , ten minutes after the fire , the conditions I saw on the stairway and in the cellar were such that , if an inspection had been , made prior to the fire , this man the owner would be out of business . " Mr. Cavanagh said that a three and a half-foot-wide stairway leading to the basement had been cpvered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ package slide . He said that the fact that this chute had not been taken up , as required , made it difficult for the firemen to get out of the basement , Mayor Wagner arrived at the fire at 9:30 P. M. at the request of Commissioner Cavanagh . The Mayor announced that , starting this morning , an intensive inspection of the area would be made by the Fire Department to seek out violations , The area is composed for the most part of rickety buildings that were constructed years before the turn of the century . Textile Manufacturers occupy the structures , their spaces filled with bolts of cloths and other materials that could be dangerously flammable . The Commissioner said that because of the age of the ' buildings hi the area , owners " should keep their buildings above standard . " The building in which last night 's fire started was said by neighbors to be at least 100 years old . Mr. Cavanagh likened last night 's fire to the one in July , 1956 , that swept the building formerly occupied by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a , Fire ' " This is one hell of afire , " he said , and , recalling the Wanamaker store blaze , added : " Like the old store , because of the construction of this building , there are a lot of concealed spaces and vertical openings . That is why , within minutes , the fire went from the cellar through the roof . " Dr. Gabriel Seley of the Fire Department said the three victims had suffocated . They died only ten feet from safety , officals said . Ranking officers of the department , along with Mayor Wagner and Commissioner Cavanagh , stood at attention , their heads bare as the bodies were Probationary Men Used In addition to regular fire crews , fifty probationary firemen were brought to the scene from their training school on Welfare Island , The equipment at the scene included fire engines , hook and ladder trucks , pumpers , ambulances , searchlight vehicles , communication trucks and disaster units . The four alarms in Brooklyn brought more than twenty of the fire-fighting vehicles to the scene . More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rope barricades a block from the fire . The subway service was halted shortly after the fifth alarm had been sounded . Buses and other vehicles on Broadway were halted below Canal Street and above Broome Street . Buses continued to their , destination by other routes . The Canal Street subway station was closed down for morel than four hours . Passengers were sent out of the trains caught at the station and givens tickets for other forms of transportation . Fire 's Cause Unknown Mr. Cavanaglr- made no attempt to fix the cause of the fire . However ; Fire Marshal Martin Scott and his aides began an immediate investigation . It was recalled that the building , where the fire began had been the scene of another serious blaze more than thirty years ago . Newspaper files showed that between forty and day firemen had been overcome by smoke in a fire on May 19 , 1924 . Twenty-four persons were killed in a building fire at 623 Broadway , just north of Houston Street , ' in March , 1958 . Sparks from last night 's fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street . The blaze was quickly extinguished , but the vehicle and its contents were ruined , firemen , said . The two firemen rescued from the basement were identified at Bellevue Hospital as Robert Barnickel , 27 years old , of 32-34 Thirty-eighth Street , Long Island City , Queens , and Roxtl Fox , also 27 , of ** Avenue , Staten Island . Barnickel suffered severe burns of the neck , hands and a thigh . Mr. Fox was burned on the neck and a hand . Paul Meyer , a fireman of Truck Company 9 , suffered a knee injury when he was.hit by flying debris after the wall collapsed on Grand Street . He was standing near the Fire Commissioner , Who-escaped injury . Mr , Cavanagh escorted the injured fireman to a department ambulance , and Mr. Meyer was taken to the hospital                     