@@725977

txt Arab capitals seem suddenly aware that some kind of showdown with Israel might be much closer than they had suspected . From Amman to Algiers , there is a new realization that the 18-year-old armed stalemate with the Jewish state could , after all , end in an early war . Only in Tunis has there been a public admission that it could also end in later peace . Crisis marks speech In Amman , King Hussein of Jordan told his Parliament Dec. 1 that he is ready to resume Arab summit conferences to establish " joint Arab responsibility ? ? . for Palestine . " President Nasser of the United Arab Republic began the conferences in 1964 to seek a consensus on a phased program to combat Israel . He ended them this year , asserting he could no longer work with Arab kings and " reactionaries . " King Hussein 's annual throne speech to Jordan 's Parliament was infused with a spirit of crisis . This has marked all his pronouncements since Israel attacked several Jordanian villages Nov. 13 , touching off seri ous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaffirmed that Jordan would rush a . stepped-up defense program . This includes arming border villages , universal male conscription , purchase of American F-104 jets , and efforts to ' buy antitank and air-defense weaponry . Efforts conflict King Hussein 's throne speech , like his Nova 29 news conference , implied that he seeks reconciliation not hostility with President Nasser and the " socialist " Arab camp . King Hussein has quieted Palestinian violence . But the radios of Damascus ; Cairo , and Algiers , and radical groups in those capitals , are still waging a campaign by Ahmed Shukairy 's Palestine Liberation Or ganization . The PLO 's announced intent is to convert Jordan into an armed base for guerrilla operations inside Israel . Weapons transfer set ? They can not do this without first overthrowing King Hussein . He condemns such operations , which seem to have at least temporarily halted Nov. 13 . He is reported still stanchly resisting demands of leading citizens of the Jordan River 's west bank that he permit them . Cairo prepared for an emergency meeting Dec. 7 of Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Shukairy has been invited . Tunisia advocates peace talks with Israel and boycotts Arab League activities . Western diplomats in Cairo believe a re- cent mission to Moscow of the United Arab Republic top defense chiefs led by Vice- . President Abdel Hakim Amer may bring Soviet moves to relieve acute economic pressure on Egypt . One might be easy-term wheat deliveries : American deliveries have virtually ended , pending a new decision by President John4 son . Egypt presently has only enough bread ' grains to squeak through the first half : of the winter . There also are persistent stories of a. scheme to deliver older Soviet-made military equipment  --  which the United Arab Republic no longer needs  --  to other " socialist " states , mainly Algeria and Syria : Moscow would then write its value off Cairo 's mammoth military debt to the Soviet Union , it is reported . Nasser - cautious Israel has reported a sustained Egyptian " air alert since the Israelis shot down one or two intruding Egyptian MIG-19 's Nov. 29 . , But there are no signs that Pr  --  sident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major clash with Israel . He has been talking with visiting Algerian . President Boumedienne . Their aim was to ! melt icicles which have coated Cairo-Algiers% links since Colonel Bournedienne deposed ! former President Ahmed ben Bella , Presi ? dent Nasser 's favorite Arab leader in 1965.                     