@@727972

txt A man was killed and at least 150 people were prostrated by stifling heat last night during a massive subway tie-up that left thousands of riders trapped in the Lexington Avenue IRT tunnels between 77th and 125th Streets . Transit Authority officials said that at least 20 trains had been caught in the tie-up , which began about 5:30 P.M. after a thunderstorm flooded the Pelham Bay line in the Bronx and backed up trains to midtown Manhattan . Hundreds of riders , angry and frustrated over being trapped up to three hours , climbed out of stalled trains and made their way along catwalks to exits along the line . Pinned at 3d Rail Some who emerged described the tunnels as " ovens , " with : temperatures approaching I00 degrees . Others did not make it to the street on their own . The police said 150 people had been taken to Metropolitan , Lenox Hill , Harlem and Bellevue Hospital suffering from heat prostration . The dead man , tentatively identified as Ralph Cruz Martinez , about 50 years old , was found pinned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street . The police said he had apparently fallen from a catwalk and had been electrocuted . The subway tie-up snarled traffic on almost the entire Upper East Side . Crowds lined , Lexington and Third Avenues , jamming onto buses and at tempting to flag down taxis , many of which carried five . or six passengers . Storm Breaks Heat The Transit Authority reported that service on the disrupted line was restored shortly before midnight . Elsewhere in the city , commuters and travelers to more distant points also encountered delays at the peak of the iveekend exodus from the city . Hundreds of Long Island Rail Road passengers crowded into the sweltering heat ' of Penn Station after the storm proIduced signal failures that led to 130-minute delays . Sporadic delays also affected Penn Central service . Kennedy , La Guardia and Newark airports also reported delays as a result of the storm . The thunderstorm that broke the four-day heat wave here poured 0.68 inches of rain on the city between 4:40 and 5 P.M. The temperature dropped 14 degrees in that period  --  from 92 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subway tieup said that the temperature drop was not noticeable in the tunnels . Flooding that led to the tie-up began in the tunnel at 138th Street and Third Avenue on the Pelham Bay line shortly after 5:30 P.M. Electrical power in that section was turned off immediately and trains began backing up in the tunnels in both directions . Shortly after 6 P.M. , the Transit Authority received reports that riders on stalled trains between 77th and 125th Streets were wandering through the tunnels and the agency then shut off power along the line from 77th to 138th Streets . Mayor at Scene As riders began emerging from exits along the line , reports circulated that many in the tunnels had been felled by the heat . The police ? said that every available ambulance in northern Manhattan had been summoned to aid those who were overcome . In addition , police and fire rescue units were called from the Bronx ' and Queens to help free trapped passengers and guide out those wandering in the tunnels . ? Mayor . Lindsay spent about 90 minutes conferringwith police and fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anger and frustration of the emerging riders . Later ? he sent a letter to Dr. William J. Ronan , chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority , asking for a full report on the breakdown . " I am particularly interested in knowing what , if any , information through loudspeakers or otherwise Transit Authority personnel gave to riders throughout the ordeal , " the Mayor said in his message . One rider , John G. Lynch , of 3288 Perry Avenue , the Bronx , said he had waited on a train in the tunnel for more than two hours , during which time he and his fellow passengers were told repeatedly over his train 's loudspeaker : " Have a little patience , have a little patience . " The Fire Department said oxygen equipment from hospitals and police and fire emergency units had been pressed into service at exits along the line . Several persons were reported to have suffered heart attacks while groping their way out of the tunnel . Others , including elderly persons and several pregnant women , had to be carried out on stretchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down there , " said Thomas Jacks of 3565 Bruckner Boulevard , the Bronx , who came out at 86th Street after walking along a catwalk after his northbound train stopped at 92d Street . Fireman Melvin London of the Fourth Division said that when he arrived at 86th Street he saw more than 100 people walking on tracks before the electrical power was shut off . Patrolman John Gornley of the transit police said he had carried three people from a stalled train . " I took one woman out who could n't talk , " he said . " She had fainted . " Several emerging riders reported panic aboard their trains . Dionne Barnett of 3306 Tieman Avenue , the Bronx , said that some people had panicked on her train , which left Grand Central at 6:15 P.M. and got to 72d Street two hours later . " There were children in the car and they started screaming , and people started to faint , " she recalled . Mrs. Kay Kirschner of 620 Reiss Place , the Bronx , emerged from an exit at 86th Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with soot and her arms covered with grime . She said she had been on the train since 5:45 P.M. and had walked seven blocks underground . " In my car , one girl started to get hysterical , " Mrs. Kirschner said . In an effort to calm the girl , and others , she said the passengers formed a chain and sang , " I 've Been Working on the Railroad , " as they tramped along the tracks to an exit . The police reported that more than 1,400 people had been evacuted between 68th and 77th Streets . By 10 P.M. , the police said that they believed the tunnels had been evacuated , but that searches were continuing for anyone who still might be underground . Transit Authority officials said they could give no immediate estimate on when service on the line would be resumed . They said pumping operations in the flooded . sections of the track north of 138th Street were under way . At 120th Street , the police said , area residents went to the aid of riders emerging from an emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drinks . Many of the riders , after reaching the street , expressed confusion over how to get home via surface transportation . Many people crowded around policemen to ask directions , and at 96th Street a long line formed in front of a Spanish-speaking patrolman . Pay telephones in bars , stores and shops along Lexington Avenue also drew lines of people eager to notify relatives of the delay . Others were eager to express , their anger . " Why the hell ( does n't Mayor Lindsay fix the transit system ? " demanded Sharon Guarino of 3041 Cruger Avenue , the Bronx . Her hands were blackened from rubbing the walls of the tunnel near 86th Street . During the confusion , as riders poured into sidestreets along the line , the Transit Authority established a shuttle bus system between 125th Street and Hunts Point in the Bronx . Transit personnel also began issuing transfer tickets to riders emerging from the tunnels , as passes for surface transportation . In addition to the Lexington Avenue tie-up , the Transit Authority also reported delays on the IRT Seventh Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automatic signal systems out of order temporarily . Transit personnel used hand signals to space trains . Flooding also temporarily disrupted service on the IND line . North and Southbound service on the A , B , CC and D were affected .                     