@@725546

txt A Cook county board committee failed last night to settle the week-old strike of public aid employes . An independent union rejected a plea that strikers return to work . Seymour Simon county board president , said the committee will meet again tomorrow with union representatives in another attempt to end the strike , which has pitted the independent union against a recognized AFL-CIO union . Yesterday 's seven-hour closed door session ' was held in the Sherman House . Penalty Thereat Dropped " The only condition the county board committee has met would be a return to work without any penalties or reprisals , " said Allen Kaplan. president of the independent union . " Our demand for a collective bargaining election is the big issue that has yet to he resolved . " Yesterday 's session marked the first time that Raymond Hilliard , county public aid chief , met with representatives of the independent union , and it brought new life to the long standing feud between Simon , a Democrat who failed to get his party 's nomination for reelection , and George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance committee . Wo n't Give Recognition At one point Dunne stomped angrily out of the committee meeting , even tho he and William A. Lee , president of the Chicago Federation of Labor , reportedly were trying to bring the strike to an end at the behest of Mayor Daley . " Simon has been refusing to recognize me , is calling on everyone else , and is insisting on making speeches himself , " Dunne told reporters during a 15-minute absence from the meeting . Mayor Daley reportedly has told some county board members he is concerned about the strike " because of the public services involved . " When Kaplan turned down Dunne 's return - to - work proposal , Lee proposed to Simon that the committee hear officials of local 73 of the General Service Employes union AFLCIO . Local 73 has been recognized by the public aid department since 1953 , Warns of Chaos John Coleman , president of local 73 , told the committee that local 73 did represent a majority of public aid employes and asserted the independent union would " wreck the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City . " He charged that the county board had failed to get police protection for employes who crossed picket lines . There has been spitting , shoving , and blocking of entrances at public aid offices thruout the city , he said . Simon said that he would ask Police Supt. 0 . W. Wilson to assign police from the labor detail to major public aid offices where there is picketing . Hilliard said that the strike was losing momentum . He reported only 929 public aid employes were absent from duty yesterday , compared to 1,035 on Wednesday . His suspension of 376 independent union members for a one-hour work stoppage precipitated the strike on May 12.                     