@@728145

txt Massive antiwar demonstrations were expected throughout the country today despite President Nixon 's statement that the agitation was undercutting his efforts for an honorable peace . Americans who sympathized with the Vietnam Moratorium Day protest were expected to lower their flags to half-staff and attend mass rallies , parades , teach-ins , forums , candlelight processions , prayers and the reading of the names of Vietnam war dead . Signs of opposition to the moratorium appeared yesterday as some members of veterans organizations , the police and firemen , said they would fly their flags full-staff and , in come towns , drive in daytime with headlights on as a gesture of confidence in the President . Other Developments Listed There were also the following developments yesterday : qIn Washington , 20 members of Congress who have been most outspoken against the war planned an all-night demonstration in Congress . ClIn Paris , the Hanoi Government , in a statement made public there , hailed the demonstrations as " a timely rebuff " to the Nixon Administration and an expression of Americans ' will " to save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " GlIn South Vietnam , President Nguyen Van Thieu said he was confident the majority of Americans backed the allied war effort . ( lin Hanoi , North Vietnam 's official publication , Nhan Dan , despribed American demonstrators as " our heroic comradesin-arms " in an article that reserved special praise for the Students for a Democratic Society . IglIn London , 50 members of Parliament introduced a motion in the House of Commons expressing full support for the American war protesters . CIIn New York , Mayor Lindsay , despite growing criticism , remained firm in his decision to participate in the city 's antiwar rallies . He had proclaimed a day of observance to mourn the Vietnam war dead . He planned to deck City Hall in mourning and lower the flag to half-staff . Millions of New Yorkers planned to follow or flout the Lindsay proclamation . The bitterness against the proclamation was particularly evident among veteran ' , organizations , the police and firemen . The American Legion called the Mayor 's action " indefensible , reprehensible and outrageous . " The Uniformed Firefighters Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgrace . " The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association called the demonstration " wholly inimical to the national interest . " The P.B.A. called on all precinct houses to refuse to lower the flag . Police Headquarters had no comment . Governor Rockefeller decided to fly at full-staff the flag over his office in 22 West 55th Street . The Mayor had requested that public schools be closed in the interest of safety if enough teachers and custodians decided to stay away and participate in demonstrations . The request had thrown the Board of Edueation into confusion . Acting Superintendent of Schools Nathan Brown , said last night that although all 900 of the city 's schools would be open today , principals had " notified the parents of children who could not be accommodated in those few schools a total of 72 in which an overwhelming majority of teachers would be absent so that parents could make different arrangements for their children . " The Mayor had asked for a report by 1 P.M. yesterday of the number of schools that would close . But at the end of the afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how much absenteeism to expect . Compulsion ' Held Illegal The school picture was further confused when Supreme Court Justice Vito J. Titone ordered the Board of Education to rescind a directive allowing students and teachers to take part in the demonstrations . Within a few hours , however , Justice Titone 's action was stayed by an appeal filed by Assistant Corporation Counsel Judith Gordon and upheld by Presiding Justice George J. Beldock . Justice Titone had found that the Board of Education 's directive contained " the element of compulsion . " The Justice ruled : " Students and teachers who do not attend school that day will be deemed to be against the Government 's Vietnam war policy , and those who attend will be assumed to favor such policy . It the directive forces people to take a position when , as a matter of constitutional law , they are not required to do so . " Justice Beldock explained that his action , which in effect nullified Justice Titone 's order , was taken to avoid " absolute , utter confusion and chaos . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Plaza , at which Theodore C. Sorensen , former aide to President John F. Kennedy , and the cast of " Hair " are scheduled to appear , and a Bryant Park rally , starting at 4:30 P.M. The scheduled speakers at Bryant Park include the Mayor , Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota , Senator Jacob K. Javits , Representative Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn , Senator Charles E. Goodell , and the Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr. , chaplain at Yale University . There will be a day-long service at Trinity Church , where homilies will be delivered by leaders of the financial committee . According to William vanden Heuvel , a lawyer and one of the leaders of the demonstration , readers of the names of war dead will include Ralph Ablon , industrialist ; Sinclair Armstrong , vice president of the U.S. Trust Company and former Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , Benjamin J. Buttenwieser , a partner in Kuhn , Loeb &; Co. ; Michael Burke , president of the New York Yankees ; Roswell Gilpatrick , former Deputy Secretary of Defense ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Co. , and Robert Neuberger of Neuberger Loeb . Candlelight Procession Slated At the close of the Bryant Park rally , a candlelight procession to Rockefeller Plaza is planned . After a vigil in the plaza , the marchers will move to St. Patrick 's Cathedral . Leaders of the demonstration had asked Cardinal Cooke for a 9 P.M. mass in the cathedral to terminate the day . But Cardinal Cooke is not scheduled to return from Rome until today and the cathedral staff has scheduled masses for peace at 9 A.M. and 5:30 P.M. Consequently , the demonstrators will hold a closing service on Fifth Avenue outside the cathedral . Leaders said they would invite cardinal Cooke to participate . The Mayor had urged all churches to toll their bells . Fifteen churches in Manhattan said they would . The Mayor said he wanted an air of solemnity . As he left City Hall yesterday to attend the World Series game , the Mayor expressed his feelings : " This moratorium is a peaceful thing , prayerful in manner , to protest this war . This is a day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of remembrance for the mothers and fathers and wives and brothers and sisters of those who have given their lives . It is a peaceful , prayerful alternative to violent confrontation . " But the policemen , firemen and some patriotic societies expressed bitter disagreement . Maurice Stember , New York adjutant of the American Legion , said in a telegram to the Mayor that any lowering of flags today " can not be considered as honoring the dead , ' but a capitulation to the enemy . " Mr. Stember said that only . the President had the power to order a national day of mourning . Charles W. Wiley , executive , director of the National Committee for Responsible Patriotism , said his organization was considering a counter demonstration to be held at some later date . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association expressed its PPposition in a resolution calling today 's demonstrations " organized public attacks on the foreign policy of the United States " and expressing " full confidence " in the judgment , of President Nixon . Despite the rising opposition , local leaders of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite the coolness of the New York Central Labor Council , unions representing 250,000 were backing demonstrations in the metropolitan area , they claimed , and they said that there was mu . sive support within the professions and business . Workers and executives of the city 's major publishing houses planned to quit work between 11 A.M. , and 1 P.M. to attend a rally in front of the Public Library . Peace petitions are being circulated and one , with 365 names , including Bennett Cerf , calls for " rapid and unequivocal withdrawal of all troops from Vietnam . " In Princeton , N. J. , last night 2,500 students , faculty members and townspeople attended a teach-in sponsored by the Princeton University Moratorium Committee , and a countergroup of 200 heard South Vietnam 's Ambassador to the United States , Bui Diem , criticize the moratorium as only a means to prolong the war . Arthur J. Goldberg , former United States Representative at the United Nations , announced his support of the demonstrations . He said it was " very important " for Americans to express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive council of the two-millionmember United Church of Christ passed a resolution calling on President Nixon to " listen carefully " to the voices of peace , and warning that the Vietnam war was " destroying the spiritual , moral , physical and economic health " of America .                     