@@723230

txt Washington Is it constitutional to read the " Lord 's Prayer " and excerpts from the Bible in public schools ? Nine black-robed justices of the Supreme Court of the United States are preparing to make final decision at the end of one of the most eventful terms in recent years . In June , 1962 , the court ruled unconstitutional the reading in New York public schools of a nondenominational prayer . But in this 6-to-1 decision , the court was barring an official prayer composed by state officeholders . The court was bitterly assailed as being " against religion , " although the opinion itself , written by Associate Justice Hugo Lafayette Black , struck particularly at the idea that politicians could write and impose a , prayer required from all pupils . ' 62 Opinion Two new cases now before the high court may require the justices to go much beyond the 1962 Black opinion . The new cases originated in Maryland and Pennsylvania and represent a situation found in many classrooms across the country , the opening of the school clay by readings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In 191,2 the court held that the rending of the official prayer , composed by politicians , was " an establishment of religion " forbidden by the First Amendment to the Constitution . The implication was that any religious ceremony promoted by the state in public schools would be suspect . Parents Protest Last February , John D , Killian , deputy Attorney General for Pennsylvania , argued in the new case that school Bible reading goes back to colonial times and aims at moral and educational uplift rather than religion . He called Bible reading " one of the last vestiges of moral values that we have left " in the schools . Protesting parents in Pennsylvania and Maryland , however , argue that the practice violates the First Amendment 's guarantee of free exercise of religion . In the Maryland case , the highest state court upheld the constitutionality of starting the school day with Bible reading , the " Lord 's Prayer , " or both . On the other hand , a three-judge federal court in the Pennsylvania case ruled out a state law making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court justices when the cases were argued showed deep interest . In May , 1962 , the United Presbyterian Church 's General Assembly took issue with Bible reading and prayer in public schools because they are devotional acts tending toward " indoctrination or meaningless ritual . " A policy statement prepared for the General Board of the National Council of the Churches a year ago also disapproved " devotional use of the Bible " in public schools . Some think that school prayers become a routine and alienate rather than encourage students in reverence . Lawyers Questioned Other voices sharply disagree . Erwin N. Griswold , clean of the Harvard Law School attacked as " sheer invention " statements that the Constitution requires all traces of religion to be kept out of public activities . He criticized " constitutional absolution . " A deeply attentive and troubled court questioned lawyers of the two sides last February . Repeatedly Associate Justice Potter Stewart , who dissented a year ago , crossed swords with Mr. Justice Black , who wrote the original opinion . At one point Mr. Justice Black asked Baltimore City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Bible reading if , instead of the Bible , it were the Koran that was in question . " Not a bit , " replied Mr. Burch .                     