@@723347

txt Letters to The Times EUGENE RUBIN , STANLEY SOLOMON.CARL E. GUTMAN.JOHN D. ESSEKS.HOWARD M. YONET , M ... pg . 28 Letters to The Times While Rents Are Controlled Construction Declared Discouraged and Improvements Deferred To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Times of Aug. 8 reports a vacancy rate of less than 2 per cent in rental housing . The reported interpretation by the City Rent Administrator that this alone shows a continued need for control indicates how the vacancy rate can be misleading . Whether the rate is 1.8 per cent or 3.5 per cent is immaterial . The real problem of rental housing in New York City is the unfair distribution of the available dwelling units among the population  --  a direct result of 20 years of artificially controlled rents and frozen occupancies . Families that can afford better housing avoid moving up because of the disparity in rents between the controlled apartment and the better apartment in the free market . This in turn locks out many lowincome families , especially newlyweds and those newly arrived in the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain in competition with others but also a denial of the right to choose how to spend one 's income ; one family may prefer to buy better housing , another may prefer to pay less for housing and buy a new car . Further Effects Rent control has created other problems as well . Artificially controlled rents in the face of rising prices and rising taxes have caused building owners to cut corners in maintenance so that after 20 years of deferred maintenance our population lives in conditions far below the standards justified by their income levels . And we are aggravating the living conditions of the city by withholding from our housing inventory the new equipment and improvements and much of the technological advance in building construction that has developed since World War II . Moreover , new construction is discouraged so long as the bulk of the population is induced by continued rent control to hold on to its bargain , no matter how substandard . Yet the outlook need not be bleak , a low vacancy rate is not conclusive , and New York City need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indefinite continuation of control . A first step in gradual decontrol can be taken immediately . As suggested in The Times account , high-rent apartments can be taken off control because supply and demand factors indicate no serious hardship to the occupants . Likewise , apartments that are vacated can be returned to the free market since there is no evidence of an excessive demand for vacated units . Most important , the voting public must realize that free bargaining for rental housing needs to be restored , the sooner the better ; to return to normal conditions of free choice , continuing improvement in the quality of rental housing , and a fair distribution of the supply of housing . EUGENE RUBIN , Director of Governmental Affairs , Commerce and Industry Association of New York , Inc . New York , Aug. 8 , 1963 . Taconic Preferred to Thruway To TILE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I want to commend publicly the Taconic State Parkway Commission for the superb condition of its highway . I travel this road weekly on my way between Schenectady and New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repair . I also want to thank the commission or whoever is responsible for the design of the Taconic State Parkway . Its gentle curves  --  not usually sharp enough to have to reduce the considerable legal speed limits of 50 and 60 miles an hour  --  make driving interesting . The magnificent natural scenery is not only a pleasure on a long drive but in my opinion far more likely to induce one to keep his eyes ahead than a billboard . The plentiful trees cast delightful dappled shade on the road itself and the driver is caught up in the beauty . All in all the Taconic is a marked contrast to the Thruway . The latter has few trees , not much that is pleasureful to the eye and is so all of one design that it wears thin on the driver of many miles . STANLEY SOLOMON . Schenectady , Aug. 5 , 1963 . P.R . Proposed for Council To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : While your Aug. 8 editorial regarding Judge Irwin Davidson 's decision regarding City Council seats contains some questionable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenet that the opposition ( Republican ) party is not fairly represented . I do not believe that the outcome of a national election should determine the allocation of seats ; however , some such apportionment is needed . Several years ago the voters decided against proportional representation . This method always appeared to me to be thoroughly , democratic and would rectify the ill from which the Council now suffers . At the time this issue was before the voters , it was not decided on its merits , but in the emotional heat resulting from the fact that as a result of this method it was possible for a Com-1 munist to attain office . If there were a referendum now on this issue , - I believe the outcome would be different . Perhaps the City Council would then fulfill its true function instead of being a rubber stamp for the Board of Estimate . CARL E. GUTMAN . New York , Aug. 8 , 1963 . Nkrumah 's Beliefs Basis for Judgment as to Communist Leanings Called Inadequate To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dodd and Leo Cherne for suspecting President Nkrumah of being pro-Communist or Communist to be most inadequate . Nkrumah 's Ghanaian opponents who testified may have been sincere in their beliefs . But there is the danger that they were resorting to the traditional ploy for arousing Americans against one 's enemy ? painting him " red . " Such evidence as Nkrumah 's receiving a Lenin Peace Prize or his picture appearing with Lenin and others in The Worker should be even further discounted . Nkrumah has earned many more honors from Western universities and the British Government , and intensive Communist wooing can not be equated with acceptance on his part . Another criterion often invoked in such discussions is the number of political instrumentalities found in a country like Ghana which are similar to Communist state practices : single-party rule , a young pioneers youth organization , a national planning commission , an ideological academy , etc . Institutions Changed Not only may these institutions differ greatly in actual content from Soviet or Chinese models , but , as the record for Ghana in the six years since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modified and replaced . Economic development , international respect and African unity are the important things ; the pedigrees of the means are not . A valid criterion , in my mind , is whether Nkrumah could believe that alliance with the Communist camp would serve these three goals . Present evidence seems to indicate the contrary . In 1961 the Eastern bloc could absorb only 3.2 per cent of Ghana 's exports and provided only 5.3 per cent of her imports . Current Communist aid projects in Ghana have been less than spectacular in their performance . And the involvement of the Soviet Ambassador to Guinea in an abortive coup against Sdkou Tourd 's Government in December , 1961 , has apparently alerted other African nations to the dangers of " riding on the tiger 's back . " JOHN D. ESSEKS . New York , Aug. 6 , 1963 . Basing Entry on Skills To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : President Kennedy 's proposal for a change in immigration laws was advanced for humanitarian reasons . It is on this very basis , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not think that giving preference to an immigrant based on skills or education is fair . It is in those countries which most need correction , in immigration inequities that the impoverished and needy are the unskilled masses and the privileged and comfortable are from the skilled and educated blass . To discriminate in favor of the latter is as unfair as favoring one country over another . Let us produce the skills among our people , both recently and long since arrived . HOWARD M. YONET , M.D. New York , Aug. 10 , 1963 . Toward a Society of Numbers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES If we are not annihilated physically by nuclear weapons , we will be as thoroughly obliterated as individuals by the bureaucratic " numbers " system . Telephone numbers , bank account codes , social security designations all aim to convert the individual into something less than a microbe . I have just received a Government form : my number is 61134064-111212072712 . Could this be the real me ? MARK FREEMAN . New York , Aug. 11 , 1963 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Areas Upheld To THE EDITOR OF THE Now YORK TIMES : Senator Barry Goldwater is reported as having attacked the Defense Department for having authorized military commanders to place " off limits " any area near their bases where aegregation is practiced . I was stationed at Fort McClellan , Anniston , Ala. , for nearly a year . I was Assistant Chief of Staff , G-2 , of the 27th Infantry Division . In training at this postwas also a Quartermaster unit composed of Negroes . They were a fine lot . When they went on pass , their appearance and conduct put to shame many of our white soldiers . This was the organization that , after an invasion of France , operated the famous " Red Ball Express , " carrying essential supplies from the beaches to the front , driving their trucks across France day and night under the most difficult and dangerous conditions , and by their almost superhuman endurance of fatigue and lack of sleep winning universal admiration . Without them the rapid , victorious advance of General Patton 's Third Army could not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid soldiers entered the bus from Fort McClellan to Anniston he was rudely ordered by the driver to move to the last six rows of seats . After he reached town he was stibjected to further humiliation . The Defense Department is absolutely right in taking measures to insure respect for the American uniform . My criticism would be that the move is too long overdue , and does not go far enough . Instead of " authorizing " Post Commanders to place off limits the areas where ch ; - crimination is practiced , they should be " ordered " to do so . Appeals to communities where discrimination exists , based on patriotism or common decency , are futile . It is only by threatening the profits of local business that results can be obtained . This is the jugular vein , as Senator Goldwater knows . The time has come to go for it . JOHN REYNOLDS . New York , Aug. 2 , 1963 . No Division on Birth Control To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We looked forward to the series of articles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after seeing your advance publicity . We were sadly disappointed , however , after reading them , for we had hoped they would shed additional light , on , this important question . The seriea:presented a vastly distorted view cifi the . discussion now going on among , the clergy and the laity on this subject . We are presidents of the largest organization of Catholic married couples in the New York area . We do not find in Mr. Barrett 's articles proportionate reference to the sentiments that mark not only our group but also those of other Catholics with whom we come in contact , namely , that contraception . is an absolute evil and therefore something we reject completely . This position is far from " lagging behind the views of the Holy Father " but is in direct support of them . It is exactly within this framework of God 's law and the pronouncements of the Holy Father that these free and normal discussions and programs are carried or in the fulfilling of the church 's mission . of helping and guiding her pea ple to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " divided camp " on this question is a gross exaggeration . In all fairness you should give equal space to a report that would more clearly present to your readers the position of the Catholic Church on this important topic . FRANCIS and VIRGINIA PETR A GLIA , Christian Family Movement . New York , Aug. 10 , 1963 . Preventing Unwanted Children To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : George Barrett 's articles on birth control were superbly done , even by New York Times standards . Conspicuous by its absence from Mr. Barrett 's series , which could , of course , not cover everything , was a matter that does seem important ? the morality of bringing children into a world where they can expect little beyond years of hunger , insecurity , misery , sickness and the probability of an early and painful death . Yet this is the lot of thou sands unnecessarily born . Would this not be a good time for New York to recognize that we llye in a pluralistic society , and freely offer birth control to welfare clients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 11 , 1963.                     