@@728210

txt A luncheon program at which 1,500 people were to discuss t city 's new Master Plan a honor outgoing Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey was suddenly adjourned yesterday because of disruptions by 60 persons , mainly black militants . The group , with repeated cries of " Damn the masters ' plan , " had earlier interrupted five out of six morning panel sessions at the 40th annual conference held by the Re ? gional Platt Association at the New York Hilton Hotel . Governor Hughes told newsmen that he would have summoned the police if such a disruption had been attempted in New Jersey . He said that " free exchange of thought ca n't exist in the face of anarchy " and that " the time has been reached when government should suppress this anarchy . " One of the features of the plan released by the City Planping Commission Saturday is more community involvement in developing city policies . Donald H. Elliott , chairman of commission , said later that " this was a very small group that came for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his commission had expressed readiness to meet with it . " It was unfortunate that a lot of people trying to talk on the merits were unable to , " Mr. Elliott said . The luncheon 's ice cream dessert course was just about to be served when the demonstrators poured into the New York Hilton dining room , just after 1 o'clock , yelling , " We want to eat . " They filed past the tables and up to the dais , and at once , Morris D. Crawford Jr. , board chairman of the Regional Plan Association and of the Bowery Savings Bank , announced , " This meeting is adjourned . " At one point several rolls were thrown at the demonstrators , and a vapor was released that made some persons at the luncheon cough . A leader with an Afro hair style , wearing a green fatigue jacket , took command of the rostrum , wielding a bullhorn to renew complaints . the group had made throughout the day that blacks and Puerto Ricans had But it was later confirmed that he was Damu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the summer occupation of the proposed state office building site in Harlem . He is now with the Community Coalition , 183 Lenox Avenue . Alexander J. Allen , Eastern regional director of the National Urban League and one of the conference panelists , said later that he had met during the luncheon with 60 blacks to offer them an opportunity to have a spokesman speak at the luncheon . Mr. Allen said the group had selected Carl Anthony , a member of the Architects Renewal Committee of Harlem . Mr. Allen said he believed the demonstrations reflected lack of success in planning with community representatives . Other participants in the demonstrations included Fritz Alexander , a Harlem lawyer ; Morris Gant , of the Urban League , and Robert ( Sonny ) Carson , of the Brooklyn Congress of Racial Equality , which has split with its national group . Some White Support Another was Harry Quintana , who said he was an architect and urban planner workina in working East Harlem . and who told one panel that " little hippie-haired architects with Ivy League on the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some support for their protests came from white members of groups describing themselves as the Urban Underground , including at ' least two former members of the City Planning Department , and the Patriot Party , said to be an organization of poor whites from ; Appalachia with headquarters ; at 1742 Second Avenue . The first move by the blacks came at the end of an opening conference session , when seven marched up to a microphone and began denouncing " racist and imperialist arrogance . " A long list of city officials was declaimed both then and during panel disruptions  --  each name punctuated with a chant " white . " Then finally the rollcall reached the Fire Department , whose Commissioner , ; Robert 0 . Lowery , was derisiveMaster Plan -- ly labeled a " Negro , " rather than black . Before the disruptions began , a message was read at the opening session that congratu- ? lated the Regional Plan Association " for your pioneeringefforts in urban planning and for achievements that have enriched the lives of all your fellow New Yorkers . " It was signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately evoked a wide round of hisses , followed by some applause to counter it . In talking with newsmen about the black disruption , Governor Hughes said : " I think these people are creating an enormous backlash in this country . " He criticized the turning on of television lights as the demonstrators swarmed in , and contended : " If the lights were n't here , they would n't be here . "                     