@@722775

txt Gov . Kerner said yesterday that persons will go hungry if the special legislative session fails to appropriate enough money to carry relief programs well into 1963 . He admitted , however , that there is not much he can do to counteract the slashing of huge portions of the 130 million dollars he has asked for to carry the program thru next June 30 . The Senate has approved an appropriation of 27.9 million dollars . Democrats Lack Majority Asked at a press conference in his Chicago office if he would fight for the full amount , Kerner replied : " We Democrats do n't have a two-thirds majority and when you do n't , you sit and listen . " He said it will take the next regular legislature 30 to 45 days to organize and pass a new appropriation and that the special session should appropriate at least enough money to carry public aid thru March . Arnold H. Maremont , chairman of the Illinois Public Aid commission , asked the commission staff yesterday to send a letter over his signature reassuring all county @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned . Deplores G. 0 . P. Action A staff member said reluctance of legislators to approve the Kerner proposal , and general complaints against welfare , have caused some rumors that the state aid program would be junked . Samuel A. Goldsmith , vice chairman of IPAC , said he deplored the action of Senate Republicans in making the slash and that it would make another deficiency appropriation necessary in January . Harold 0 . Swank , commission executive secretary , said that these delays are interfering with staff concentration on the prime job of helping people to become self-supporting and getting them off relief . Raymond C. Hilliard , Cook county director of public aid , charged that the poor people of Illinois are being made the scapegoat of the state 's financial crisis . Assails Lawmakers In a speech before the Catholic Lawyers guild in the Chicago Bar association , he asserted that the deficiency appropriation would not have been necessary if the legislature had heeded the IPAC request for 105 million dollars more than was appropriated in 1961 for the current biennium . " When it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures , the whole shortage was knocked off relief , " he said . " It could have been cut from highways . " But highways have lobbyists and they are down there in Springfield now making certain no money is transferred from the motor ft:el tax fund . " The poor people do n't have a lobby-clout them and no voice is needed . " In actuality , Hilliard maintained , relief as a burden in the state budget is " lagging behind other fast moving costs of government . "                     