@@726271

txt The Southeast Asia Treaty Organization opened its annual ministerial meeting today , with differences over the conduct of the war in Vietnam underlined by unusually outspoken addresses by the Australian and Thai delegates . Although the majority of alliance members endorse the firm United States stand on Vietnam , Australia 's Minister for External Affairs , Paul Hasluck , abandoned the usual reluctance to discuss differences in public . He noted that France was boycotting the meeting and accused her of taking an isolationist attitude toward Asia . He also chided Britain for moving to reduce her military positions in the Middle and Far East . Thanat Khoman , Foreign Minister of Thailand , apparently alluding to the refusal of France and ' Pakistan to aid the allied military cause materially in South Vietnam , criticized SEATO members that derive benefits from the alliance without accepting what he termed " corresponding obligations and responsibilities . " Call for Ouster Discerned Some Asian diplomats interpreted Mr. Thanat 's speech as virtually calling for the ouster of France and Pakistan , though he stopped short of any specific proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ token efforts over the last three years toward participation in the military activities of the eight-nation alliance . The Philippines , New Zealand and the United States are also members . In quiet , almost scholarly tones , the Thai diplomat charged that the alliance had broken down into two categories ? " the fully active members and the selective ones . " " If such are the circumstances , " he asked , " how can an organization based on unequal rights and obligations adequately continue to function ? This probably will be the crucial question which we will have to face sooner or later . " Mr. Thanat spoke of SEATO 's " inaction and impotency " in 1959 during the Communist military threat in Laos . He noted that Thailand had recently ' agreed to permit United States ' B-52 bombers to use bases against targets in Vietnam to help prevent the alliance from being " reduced to a useless carcass . " Pakistan , which last week boycotted a meeting of the alliance 's military advisers , was represented today by her Ambassador to Washington , Agha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers ' level . Mr. Hilaly , ignoring the criticism , emphasized Pakistan 's support for a return to the 1954 , Geneva agreements as a basis for a settlement in Vietnam.1 He also noted Pakistani endorsement of SEA.TO 's promotion of economic development and regional stability . Secretary of State Dean Rusk did not take part in the debate except to note that the United States had , evidence that North Vietnam 's leaders were " sustained by the hope that dissenting opinion , here or abroad , will cause the United States to abandon or weaken its support of South Vietnam . " Such an expectation , he declared , " is a basic miscalculation which can only prolong the war and add to the casualties . " Absence Is Regretted In offering direct criticism of the French abstention , the Australian Foreign Minister said France 's allies regretted her absence and were glad it did not imply any intention to withdraw . But , Mr. Hasluck added , " in the view of Australia , Western European nations who are interested in a continuing part in world affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . " " Lack of interest in Asia today is isolation in its most feckless form , " he declared . " The phrase ' peace is indivisible ' was true when trouble was most likely to break out in Europe . It is no less true when the most immediate threat to world peace is in Asia . " George Brown , British Foreign Secretary , endorsed South Vietnam 's " right to defend itself against the ruthless attempt to take over the country by force " and the decision of SEATO nations to send troops to help . But , alluding to Britain 's position as a co-chairman with the Soviet Union , of the Geneva conferences on Indochina , he explained that Britain felt that her contribution could " best be made outside the military field . " Britain has sent a small police advisory mission and a medical team to Saigon .                     