@@727440

txt Close to 30 Nixon task forces are being set up to study almost every aspect of national affairs , from taxes and transportation to foreign aid and farm prices . Half a dozen key Nixon aides are compiling lists of people who might fill top Government jobs , and use of a computerized talent bank is being considered . This Saturday the candidate himself will spend several hours privately with Negro leaders  --  not to seek their support at the polls Nov. 5 but to open lines of communications that might be useful to a President Nixon . In these and other ways , even as their textbookplanned campaign approaches what they confidently expect will be a highly successful conclusion , Richard Nixon and his top men are preparing for the even tougher task of taking over and running the Government of the United States . Admittedly , this planning has been done in a rather informal and low-key way ; often Nixon aides have simply appointed themselves to worry about particular post-election matters . But the beginnings of a Johnson-to-Nixon transition are clearly there . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spring and early summer , that enabled the Nixonites to get the postconvention campaign going so smoothly and swiftly . Mr. Nixon believes it would be even more important to move fast and firmly after election . A Crucial Period " Between Nov. 5 and Jan. 1 , " the GOP nominee recently told a group of reporters , " that is the time to get going and get it done . . . . The decisions made between Nov. 5 and the time of the inauguration will probably be the most important decisions that the new President will make insofar as determining the success of his Administration over the next four years . Because if he makes poor decisions with regard to selection of his Cabinet , with regard to his budget , with regard to these basic poipts ( issues ) that some of you have raised , it 's going to be very hard to correct them . " Nixon communications director Herbert Klein adds another dimension : " Dick believes that the actions and decisions of the first two months after Election Day go a long way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . and so are very vital to its success . " Naturally , the Nixon team is reluctant to talk now about its post-election planning . " We do n't want to appear to be forming the Government before we 've even been elected , " a key lieutenant explains . And right at the moment the final campaign blitz is taking priority . Campaign manager John Mitchell notes that Mr. Nixon has n't even accepted President Johnson 's invitation for each Presidential candidate to appoint a top deputy to do advance planning with LBJ transition planner Charles Murphy . " It 's entirely premature , " he declares . That appointment would probably be one of Mr. Nixon 's first post-election acts , however . Looking at History It 's really nothing more than common sense , of course , to start getting ready now for a White House take-over . The time between Election Day and Inauguration Day is comparatively short ; dozens of crucial decisions , from Cabinet appointments to budget changes , crowd in on the victor , especially if he 's not of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would continue most of the policies and many of the key people of the Johnson Administration , faces no transition problems comparable to Mr. Nixon 's . The GOP nominee and his staff have already scanned a number of studies of past White House transitions done by such private groups as the Brookings Institution ; these include checklists of early decisions to be made . " If you 're responsible , you ca n't help but be thinking ahead to alternatives , " a Nixon aide asserts . If he wins , Mr. Nixon plans to split his time during the transition period mostly between New York and Washington , with an occasional Florida rest . Though Congress has voted to provide Government office space and public funds for the staff of the President-elect , Mr. Mitchell has determined that Government space may not be available this fall , and so private office space may have to be rented ( at Government expense ) . One of the earliest sets of decisions facing the new President will be appointments of his Cabinet members , White House staff and other high officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scorn all speculation about his possible choices : Former Gov . William Scranton of Pennsylvania for Secretary of State , Gov . Nelson Rockefeller of New York for Secretary of Defense and so on . They insist the candidate has n't even talked to anyone about Cabinet jobs , let alone made any offerg or decisions . The " Green Book " Says Mr. Mitchell : " He has not made a commitment to anybody . And he is not going to go into it until after Nov. 5 . " Almost certainly , though , he has names in mind for the most important jobs . Top advisers do , too , and they 'll be ready to talk the possibilities over with the boss the minute he 's ready . The Civil Service Commission has forwarded to the candidates its traditional " green book " listing the hundreds of non-civil service jobs Mr. Nixon would be able to fill . Nixon staffers have been accumulating names for some of the key positions ? on the President 's Council of Economic Advisers or regulatory agencies , and at the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant Glenn Olds , former dean for international studies of the State Uni- versity , of New York , has been interviewing hundreds of professors , businessmen , labor leaders and other non-Government experts prince May , gathering their ideas on major foreign and domestic problems . He not only summarizes their thoughts for Mr. Nixon but also records information on their backgrounds and interests so that they could be matched up with job vacancies . Members of various campaign study groups and task forces form a talent pool and would certainly be able to suggest other names . Nominations would pour in from politicians and other leaders all over the country once the election was won . Mr. Mitchell has been examining techniques used in past Administrations to fill top jobs , including use of a computer to pick out the names of people especially fitted to fill any particular vacancy . Some changes in the way the Government is organized might be made right away . " Consolidation of a number of agencies will be examined , " Mr. Mitchell says . In a radio address last night , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Department of Defense to correct its overcentralization and streamline its top-level overstaffing . " But for the most part , Mr. Nixon would probably defer far-reaching changes until he had worked with the system for a while . He and aides , for example , have been talking over the idea of a coordinating agency in the White House , possibly with the Vice Presient as head , to oversee the Government 's myriad domestic programs . But this idea and any plans for basic overhaul of major Government departments would most likely wait for study by the " new Hoover commission " Mr. Nixon has promised to name ; this commission would not only consider such possibilities but would also examine Federal-state-local relationships and " search out every feasible means of decentralizing Government . " Going Over the Budget Mr. Nixon will , if elected , also have to decide whether to move quickly to reassess budget priorities and cut some items and increase others in the budget Mr. Johnson will send Congress in January . " This is the first point where you can start asserting control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff men and study groups have been fine-combing the current budget to get ideas for changes in the next budget . Mr. Nixon has already indicated he would favor reduced outlays for public works , the supersonic transport plane and post-Apollo space exploration , while he would favor more money for air traffic control , military research and development , and certain other projects . But the details , of course , would be another matter . Mr. Nixon would also have to decide promptly what other proposals he wants to put before Congress early in his Administration . He has already set forth a long list of proposals in the campaign speeches , particularly in his radio addresses ; on Monday , the Nixonites issued a 194-page booklet , " Nixon on the Issues , " reciting what he has said on 227 topics . He has promised tax credits or fast depreciation for new ghetto firms and new firms in rural areas , for job training and antipollution equipment . He has suggested Federal aid for children in private schools and larger tax deductions for contributions to higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of living and higher payments to widows . He has promised a national law enforcement council to coordinate Federal crime policies and more help to pay and train police departments . And there 'll be a wide array of further suggestions to choose from . Among the sources of ideas is an economic advisory group that includes such experienced hands as Arthur Burns and Raymond Saulnier , both chairmen of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Eisenhower ; economic consultants Pierre Rinfret and Alan Greenspan ; farm economist Don Paarlberg ; former Budget Director Maurice Stans ; investment banker and . deputy campaign manager Peter Flanigan ; and economists Milton Friedman and Paul McCracken . A 20-man Advisory Council on Crime and Law Enforcement is headed by Los Angeles County District Attorney Evelle Younger and includes former U.S. Prisons Director James W. Bennett , Rhode Island State Police Superintendent Walter Stone , Los Angeles County Police Chief Thomas Reddin and Nebraska Attorney General Clarence Meyer . Then there are the plans for close to 30 " contingency " task forces  --  some in being , some still being created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal concern : Tax policy , housing , job training , education , communications and many ogler matters . The membership of these groups is being kept secret , though an occasional name does leak out . Economist Norman Pure , who serves informally as a close adviser to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Wilbur Mills , heads a task force studying the tax structure ; Mr. Nixon has said the other members of this group include " perhaps the top civilian ( non-Government ) experts in the country . " Mr. Scranton , after a 21-day tour talking to leaders of Western Europe , has already given Mr. Nixon some recommendations for overhauling the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Mr. Burns is due back Oct. 28 with a similar report on European economic conditions . Senators and Congressmen will be pushing suggestions at Mr. Nixon if he wins , and so will foundations , university groups and research organizations . Talking to Negroes The Nixon team is also working to establish lines of communication with other groups  --  besides Negroes  --  that have not been particularly close to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not support , might be needed from January on . Of the efforts to establish rapport with the Negro community , one Nixon man says , " We know we ca n't get many more votes there , but we would like to be able to talk with them , to know what 's on their minds , to have them listening to what 's on our minds . " There has been heavy Nixon advertising in Negro newspapers and magazines and on Negro radio stations stressing his " black capitalism " proposals . Top adviser Leonard Garment has been meeting with Negro leaders , listening to their grievances and suggestions and outlining Mr. Nixon 's ideas . John McClaughry , who has been a consultant to the Congress of Racial Equality and who helped draft a bill to provide seed capital for Negro businesses , has been touring the country to talk to local Negro leaders . Mr. Nixon himself has been listening and talking , too . In Detroit early this month , he and Gov . Romney spent three hours meeting with over 20 people , mostly Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The meeting this Saturday at Mr. Nixon 's apartment  --  with such Negro leaders as Roy Wilkins , Roy Innis and Whitney Young ? is another instance ; Sen. Edward Brooke of Massachusetts has played a leading role in setting up that meeting . " The idea of all this activity , " says Mr. Garment , " is to create a climate of believability , so the Negro community will believe and trust this man . " Similarly , the candidate has been making a special effort to persuade young people that he cares about them and their problems . He deliberately devoted the first of his current series of 10 nightly radio addresses to the problems of youth , including a pledge to listen open-mindedly to their grievances and to make them " part of the new leadership . " Practically every Nixon speech promises a volunteer army to replace the draft once the Vietnam war is over . He also vows to give education a top priority ; last Sunday night 's radio address on that subject outlined a wide range of proposals to encourage " excellence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate school .                     