@@721857

txt Soviet officials denounced last night the talks in Paris between President Kennedy and President de Gaulle as " poor preparation " for Mr. Kennedy 's meeting here today with Premier Khrushchev . The comments were made after Mr. Khrushchev had arrived from Czechoslovakia for the summit conference . In what appeared to be resentment against the emphasis in the Paris talks on ' Western determination to defend West Berlin , a responsible member of the Khrushchev delegation said : " It was a militaristic exercise and poor preparation for the ' meeting here . " Russians Pessimistic The Soviet attitude , as expressed privately , was pessimistic . This seemed to stem both from the result of the Paris talks and statements by United States officials that President Kennedy intended to take a tough line with Premier Khrushchev . On his arrival , Premier Khrushchev met the man who . Tied and failed to unseat him in 1957 . Vyacheslav M. Molotov , a former Soviet Premier and Foreign Minister , was in the welcoming crowd at the railway station . The two exchanged embarrassed greetings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Energy Commission , which has its headquarters in Vienna . It is generally supposed that he and Premier Khrushchev had not met publicly since the 1957 attempt at a coup in Moscow . After his reception , Premier Khrushchev indicated that he hoped his conversations with President Kennedy this weekend would contribute to a tion of . the difficult questions dividing the United States and , the Soviet Union . " Of course , " the Premier said , " we Soviet people want all unsolved questions to be settled as soon as possible . We know , however , that all this can not be done at once . But with good-I will , much can be achieved even ' in a short time . " In a remark that was perhaps intended mainly to please the Austrians , Mr. Khrushchev said : " We do hope that the good atmosphere of peace-loving and neutral Austria will favorably influence the results of our forthcoming meeting with the President of the United States of America . " The Soviet Premier 's retinue included his wife , Mme. Nina Petrovna Khrushchev , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Menshikov . Ambassador to the United States . They arrived in a five-coach train at 5 P. M. A Czechoslovak locomotive hauled the short train from Bratislava to the frontier , where an Austrian locomotive took over . Members of the official Austrian greeting party were headed by President Adolf Schaerf . Mr. Khrushchev made his way down the platform . greeting members of the Soviet colony . Standing well down the line surrounded by members of the Soviet diplomatic service , was ' Mr. Molotov , Stalin 's companion and the man credited with having laid the political foundations for the advance of Soviet power into the heart of Europe . Mr. Molotov was waiting quietly and patiently for Mr. Khrushchev 's arrival . A sardonic smile crossed his face as he watched the Austrian security service agents and soldiers take up their stations . He chatted with a woman secretary . a Soviet Embassy counselor. and a Soviet military attache . As Mr. Khrushchev came near , Mr. ' Molotov and the Premier glanced at each other , for an instant . The color mounted from their necks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grips and smiled at , each other with embarrassment . ' Greetings Not Audible The greetings they exchanged ' were not audible . As Mr. Khrushchev passed on . Mr. Molotov : smiled broadly . The next person ' to greet the former Premier was Mme , Khrushchev , then Mr. Gromyko , Mr. Menshikov and others . As the Khrushchev party passed on its way , Mr , Molotov became lost in the throng . Mr. Khrushchev received a fairly warm greeting from the crowd inside the railroad station and at the exit . The cheers were mixed with boos and whistles . Riding in a 1961 Ford convertible , and surrounded by a motorcycle escort , Mr. Khrushchev followed police cars down the Prince Eugen Strasse , which skirts the Belvedere Palace . The long street was thinly sprinkled with spectators.I Their numbers increased as the ! convoy traversed the Schwarz-1 enberg Platz and headed into ; Vienna 's famous Ring . Reception Is Reserved The Soviet Premier got a reserved reception from thick crowds that lined the Ring . Most people watched quietly. , There was some scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hofburg Gardens . chil- ; dren , watched by their parents , were playing . Students seated ; on park benches and chairs I were reading books . The people ; in the park ignored the excite- ; ment and continued to take ; their ease . After having paid his respects ; to President Schaerf at the President 's palace , Mr. Khrushchev changed into a Soviet ' open touring car . The convoy traveled westward to the Soviet Embassy residence at Purkers- ; dorf , where he will reside over the week-end . The grounds of , the forty-room villa are , equipped with a swimming pool I and tennis courts .                     