@@723935

txt The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has called for demonstrations this summer at all public construction sites in the state . The organization said yesterday that the blame for resumption of demonstrations must be attributed to Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Wagner for not canceling contracts involving unions and contractors who practice discriminatory hiring . It was emphasized that the demonstrations would be " more militant and more dramatic " than the protests here last summer that resulted in. the arrest of hundreds of demonstrators . All 53 N.A.A.C.P. branches in the state have been urged to participate in the demonstrations , and other demonstrations were threatened in large urban centers throughout the nation . Lack of Enforcement Alleged Both national and state N.A.A.C.P. officials reiterated charges that the Governor and Mayor had failed to enforce antidiscrimination laws in the construction industry . In another development Bayard Rustin , ' deputy of last August 's March on Washington , called ea the Government to sped S60 billion in a massive pugic works program to provide jobs for Negroes and Puerto Ricans . " It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't need a great deal of training , " Mr. Rustin said on the WABCTV program " New York , New York . " " When you 're dealing with problems of employment , housing and schools , " he said , " you must deal with economic institutions . How can you ask for employment for Negroes when whites can not get jobs ? You must call for employment for all . " Nullification by Disuse In a one-hour news conference at the Henry Hudson Hotel , both national and state N.A.A.C.P. leaders charged that the " failure of will and political courage " had resulted in the nullification by disuse of laws and executive orders that " purport " to prohibit discrimination in employment on public works . General fair employment laws applicable to private construction have also been " vitiated , " they charged . The association declined to Pinpoint when and where demonstrations would take place this summer . One official said that no definite dates had been set but that the protests would begin in May . One target of the demonstrations , the N.A.A.C.P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program announced last Monday by Dr. Calvin E. Gross , Superintendent of Schools . Such demonstrations , the association said , would be carried out only if the Board of Education failed to abide by the contract provision that prohibits racial discrimination . Herbert Hill ; national labor secretary of the N.A.A.C.P. , declared that his organization was returning to direct-action methods because nothing had been accomplished to remedy the situation that created demonstrations in this city last summer . " The N.A.A.C.P. has attempted to exhaust all remedies on the administrative and judicial levels to eliminate the rigid pattern of racial . discrimination in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. craft unions in the building . trade , " Mr , Hill said . The N.A.A.C.P. suffered a legal setback last Tuesday when the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court ' unanimously reversed a lower court ruling and dismissed , the organization 's complaint that had sought to halt nearly " $10 million in state and city constructions . Associate Justice Harold A. Stevens , a Negro , who wrote the decision , said that the suit 's " fatal deficiency " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that state and city officials entered into ' construction contracts not with the unions but with construction companies . Further Appeal Due Robert -L . Carter , general counsel for the N.A.A.C.P. , said the case had been appealed to the Court of Appeals . The ruling by the five-judge court indicated that the civil rights group had also failed td extend " legal responsibility " to the Governor , the Mayor and other state officials , who were named defendants in the suit along with nine unions . Mr. Hill said that shortly after the State Commission for Human Rights had reported widespread discrimination in Local 28 of the Sheet Metal Workers Union , Roy Wilkins , N.A.A.C.P. executive secretary , wrote letters to both the Governor and the Mayor requesting that they cancel all contracts in which the local functioned as the hiring agent . He showed reporters a letter in which the Governor had replied to Mr. Wilkins on March 19 . Governor Rockefeller wrote : " It has been my consistent policy both before and since our discussion last summer , to encourage voluntary compliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous enforcement of the statutory remedies . against Local 28 before final judicial expression on the fact of idiscrimination , would not in my judgment serve to contribute to an eventual settlement of the case . " Wagner Reported Silent Mr. Hill said that Mayor Wagner " has not seen fit to reply to Mr. Wilkin 's letter . " The Mayor could not be reached for comment . Criticism was also leveled at the Governor and Mayor ' by W. Eugene Sharpe , a lawyer who is chairman of the labor and industry committee of the New York State Conference of tranches . Mr. Sharpe contended it was obvious that the " position of the Governor and Mayor is dictated essentially by their desire to avoid conflict with the politically powerful building trades unions and construction contractors associations , despite conclusive proof of massive and unlawful anti-Negro discrimination in the city 's construction industry . " Dr. Eugene T. Reed , president of the N.A.A.C.P. State Conference , suggested that if the Mayor did , not " change ' his ways , " his inaction might cause President Johnson to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the November election . He warned that some in the Negro civil rights movement might advocate . a boycott of voting booths in November , which might make it difficult for the President and the Democratic party to retain control . " The Democrats are foolish to count on keeping the votes of Negroes just obecause voting patterns usually remain fairly constant , " Dr. Reed asserted . He said that while he was not advocating such an election boycott at this time , the N.A.A.C.P. could change its policies in a special instance . " No one can predict what is in store for the future , but it is clear that the present social revolution will intensify , and unless immediate adjustments are made by government , many will be hurt in many ways in many places , " he said . Mr. Hill indicated that the N.A.A.C.P. was planning demonstrations not only in New York State but also in large urban centers throughout the country . He said the association would hold a national demonstration at , the General Motors Building in ' Detroit on May 4 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negrces from positions of authority . " Mr. Hill insisted that most of the big , important unions had not spoken out against racial discrimination . He charged that all the N.A.A.C.P. had got from the national A.F.L.-C.I.O. was a " lot of wind and air . " He alleged that the sole function of the civil rights committee was to " make remarks for public relations purposes . " Only three unions have spoken up in New York on the matter of discrimination , Mr. Hill charged . He listed them as the United Auto Workers ; DisrtriCt 65 , Retail , Wholesale and Department Store Union , and ' Local .499 , Drug and Hospital 1Worker 's Union .                     