@@725875

txt The administration is sitting on a secret Commerce Department study which , if released , could seriously undermine the President 's efforts to keep wage settlements down . But if it is not released , economic research could be set back for years . Back in 1963 , the Council of Economic Advisers reported that labor productivity  --  output per man hour  --  was increasing at a rate of 3.2 percent per year on the average . Since then , that figure has been cited as the logical ceiling on yearly wage increases . But 3.2 percent was arrived at through the use of the then accepted postwar statistics . As it turns out , most of these statistics are wrong . A number becomes policy More than two years ago , the Office of Business Economics of the Commerce Department began to revise all these statistics , including gross national product ( GNP ) . This was done using highly sophisticated improvements in data gathering . The report was ready last June . Well-informed sources report that the new figures place labor-productivity increase higher than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 percent . This means , theoretically , that labor could demand wage Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . increases of nearly 4 percent and still claim they were noninflationary . But now the Commerce Department is being prevented from releasing this study . " The White House has made policy of a number  --  it , has used this figure to hold down wage increases , " explained a well-informed New York economist . If it were released now , labor would demand commensurate wage increases . It might also affect the Democrats ' chances at the polls in November . Cloak-and-dagger project But , it has been reliably learned here that , even after the elections , the figures may be held up . " After the elections , the President is faced with the 1967 wage negotiations and then the 1968 elections , " explained the source . One Boston academic economist is concerned that if the administration waits any longer , economic research at such centers as the Brookings Institution may grind to a halt . He figures the sooner the study is released the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay has taken on cloak-and-dagger implications . For a project sponsored by a well-known economic-research organization , one economist has arranged to have some of the new statistics smuggled to him , so that he can get on with his research . No telling what might happen if more research economists should try this tactic . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     