@@727661

txt More and more American lawmakers are losing their patience with campus unrest . Congress is looking into it . So are a number of state legislatures . Concern in Washington shows up in a series of hearings on the state of higher education , with student protests a focal point . A House subcommittee is particularly interested to know how much federal aid ? if any  --  has been withheld from recipients found guilty of campus disruptions , as provided in legislation last year . An evident desire in both Congress and state capitols is to protect the majority of students in their pursuit of an education against the disruptive minority behind most protests and disorders . In at least seven major states , legislators have called for an investigation of campus outbursts or for curtailing scholarship aid to offending students in state colleges or universities . In California alone 40 bills have been introduced to curb protests . Congress has appeared ready to appropriate huge additional sums for higher education . Whether the current campus upheaval dampens this enthusiasm remains to be seen . Trends ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to high-school level . Dissatisfied students ? younger brothers and sisters of protesting collegians  --  have begun forming junior chapters of Students for a Democratic Society ( SDS ) , the militant organization behind many campus disturbances . In Seattle , units have sprung up in 11 high schools . The Ohio Union of High School Students , an independent group , has an SDS adviser . Saying it is responding to a " flood of appeals " for literature from restive high-school students , SDS has appointed a secondary-school coordinator to provide services for high-school groups who want to affiliate with the national organization . The " common market " in education is a coming thing . In fact , some American college officials will tell you it 's already here . A close working arrangement among colleges and universities in the same district , they say , provides distinct advantages . With students permitted to attend classes of their own choosing on any of the campuses within a given consortium , duplication of many facilities and course offerings can be avoided . In the Fargo , N.D. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan . So do 14 institutions in and around Nashville , Tenn . Cooperation among four colleges in western Massachusetts has led to joint sponsorship of an experimental college . Ann now six state rnlleges in Minnesota have announced a plan which will permit each institution to develop its own specialization . The new University of Ulster , near Coleraine , Northern Ireland , was proposed as long ago as 1945 . It finally opened its doors to 400 students last fall . And already it is growing so fast in popularity that a decision has been made to enlarge its capacity . By 1973 the student population will reach 3,500 . And it is expected that by 1980 there will be more than 6,000 students enrolled , with no end in sight to continued demand . There 's no denying it . Canada appeals to American teachers . The numbers heading north have n't exactly reached gold-rush proportions . But the increase in college and high-school instructors moving across the border took a giant jump of 400 percent between 1963 and 1967 . Numerically this means that 857 Americans emigrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier . The lure is not tempting offers from government or school officials but from the Canadian scene itself . Teachers say they like the slower pace of living and the opportunity for new experiences . The pay ? It 's nearly equal to that in the States . How and why ... American voters turned down many school-bond issues at the polls last November . But even where approved , some school districts have withheld the bonds from sale . High interest rates are to blame . Government figures show a recent drop in bond sales despite sizable authorizations . Conclusion : School officials are keeping bonds off the market in the hope of getting lower interest rates in the months ahead . The catch is , of course , there 's no assurance that interest charges will drop .                     