@@725797

txt Teachers threatened yester- I day to refuse to teach at a temporary school being opened today for pupils of the still shut model Intermediate School 201 in Harlem . The school system , however , moved swiftly . to allay the teachers ' concern . Albert Shanker , president of the United Federation of Teachers , said teachers would meet at 8 A.M. today outside Public School 103 , Madison Avenue and 119th Street . The school , abandoned last June , is being reopened for 598 students pending continued negotiations on the model school . Mr. Shanker said the teachers ' street meeting would discuss a reported absence of books , paper and chalk , leading to fear of an " educationally unsound " start . " We feel , " Mr. Shanker told a reporter , " that if the teachers were to go in there to spend some period of time with the children with no instruction , it would be establishing a bad relationship with the children and the community . " A Board of Education spokesman reported later that Dr. Bernard E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shenker by telephone and reported supplies were sent in Saturday . The spokesman said there would be at least one book in each of three major subjects for each pupil . ? Mr. Donovan , the spokesman said , also assured Mr. Shanker that the agreement being worked out with the community would be within the Board of ' Education 's legal mandate and , its contractual obligations with the teachers . Murray Hart , district school superintendent , is to be on hand at P. S. 103 this morning . Last night Mr. Shanker then paid the teachers would still bold their discussion , but he exthethey would also " examine the situation in the school . " He reported Dr. Donovan had said he expected to appear during the day to talk with the teachers . Mrs. E. Babette Edwards , an I. S. 201 parent negotiator and chairman of the East Harlem Union for Equal Achievement in Schools , said the parents had agreed with Dr. Donovan to send the pupils to P. S. 103 on the promise there would be books and programs . A statement from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks or even months in an old building rather than a new will not harm the 600 children involved , but it may well instill in them a sense of dignity and personal worth . " During the parent-school negotiations , pupils from the model school  --  which is at Madison Avenue and 127th Street ? had been told to go to three nearby functioning schools . The school spokesman said 260 did ! AA. but Mrs. Edwards said yesterday conditions there had been " chaotic . " A visitor found the drab , worn P. S. 103 ? built in 1895 and 1896 , and slated for demolition after it closed last June ? being cleaned yesterday . New supplies , including mathematics pamphlets and reading tests , had been delivered in 20 cartons to a fourth-floor room . One room had 89 books , apparently left over from the elementary school , including a dozen second-grade readers . Negotiations between school officials and parents over the future of I. S. 201 resume at 1 P.M. today at the Community Association of the East Harlem Triangle , 130 East 129th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought appointment of a Negro principal ? " we feel the need of an image reflecting the community . " She said that " we 're not champions of segregation " but that " we 're trying to bring quality into segregated schools , since the Board of Education has failed to Implement integration . " Dr. Donovan has offered the I. S. 201 parents a novel voice in screening and recommending supervisors and teachers through a community education council , with a promise that " no qualified person would be selected if there is sound and serious objection by either the council or the staff . " The council would also make recommendations on the teaching program and on its evaluation . For the teachers ' union , Mr. Shanker said : " We are not trying to involve ourselves in the negotiations . We feel that the involvement of parents in a community , their greater involvement in the educational process , if done in a constructive way , could result in great educational improvement . " Mr. Shanker said he understood the proposed screening would - apply only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 55 already assigned to I. S. 201 . He observed , " We assume a sound reason would not mean color of a person 's skin or somebody just not liking a person . " Of the I. S. 201 teachers , 26 are Negroes.                     