@@727590

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 22 ? President Nixon wants us to " lower our voices " and " stop shouting at each other " so we can hear what we 're saying . This is undoubtedly good advice , but it is easier to give than it is to heed . The difficulty lies in our language . American is a very loud tongue . The last Lord Raglan classified languages into two broad groups , which he called " speaking languages " and " shouting languages . " French , he stated , was a " speaking language , " while Italian was a " shouting language . " As used in Britain and most of the Commonwealth , he observed , English was a " speaking language , " but Americans , he went on , had created a new form of English that was a " shouting language , " more akin in temper to the tongue of Naples than to the speech of London . Disdain for Understatement Two principal characteristics of a " shouting language " are disdain for understatement and a tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , a theatrical performance that is hailed in London as " really quite good " may become , in Rome , " bellissimo . " " Bellissimo " is a delightful word ; one wants to shout it out and , if in Rome , does , as the Romans do . It is almost impossible , on the other hand , to shout " really quite good . " ( Try it next time you 're in Rome and everyone else is bellowing , " Bellissimo ! " ) Disdaining understatement , the " shouting language " encourages an excessive use of superlatives . Thus , in America , the performance that was merely " really quite good " in London becomes simply and noisily " Great ! " in America ; in fact , even the performance that was " dreadful " in London may very well become " Great ! " Any evening in Sardi 's or any late evening on television , there will be battalions of entertainers and actors shouting " Great ! " at each other . This is the nature of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given a run-of-the-mill performance , his ego is easily assuaged with . " You were really quite good . " In America this will be interpreted as a slur , and the actor will probably refuse to speak to you again . " Tell it like it is " is a typical example of American 's tendency to play havoc with grammar in order to raise the noise level . The correct form ? " tell it as it is " ? can not be shouted with any pleasure whatsoever . By maiming grammar , we turn the civilized suggestion into " Tell it like it is ! " and have a battle cry . Mutilations of grammar , when committed by literate men , are often motivated by the desire to overpower thought with noise . This , of course , is one of the goals of the advertising business , which steeps the American in a semiliterate argot designed to overwhelm the consumer 's natural skepticism with uproar . " Winston tastes good like a cigarette should " is fun to have shouted at you . " Winston tastes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , instantly alerts all the natural suspicions . " Who says so ? " " How good should a cigarette taste anyhow ? " " I 've smoked them all my life and they 've always tasted bad . " And ' so on . Slogans ' Follies Slogans are designed to avert the precise mental responses apt to be provoked by precise statement . A precise mental response to a precise statement produces ! dialogue and conversation . It is the act of men speaking . Slogans , however , destroy conversation by drowning thought in noise . American has always been a voluminous creator of slogans . " Tippecanoe and Tyler too ! " " Fifty-four forty or fight ! " " Back to normalcy ! " " I like Ike ! " " Gable 's back and Garson 's got him ! " " Two , four , six , eight , we do n't want to integrate ! " " Tell it like it is ! " " Black power ! " " Law and order . " One could write a passable history of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute for thought are part of the habit of being American. , The young radicals who want to overthrow everything on the ground that everything is crazy are just as dependent upon slogans as the old defenders who believe the radicals are crazy . The young " crazies " were here Monday for the inauguration shouting " Ho , Ho , Ho Chi Minh ! " and other conversation crushers dear to their movement . And why not ? " Ho , Ho , Ho Chi Minh ! " is an amusing thing to shout , no matter which side of the war issue one takes . It is American to shout amusing things instead of talking , and the language has developed so as to encourage the fun . We are afflicted with a language that encourages our mouths to rob our ears .                     