@@721741

txt ? President Kennedy said tOday the Iblited States Would returirto the Geneva negotiations for ban - on nuclear testing : with - proposals that could lead- to a safe and fair treaty . The President declared M a statement that the United States was " determined to do all that is possible to conclude a safeguarded agree.inent on a sound aid equitable basis . " The White House statement was issued following a farewell meeting - between the President and Ainbassador Arthur H. Dean , the New York lawyer ' who will be head of the United States delegation when the three-power test-ban talks resume in Geneva next Tuesday . Mn bean , former law partner of the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles and a participant in the Korean truce negotiations , will leave by plane front New York tomorz row for . Geneva . Such .. an agreement , the President , said , " could not only contribute to halting the proliferation of nuclear weapons but , also have important implications for the future of disarm. - meat and arms limitation negotiations and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Critical Issues Remain . While " much groundwork " for a treaty has been laid in the last two and a half years , . the President noted that critical ) issues , dealing principally with methods of inspection and control , " remain to be solved . " The United . States , according 11 Administration officials , will ' jot return to the talks with any dramatic new proposals ' or concessions . The United States position will remain basically the same as that under the Eisenhower Administration , namely to seek a safeguarded treaty banning all tests above the surface and all underground tests with a force equal to that of 19,000 tens ' of ' T. N. T. and greater . ' Beloiv this 19,000-ton threshold , there would be a volmitary moratorium on small underground tests while research proceeded on improving detection methods . The President declared in his statement that the negotiations , " which began on Oct. al , 1958 , Pad reached the " decisive stage . " It is the belief of the Admin/stration .. that the . next six to Fight weeks= @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reaching an internationally controlled . agree/tient for banning nuclear tests . if no agreement is in sight by late this spring , the Administration will be under strong pressure to resume atomic tests , which have been suspended ' ender a voluntary moratorium fInce the protracted Geneva folks began . The resumption of the talks , which have been in recess since ' Dec. 5 , was postponed until next week at the request of the United States to permit the ' Kennedy Administration to review the issues and draft its own position . Proposals Fair to All As a result of this review , the President said , the United States delegation will return to the conference table " with proposals which could constitute the basis for a treaty fair . to all contracting parties . " President Kennedy expressed hope that these proposals would be accepted and that the three nations ? Britain , the Soviet Union and the United States ? would , be able to proceed " with all appropriate speed toward the conclusion of the first international arms control agreement in the nuclear age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , the Kennedy Administration is prepared to offer some concessions in an attempt to demonstrate the good faith and willingness of this country to reach an agreement . For example , there is a likelihood that the United States will reduce somewhat  --  perhaps by three ? its demand for twenty annual on-site inspections in the Soviet Union . The United States also is preparing to let Soviet technicians view outmoded atomic weapons that will be used in a detection research program . One important outgrowth of an agreement , officials believe , would be to serve to limit the spread of nuclear weapons to other nations , such as Communist China . For the moment , however , the United States is opposed to bringing Communist China or France into the negotiations on the ground that this would only serve to complicate the discussions and perhaps sound their death knell .                     