@@725824

txt Mayor Lindsay announced yesterday that he would ask the city 's Board of Ethics to study the whole question of private contributions to city activities and to advise - him on how to handle them . The Mayor himself got a surprise private contribution from a Good Humor ice cream vender who listened to his West 66th Street sidewalk discussion with newsmen . The vender , David Klein of 3032 Brighton 7th Street , Brooklyn , gave the surprised -- but pleased  --  Mayor a 15c toasted almond ice cream bar . What the Mayor calls " the private sector " issue arose last week over Pan American World Airways ' underwriting a $15,000 city dinner-dance at the New York State Theater tonight for United Nations delegates . The airline is a 10 per cent owner of Grand Central Building , Inc. , whose city permit for controversial helicopter operations from the roof of its 59-story Pan Am Building expires Oct. 31 . Mr. Lindsay announced yesterday he had asked Arthur E. Palmer Jr. , the city 's Transportation Administrator , to hold public hearings on further such operations .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 7 West 66th Street and interviews with newsmen , the Mayor said the issue rant a wide gamut . He cited contributions by corporate and dividual donors to the Rheingold Festival and Shakespeare play programs , the New York City Center , vest-pocket parks , playgrounds , museums and libraries . Much of this , the Mayor said , was traditional effort of a " saving to the taxpayer . " Further , he added , it carries out his campaign pledge . to try to get people " involved " in city service . Moreover , he went on , such efforts included the program of interns in city jobs , privately underwritten by individuals , foundations and some corporations ; private payment for costs of transition from the administration of Mayor Robert F. Wagner to his own and for studies of government reorganization , and the gifts of individuals ' time for task forces and committees . On the donation of time , Mr. Lindsay noted he had just formed a 50-member Business Advisory Council on Air Pollution under Arthur R. Murphy Jr. , president of the McCall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplied personnel and printing for the Mayor 's task force on air pollution and the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company is providing at its branch at 43d Street and Fifth Avenue an office for the new council 's staff . Councilman Robert A. Low , Democrat-Liberal of Manhattan , had initially raised the question of the Pan American dinner-dance financing as a possible conflict of interest . Mr. Low said yesterday that submitting the issue to the Board of Ethics was " an appropriate step on the part of the Mayor . " It came , Mr. Low reported , while a new resolution was being circulated among Council members to ask for a Council study of " the whole problem of the acceptance of gifts by the city from private corporations and individuals . " The resolution , he said , also sought an examination of efforts to get Federal reimbursement for city activities " where foreign dignitaries and diplomats are the prime reasons . " " Since the Council ' enacted the Code of Ethics and set up the Board of Ethics , " Mr. Low said , " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Certain that possibility of conflict is not condoned . " Mayor Lindsay told newsmen that the issue might possibly " be beyond the statutory jurisdiction " of the Board of Ethics but that " we want to lean over backwards " to settle any critiicisms . Personally , he said , he does not regard the aid as any conflict of interest . " I hope the result of Councilman Low and a couple of others going after the city this way wo n't mean a lessening " of contributions , he added . The Board of Ethics was set up under a law signed by Mayor Wagner Sept. 3 , 1959 . It has three public members  --  Cloyd Laporte , the chairman ; Edwin L. Weisl and Bruce Bromley , all serving without pay  --  two exofficio members , Corporation Counsel J. Lee Rankin and Solomon Hpberman , acting Personnel Director . S. Stanley Kreutzer is the board 's counsel at $15,000 a year . One indication of the high standards the board sets is the response Mr. Kreutzer makes to city employes asking what kind of gifts they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not have to take a gift I can afford to buy , and I had better not take one that I can not afford to buy . " Gives Advisory Opinions The Administrative Code provides that the board shall render advisory opinions on written request of the officer or employe concerned , The Code of Ethics covers such issues as conflicts of interest , representing private interests before city agencies or courts , disclosure of interest in legislation , acceptance of gifts and favors , disclosure of confidential information and even future employment , with penalties including fine , suspension or removal . Mayor Lindsay has followed Mayor Wagner 's practice in having prospective appointees examined by the board for possible conflicts of interest . He also submitted to the board the question of leasing a special Ford limousine for his use and had this upheld in effect on the ground that use of the car was a public  --  as against  --  an individual benefit . In the past the Board of Ethics has indicated willingness to go beyond its narrow statutory limits . Thus , it looked into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communications from him and his Republcan and Citizens party rivals . This involved a then City Planning Commissioner 's calling out names of potential contributors among luncheon guests who might have had an interest in commission cases . The commissioner resigned and Mr. Wagner refused to accept any pledges by the guests . The board thereafter reported the Corporation Counsel had said there was no violation of law on political contributions . But on its own , it commented , " the solicitation of funds for political purposes by a public official from those whose matters come before him or his agency for official action is offense to proper ethical standards . "                     