@@724114

txt In emotional or mental illness , the roles of the individual , the family and their pets may be intimately interlocked , a pioneer study has found . The study was made by Dr. Ross V. Speck of the Philadelphia Psychiatric Center . He is also assistant professor ? t the Hahnemann Medical College and Hospital . His report was published in The Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association for July 15 . The psychiatrist wrote that dogs in particular and cats mirror the tensions of a disturbed individual and his family and that the behavioral pattern of these pets toward outsiders reflects the state of tensions of their masters . " In working with disturbed families who have pets , " Dr. Speck wrote , " it has been our repeated observation that the pet can become ill and , if the disturbance in the family does not subside , may often die . " In another part of his study , Dr. Speck reported that " undoubtedly many aspects of animal behavior are direct reflections of the behavioral reaction in the family unit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a veterinarian who gets bitten by the pet he is treating might in some instance expect that the owner is going to give him trouble also . " Behavior Is Transferred Dr. Speck cited several extreme cases in which the transference of the behavioral pattern of the masters was pronounced in their pets . Describing such cases , he wrote : " In one of the families I treated for a number of years , the mother first developed . a phobia of leaving the house . This spread to her daughter and , to a lesser degree , to her husband and son . The family dog and cat also were frightened of leaving the house . In the same family , when the tension ? in the home was very ' great and everyone was disturbed , the family dog became ill . " In another family , he said , the pet bird , a cockateel , seemed very sensitive to increases in tension within the family . " Whenever the family became noisy and-fought , the bird would become excited , " Dr. Speck said . Stressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentally ill or disturbed , Dr. Speck said that " in my work with psychotic families pets are regularly in the session , since we hold the therapeutic sessions within the family 's home . " " The pets often seem to reflect the feelings of the family members , " he said , continuing : " For instance , if the family is angry at me , the pet is apt to be unfriendly also ; or if - the family is friendly , the pet 's behavior tends to be friendly . I have noticed repeatedly that an angry , friendly , or indifferent session can be predicted by the way the , dogs or cats greet me at the front door when I arrive at the home . " Furthermore , the pets seem to play an important role in the family life . For instance , it is not uncommon for the pets to become ill in the family when significant human members of the family become ill . " Shape Child 's Personality Dr. Speck also said that pets probably played an important role in the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life . " Not only can we attribute our own unacceptable , instinctual impulses to animals and hence blame the animal for it , " he wrote , " hut we can begin to understand what life is about through our experiences with pets . " " When a family pet dies , the various members of the family have experience in dealing with grief and mourning over death , and such a rehearsal probably plays an adaptive role in our understanding of living and dying and the philosophy of life in general . " Entering into the anthropological relationship of pets to man , Dr. Speck contended : " Pets may be considered a descendant from a totem animal used by man in his development and useful to him in the process of civilization . In primitive man , totemism was a device used to control and conceal sexual and aggressive drives within the family . The pet is for civilized man what the totem animal was for the primitive . The pet represents a protector , a talisman against the fear of death . " Dr. Speck cited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal practice the veterinarian observed frequently that many of his best clients were somehow peculiar , " that peculiar and difficult clients have peculiar and difficult pets . " " In short , Dr. Speck concluded , " the veterinarian is con fronted with many experiences encountered by the pediatrician or other medical practitioners. , The pet may represent the deepest and highest aspirations in the life of his neurotic ' owner . "                     