@@725877

txt Washington . Oct. ** army has devised a plan expected to be welcomed by young men on the verge of being drafted . At present they have a rather limited range of options . They can wait to be drafted , and have no choice whether they 're trained as riflemen , truck drivers or clerks : they can enlist in one of the other services , or they can try to enlist under one of the special army programs that allows a choice of training ranging from radar technician to aircraft mechanic , from military intelligence operative to pastry chef . But , as thousands of young men have found out in recent months , the field of their choice may be filled when they try to enlist . In such cases they are out of luck . The new army plan would enable would-be army specialists to remain civilians up to 120 days while they await a vacancy in the school or training program of their choice . The plan has been forwarded to Secretary of Defense Robert S. for approval . To keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , the men would be enlisted into the army reserve . But they would attend no meetings , wear no uniforms , receive no pay . As one ranking officer made clear , the army is not just trying to make a lot of men happy during their active duty tours . Aid Personnel Makeup If large numbers of men choose to take part in the special program , the army will be in a better position to predict its personnel needs and thereby avoid problems of oversupply or undersupply of men channeled into its 12 basic training centers . Under existing procedures , the army must predict its requirement from the draft two months ahead of draft calls . It determines its needs on the basis of how many men are expected to leave the service during a given period as compared with anticipated enlistments and reenlistments . Any shortage between the number required and the number expected thru volunteers is made up thru the selective service system 's draft calls . Difficult to Predict The army has found it difficult to predict , with any precision , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , it frequently has asked selective service for too many men , resulting in overloaded receiving and training facilities . Occasionally it has underestimated its needs with the result that its facilities , geared to turning out between 50,000 and 55,00 trainees a month , have been under utilized . The difficulty in predicting accurately has also resulted in erratic ups and downs in the monthly draft calls , which this year have ranged from a high of 49,200 for October to a low of 12.000 in December .                     