@@722230

txt The election-year session of the Eighty-seventh Congress opened today . The chief event was the election of John W. McCormack of Massachusetts as Speaker of the ' House , succeeding the late Sam Rayburn . After short meetings ? the Senate was in session nineteen minutes and the House an hour and forty minutes  --  both chambers adjourned to await President Kennedy 's State of the Union Message in a joint session at 12:30 P. M. tomorrow . The reception by the legislators of the President 's message should be the opening bell of what is expected to be an important , long and bitterly fought political match . Today 's session in the House began with a political maneuver as the Republican leadership forced a roll-call vote to ratify the Democratic caucus ' selec , tion of Mr. McCormack as 1Speaker . Outcome Never in Doubt The 248 Democrats present voted for Mr. McCormack and the 166 Republicans voted for Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , the House minority leader . The outcome was a foregone conclusion , but Mr. Halleck 's men insisted on going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ default and partly to dramatize. the size of the Democratic majority . The Democrats rule the House , 258 to 174 . There are five vacancies , all in traditionally Democratic districts . Mr. McCormack took the oath as Speaker from Representative Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia . He had asked Mr. Vinson to swear him in as a matter of courtesy to the House member with the longest service . A small skirmish occurred in Senate Republican ranks as ! prairie and mountain states conservatives confirmed their traditional dominance over the party 's Eastern and liberal forces . In a morning caucus , Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa , a moderate backed by the conservatives , defeated Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts , a moderate backed by the liberals , for the chairmanship of the Republican Policy Committee . The vote was 21 to 14 , with one member , Senator Andrew F. Schoeppel of Kansas , absent because of illness . Although the balloting for the successor to the late Styles Bridges of New Hampshira was secret , indications were that Mr. Hickenlooper and the conservatives had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Everett Dirksen of Illinois . Before the balloting , the liberal bloc had commitments of support from fifteen members . Mr. Dirksen was not among them . The Democratic Senate caucus , providing a heavy majority for most Presidential programs , met in relative serenity to hear a speech by Mike Mansfield of Montana , the amlecrate Senate leader . Even the Mansfield speech , however , included oblique reference to the President 's expected difficulties in Congress this year . ' There are those who believe the President should propose a recipe for instant Utopia , and that . Congress should then be challenged to cook it , " Mr. Mansfield said . " In my opinion , that recipe has not been found , and the President will be suspicious of anything put up as qualifying for it . " I+rnnrrr , Merl-% Smith President Kennedy , sensitive to the political difficulties con ' fronting him this year , continused his new strategy of direct contacts with powerful members this afternoon in an unusual meeting with Representative Howard W. Smith . As chairman of the House Rules Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrat was a leader of the RepublicanSouthern coalition that blocked or diluted much of last year 's Kennedy program . Mr. Kennedy 's meeting with him in the White House this evening was consistent with a new effort to exert Presidential leadership over powerful Democrats hostile to his programs . Since Saturday he has met Wilbur Mills of Arkansas . chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , and Harry F. Byrd of Virginia , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee . Both have been opposing important parts of the Kennedy program that will go before their committees this year . Session Lasts 19 Minutes Today 's Senate session , given over to backslapping demonstrations of conviviality among old political foes and to ceremonial formalities , lasted only nineteen minutes . The Democrats have a Senate majority of 64 to 36 . The day 's only spectacle was provided in the House , which met without a Speaker to preside over it for the first time since 1940 . In the galleries there was standing room only . Camera floodlights illuminated the cavernous blue and brown chamber as the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the absence of a Speaker . Ralph Roberts , the Clerk of the House , rose before the members at 12:01 P. M. and , withnut the customary rap of the gavel , started to address them . " Members of the House of Representatives , " he began . " The time has arrived for the meeting of the second session of the Eighty-seventh Congress . Since the last session , the great , and beloved Speaker of the House has departed this life . " And so , Mr. Roberts said , he was calling the House together 1 " for the purpose of electing a Speaker . " A quorum call lasted twenty-three minutes and the floor was opened to nomina1 tions . Representative Francis E. Walter of Pennsylvania , chairman of the Democratic caucus , nominated Mr. McCormack . Representative Charles B. Hoeven of Iowa , acting for the Republican leadership , nominated Mr. Halleck . Cheers and applause for each man filled the chamber . Mr. I Halleck , grinning , took a few mock swipes at the air like a boxer in high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fice to await the outcome . By 12:55 P. M. , the House had a new " duly elected Speaker , " and Mr. McCormack made his triumphal entry down the center aisle to standing applause from both parties . After twenty-one years as No. 2 man to Mr. Rayburn , he moved to the dais reserved for the man who is master of I the House and third in line , after the Vice President , for succession to the Presidency . Mr. Halleck opened the customary round of baroque oratory , which Congress , demands upon its historic occasions , with nostalgic references to " greate and good " Speakers of the past . Mr. McCormack , he predicted , will be " a worthy successor " to Mr. Rayburn . The Republicans , he continued , will cooperate in all projects for the national economic good . " And if our security should be threatened , " he said , " we shall prove once again that we are a united resolute people . " Mr. McCormack. noted for , his Democratic partisanship in floor battles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call . " My dear friends on both sides of the aisle , " he began . " I express the feeling universally held that Speaker Rayburn was not only a great man , but he was a good man . If Speaker Rayburn could speak to us today from the great beyond , he would urge us at this trying period in the world 's history to carry on with confidence and ( with unity . " Then , addressing Mr. Halleck directly , he said : " I hope , Charlie  --  to depart from my prepared remarks ? , that I will have great lateral support from you during this session . " Mr. McCormack pledged : " I shall live up to the great traditions of this office . " The House session ended at 1.40 P. M. Later , Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the new Democratic floor leader , confirmed that the post of chief party whip would go to Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana . The leadership appoints the whip . A deputy will be appointed by Mr. Boggs . One of the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crucial notes . No one expects the aura of . good feeling between Mr. McCormack and Mr. Halleck to survive the session . Despite the Democrats ' heavy numerical majority , conservative control inside key committees and Mr. Halleck 's talent for swelling his own ranks with Southern Democratic supporters promise to make every major Kennedy proposal a test of strength . Administration battles in the House are expected to dominate the opening months of Congress . In the Senate , where the Kennedy majority is more comfortable , the Democratic and Republican leaders are on more comfortable working terms . Senator Mansfield said today , for example , that he thought " the climate for progressive legislation is good . " And from inside the closed Republican caucus the word was that the Republicans on the right were objecting mildly that Senator Dirksen was not tough enough with the Administration last year in foreign policy controversies .                     