@@724075

txt Senator Barry Goldwater is seriously disturbed that racial tensions may become an explosive issue in the Presidential campaign and that one of his own campaign appearances may be the fuse to set off violence . Last night Mr. Goldwater gave long , and apparently agonizing , thought to the ugly possibilities of the civil rights issue . If he wins the Republican Presidential nomination , the Arizona Senator is thinking of calling a meeting of some religious and academic figures , plus his own political advisers , to suggest to him how he could keep race from being a campaign issue . These views , and Mr. Goldwater 's thoughts on other subjects , became known today from reliable sources . Mr. Goldwater voted against the civil rights bill this year , and in campaign speeches he has deplored civil disobedience campaigns by civil rights groups . But he has also consistently deplored prejudice , citing his own record of steps to end discrimination in various Arizona institutions . Goldwater 's Feelings As reported by reliable sources , Mr. Goldwater 's feelings are these : He would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Issue . If he were a Democrat he would do so himself . What worries him is that political and journalistic attacks picturing him as a sort of bigot will lead both some Negroes and some bigots to believe just that , and that this could lead to clashes , very possibly violent . He regards the racial situation as very dangerous and something that could blow up . In fact , he thinks it probably will . With a situation that could be described as just ready to go , he has asked himself : // Would his . presence in a city such as Chicago for a campaign appearance be the fuse to set the whole thing off ? Although what he regards as the subterranean issue of the white backlash , or resentment over Negro militancy , may help him , he would never exploit this . He simply thinks the issue is too dangerous , He has variously called it probably the most serious thing that has crept into a campaign in this country 's history and the , most serious thing the nation has faced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something , in his view , that no candidate should discuss . So far , the few Negroes who have picketed hint have , in his opinion , . done so very decently with taste , well within their rights . Eventually , however , he fears that more militant and abrasive groups will do so and will rub against the more fervent sup- , porters of the Senator . These : Goldwater people , can , unfortunately , get pretty intense themselves , he believes . One fight , one fist swung and there could he bad trouble , he thinks . Polls taken among PolishAmerican voters in northern New York , Lake County , Ind. , and other areas , and among some Italian-American voters , have shown Mr. Goldwater that he does benefit to some extent from the white backlash .. He was even curious as to why so many taxi drivers were for him and polls indicated that race was one answer . Mr. Goldwater does not think the white population wants to deny constitutional rights to Negroes . He thinks that fears about property values are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be personally resentful that the National Association for the Advancement . of Colored People broke a long tradition and opposed him as a Presidential candidate . What worries him is that such action will only accentuate tensions between his own followers and Negroes . He is afraid that some proGoldwater people outside his control will campaign openly on the issue of white resistance to Negroes , and that some Southern Democrats will do the same thing . xtr . Goldwater gives the impression that he does not want to be made the involuntary rallying point for white resistance  - -  -  and that this would be bad for the country and its political institutions . He thinks that columnists who are crying doom over his possible nomination are planting this seed . Mr. Goldwater believes that the Republican platform will contain a pledge to uphold the civil rights law . He doubts there will be a controversy over the plank .                     