@@726463

txt The theory of the " outside agitator " is about to meet its acid test . The House sits this week ? as the smoke and flames of Newark still fume and crackle in congressional memories  --  to debate a bill to punish riot ringleaders of the hit-and-run genre . The bill 's sponsor , Rep. William C. Cramer ( R ) of Florida , speaks for most of his colleagues when he says , " The pattern these riots follow is too similar in many instances to be wholly spontaneous or coincidental . " Critics of the legislation , however , speak of the " myth of the outside agitator . " They charge that the riots may be traced to much deeper problems . For his part , Mr. Cramer proposes to make it a federal crime to : ? Travel across state lines to incite disorder or , ? Use interstate mails or telephone lines with that intent . The Cramer measure  --  tailored after a federal antiracketeering statute ? would fine those found guilty up to $10,000 , jail them as long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawmaker , Rep. Joel T. Broyhill ( R ) of Virginia , plans to amend the Cramer bill to cover " at all times " federal forts , parks , reservations , and arsenals , as well as the District of Columbia . ? Mr. Broyhill says the Cramer bill , with his amendment , " will strike at the seed-bed of an evil force that now roams uncontrolled across America . " Though the antiriot bill draws broad House support ? with or without the Broyhill amendment  --  some members denounce it as a fraud . Civil-rights leaders and liberals in general also attack the bill , as do spokesmen for the Department of Justice . They maintain that it curbs First Amendment guarantees of free speech and assembly and , therefore , the Constitution . Other critics challenge Mr. Cramer 's premise that his bill would " put these rabblerousers and inciters out of business . " Joseph L. Rauh Jr. , national vice-chairman of Americans for Democratic Action , for instance , disputes this claim . He wrote to all members of Congress that " this bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // based on the myth of the outside agitator , . . . will do nothing to solve the problem of riots . " Instead of passing punitive statutes that . perpetuate this " myth , " Mr. Rauh asserts , Congress should enact more programs to remove the root causes of rioting in ghetto neighborhoods . " Agitators can not turn people with a stake in society into an ugly mob , " he said . On the other hand , Mr. Broyhill and others see " black power " advocates as capable of wrecking the hopes of poor Negroes by disrupting all efforts to help them help themselves . The Virginia lawmaker described the " trained cadre " of barnstorming militants in the harshest terms : " They spew forth a cant of hate and civil disobedience . They prey on discontent . They incite to action the poor , the underprivileged , the frustrated , the weak , the undereducated , and the dregs of our society . " Even if this charge is valid , however , the Cramer bill would seem to run afoul of recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially if the Broyhill amendment is attached . But assuming the measure were to pass Congress and provoke neither a White House veto nor a court challenge , would it then spell an end to the present wave of ghetto riots ? Those officials who work closely with slum dwellers regard the suggestion as inane . They say that a city like Newark needs no " outside agitators " to spark a riot . They insist that poverty breeds its own protesters , ready and willing to seek change by radical means when other efforts fail . Such observers only marvel how Newark ? " a dingy port city with so much grievance and despair " ? could manage to hold down its resentment for so long . To these sources the Cramer bill is , ? as Mr. Rauh contends , " congressional escapism pure and simple . "                     