@@724255

txt NEW YORK Snaking his cab through New York City 's heavy downtown traffic . Stanley Blutstem shouts over his shoulder : " I 'm a Democrat , but I resent Bobby Kennedy coming in here and taking over the nomination just because his name is Kennedy and he wants to be President some clay . " This is , in one of its fiercer forms , the " carpetbagger " issue that may decide this fall 's Senate race in New York State , the most closely watched of all 1964 Senate contests . The issue is posing the only real obstacle to the Massachusetts-bred former U.S. Attorney General in his challenge to incumbent Republican Sen. Kenneth Keating . Talks with hundreds of Empire State voters , from New York City and its suburbs to Albany and Syracuse upstate , reveal that hostile reaction to " outsider " Kennedy is running strong and deep . Its impact As of now , many votels who suppoi ted John F. Kennedy in 1960 and plan to vote for Lyndon Johnson this year are vowing to split their tickets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes among Nixon-voting Republicans who shy from GOP Presidential nominee Barry Goldwater ' and Intendatovnll the lever for LBJ and whc ? but for their anger over Mr. Kennedy 's leap into the Senate race  --  might have been tempted to cast a straight Democratic ballot . And votes for Mr. Keating are being en ? couraged among Goldwater Republicans who , though they dislike the liberal Senator 's campaign declaration of independence from the conservative champion , dislike even more the thought of another Kennedy in the U.S. Senate . A Formidable Candidate Whether the resentment will be enough to re-elect Sen. Keating is not at all certain at this point . Whatever their pro or con reaction . voters ' comments show beyond doubt that the late President 's 38-year-old brother is a formidable candidate . His youthful charm ( Sen. Keating is 61 and white-haired ) , the magic of the Kennedy name , his position as a powerful national figure during the past four years  --  all these exert a strong pull on many voters . Whichever way it goes , the outcome of this most watched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both in the state and the nation . A Kennedy victory might help revive New York 's tattered Democratic Party , which has n't elected a governor or Senator since 1954 . Yet it could also deepen the party 's internal conflicts , with New York City 's Mayor Robert Wagner and sonic reformers possibly pitted against Mr. Kennedy . Nationally , a triumph for the late President 's brother here might mark the rise of a new Kennedy political axis , encompassing Sen. Ted Kennedy in Massachusetts and Sen. Pierre Salinger in California , that could become an independent power structure discomforting to President Johnson . A Heating victory , besides weakening New York Democrats and probably killing Bobby Kennedy 's political career , would strike hard at the state 's infant Conservative Party ; it 's running a Senate candidate , little-known college professor Henry Paolucci , who seeks to siphon off Heating support in order to help establish a Conservative Party voice in state GOP councils . Nationally , a triumph for the liberal Republican would strengthen the GOP 's liberal-moderate wing in any post-election jousting with conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge crowds challenger Kennedy has attracted , the " carpetbagger " charge is seriously worrying the Kennedy men . In retaliation , the Democratic candidate is striving hard to tie Mr. Heating to Sen. Goldwater , even though the liberal New Yorker has avoided saying if he supports the Arizona conservative . " I am against Goldwater , and I am the only Senatorial candidate in the state of New York who is against him , " Mr. Kennedy declares , striving to stimulate straight Democratic votes . " A lot may depend on how big Johnson takes the state . " concedes a Kennedy aide . Democratic opposition to Mr Kennedy on " carpetbagger " grounds crops up in various ways . " It 's an invasion of Keating 's Senatorial rights . " fumes cigar-smoking Bronx postal worker " Paddy " Regan . In quiet Forest Hills , Democratic-voting dress manufacturer Irving Sklar snaps : " If Kennedy wants to run , he should run from his own state , but he 's apparently in too much of a hurry . " Upstate , Democrat John Fink , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " I think there 've been too damn many Kennedys ( though he voted for the late President ) . I think he 's using us as a stepping-stone for something else , and I do n't want it . " Most other issues make little impression on voters ' minds or seem to cancel each other out . This week the candidates have been vying with talk of helping certain defense workers threatened with loss of jobs , but the mass of voters seem little concerned . This week . too . Sen. Keating sought to court Jewish votes with charges that Mr. Kennedy as AttorneyGeneral had arranged a settlement whereby some proceeds of the sale of the Government 's interest in General Aniline &; Film Corp . would go to former Nazis : Mr Kennedy cried " smear . " and Sen. Keating softened his stand somewhat . The two candidates are about equally liberal . Sen. Keating was among a handful of Senate Republicans who voted fot the Administration 's " medicare " bill . which Mr. Kennedy naturally supports . AFL-CIO politicos in Washington give the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past two years . Though the state AFL-CIO is backing the Democratic challenger , two union leaders have formed a Labor for Keating committee . While Democrat Kennedy crusaded , for civil rights as Attorney General , Republican Keating has done likewise as a Senator . Mr. Kennedy . along with expected Negro backing , is actually attracting a little support among white voters friendly to Sen. Goldwater 's racial views , perhaps because some are fellow Catholics ; Sen. Keating is corraling a number of votes from Negro Democrats . " Why Change ? " In upper Harlem . tattooed David Cook remarks : " I know what Keating has done for the black man here in New York ; Kennedy has n't done anything . Why change ? " Negro electrician Dennis Randolph , who works in the Brooklyn Navy Yard , remarks : " I do n't have anything against Bobby Kennedy ; I voted for his brother . But I just do n't think he has the experience to do a good job for New York . and Keating has . " Leaning on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I do n't see any reason to turn down a good man who 's done a good job just because this other fellow comes along . " And a white Democrat , stockbroker Richard Baer of White Plains. compares the candidates ' records and declares : " Keating has been a perfectly serviceable Senator . Kennedy was not a serviceable Attorney General , he was more an Attorney General in absentia , and if he were a Senator it would be the same way . " Among Republicans who shy from Mr. Goldwater , the prospect of another Kennedy in the Senate seems to be too much . Mrs. Phyllis Potts , whose husband is a General Electric executive in Schenectady , declares : " The Kennedys are getting something going . They 'll get Bob in New York and Teddy in Massachusetts and that ( Sargent ) Shriver I do n't know where . That 's too much for me ; I 'm voting for Keating . " An Amsterdam florist remarks : " I would have wanted somebody local , like ( Democratic Rep. Sam ) Stratton ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy is not the man for me or my state " Adds Mrs. Dorothy Eckerson of Utica , who works for the Chonango &; Unadilla Telephone Co. : " A lot of people are voting for Bobby because of Jack , but I do n't want him to go in on his brother 's coattails . Let him try his own state or some other state ; there 's 50 of them . " Sen. Keating 's coolness toward the national GOP ticket has angered some ardent Goldwaterites , but it does not seem to have cost him many votes . A New York City stockbroker says he will vote for Keating ? " reluctantly , though , because he has n't endorsed Goldwater and I 'm a Goldwater man . " For Goldwater and Kennedy Some Goldwater fans , however , are turning to Mr. Kennedy . Strapping Joe O'Dowd. a New York City telephone worker , snaps : " If a man deserts his party like Heating did , he does n't deserve any respect . " John Peck of Syracuse , sales representative for an office machine company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Kennedy because I 'm basically a Goldwater supporter and I did n't care for the way Heating treated Goldwater . " Keating men recognize the " carpetbagger " issue is working for their candidate , and they carefully emphasize his 16 years ' experience in representing New Yorkers in Congress , first in the House and then the Senate . There 's little doubt he has a largely favorable image among Empire State voters ; even some who will vote against him speak of his " commendable liberal record . " This sympathy is shared by labor union groups that are usually hard-shell Democratic . Recently the Amalgamated Clothing Workers ' executive board decided to withhold any endorsement in the New York Senate race , though it enthusiastically backed President Johnson . Thomas Young , a vice president of the state AFL-CIO , asks : " What greater friend has labor in New York State than Ken Heating ? " and the New York State Council of Machinists may endorse the Senator at its convention next month . But it 's evident , too , that the challenger appeals powerfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a Kennedy . " I like the Kennedy name . " declares Mrs. June Sturm , wife of a Gloversville milkman . In Chittenango , New York Central Railroad foreman Richard Longden adds : " I think he knows what he 's doing , if he 's anything like his brother was . " Votes for Youth Mr. Kennedy 's youth Is unquestionably attracting votes . Though he also plans to vote for Sen. Goldwater , John Wilson , youngish foreman for Consolidated Edison Co. in New York City , declares . " I 'm for Kennedy because I want someone in there my age . " Even some older voters feel much the same . Charles KIosner , maintenance man for Mohawk Airlines who lives in Steuben , says " I 'll be 65 and I 've been voting since I was 21 and I say let 's give the young fella a chance ; I go for the younger ideas and younger actions . " Many Democrats who shrug off the carpetbagger issue cite Mr. Kennedy 's record as Attorney General as ample reason to back him ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to jail Teamster boss Jimmy Hoffa and his civil rights work . " I 'm for Kennedy because he 's done things for us , " comments Negro John Lacey in Harlem . " I vote for the man who 's going to do me some good . " Pat Valente , who owns a Gulf gas station on the Albany-Troy road , says : " If he 's good enough to be Attorney General , he 's plenty good enough to do this job . I say . " Others contend Mr. Kennedy , because of his influence in Washington . could do more for New York . " Keating 's got a good record , " says a young Democratic housewife pushing a baby carriage on Manhattan 's Upper West Side , " but he 's an upstate Republican and we need a Senator who can get things done for New York City . " Adds Republican-voting M. W. Jones . an insurance agent in Chittenango : " Look at it this way . The whole U.S. Government is one big giveaway . I want to see New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy is the man who 'll get it for us . " Despite general applause for his anti-crime efforts , some Kennedy aides are concerned about Italian voters ' reaction to the Attorney General 's role in helping expose the " Cosa Nostra " and put onetime Mafia member Joseph Valachi on display before a Senate committee . " They think he 's trying to put them all in jail . " suggests a Kennedy staffer . But standing on a street corner in New York City 's Astoria section , an elderly Italian snorts : " I 'm for him for that . The more of those people he can put in jail , the better . Anyone who holds that against him must be a gangster himself . "                     