@@726658

txt The army high command officially confirmed today that Ernesto Che Guevara , the Latin revolutionary leader , was killed in a clash between guerrillas and Bolivian troops in southeastern Bolivia last Sunday . The armed forces commander , Gen. Alfredo Ovando Candia , said Mr. Guevara had admitted his identity before dying of his wounds . General Ovando said at a news conference that the guerrilla leader had also admitted that he failed in the seven-month guerrilla campaign Ile organized in Bolivia . The identification of the body was made after fingerprinting by the Eighth Army command . United States officials in Washington reacted cautiously to the Bolivian reports that Mr. Guevara had been killed , but there was an increasing tendency to regard them as true . Page 18 . Arrives on Helicopter The body was flown here $esterday , lashed to the landling runners of a helicopter that ' brought it from the mountain ' scene of the clash . The army ' said yesterday that it had received a report that Mr. Guevara had been killed near Higueras , but it declined to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dressed in bloody clothes , arrived here , it was fingerprinted and embalmed . The Guevara fingerprints are on file with the Argentine federal police . As an Argentine citizen , Mr. Guevara was required to be fingerprinted to obtain a passport when he left his homeland in 1952 . These official records have provided the basis for comparison with the fingerprints taken by the Bolivians from the body said to be that of Mr. Guevara . The scanty heard , shoulderlength hair and shape of the head resembled the features of Mr. Guevara as shown in earlier photographs . He was 39 years old . An Englishman in the crowd , which except for the press was kept away at bayonet point , said that he had seen Mr. Guevara in Cuba and that he was " absolutely convinced " it was the long-sought revolutionary leader .. The body appear ( : . to bear wounds in at least C places ? two in the neck and one in the throat . It was dressed in a green jacket with a zippered front , patched and faded green denim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moccasins . A nun assisted doctors and intelligence men in preparing the body for display . After the work was finished , the body was raised on a stretcher for the crowd , which appeared jubilant . General Ovando arrived from La Paz and immediately wend to the officers ' mess to pay his respect to the four soldiers killed in the clash . The first news of the fight was brought to Valle Grande , 80 miles southwest of Santa Cruz , by Col. Joaquin Zenteno Anaya , commander of the Eighth Division . Others Reported Slain He said that six other guerrillas had been killed in the clash and . that their bodies would also be brought here . He said four of them were Cubans . Mr. Guevara was a familiar bearded figure in olive green fatigues in Havana , where he was Minister of Industries before he dropped out of sight in March , 1965 . His whereabouts since has remained a mystery , leading to rumors that he had been killed in a dispute with Premier Fidel Castro and later that he ' was leading guerrillas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linked with guerrilla activity in Venezuela , Colombia , Brazil , Argentina , Peru and Bolivia . On Sept. 10 , the Bolivian President , Rend Barrientos Ortun ? , described reports that Mr. Guevara was active in Bolivia as a myth . The next day he announced a $5,000 reward for his capture dead or alive . Reports published in the press here today said that a diary believed to have belonged to Mr. Guevara was in Army hands . These reports said that the diary had been found in a knapsack owned by the guerrilla leader .                     