@@725828

txt Speculation about a big new request from President Johnson for defense spending has created an impression that the impact of the war on the economy will get much more severe in the months ahead . A close look at defense needs , however , indicates that this is not necessarily so . I1 ; is true that actual defense outlays will continue to rise . But . the rising pace of new defense orders , which in some ways is more significant . may well level out in the next few months . This is one of the factors the administration will be looking at when it decides after the elections how big a tax increase to ask for . The outpouring of federal funds to defense industries will continue to rise as goods that have been ordered arc completed and must be paid for . But the pace of contract awards appears to be slowing down . This is basically because the - United States has rapidly built up its rate of production of planes , weapons . military clothing , and other goods . Now American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained high rate to meet supply needs . Restraining influence As the troop commitment in Vietnam escalated rapidly , new defense contracts from Washington mounted by $1.0 billion during the past year . Contracts for ammunition multiplied fourfold ; orders for clothing tripled . While such orders may continue to climb , the analysts do not see a spurt of the same magnitude ahead . In other words , the worst of the escalating impact may be over . The leveling out of new orders that many analysts anticipate ( based on their best guesses of future defense needs ) will have a restraining influence on industrial expansion . It is the flood of new orders which moves defense companies to build inventories . order new machinery and plant . and hire on workers who may not be so badly needed at the moment . Just how much extra defense spending is in the works is a closely guarded secret in the administration . Mr. Johnson has dropped hints that his supplemental request ; sometime between now and January will be in the $10-S15 billion range . Actual spending can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spending for the fiscal year which ends next June 30 was originally projected at 558.3 billion . Now it is more likely to end up close to S65 billion . Continued boom expected Therefore , while new contract orders ma7 level out and result in less pressure to build up new productive capacity , the federal establishment will continue to pour more defense funds into the economy . A survey of members of the National Association of Business economists released a few days ago showed that while they look for a slowing in the pace of the boom they still expect the boom to continue through next year . Continued increases in defense spending , they felt , would more than offset a slowdown in business investment spending . Only one-third predicted that a recession will start before the end of next year . The problem is still seen by most economists as being one of inflation rather than recession . Some help on holding the line on federal spending other than for defense items is coming from the White House . Mr. Johnson is holding a series of meetings with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal-state programs . And Congress 's slow pace in approving appropriations measures will help stretch out the spending , even if the dollar total in the hills is not reduced . Spending braked Three months after the start . of the r year , eight appropriations hills that were supposed to clear Congress by July 1 . are still hanging . The agencies involved are allowed to keep spending at last year 's rate but not allowed to increase it , even if the pending bill will provide more money . The fact that their new , bigger appropria ? Lions are delayed three or four months puts an effective lid on the rate of spending . Without the money in hand , agencies can not gel . their new programs rolling quite as fast . The people they intended to hire arid the school districts and health agencies which expected to receive increased payments have to wait , providing the economy with something of a much-needed breather .                     