@@726939

txt Mayor Lindsay said yesterday that the city 's agreement to settle its dispute with the sanitation union by binding arbitration was " a major breakthrough in labor relations , " but some municipal labor leaders took a skeptical view of the idea . " This is what I 've been fighting for for a long time , " the Mayor said . He called it an " important precedent " for other municipal labor negotiations . However , the executive director of the biggest union of city workers , District Council 37 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , said that elsewhere the system " just worked . " And a spokesman for the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association noted that compulsory arbitration " has historically been anathema to unions . " The president of the Uniformed Firemen 's Association , said that compulsory arbitration Iffould be used only in case of an:impasse as serious as that reached in the sanitation talks Assured of Legality  - -  The Mayor said that he had been assured that the plan to Id a third party decide how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Re declined to discuss contentions by previous city administrations that arbitration was illegal because it entrusts the disposal of public funds to ; someone other than a public official or agency . : He said , too , that the dispute , which produced a nineday strike during which garbage piled up on city streets and an aborted state take-over of the City Sanitation Department , had not poisoned his relationship with Governor Rockefeller . But the Mayor did not say specifically how the city was ' better off facing the uncertain outcome of an agreement to arbitrate than it had been under the settlement proposed by mediators , which he had rejected . A panel convened by the Governor to recommend a settlement  --  after Mr. Rockefeller refused the Mayor 's request to call in the National Guard to collect the garbage  --  suggested : a raise estimated at S425 a , year a man . Mr. Lindsay : turned , down that proposal . He explained yesterday that ! his action had not been a re- : jection of the mediation process ! but of the specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion was ! S25 a man higher than a 5400 ! package that the city and leaders of the Uniformed Sanitationmen 's Association had agreed to , before union members shouted down their lead-I ership and rejected it . In agreeing to pay the S400 , ' Mr. Lindsay said . " the city had ' gone as high as it could . " He conceded that , under the binding arbitration procedure that he had accepted , the city . was obliged to pay whatever figure might be set by the arbi-I trator , Vincent D. , chairman of the State Mediation : Board . Decision Due by Feb. 29 Mr. is to make his decision by Feb. 29 after reading and listening to argiments from the union and the city . Mr Lindsay stressed that the city 's presentation would note the desirability of a settlement consistent with the " total scene " of city employment . The Mayor said the special circumstances of municipal em- : employment required that there be , special machinery to resolve : municipal labor disputes with-'i out strikes . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitration is ! consistent . " The sanitation squabble net-1 tled officials and the public alike and prompted a spate of angry statements from those close to the Mayor and the Governor . But Mr. Lindsay was relaxed and exceptionally cheerful as he spoke about it yesterday on the American Broadcasting Company 's " Issues and Answers television program and in interviews afterwards . Rocking on his heels in the ornate lobby outside the studio at 1 West 67th Street , hands in his overcoat pockets , the Mayor praised the arbitration process , insisted upon its legality for the city and said that his relationship with Mr. Rockefeller had not suffered . Asked if his willingness to The New York Toms PRAISES AGREEMENT : Mayor Lindsay said that the city 's agreement to settle sanitation dispute by binding arbitration was " breakthrough in labor relations . " support the Governor politically ! had been affected , Mr. Lindsay : said : " Not in the slightest " He said that J. Lee Rankin , ; the city 's Corporation Counsel , 1 had assured him that there was ! no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an arbitrator ' decide on the spending of city money . " Collective bargaining is still the most useful tool , " the Mayor said , adding that some " impasse machinery " was needed . Union spokesmen took a dimmer view of the process . " It just has n't worked . " said victor Gotbaum , executive director of District 37. in an in- ; lerview en the WCBS " Let's ( Find Out " radio program . " Because if the mechanism becomes too intricate . . you give up collective bargaining . " , His union bargains for 120,000 : employes . A spokesman for the P3.A.,1 who asked that his name not be used , said : " The question is an extremely complicated one . There are le- , gal ramifications . And there is ' the question of whether , prior ; to agreeing to compulsory an ' bitration , you will honestly ! : have received the city 's best ! offer . " The firemen association 's ; president , Gerald J. Ryan , said ! Iof arbitration : ; " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be opposed ! because it would only destroy true collective bargaining . I ! would want to see some real ! bargaining , and mediation and ; possibly even fact-finding first . ! Every other means should be ! exhausted . "                     