@@727385

txt The break for George C. Wallace among the ranks of the Democratic Party 's traditional union-member vote emerges as a virtual rout in this Detroit working-class suburb . Over half of the workers intervIewea at random in a Garden City tract of small , tightly packed homes , who say they voted for President Johnson four years ago , talk of casting ballots for Mr. Wallace this year . The remainder of these 1964 Johnson voters are split evenly between Hubert H. Humphrey and Richard M. Nixon . The precinct surveyed and Garden City as a whole have followed in recent years the same presidential voting trends as the Detroit area 's industrial Wayne County . // By Henry Benson , staff artist - " Men in my plant for Wallace ' // " I like Wallace , " explained a lift-truck operator . " He sounds like a man who 'll do something about the rioting . " Remarked a pro-Wallace retired tool and die maker , " Something 's got to be done . The Negroes have taken over our core cities and ruined them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carpenter stated about Mr. Wallace : " I know he 's for white people and against colored . But he will enforce the laws . " Most of those switching to Mr. Wallace have been solid Democratic voters in recent presidential elections . Adlai E. Stevenson carried Garden City by 55 percent in 1956 and Wayne County by 58 percent . That was against a national and state trend toward President Eisenhower . The 1968 election could provide the first significant loss of labor-union support for the Democratic Party since President Roosevelt won working-class allegiance during the depression of the 1930 's . Several Wallace voters referred to strong support for the former Alabama Governor among workers in their factories . " The men in my plant are for Wallace , " said a job setter in an auto-transmission plant . " They 're mad because Negroes get all the breaks . If you 're a Negro you can do anything . They wo n't fire you. - A Wallace-voting supervisor in a General Motors Corporation plant mentioned seeing " a lot of Wallace literature around the plant the last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say about 80 percent of the white workers in the plant are for Wallace . " ? Talks with these blue-collar workers as they rested or took care of weekend chores in their small , well-kept yards suggest that Mr. Humphrey 's chances of winning them back into Democratic ranks between now and the election are slim . Second choice sought " I 've made up my mind . It 's too late to change now , " was a typical reply by Wallace supporters asked if another candidate could still win their vote . Comments about Mr. Humphrey were unfavorable , in general . " Humphrey is too much of a yes and no man to Johnson , " stated a man who runs heavy equipment . Another voter said , " Wallace talks like a common man . Humphrey sounds like a politician . " Only a handful of Wallace supporters named Mr. Humphrey as their second choice . Most said either that they preferred Mr. Nixon second or that they would not vote if forced to choose between the two major-party candidates . To gauge the spread of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Detroit suburb where white-collar as well as blue-collar workers live . Interviews there indicate that Wallace strength drops off sharply among middle-class voters . In Trenton , which has voted Republican from time to time along with Michigan state as a whole , about half of those who voted Democratic in 1964 talk of switching this year . But unlike Garden City these Trenton " swing voters " are going to Mr. Nixon . Though favorable comments about Mr. Wallace came out . The Wallace bandwagon had not arrived . " I like what Wallace says , " commented a Trenton housewife . " But I would n't vote for him . He does n't have a chance . of winning . " One of a series of articles based on interviews across the United States taken in neighborhoods representative of broad voting trends .                     