@@724899

txt The Democratic leadership in the Legislature filed a new petition with United States Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan yesterday seeking a stay of Tuesday 's Federal court order requiring a state election in November . It was the second such motion this week by the Demo. crats in their continuing efforts to block a special legislative election under a Republican reapportionment proposal known as Plan A. The new application was necessitated by Tuesday 's Federal court ruling . While that ruling barred all persons " forever " from interfering with the election , a spe- , eine exception was made for an appeal to the Supreme Court . Court Conflict Kept Alive The move yesterday kept alive the confrontation of state ' and Federal judicial power set off last week when the New York Court of Appeals , the ' state 's highest court , ordered cancellation of the election after a three-judge Federal court on May 24 had ordered the balloting . That action had placed matters at an impasse until the Federal court , on Tuesday , reaffirmed its May order . Only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ al November election , But in view of a June 1 ruling ' by the full Supreme Court de- ' nying an identical petition , few ' believed that a stay would be granted . However , some Democrats spotted a glimmer of hope in the fact that Justice Harlan was the one member of the court who favored the stay and that he had expressed himself strongly on it . " It 's a thin reed , " said one lawyer , " but why not try ? " Fleming Is Pesshnistic Prof. Robert B. Fleming of the Buffalo University Law School , who won the short-lived victory in the Court of Appeals last week , was pessimistic . " It was fun while it lasted , " he said . In any event , the issue has served to spotlight the growing uneasiness of many state judges over what they consider to be an unjust intrusion on their jurisdiction by Federal courts . Once confined to the South , in race cases , this sensitivity has spread across the country in recent years and now encompasses a wide range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . What has happened , according to legal authorities , is that a libertarian Supreme Court , under Chief Justice Earl Warren , has extended the Bill of Rights to a degree heretofore , undreamed of . Lawyers noted that this did not require Federal courts to move Into state areas since the state courts , after all , are empowered to interpret the Federal Constitution . But , they said , the fact is that state judges have generally been conservative and out-of-step with the Supreme Court 's broaden . ing interpretation of individual rights . Mainly because of this , persons unsuccessful in asserting Federal Constitutional rights in state courts have moved into Federal court . This trend has been particularly apparent in criminal law , where Federal district judges have increasingly upset convictions after the highest state courts have upheld them . As a result , state judges are often outraged , and a typical remark is this : " Twenty state judges have decided one way and then a Federal judge comes along and upsets the applecart . " Jersey Order Cited Recently Chief Justice Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges to disregard a landmark Federal Court of Appeals ruling on confessions . The move , brought glowing praise from a ; large number of state judges , although privately they recognize that it was a rear-guard action . It is against this background , many lawyers believe , that the New York Court of Appeals decision to ignore the Federal court and cancel the November ; election must be viewed . They point out that in terms of legal theory there was little to differentiate the Federal and state court positions . Thus , both courts agreed that Plan A violated the New York State Constitution by increasing the membership of the Assembly from the constitutional limit of 150 to 165 and by calling for an election in one insInd of , two years , Both courts agreed also that ' the present composition of the ; Legislature was unconstitu-1 tional accordinff to the one-man , , one-vote standard set forth MI the Supreme Court 's ruling . It ; was to meet this standard that ; Plan A was voted by the Legislature . Genrt , i'ally it gives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense , of rural areas , which had been over represented . And Charles S. Desmond , ' Chief Judge of the state Court ! of Appeals , in his .1-3 majority ! opnion , conceded tthat the sip. : premacy clause of the United ; States Constitution would re- ; quire his court to follow " final ; and binding " Federal court or- ders . On the face of it , then , it ap- ; peared that the only difference ; was that Judge Desmond didi not believe the earlier Federal ' court order was " final and bind-1 ing ? " This was seized upon by the Federal court judges on Toes-1 day and they took great care ) throughout the proceedings toi make it plain , often with a touch of wryness , that they did ! indeed mean their election order ! to bind the state , But privately , even stanch ! opponents of Plan A conceded that they did not understand ( what Judge Desmond meant , ; since the original order clearly ; said that there would he ant election on Nov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Court of Appeals . " The only thing 1 can figure , " t said one lawyer , " is that ; Charley Desmond was just ex-i pressing , in the only Way hel had left , his disgust with the ! , way the Federal judiciary has ! horned in on his bailiwick , not ; only in reapportionment hut all over the lot . " Other observers who agreed ' Dire inade by R. Peter Strauss of Radio Station WMCA . When t hey were overruled by the Su. premo Court in the one-nia n , one-vote ruling , they then ruled ' that the present Legislature ' was properly apportioned . Again they were overruled by the Supreme Court . And even then , the Federal judges seemed to give the state legislators every opportunity to reapportion by themselves . In the end , however , lawyers said , the Federal Court had to disregard the State Constitution . Had they allowed the saiiie Legislature to sit another . year they may have again been overruled by the Supreme Court . with this view said there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Federal ' courts in the reapportionment area . They pointed out that the three-judge Federal court , composed of Sterry R. Waterman of : the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and Sylvester J. Ryan I and Richard H. Levet of the District Court , had in the past done all they could to stay out of the reapportionment field . Thus , four years ago they threw out the original applies- ? tion to reapportion tile legisla-t                     