@@723807

txt Lahore , Pakistan Premier Chou En-lai has given Pakistanis about as strong an endorsement of their stand on Kashmir as they could realistically have expected . In a joint communiqu ? released here Sunday , Premier Chou and President Ayub Khan of Pakistan " expressed the hope that the Kashmir dispute would be resolved in accordance with the wishes of people of Kashmir as pledged to them by India and Pakistan . " The communique summed up the results of three days of talks which Messrs . Ayub and Chou had had in Rawalpindi , interim capital of Pakistan . This is the first time Peking has publicly supported Pakistan in its bitter dispute with India over Kashmir . India claims that Kashmir is part of India , while Pakistan says Kashmir 's 72 percent Moslem majority has never been allowed to exercise the right of self-determination pledged to them by the United Nations 16 years ago . Stand Qualified Peking even in a recent delimitation agreement conderning the Pakistani-held portion of the Sino-Kashmiri border scrupulously refrained from expressing an opinion about the rights and wrongs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was described by Foreign Minister Zultikar Ali Bhutto Sunday as an " advance " on the old refusal to take sides . But it is qualified by the fact that the communiqu ? does not mention the UN where Pakistan and India have taken their dispute and whose resolutions call for the plebiscite Pakistan wants India to honor . And the phrase " the wishes of the people of Kashmir " is subject to interpretation since India claims that Kashmiris have already expressed their wishes in elections , which Pakistan regards as rigged . Mr. Bhutto announced the text of the joint communiqu ? at a hurriedly summoned press conference here Sunday in order , as he put it , to scotch " wild speculations " about its contents . ( The communiqu ? was originally to have been issued in Dacca , East Pakistan , Tuesday on the eve of Mr. Chou 's departure for Ceylon . ) The principal such speculation was that in exchange for Peking 's changed stand on Kashmir Pakistan had offered , first , to struggle actively to scat Communist China in the UN and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Mr. Bhutto energetically denied that Peking had exacted a quid pro quo for Kashmir . " There is no question of any bargaining at all , " he stated . Meddling ' Shunned Mr. Bhutto also denied that President Ayub had any intention of mediating the SinoAmerican dispute . Referring to President Ayub 's Friday press conference remarks which sparked this speculation , he said : " The President was quite clear . He did not say mediation . He said Pakistan does not believe in meddling . " At the press conference in Rawalpindi Friday President Ayub said the Chinese Premier had reviewed obstacles in the way of a Sino-American settlement . He was then asked , " Do you see any role for your government in smoothing these obstructions outstanding between the United States and China ? " The President replied in substance : " Well we are not so presumptuous . . . . The American authorities never approached us on things like that . We are not holding a brief for anybody . We on our own said that we would like to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and China . In these things it is no good trying to be meddlesome , but if our good offices are required at any time we shall be only too glad because it will serve the interests of Asian peace . . . and have a bearing on our security as well . " J Mr. Bhutto described the President 's statement as " hypophetical remarks which hold true for any country with which we have friendly relations . " Split Spotlighted There is general agreement that the statement of Kashmir represented only a new feature of the joint communiqu ? . Other points ? such as the call for a second Afro-Asian conference , for the seating of Communist China in the UN , for added Afro - Asian representation in UN organs , for a negotiated settlement of the Sino-Indian border dispute ? have all been stressed by Pakistanis before . Some observers suggest that if there was a quid pro quo for the Chinese change on Kashmir it was the very visit of Premier Chou and his entourage , including Foreign Minister Chen Li . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over this visit , although Pakistan has recognized Peking since 1950 and Mr. Chou has toured the country once before . But this new visit , coming just after France 's recognition of Peking , has unquestionably irritated Washington by highlighting fissures in the Western camp over China policy . The United States is still committed to the isolation of Peking and to making recognition and UN membership conditional on a Chinese promise to abandon the use of force over Formosa . This policy now is under increasing challenge not only from France but from other Western allies and Pakistan 's friendlier ties with Peking accentuate the challenge . One experienced official commented , " Is n't it sad that for so many years we have loyally supported the Western alliance and nobody paid us any attention . Now we are doing what India did 10 years ago  --  establishing friendly ties with China  --  and all of a sudden people sit up and take notice . That means that to be nonaligned is better than to be aligned , that to bargain with both sides is better than to stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this attitude is that during these years of loyal association with the West , Pakistan has received S2 billion of economic aid and $1.25 billion of military aid . But to this day Pakistanis feel the United States has not taken an unequivocal stand on Kashmir  --  the one issue above all others that has consistently determined the shape of Pakistan 's foreign policy , both . when the decision was taken to accept American military aid and now when it is cultivating better relations with Peking . India views Peking pressure : Page 2.                     