@@727098

txt California Gov . Ronald Reagan 's continued presidential disavowals seem only to be swelling the ranks of disbelievers . Mr. Reagan 's current wrestlings as the nation 's leading " noncandidate " make politicos believe there are definitely " ayes " in his " eyes . " For example , the Governor has just released the first of a series of papers pinpointing his positions on major issues . The initial one deals with human relations . Statements on law and order , education , public assistance , economic growth , and job opportunities are soon to come . All will be geared to California audiences . But they also will attract national attention . Some Reagan supporters still believe the Governor has much to gain by not " officially " throwing his hat in the ring ? at least not until after the California primary , June 4 . He is running as a favorite son  --  with no formal challenges and no " write-ins " allowed . A week before that , the California conservative will be listed on the Oregon primary ballot . Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan showing  --  the result of a highly organized behind-thescenes campaign ? is not unlikely . Close observers believe that at the first sign of a Nixon faltering ? in Oregon or elsewhere  --  Reagan 's backers and Rockefeller forces will be scrambling to pick up the pieces . Honolulu 's airport may soon be teeming with new immigrants , especially Asians . The lifting of United States immigration restrictions July 1 could bring thousands more Asians into the Hawaiian Islands . With the new law aiming to abolish racial and ethnic discrimination , island officials expect an immediate influx of immigrants from China , Japan , Korea , Australia , New Zealand , the Philippines , and the United States Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands . At the same time , airline service between Hawaii and the other " 49 " is due to be vastly expanded , including nonstop flights between Honolulu and Anchorage , Alaska . 0 One of the Pacific Northwest 's volcanic giants may blow its top at any time . So says William P. Pecora , director of the United States Geological Survey . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of sensors to record the pulses of the dormant volcanoes of the Cascades in Washington and Oregon . He is especially worried about snow-covered Mt . St. Helens , whose lofty cone rises nearly 10,000 feet on the horizon just north of Portland , Oregon . There have been some relatively recent ash falls from this peak . Unlike Hawaiian volcanoes which spew out lava , Oregon-Washington peaks are more likely to explode violently  --  geologists say . It has happened before . Oregon 's celebrated Crater Lake was created by the explosion of Mt . Mazama , which geologists believe once rose to 12,000 feet . With the help of " white men , " Montana 's Crow Indians will reenact " Custer 's last stand " along the Little Big Horn River , June 28-30 . Members of this tribe will play the attacking Indians while Hardin ( Mont. ) townspeople represent the famed American general and his men . But back in 1876 , the Crows in real life were actually friendly to the general and served as guides to his troops before Custer and his soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cheyenne Indians . How and why ... Parched Arizonans may soon be stone-tapping for water . The Atomic Energy Commission ( AEC ) is on the verge of a year-long study which could lead to the nuclear blasting of great bodies of sandstone and limestone to recover water trapped inside . Arizona is now pumping its ground water four or five times faster than it can be replenished . And authorities say that water imprisoned in stone may prove to be many times more abundant than that which comes from aquifers  --  water-bearing strata of permeable gravel . If the AEC probe does lead to a nuclear explosion , it will be the second such major blast for " peaceful purposes " in the Southwest . Last December , " Project Gasbuggy " shook the rugged terrain near Farmington , N.M. , when scientists probed desert canyons for large supplies of natural gas . Although final results are still not in , the experiment was apparently a success .                     