@@723714

txt Salem . Ore . Oregon voters anticipate playing an important role in the decision on a Republican Party presidential nominee . Both GOV . Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York and Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona have committed themselves to campaign in the Oregon presidential primary May 15 . But little noted is the part the Oregon electorate may play in a secondary drama , selection of a vice-presidential candidate for the Democratic ticket . Just the other day , this correspondent asked the prime authority , Secretary of State Howell Appling Jr. , for comment on the latter subject . In essence , he said Oregon fully intends to conduct a popular contest for the vice-presidential nomination , just as for the presidential nomination . Mr. Appling is directed by Oregon law to place on the Oregon primary ballot the names of every " generally advocated and recognized " candidate for a presidential nomination of one of the two major political parties . He is directed , by the same terms , to list also the names of every " generally advocated and recognized " candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties . Therefore , it is foreordained in Oregon that such " candi dates " will be on the ballot in Oregon this spring . The only way any such candidate may avoid such an exposure to public opinion is to declare , by affidavit , that he is not and does not intend to be a candidate for that office . Now , as every student of American political science knows , no one ever actually campaigns for the vice-presidential nomination . It is conferred by the party convention , usually at the discretion of the presidential nominee . Current List However , thus far at least , the acknowledged presidential nominee of the Democratic Party , Lyndon B. Johnson , is not yet ready to confer that award , which has been so much enhanced by the events of recent months , and years . As a result , there are many such " candidates , " although none is prepared yet to acknowledge it as have Governor Rockefeller and Senator Goldwater for the higher office . But this is no obstacle to the statutory duty of Mr. Appling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as of January , to list on the Oregon primary vice-presidential ballot the names of those he considers to be the " generally advocated and recognized " candidates for the Democratic vice-presidential nomination , without regard to what the individuals themselves may have to say about such candidacy . Specifically , he currently considers such candidates to be Minnesota Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey , Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , UN Ambassador Adlai E. Stevenson , and " possibly others . " Senator Humphrey , Mr. Kennedy , and Ambassador Stevenson ranked in that order in an Associated Press poll of Democratic county chairmen on the subject o= a vice-presidential nominee . Uncertain Element Thus , there is a definite prospect of a popular test in Oregon May 15 , three months before the Democratic convention , on the vice-presidential nomina Lion . Mr. Appling is not at all certain that the men whose names he may select will agree to such a test . He points out that it would be much easier for an aspiring but passive vice-presidential candidate to forswear such a-candidacy than it would be for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspiration for the top spot on a major party ticket . It is , in other words , much more normal to " draft " a candidate for the vice-presidency than for the presidency . The issue , if any , will be known on or about March 6 , which is the deadline for any filings , including Mr. Appling 's , for the Oregon primary . Although no one , even here , expects a hot stumping campaign for the vice-presidential nomination , there are already several Democratic factions in Oregon prepared to campaign for that distinction for their favorite .                     