@@724459

txt Washington President Johnson faces the new year , the new Congress , with three major aims : To preserve the currently healthy national economy : To begin to build his " great society " : To keep peace in the world and move toward lessening international crises . That is a large . and . sonic might , say , impossible task . But , according to the President 's aides in the White House , he faces them in a " re : laxed , serious , but optimistic " mood . The President is a Erm believer that reason and sittingdown-together to talk over problems is the way to solve them . The password at the White House these days is " consensus . " It has run through the President 's public and private talks these last weeks . It is basic in his state of the Union message . It is the foundation of his legislative program . Domest ic Issues By consensus he means finding a national answer for every national problem . He has called it " a springboard . providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is widely agreed in Washington and throughout the country that President Johnson has done a masterful job in taking over the reins of government so suddenly thrust into his hands 13 months ago . Domestically his intention is to keep the economy moving healthily ahead . He is on friendly terms with both business and labor . He is ready with excise cuts and other measures to meet any downswing or business recession . President Johnson also intends to keep the budget as close to S100 billion as possible . There should he small cuts in defense spending . Great Sot iet v " However . the President has every Mtention of maintaining , even increasing , the nation 's military power and defense posture . He shows no sign of relinquishing the goal of being first in space . And on top of these he intends to start building his " great society , " for which the blueprint now is being drawn . On social matters President Johnson 's goal is to be " President of all the people . " On race relations it bind up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " great society " that he envisages includes better education for youth , better care for the elderly , war on poverty , national beautification ( down to eliminating those used-car junk yards that disfigure so many highways ) , improved mass-transportation facilities , pollution control . One of the first things the President intends doing is to submit a broad education program to Congress , one that he hopes can avoid the church-state disputes that have so consistently characterized recent educational programs . Foreign Affairs In foreign affairs the two most pressing matters relate to South Vietnam and the Congo , where unstable governments and Communist . subversion keep those countries in constant turmoil . President Johnson has made it clear he is not prepared to take one or the other of the extreme steps that some are advising : getting out of Southeast Asia , carrying the war to the north . The other choice is doing more of the same , but apparently it is to be done somewhat differently , with more effort to stop the supply lines and infiltration of the Viet Cong into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hold a major debate on Vietnam , which could be one of the highlights of the coming session of Congress . The President is also laced with the need to strengthen the Atlantic alliance , even as the nuclear stalemate and the problems with Communist China and Eastern Europe chip away at the cement that has kept NATO united and formidable . There has been talk of President Johnson visiting Europe , particularly to see France 's nationalistic leader , General de Gaulle . White House sources . however , say the President is not planning any early trips abroad . though that does not rule out a trip should events seem to demand it . Of course , there will be a parade of heads of state and heads of government to Washington , as has been the custom for a decade . In his relations with the Soviet Union , the President 's aim is to cultivate and encourage cooperation and trust . There are those in his entourage that assure him that the U.S.S.R. for all of its past bluster and blackmail in the future is going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Peking . He . therefore , intends to play clown frictions and differences and play up ways of cooperation such as in a joint water desalting program and in scientific space programs .                     