@@722592

txt Springfield , Ill. , Aug. ** a kiss-and-make-up meeting , Gov . Kerner won two concessions from the Illinois Public Aid commission today . Names of 70,000 welfare recipients in Cook county are to be turned over to the governor , who had unsuccessfully sought them during recent weeks . Just what Kerner intends to do with the list of names has not been made clear . Last week his public relations officer , Richard Thorne , said the governor 's office wanted the list for research purposes , but would not explain just what the research was . Thorne Makes Request The request was made in the first place thru Thorne , according to Peter W. Cahill , executive secretary of the commission . When Cahill disclosed this last June 20 , Thorne said merely that the request was first made by " one of our directors . " The commission , facing a deficit that will require a special legislative session in November , also agreed to have its administrative ef f iciency checked by a management survey , which Kerner has been requesting for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the acting chairman , Samuel A. Goldsmith issued a statement after a luncheon meeting attended by the full commission , in a Springfield hotel . The statement there was a complete understanding for a positive , aggressive program in the area of public aid . Goldsmith announced that monthly progress reports will be sent to Springfield and called the meeting the beginning of a direct liaison between the IPAC and Gov . Kerner . Goldsmith , who has been acting head since Chairman C. Virgil Martin resigned Aug. 1 , told a reporter that there was no discussion of a permanent chairman . Goldsmith , who is executive director of the Jewish Federation of Chicago , has been vice chairman but does not want to continue as IPAC head . Kerner 's 2d Meeting It was Kerner 's second meeting in a month with the commissioners . On July 12 , at a meeting in Chicago , he surrendered on a demand he had made in June , that welfare grants be cut in the interest of state solvency . They failed to keep today 's meeting secret . Kerner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rode a hotel elevator to the third floor and then climbed the back stairs to the fifth floor , where the IPAC members waited in a private suite . After they broke up , reporters waited nearly two more hours for Kerner and Goldsmith to issue their statement . Strategy had been agreed upon when the commissioners , with the governor absent , had breakfast together . One member was overheard to say that they should get Kerner to carry the ball and should pretend that past differences were only a lovers ' quarrel . The commission will hold its official August meeting in Chicago tomorrow . Michael J. Howlett , state auditor and ex-officio member , recommended that the IPAC and the Illinois Medical society review procedures to see if doctors are getting too much money from the IPAC for taking care of welfare patients .                     