@@723440

txt Chief of the Western Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Los Angeles Some 40,000 California Indians have begun voting on whether to accept 47 cents an acre from the United States for lands white settlers took from them a century ago . In Riverside , San Diego , Escondido , and Los Angeles , and subsequently in central and northern California cities , they are casting ballots on the federal government 's offer . Modest as the payment seems , it looks to lawyers representing the Indians as worth accepting , since further litigation could consume all benefits . But some Indians and some of their advisers think they should be holding out for more . 15 Years ' Litigation This proposed settlemen ' has taken 15 years of claims filing , legal action , and compromise . It represents an ' effort to get for the Indians a practical rather than an ideal form of reparations . Its beginnings lie back in 1928 , when Congress decided to let California Indians sue the government for payment on lands they were promised but never got . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . But the Senate never ratified them and the majority of this state 's Indian population was left landless , victim of what has been described as perhaps the country 's greatest injustice to the aboriginal peoples . After Congress decided on restitution in 1928 , the California Indians got a net judgment of $5,000,000 . This was what was left after the government had itemized a long bill for services rendered since 1851 and deducted it . Then Congress passed the Indian Claims Commission Act in 1946 and the California Indians began a long , new series of efforts for fairer treatment . The Department of Justice has just this summer approved the compromise settlement finally reached . It amounts to $29,000,000 in payment for 70 percent of the land of California . Government ' specialists reckon this land was worth 25 cents an acre a century ago ; compromise has now produced the token figure of 47 cents an acre for what is one of the most expensive acreages anywhere in the world today . 8700 to $800 Each This means that the individual California Indian will get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement . Some advisers of the Indian in this state have emphasized the great discrepancy between real land values today and what the . government is offering and have urged the Indians to accept no compromise . An organization called the " Mission Indian Federation of California , " for example , has issued a lengthy statement criticizing the settlement as a " secret give-away agreement . " But Charles E. Burch Jr . of San Diego . attorney for the large group of southern California Indians known as the Mission Indians , points out that any amount is bound ? to be mainly a symbol of United States goodwill . " If the United States was trying to compensate for the wrong clone the Indians ' grandparents , " comments Mr. Burch , " it could n't do it . You just ca n't put a dollar sign on it . " This is just an attempt by the United States , " he adds , " to show some respect to the Indian and to make an admission of a wrong . " For negotiation purposes , the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hack in the days when white settlers were moving in on them . They are the Pit River Indians in the north , what arc called the Indians of California in the central part of the state , and the Mission Indians in the south . These represent many distinct tribes . Their reservation land holdings represent a very small fraction of California 's vast terrain . The Palm Springs Indians are just about the only group that has realized from its land the kind of wealth for which modern California real estate is famous .                     