@@727041

txt England launches the world 's first open-tennis tournament at Bournemouth April 22 . These British Hard-Courts Championships will be the first in which amateurs compete against top professionals like Rod Laver , Ken Rosewall , and Pancho Gonzales . It was Britain 's protest against the hypocrisy of " shamateurism " ? by which so-called amateur players received exorbitant under-the-table expenses  --  that brought open tennis into being . With England staging three other open tournaments this year , including Wimbledon , tennis enthusiasts from all over the world share a special interest in the outcome of this inaugural event . The East African Safari rally is considered the world 's toughest test of a car 's durability . In the past as many as 90 percent of the entries have failed to complete the four-day , 3,000-mile drive through Kenya , Uganda , and Tanzania . Thus , for models winning or even completing the rugged Easter weekend run , the event means a spurt of sales , particularly in developing countries . This year British Motor Holdings will mount a major challenge to Peugeot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending a team of professional rally drivers to pilot its Austin 1800 over some of the world 's worst roads . Triumph 2000 's are well represented , too . Japan 's Datsun and Toyota factories are sending Japanese drivers for the first time . But , just to make sure , their prestige models are being driven by experienced locals . East African residents have won all 15 safaris so far . A feature of this year 's event is the number of African drivers . Roughly 10 percent of all drivers will be Africans in what used to be an all-white event . Major-league baseball is spreading out . Already swinging into their 1968 pennant races , both big leagues look forward to meetings in late April which will further plans for their mutual expansion . National League club owners meet on April 20 , American League owners five days later . The American League already has announced it will become a 12-team unit in 1969 , adding Seattle and Kansas City . The National League is coptemplating expansion to a dozen clubs by 1970 ? possibly even by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the American League can go ahead with its plans . These probably will include two six-team divisions and a late-September playoff just prior to the World Series . The American League continues to view a long-range plan which would include inter-league play . A national collegiate football championship is inching closer to a kickoff . The NCAA is to survey college opinion this spring . And 1969 is whispered as the possible start of what would become an annual competition . Talk of several million dollars in television fees is doing nothing to discourage the plan . An eight-team playoff between major-conference champions is the prospect ? quarterfinals , semifinals , and final on successive Saturdays . Trends . . . College bowling in the United States is barreling briskly into popularity . It is one of the fastest growing new intercollegiate sports in the country . More than 200 colleges now have their own on-campus bowling facilities , serving as centers for both recreation and competition . Last year the American Bowling Congress formed a special collegiate division . In its first year , it supervised 80 men 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Women 's International Bowling Congress , rolled up a total of 35 leagues . How and why .. . Raleigh and Durham , two North Carolina cities which have long beer close rivals in many sports , will share a professional baseball team this season . Located 25 miles apart , the two cities will be represented by the Carolina League Mets , who will play 70 home games-35 in each community . The split-franchise idea is Walter Brock 's , who says it is a baseball first . It came about when Brock 's Raleigh club lost its working agreement with the Pittsburgh Pirates and Brock was then offered a job as general manager by the Durham club , an affiliate of the New York Mets . Financially , neither Carolina city has broken even in recent years . But with fewer games , Brock figures attendance will be up .                     