@@724627

txt DE N AN G , Viet Nam , March 10 Wednesday ( AP ) - Two communist guerrilla squads cautiously probed the defenses of strategic Da Nang air base today , apparently testing the strength of the newly installed United States 3d marine battalion . Viet Cong and South Vietnamese troops exchanged fire 3 miles from where the marines landed Monday and where supplies and heavy equipment still are being unloaded . There were no casualties and no American personnel involved , military sources said . SAIGON , Viet Nam , March 9 ( UP ) - Viet Cong guerrillas ambushed a South Vietnamese battalion 295 miles northeast of Saigon today , killing a United States marine corps officer adviser and wounding another . The ambush , in which 28 government troops were reported killed or injured , occurred about 20 miles from a special forces camp at Kannack where American special forces soldiers and mountain tribesmen dealt the Viet Cong their worst defeat in months earlier today . Wounded in Check The marines were with a Vietnamese marine battalion truck convoy traveling between Bong Son and Hoai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An American military spokesman here said the wounded marine was taken to the United States army hospital at Nha Trang with a bullet wound in his right cheek . His condition was reported not serious . At Kannack a valley stronghold was left strewn with communist dead . Five Americans were wounded in the fighting 275 miles northeast of Saigon in Binh Dinh province . Repulse Red Attack The Montagnard tribesmen repulsed a mortar and recoilless cannon barrage which shattered the pre-dawn quiet of the Kannack valley as the Viet Cong tried again to cut off the Vietnamese 2d army corps in the central highlands . Government losses were placed at 33 killed and 30 wounded , including the five Americans . Bodies of more than 100 Viet Cong attackers littered the valley and hung from barbed wire barricades . The fierce and primitive tribesmen live side by side with the Americans in the fortress and many of the defenders fought with their families literally at their backs . The Montagnards are recruited , trained , paid , and led into battle by the elite special forces advisers . Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken from the Viet Cong . The weapons were of recent make in Russia , Commmunist China , and other communist nations . Included in the cache was a 57 millimeter recoilless cannon , six 75 millimeter rocket launchers , a Czech machine gun , 40 sub-machine guns , 12 rifles , two pistols , and a large quantity of ammunition . The camp is situated atop a small hill in a grassy valley about 15 miles north of highway 19 , which links Pleiku with coastal supply depots at Qui Nhon . The communists have been trying for two months to cut off the highway without success . The last of the 3,500 American marines sent into Viet Nam were landing today at Da Nang on the China sea coast , where the United States maintains its biggest air field in Viet Nam . Army Gen. William C. Westmoreland , the top American military man here , flew into Da Nang today to confer with Brig . Gen. Frederick J. Karch , commanding the marine combat force . He also met with Vietnamese generals . " He wanted a rundown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Karch said . He called the meeting a get-acquainted affair . A helicopter squadron was brought ashore today from a United States carrier anchored in Da Nang bay . Many Marines in Tents Many of the marines still were living in pup tents around the edge of the Da Nang air base just outside the city of 150,000 . There were plans to move some of the Hawk anti-aircraft missile batteries to nearby hills to provide a better defense for the airfield . At present , the Hawks are set up along the edge of the runways from which B-57 jet bombers have taken off on air raids against communist North Viet Nam . " To extend and prevent the Viet Cong from shelling the base , " Karch said , " it would be necessary to move out further . " The marines brought with them counter-mortar batteries which include electronic equipment permitting crews to locate and direct fire on communist mortar emplacements in seconds . Mortars are the heaviest weapons being used by the Viet Cong at present , but they have been quite effective . Study Buddhist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest statement from Buddhist leaders calling for the withdrawal of American forces from South Viet Nam and a halt to the air strikes against the Hanoi regime . The Buddhist political leaders announced formation of " the struggle movement for preservation of peace and they peoples happiness " and Amer-ican officials were optimistic about one point contained in the group 's manifesto . While calling for American withdrawal , the Buddhists said this could be accomplished only after the Communists ceased the fighting and subversion in South Viet Nam .                     