@@723598

txt President Kennedy conceded today that Congress was unlikely to complete action this session on his programs of tax reduction and civil rights . He termed this " unfortunate . " Question 5 , Page 18 . Taking a longer-range view , however , he looked for enactment of both bills as well as other major Administration measures in the 1964 session . Questions 14 ands 15 . Then , with a smile , he drew laughter by predicting that " this is going to be an 18-month delivery " of his program . Will Take a Holiday The 88th Congress convened last Jan. 9 for its first session and has been moving at an unusually slow pace since then . It now plans to take a Christmas-New Year holiday from Dec. 20 to Jan. 2 , returning barely in time to adjourn before the start of the second session on Jan. 3 . The tax bill , passed by the House Sept. 25 , is now stalled in the Senate Finance Committee . The civil rights bill is awaiting House consideration . Neither is expected to reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realities of the situation , President Kennedy said he was hopeful that the House would " certainly act " on the civil rights measure within the next month . He also suggested that it might still be possible to get the tax bill to the Senate floor this year so that the Senate could pass it early in the new session . Fears Harm to Economy Otherwise , he observed , the ' tax bill might be caught up in a civil rights filibuster and the economy would suffer by the resulting delay . The avowed purpose of cutting taxes is to stimulate employment and a more rapid expansion of the national economy . But the President forecast a favorable record for his legislative program in the long run . He listed tax reduction , civil rights , education , mental health and health insurance for the aged under Social Security as programs on which favorable action could be expected by next summer . He said this was not an exclusive list . This accomplishment , he said , would be a record in significant legislation . Committee work done on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carried over without loss to the second session starting in January . The President suggested that Congressional delay on various parts of his program , including appropriations , was interrelated . " I think there is some delay because of civil rights , " he said . On health care for the aged , the President praised a report issued yesterday by a 12-member citizens committee that proposed a joint program of Federal and private insurance , Question 16 . He said he thought the report gave " new life " to the Administration 's health-care bill , on which the House Ways and Means Committee will start hearings next Monday . Later , he met with members of the group , officially called the National Committee on Health Care for the Aged . In a statement issued after the meeting , he said : " The thoughtful proposals of this expert group of leaders from medicine , education , industry and insurance should prove extremely helpful in our effort to obtain action in the Congress on this vital matter . " I was very pleased to see that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of our older citizens through the Social Security system ; and I look forward to working with members and sponsors of this committee in ending the long neglect of this growing national problem . " Senators Clinton P. Anderson , Democrat of New Mexico , and Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York , participated in the afternoon meeting at the White House . Mr. Anderson is the sponsor of the Administration 's healthcare bill in the Senate . He and Mr. Javits cosponsored a compromise version that the Senate narrowly defeated last year . At his news conference , President Kennedy specifically predicted that health-care legislation would be cleared next year by the House Ways and Means Committee . The Administration has been trying since 1961 to line up a majority of the 25-member panel for approval of the bill . Its failure to do so was mainly responsible for the measure 's difficulties in Congress .                     