@@724281

txt PARIS  --  The most significant political development occurring this autumn is neither the American nor the British political debate but the quiet , relentless dissolution of the Communist bloc one used to consider monolithic . Soviet Premier Khrushchev grimly pursues his intention to convene an international party meeting this December and a grand conference next year whose ultimate purpose would be to formalize the existing Sine-Soviet schism . At the same time other intellectual and political rifts are widening Moscow 's former orbit . Palmiro Togliatti , late Italian Communist leader , left a political testament that called for open debates among Russian party leaders , a step that would inevitably disclose dissensions between rightwing and left-wing factions . The repercussions of this idea are resounding from Warsaw to Sofia . There exists within . the U.S.S.R. a so-called " Stalinist " or " Chinese " faction opposed to Khrushchev 's ideas of liberalizing the party and governmental structure . Likewise , in China , there is a kind of Khrushchevist opposition represented by so-called " revisionists " such as Yang Hsien-then , Ai Heng-wu and Liu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid being caught between the Moscow and Peking grindstones . Italian Communist leaders are now engaged in discussions with Hungarian , Rumanian , Polish and Yugoslav colleagues on ways of bridging the Sino-Soviet gap and , if possible , postponing the conclaves Ithru-1 shchev wants . Many European Communists fear that excommunication of China would revive the idea of total Moscow dominance of the international movement . Tito Sine-Soviet Quarrel But the quarrel between Russia and China has passed the purelyn ideological stage . It is now openly political , in a pragmatic sense , and ' , national in terms of strategic and economic rivalries . Last spring Peking 's Voreign Minister , Chen Yi , openly opposed as " improper " an Indian suggestion that Russia be included in the Afro-Asian bloc because the U.S.S.R. was " not an African or Asian country . " Moscow retorted that two-thirds of the Soviet Union lay in Asia and Chen Yrs statement was " a subversive act .. . reeking of hegemonism .. . and racism . " Frontier disputes between Russial and China have become bitter . ' Khrushchev suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " historically formed boundaries that now exist , " China rejected this and said it was not willing to accept " unequal treaties . " When . Khrushchev offered new Soviet economic help , Mao 's government replied previous aid had been , used largely to finance the Korean war , that Russia had charged interest on its loans and China had paid for help with raw materials . It added : " If you should feel the I need for the help of Chinese experts in certain fields we would be glad to send them to you . " This enraged the Russians . They ' announced 70 international parties supported their views . However , after the wary Italians speculated about " a resurgence of authoritarian systems in the leadership of individual parties " and discounted the " method of solemn excommunication , " the number of Khrushchev 's claimed supporters dwindled to 46 . Meanwhile , China is ending even the semblance of any obligation to Russia . By the end of 1965 it will have repaid its debts , amounting to about $112 billion . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Chinese nationalism . The U.S.S.R. responded by inducing its satellite , Outer Mongolia , to expel 6,100 Chinese workers and publicizing its intention of defending the Asian ally . The West is so preoccupied with centrifugal political forces and the growth of nationalist forms like Gaullism that it sometimes forgets that a. similar but more shattering process is occurring in the East . Ideologically , the various parties that owe allegiance to Marx and Lenin are more and more insistent upon the need for decentralization . And the two behemoths of the left are behaving in the classical manner of jealous neighbors , far more obsessed with nationalistic , territorial , economic and strategic pretension 's than they are with abstract doctrine . Each still aspires to dominate the world ; but each would dominate the other first .                     