@@726472

txt The fighting has been over for six weeks in the Middle East but the first steps have yet to be taken toward peace . The debates of the emergency General Assembly have , as anticipated , proved futile . While the Security Council has sent United Nations observers to Suez , war has merely been replaced by an armed truce that Soviet weapons shipments could convert into another round of combat . It is essential now that diplomacy be deployed in more constructive work than the posturing , vituperation and propaganda of this Assembly session called at Moscow 's insistence . The elements of a settlement are known : Israeli troop withdrawals ; termination of Arab belligerency and recognition of Israel 's right to live ; resettlement of Arab refugees by both sides ; free navigation in Aqaba and Suez ; agreed borders ; special status for the Old City of Jerusalem or at least its religious shrines ; fair division of water ; regional economic development ; demilitarized zones ; a U.N . presence ; pledges of nonuse of force , including guerrilla raids ; limitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin . Which of these elements , put in place , can lay the foundation for the others in a stable structure ? * An imaginative new approach is urgently needed . It could lie in an audacious attack on the two most recalcitrant elements in the twenty-year Arab-Israeli conflict  --  water and refugees . Former President Eisenhower is sponsoring such a plan , as C. L. Sulzberger 's columns reported last week . It is a plan so daring in its conception and so huge in size that it could conceivably capture the imagination of many who now are too absorbed in nursing their hatreds to be distracted by smaller proposals . Mr. Eisenhower 's idea which has been worked out in some detail by Admiral Lewis Strauss , dwarfs all previous development plans , including the Johnston Plan of his own Administration which called for sharing the remaining unused water of the Jordan River . It is four times the size of a similar project suggested in London last month by Baron Edmund de Rothschild . Mr. Eisenhower would provide the Mideast with three gigantic atomic plants to desalt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much fresh water as the combined flow of the whole Jordan River and all its tributaries . The three plants together would be the equivalent of two-and-a-half Jordan Rivers . They could irrigate vast desert regions and bring into bloom a new California in the Middle East , large enough to resettle all the Arab refugees and , with industry stimulated by cheap atomic power , to raise living standards generally in the Arab world . * * The economic feasibility of atomic water-desalting in this area already has been favorably evaluated by Israel . Construction of a first plant , far smaller than those projected in the new plan , has been shown to be economic if credit can be obtained at 31A per cent interest . Larger plants would produce water more cheaply . Some experts believe that a chartered corporation like Comsat that would raise public and private funds internationally could not only finance the plants  --  the total cost would be less than one year 's expenditure on the moon program  --  but pay a return to investors . Unlike previous development plans , which depended on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one or two countries at a time  --  starting with Israel and Jordan perhaps , or Israel , Jordan and Egypt . ' Once under way , it would be difficult for other countries to stay out . If there are political objections to American plants , French , British or Russian desalting plants could be contracted for . The aim would be to change the atmosphere in the Middle East . An attempt would be made to turn the focus of thoughts from the hatred and feuds of the past to the opportunities of the future . To fight over ? buckets of water and strips of desert should begin to seem ridiculous when whole rivers and miles of fertile fields can be obtained more easily . If that day of wisdom can be reached , border problems and other questions should prove easier to negotiate .                     