@@723446

txt Birmingham , Ala. , Sept. 9 ( UPI ) ? Gov . George Wallace , Moving toward a showdown with the federal government . tonight replaced state police blocking school desegregation in three cities with national guard troops . Wallace took the action despite an injunction signed by every federal district judge in Alabama ordering him and other state officials to stop interfering with integration in Birmingham , Mobile , and Tuskegee . The injunction , perhaps the strongest such order ever issued , also ordered Wallace to maintain order around the schools . See Showdown Today It appeared the showdown would come tomorrow unless Wallace admits the 20 Negroes ordered to join white pupils in the ' schools . Wallace used his state police to block integration of schools in Birmingham , Mobile , and Tuskegee today . Then , a f ter they were served with the injunction tonight , he order ed them replaced with " several units " of national guardsmen . An aid to the governor refused to say how many guardsmen were being used and whether they would prevent Negro es @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " protect the school property and students and per ' sonnel from possible disorder . " Wallace , eating steak and shrimp in his lockeeoffice , re . fused to admit marshals trying to serve him with the injunction . They sat outside waiting for him . Demands Free Access The order signed by the five , district judges of Alabama ordered Wallace and a host of state officials , including Al Lingo , the state police chief , to stop " physically preventing or interfering with students , teachers , or other persons " authorized by school officials in the three cities to enter the schools. , It also restrains them from " harassing or punishing a n y students or any other authorized persons " in the schools of the three cities . Katzenbach ort Hand The six-page court order was issued on a complaint filed by the justice department 's civil rights troubleshooter , John Dear , who has been observing Wallace 's maneuvers here since they began a week ago . Deputy Atty . Gen. Nicholas Katzenbach , the man who faced Wallace in the governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Alabama last June , arrived in Birmingham tonight : The five federal judges who sit on the courts are Seybourn H. Lynne , H. Hobart Grooms , and Clarence W. Allgood , all of Birmingham , in the northern district ; Frank M. Johnson Jr . of Montgomery , in the middle district ; and Daniel H. Thomas of Mobile , southern district . After the federal court injunction was issued in Birmingham , White House sources said President Kennedy would wait until tomorrow morning to see whether Walla c e and other state officials comply with the order . If Wallace ignores the new order , Kennedy is expected to issue a " cease and desist " command for the governor to obey the federal injunction . A cease and desist order by the President is the last legal step necessary to permit intervention with federal troops . Kennedy issued such an order against Wallace before federalizing the Alabama national guard to force integration of the university of Alabama at Tuscaloosa on June 11 . Wallace , who challenged the federal government on three fronts today by using state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools to be integrated in a fourth city  --  Huntsville . The governor 's action set Negro attorneys hurrying into federal courts to get other orders to prevent him from interfering with integration . Judge Thomas handed down one such order in Mobile and set a hearing for Sept. 16 on why the order should not be made permanent . Birmingham Request Denied A request for a similar order applying to Birmingham schools was made to Judge Lynne . Lynne withheld an immediate restraining order and set a hearing for Thursday . He said he would not issue such an order without giving parties proper notice . Negro attorneys filed immediate notice of appeal to the 5th United States Circuit Clitirt of Appeals . Wallace challenged the federal government in an early morning statement that went down as one of the most defiant of its kind ever issued by a governor . Wo n't Bow to Force The governor termed the proposed integration " forced and unwarranted " and said he as " the executive head of the law enforcement machinery of the state . . . do hereby order and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public schools of the ' city of Tuskegee Birmingham a n d Mobile . " Shortly after the announcement , state highway patrolmen began rolling up to schools in the three cities . About 300 of the troopers , many armed with shotguns , pistols , and nightsticks , turned up in Birmingham . Another 150 appeared at Mobile , and about 50 surrounded the only white school in Tuskegee. 20 Turned Away The state 's total police force numbers a little over 500 men . The troopers turned away 20 Negroes today ? 5 at Birmingham ; 13 at Tuskegee , and 2 at Mobile . There was no violence , and the only hint of trouble.came at Mobile where a group of 15 or 20 persons , identified by police as potential " troublemakers , " turned up outside Murphy High school , which has been ordered desegregated . Police ordered them to " move on , " and they were invited into a backyard by a homeowner in the area . Fall Into Pattern The confrontations between the patrolmen and the Negro students fell into a pattern as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were accompanied by parents or atlorneys  --  or both  --  and all made a point of establishing that they were being rejected on direct orders of Wallace . Lingo , one of Wallace 's closest aids , was on hand at Graymont elementary school in Birmingham to deal personally with Floyd and Dwight Armstrong , the two Negro boys who succeeded in registering at the school last week . The Armstrongs , accompanied by a number of lawyers , including Ernest Jackson of Jacksonville , arrived at the school at about 9:30 a. m . As the Negroes approached the side door , Lingo announced : " You will go no farther . Here is a copy of the governor 's order . You will leave immediately . " Brings Court Order Jackson tried to introduce members of his group , but Lingo cut him short , saying : " I 'm not concerned . You will leave immediately . " Jackson told Lingo he had a court order the order directing integration of three Birmingham schools and Lingo asked to see it . " If I show you the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ? " " No , " Lingo replied . " Now get out of here . " All four of the Negroes scheduled to integrate four Huntsville schools showed up for classes today . Mrs. Viola Ayer , principal of one of the schools , reported : " Everything is just perfectly normal . There 's not a trooper in sight . "                     