@@726354

txt Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser told U Thant , United Nations secretary general , last night that Egypt was prepared to cooperate in easing ' the threat of war between the Arab world and Israel , the semi-official newspaper Al Ahram reported in Cairo . It was the first report of a possible break in the tension gripping the middle east . Al Ahram , which normally reflects the views of the Egyptian government , published the report after Nasser and Thant held three hours of crisis talks during Thant 's peace mission to Cairo . Paper Quotes Nasser Al Ahram quoted Nasser as telling Thant that Egypt was " fully ready " to facilitate Thant 's task . It added that Egyptian assistance in cooling the crisis would be conditional on a settlement which would not jeopardize Arab rights of sovereignty and security . The major issue in the Arab-Israeli confrontation is Egypt 's blockade of the 3-mile-wide strait of Tiran , the entry to the Gulf of Aqaba , Israel 's only direct link to the east and south thru the Red sea . Al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a move to protect Egyptian rights of sovereignty and security . Egypt claims the waterway is part of Egyptian terri-totry Discuss Gulf Blockade The Cairo newspaper said Nasser told Thant the blockade had restored ' the status quo in the tense region . But Al Ahram said Egypt was prepared " to shoulder its responsibilities in all circumstances . " There was no official comment from Thant on his talks with Nasser , but Thant appeared grim and tired when he returned to his hotel from the conference . Thant was scheduled to fly back to New York today . The Cairo report said Nasser told Thant that Egypt believed in the United Nations and its principles and appreciated the role Thant played in the withdrawal last week of the U. N. peace-keeping force from the frontier between Egypt and Israel . Nasser demanded that the troops pull out , and Thant reluctantly but promptly acceded . Sympathizes with Thant Al Ahram said Nasser also sympathized with Thant " for the strong pressure to which he was subjected on the part of same major powers and their satellites . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the peace-keeping force was withdrawn too hurriedly . There was no report of Egypt relaxing its blockade on the Gulf of Aqaba to seal off the Israeli port of Eilat or withdrawing any troops from its bristling border with Israel . On the contrary , the Cairo newspaper Al Akhbar published today what it reported to be Egyptian military order No. 1 . The order decreed a national state of emergency . Seek to Avert Disaster Diplomats in around the clock consultations were seeking to find a way of averting impending disaster . In widespread developments : President Charles de Gaulle , meeting with his cabinet in Paris , proposed that France , the United States , . Britain , and Russia coordinate their conflicting policies to prevent a war in the middle east . British Prime Minister Harold Wilson also reaffirmed Britain 's determination to keep the Gulf of Aqaba open to international shipping . British warships in the Mediterrean were told to remain on station in event they were needed . Wilson gave his pledge to keep the gulf open to Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Advised to Use Restraint In Moscow , British Foreign Secretary George Brown advised the Soviet Union to use restraint in wielding its influence in the mid east crisis and called on the Kremlin to join in re-establishing a U. N. presence in the middle east . The Soviet Union , however , nas utrown as support minty behind the Arabs and pledged resolute resistance to any aggression by Israel . In London , diplomatic sources said the general lines of a compromise peace proposal were begining to emerge from urgent diplomatic discussions in world capitals . Call for Withdrawal They said the general lines of the evolving proposal call for simultaneous withdrawal of Arab and Israeli forces from the border areas and the placing of U. N. pilots aboard all ships going thru the Gulf of Aqaba to make certain they do not violate Egyptian waters . Ship insurance firms in London which keep track of shipping around the world said there were no merchant vessels at present in the immediate vicinity of the gulf whose presence might raise Egyptian objections . Insurance officials said none was expected for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , in a note delivered to Egyptian Foreign Minister Riad Tuesday night , warned that Washington would use force if necessary to keep the Gulf of Aqaba , Israel 's southern lifeline to the sea , open to shipping . Violation of Law The sources said United States A m b assador-designate Richard H. Nolte passed the strong United States view to Riad and told him U. A. R. interference with free traffic in the Gulf of Aqaba would constitute an act of aggression and violation of international law . The United States was reported to have made it clear it " would act against aggression by all measures inside and outside the United Nations " and would take action against any nation involved , " no matter who was guilty . " The warning was delivered shortly after President Johnson in a Washington statement declared the Arab blockade " illegal and potentially disastrous to the cause of peace . " In Washington , a White House spokesman said he was unaware of any instructions to the ambassador in Cairo to warn Egypt that the United States would use force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Egypt had brought matters to a head by closing the Strait of Tiran , the 4-mile-wide mouth of the Gulf of Aqaba , which is the vital water way leading , to Israel 's southern port of Eilat . Israel denounced the blockade action as aggression and girded for the eventuality of war . Premier Levi Eshkol 's government was in continuous contact with the United States , Britain , France , and Russia . Informed sources made it clear Israel is irrevocably committed to reopening the Strait of Aqaba one way or another . However , the Israelis were reported willing to bide their time to await the outcome of peace attempts by Thant , Eban and other world statesmen . Israel made three demands it said could end the mid-east crisis : Reopening of the Gulf of Aqaba , reduction of troop concentrations by both sides in the Sinai desert , and the halting of guerrilla attacks on Israel from neighboring Arab states . Informed sources said Israel is irrevocably committed to reopening the Strait of Tiran now blocked by U. A. R. mines , one way or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red sea , the Indian ocean and African and Asian markets . Iraqis in Syria But more Arab troops- were moving toward Israel 's borders . Reports from Syria said Iraqi infantry soldiers were moving into Syria to bolster that nation 's armed forces and Lebanon ordered all former soldiers to report to army headquarters . Saudi Arabia announced general mobilization of its armed forces and a state of alert on direct orders of King Faisal . Jordan gave permission for Iraqi and Saudi Arabian forces to enter Jordan , an official spokesman said in Amman . Premier Saad Juma'a said Jordan fully supported the closing of the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping .                     