@@728285

txt Representative William Cahill , the Republican Governor-elect , who will take office Jan. 20 , named a new state Attorney General today to lead a consolidated statewide attack against organized crime and official corruption . in New Jersey , Moving swiftly into the mounting furor surrounding the Federal indictments yesterday of Mayor Hugh J. Addonizio of Newark and some former and present city officials and those Tuesday of one of New Jersey 's biggest Mafia-controlled illegal gambling syndicates , Mr. Cahill declared : " Let the message . go out loud and clear that New Jersey will no longer tolerate organized crime in the state . " Kugler Introduced Mr. Cahill appeared at a news conference here this morning to introduce George F. Kugler Jr. , a 44-year-old Camden County trial lawyer who he said he would nominate to succeed Arthur J. Sills , Attorney General under Gov . Richard J. Hughes , a Democrat . Mr. Kugler said he had virtually no background in law enforcement and had never been active in Camden County Republican circles . Mr. Cahill also made two other important announcements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney General John N. Mitchell to establish in New Jersey the nation 's first statewide attack on organized crime and public corruption combined in a unified strike force of Federal , state and local law enforcement authorities . He said also he would involve himself deeply in the fight against crime by investing in his new counsel , Pierre Garven , high responsibility in coordinating gubernatorial prerogatives with the law enforcement 's powers of the Attorney Gen-1 eral 's office . As a result , he said the 46-year-old Mr. Garven , who is now a Bergen County District Judge and a former criminal prosecutor in the United States Attorney 's office , would be accorded Cabinet status in his new administration . Neither Mr. Cahill nor his two nominees would comment on the Federal indictments ininvolving the Addonizio administration and the illegal gambling syndicate allegedly controlled by Simone Rizzo ( Sam the Plumber ) DeCavalcante , the reputed top Mafioso of one of New Jersey 's biggest criminal syndicates . Mr. Cahill said that any state responsibility in this area was still vested with Governor Hughes and Mr. Sills . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cahill was asked if he felt Governor Hughes was " soft " on organized crime . " No comment , " replied Mr. Cahill . " Were you shocked by the indictments in Newark ? " Mr. Cahill paused for a moment and then replied : " Yes , it would be fair to say that . " He was also asked if he thought the indictments had smeared the reputation of New Jersey , which had been portrayed by the highest law enforcement officials as one of the most corrupt states in the nation and a playground for organized racketeers . Mr. Cahill answered that it was " unfair to castigate the lentire state . " I " This is not the real New Jersey , " he said . " We are still overwhelmingly administered by decent people . " Mr. Cahill said that he and his appointees would meet soon with Frederick B. Lacey , the United States Attorney for New Jersey who is leading the Federal investigation of organized crime and municipal corruption in Newark , as well as with Mr. Sills , and William F. HyI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Afterward , the three Republicans conferred with Governor Hughes , who later described Mr. Kugler and Judge Garven as " commendable " nominees . I The Governor again refused to comment on reports that he had been forewarned about the alleged Mafia association of Ralph DeVita , the Union County District Judge whom he appointed in 1966 and who was indicted on bribery charges last week in a case involving alleged figures in DeCavalcante 's gambling Interests in Elizabeth . According to high Democratic sources , Governor Hughes was given a secret state police intelligence report on Mr. DeVita that alleged that the then assistant prosecutor of Union County had associations with organized crime . Improper to Comment Although Mr. Hughes maintained his silence today despite repeated requests for comment , his executive assistant , Stephen B. Farber , issued the following statement : " It should be clear to anyone who has even the most remote concept of American justice that it would be grossly improper and unethical for the Governor or anyone else to make specific comments on this case , or any case pending before the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense or the prosecution . " As for Mr. Kugler , Mr. Cahill said that he would be " one of the greatest attorneys general in the history of New Jersey " and that his choice culminated a statewide search . Although he made at least one television appearance for Mr. Cahill in the recent gubernatorial campaign , Mr. Kugler said his past political activity had , been confined largely to running for president of his local Little League organization .. One leading Republican here said he never heard of him until today . Actually , ' Mr. Kugler was understood not to be Mr. Cahill 's first choice for the job . At various times , discussions involved Nelson G. Gross , the Republican state chairman who directed Mr. Cahill 's landslide victory , and State Senator ' William T. Hiering , an Ocean County Republican and a close friend of Mr. Cahill . Mr. Gross is expected to run for the Republican nomination next year to oppose United States Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr : Mr. Cahill also reportedly sought former Federal Judge Arthur S. Lane of nearby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both major parties , Mr. Cahill and Mr. Kugler , a tall . lean , quiet spoken man with receding hair and deep-set brown eyes , face the enormous task of restoring public confidence in New Jersey government and law enforcement at every level . Asked jointly today what they would do about the municipal crisis of government in Newark , Mr. Cahill replied : " If any impairment there takes place after Jan. 20 , then we will take whatever steps are appropriate . " However , he cautioned against any speculation . Hudson County Problem For Mr. Cahill , one of his first political tests will involve his appointment of a new prosecutor in Hudson County , which informed sources identified as the county Mr. Lacey was referring to in a speech Jest month when he said : " In still another county , the situation , deprived of its tragedy , would be laughable if not ludicrous . The mob and law enforcement are so intertwined as to be indistinguishable . " The incumbent Hudson prosecutor , James A. Turnulty Jr. , is a Democratic appointee of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the powerful Democratic Hudson boss . Law enforcement officials here speculated whether Mr. Cahill would replace Mr. Tumulty with a Republican lawyer or with a deputy state attorney general . Mr. Kugler assumes responsibility for the state police and the statewide grand jury . which was created last year to investigate organized crime . He said his success would depend not only on a new will by government to fight hard but also on an end of public apathy . The proposed combined strike force was originally discussed last week by Mr. Cahill and Mr. Mitchell , who then clearly indicated that he would c7eate one in New Jersey if . asked by Mr. Cahill to do so .                     