@@722290

txt President Kennedy urged Premier Khrushchev today not to press his proposal for an eighteen-nation summit meeting on disarmament . However , he assured the Soviet leader that he was ready to participate " at any stage of the conference when it appears that such participation could positively affect the chances of success . " Mr. Khrushchev advanced his proposal Sunday in response to a suggestion by the President and Prime Minister Macmillan that the Geneva conference on disarmament open on March 14 at the foreign ministers level . Danger of Setback Cited In a letter sent to Moscow last night and made public by the White House today , the President replied that he did not question " the utility or perhaps even the necessity " of a summit meeting at the proper time . But the proper time , he added , is after " the main problems have been clarified and prop . Tess has been made . " Until then , he said , " intervention by heads of goverment would involve merely a general exchange of governmental positions which might set back , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a separate letter Prime Minister Macmillan expressed similar reservations about holding a summit conference at the start of the Geneva meeting . In Moscow , Soviet propaganda organs pressed the Western powers to agree to a summit meeting at the disarmament conference . Reply Moderate in Tone Mr. Khrushchev 's letter to the Western leaders was marked by an unwonted absence of propaganda charges , and the President 's negative reply was softly turned . But in his news conference today Mr. Kennedy made plain that any apparent easing of tensions in the last few weeks was a matter  --  as he said a week ago  --  of " atmospherics " and not of substance . Thus , when he was asked whether Army reservists might soon be released from active service because of easing of the Berlin crisis , he asserted : " The crisis continues ? ? ? and the need for the reservists continues until there is an easing of the crisis or until we have been able to replace them with other men . " Question 29 , Page 14 . The President reiterated , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Khrushchev . Asked for his view m " summitry " after a year 's experience with all kinds of diplomacy , he replied : " My view is the same as it has been , and that is that a summit is not the place to carry on negotiations which involve details , and that a summit should be a place where perhaps agreements which have been achieved at a lower level could be finally , officially approved by the heads of government , or if there was a major crisis which threatened to involve us all in a war , there might be a need for a summit . " Question 9 . The President 's message to Mr. Khrushchev was carefully phrased to avoid several pit1 falls He did not wish to rebuff the Soviet leader 's suggestion and so give him an opportunity to make " peacemaker " propaganda in nonaligned nations . On the other hand , he did not wish to commit the United States to a summit meeting unless it was warranted by real progress . " As you have suggested , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between our two positions . Just one example is the Soviet unwillingness so far to accord the control organization the authority to verify during the disarmament process that agreed levels of forces and armament are not exceeded . " When the British - United States-Soviet negotiations on a treaty to ban nuclear weapons tests were recessed in deadlock two weeks ago , the United ; States indicated that it would ' like the test question to he given early attention in the disarmament conference . The President said that any nuclear inspection system would have to extend to Communist China . Admitting the difficulties in " attempting to bring them the Chinese Communists in , " he said it would be useless to have an inspection system that would leave a " large " country free to carry on " an intensive armament preparation . " Question 21.                     