@@726817

txt CAPE TOWN , South Africa , Dec. 19 ( Ni  --  South African heart specialists , battling the unknown , resorted to transfusions today to replace vanishing white blood cells of Louis Washkansky . Dr. Christian N. Barnard said Washkansky showed a slight improvement in the 17th day of his life with a transplanted heart , but his condition was still very serious . Barnard headed the 30-member surgical team which made Washkansky the recipient of the world 's first-human heart transplant Dec. 3 , an operation from which he showed marked recovery until last week-end . May Fight Own Tissue A sharp decrease in Washkansky 's white corpuscle count in a few hours today aroused fear that his body was acting against its own tissue more than against the alien substance it could be expected to try to reject , the grafted heart . White blood cells combat infection . Physicians looked strained , but said there was still reason for optimism that the patient , a 53-year-old wholesale grocer long troubled by diabetes as well as a defective heart , would survive . Four donors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably would be repeated later . The decision to try transfusions reportedly was taken on the recommendation of a French blood cancer specialist . Results Often " Remarkable " Botha said this treatment has , on occasion , had " quite remarkable results . " A key figure in the team that performed the transplant , Botha said a United States surgeon , Dr. T. E. Starzl , had encountered similar rejection circumstances in kidney transplants . Working in the Veterans Administration hospital in Denver , Starzl found that most kidney transplant patients whose own tissue had been attacked by the body survived after being ill for about two weeks , Botha said . Difficult to Recognize The heart is a different matter , however , and the doctors are handicapped in trying to recognize rejection when it occurs in Washkansky 's unprecedented case . Earlier it had been assumed that signs of lung infection discovered Saturday indicated pneumonia . - " We are watching all developments closely and playing this by ear , " Botha said . " . . . We were very well aware of this danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 6peration with the awareness that some iorm or other of rejection was a strong possibility . " Washkansky 's appetite , which had been good , has declined . However , he said he was " feeling a little better than on Sunday . "                     