@@723605

txt military strength , a key American official unintentionally has illustrated a basic United States dilemma in Europe . Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara declared unequivocally Monday that the Western powers were stronger than the Soviet bloc , not only in nuclear firepower , but in the number of foot soldiers on the ground in Central Europe . Two Purposes Seen Ground forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) totaled 3,200,000 men , Mr. McNamara said , of whom 2,200,000 were in Europe , against a total of about 3,000,000 soldiers for the Communist powers of the Warsaw Pact , including those Soviet troops sta-r tioned outside Europe . As to firepower , Mr. McNamara spoke of " thousands " of United States nuclear warheads in Western Europe , which had helped to increase NATO 's military effectiveness by more than 60 percent in the last two years . Mr. McNamara 's bold report may have had two purposes  --  to put Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev bluntly on warning and to re .. - assure Western allies , particularly West Germany , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American strength in Europe . But many Europeans , while gratified at the superiority of Western strength , doubtless will read another aspect into the speech . Why , they will ask , if the West already is so much stronger than the Soviets , does the United States urge us to increase our defense , . budgets and put more men under arms ? U.S. Presses NATO The ? answer is that the United States bears a disproportionately high percentage of NATO 's defense budget and would like to share out this enormous expense more fairly . Only West Germany , among NATO 's major European members , has fully met its NATO force obligations . The rest , including Britain , France , and Italy , lag behind . Persistently the United States presses its allies to live up to their obligations and , in particular , to increase their percentage of NATO ground troops on the line . A report of the magnitude and import of Mr. McNamara 's address tends , in European eyes , to sweep away in a moment the validity of A7merican urgings for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forestall this by saying : " None of this is to say that NATO strength on the ground in Europe is adequate to turn back without nuclear weapons an all-out surprise nonnuclear attack . " Six Divisions Pledged Western European economies now were strong , Mr. Eisenhower declared ; they possessed imposing balances of gold , and it was time " they were doing more of their work . " But West Germany , as the most exposed member of the alliance , successfully has put the strongest diplomatic pressure on the United States to maintain its present ground force level in Europe . President Kennedy recently pledged that six American divisions , plus additional ground elements , would remain in Europe as long as they were needed . For the United States to withdraw troops now , it is felt . might break up the solidarity of NATO and cause West Germany to seek , perhaps in cooperation with France , a nuclear defense , of its own . The result would be a Western military combination far less amenable to United States control . So the United States appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since , under present circumstances , it can not persuade its European allies to do more .                     