@@725285

txt The biggest space hero in 1967 may be another monkey . Around the middle of next year , scientists will rocket a " pigtail monkey , " about three years old and weighing 15 pounds , into a 30-day trip around the globe . If all goes well . he 'll provide space officials with vast quantities of medical data needed before sending a man beyond the moon or launching a manned orbital laboratory . Specifically , it is hoped the monkey will provide " objective evidence on the inner state of the brain , heart and kidneys , " says Dr. W. Ross Adey , chief of some of the crucial monkey experiments . Just who the monkey will be is n't yet known , but he will be a pigtail monkey ( or , technically , a macacus nemestrina monkey ) and a friend of Pete , who lives at General Electric Co. ' s space technology center here in the Pennsylvania Dutch country . Pete already has paved the way by spending 30 days locked up without major problems in a mockup of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buddy will be only the second U.S. monkey to orbit the earth , although several took suborbital trips . The first to go into orbit , a chimpanzee named Enos , took two spins around the earth in late 1961 and returned to wide . public acclaim just before John Glenn 's historic flight ( Enos died a year later of babiral eatiseS. ) fleckingBrain Waves The monkey taking the 1967 trip will be hooked up to some of the most sophisticated medical instruments ever sent aloft . As the monkey sits in his nylon mesh suit with only his head and arms free to move , 14 electrodes deep in his brain will record brain waves ; six sensors in his heart and- major blood vessels will record blood pressure ; sensors taped to his skin will show muscle deterioration , stress , changes in skin temperature and how much he is dreaming , and a device will analyze his urine . " There 's no pain , no harm , " says Charles A. Wilson , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's project manager for the biosatellite program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't be viewed with great popularity by a human . " The monkey 's flight will be more than twice as long as the longest manned space trip to date , the 14-day journey of U.S. astronauts Frank Borman and James Lovell last month . How the monkey will react is n't known . In the test with Pete , " he did n't eat much the first couple of days , but after that he became acclimated , " says Ralph A. Miller , a GE engineer here . " When he got out , he was a little disheveled , he could n't walk and he was docile but he was n't too unhappy . " Mr. Miller says he is " one of the guys Pete does n't like , " but the monkey was too tired of space research at the time to take a swipe at the engineer . Back to the Good Life The tests on the orbiting monkey concern the effects of weightlessness or inactivity . The urine samples , for instance , will measure calcium , which bed-ridden people  --  and astronauts ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this loss is substantial , says a GE scientist , astronauts could be easily subject to bone fractures on long trips . Similarly , the heart and vessels are being watched because in weightlessness the heart is relieved from pumping blood against gravity and does n't work as hard , and the volume of red cells in the blood decreases . The brain probes will indicate what is happening to the monkey 's judgment  --  whether he pushes the button for banana pellets as quickly as usual ? and whether he is dreaming . Tests on earth show that unless man dreams during 25% of his sleep , his judgment when awake is impaired and his behavior is sometimes " unusual . " The monkey will be launched from Cape Kennedy atop a Douglas Aircraft Co . Delta rocket . His orbit , similar to that followed by Mercury and Gemini astronauts , will be 195 miles above the earth . He will pass over North or South America every 96 minutes , and each time radios aboard the biosatellite will send back data from the medical devices . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward earth and , if all goes well , will be snatched in the air by an Air Force 0130 plane near Hawaii . The planned trip is part of a broad study into how biological specimens react to outer space . By late this year , a binsatellite will carry such-diverse objects as amoeba ( to observe the rate of cell , division ) , wheat seedlings and insects through space for three days ; after the monkey flight , a 21-day flight of rats is planned . If the past is any guide ( and if the monkey does n't give his life for his country ) , the orbiting monkey will come back to a life of fame and ease . Enos lived a hero 's life for the year before he died . And Ham , a chimp who took a wellpublicized suborbital trip in 1961 , now is lolling in retirement at the Washington zoo .                     