@@722332

txt UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. , March ** United States refused today to give a commitment to refrain from stationing nuclear weapons on the territory of its allies in the existing world situation . George W. Ball , Under Secretary of State , informed U Thant , the Acting Secretary General of the United Nations , that " for reasons that are well understood , " the United States and its allies rely upon both conventional and nuclear weapons for individual and collective self-defense , " a right recognized by the Charter of the United Nations . " In a thrust at the Soviet Union , Mr. Ball added that " both the United States and its allies have chosen these arrangements recognizing that nuclear weapons are a necessary deterrent to a potential aggressor who is armed with such weapons , and openly threatens the free world . " Guarantees Required Mr. Ball 's letter , dated yesterday and made public today , did not mention the Soviet offer two days ago to withkold nuclear weapons , and the information required to produce them , from other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Ball said that in the present world situation nations would be willing to give up " vital elements of their security arrangements " only after they were sure that their security was adequately guaranteed " by effective disarmament and peace-keeping measures . " Mr. Ball added that the question of preventing the further spread of nuclear weapons could " only be finally resolved in the context of general and complete disarmament with adequate control . " He suggested that this issue be considered by the new Disarmament Commit // tee , which held its first meeting in Geneva today . The Soviet offer to withhold nuclear bombs from other countries is being used here and in Geneva to support a longstanding Soviet campaign for the establishment of nuclearfree zones in Central Europe and elsewhere . The establishment of the Central European zone would require United States forces in West Germany to divest themselves of nuclear weapons . It would also bar West Germany from acquiring nuclear weapons , or the information needed to produce them , from the Western powers , if they should decide to make them available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and opposed by the United States , the General Assembly requested Mr. Thant last December to ask countries not possessing nuclear weapons under what conditions they would agree not to allow nuclear weapons on their territory and not to manufacture or otherwise acquire nuclear bombs . Since the nuclaer powers were asked to give " their fullest cooperation in carrying out the resolution Mr. Thant asked the views of the United States , the Soviet Union , and all members of the United Nations . U. S. Actions Noted Mr. all , acting as Secretary of State while Dean Rusk is at the Geneva conference , told Mr. Thant that the United States ' actions had demonstrated its opposition to the " proliferation " of nuclear weapons . Laws forbidding the transfer of ownership or control of such weapons are a " keystone " of ' United States nuclear policy , he said , and the transfer of weapons limitation ? also is " severely " limited . Mr. Ball 's letter did not mention another resolution , adopted by the General Assembly last November over United States opposition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be guilty of " a crime against mankind and civilization . " The resolution asked Mr. Thant to find out whether United Nations members would favor holding a special conference to adopt a convention prohibiting their use . The Soviet Union informed Mr. Thant two days ago that it favored such a conference . United States sources indicated today that the State Department 's reply would be submitted soon . The United States is expected to repeat its previous position that nuclear weapons , not merely their use , should be prohibited under a comprehensive disarmament program with effective controls .                     