@@722742

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 26 ? The White House made public tonight a new intelligence report showing that construction of Soviet missile bases in Cuba was proceeding at a rapid rate with the apparent intention of " achieving a full operational capability as soon as possible . " High officials said that such work could not be allowed to continue indefinitely . There was some encouragement here tonight when it became known that Premier Khrushchev had agreed , in response to an appeal by U Thant , Acting Secretary General of the United Nations , to order Soviet ships bound for Cuba to stay away temporarily from the blockade zone . Missile Sites Crucial However , officials here have always thought that the real clue to Soviet intentions was not whether the Russians would attempt to challenge the blockade but whether they would continue or discontinue con. struction work on the offensive missile sites . Therefore , President Kennedy , in a message to Mr. Thant assuring him that American ships would do everything possible to avoid a direct confrontation with Soviet ships outside the blockade zone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be withdrawn . " I must point out to you , " he wrote to Mr. Thant , " that present work on these systems is still continuing . " The verified cessation of work on these sites , . officials said , was a prime condition for agreements by the United States to enter into talks with the Soviet Union , Direct Action Weighed Officials close to rapidly moving developments indicated that , unless work on the sites came to a halt within a few days , the United States must consider what further action should be taken toward achieving its firm objective of the elimination of the missiles . These and other developments strengthened the impression in the capital that the Government was looking beyond the effort to settle the Cuban crisis at the United Nations and toward the possibility of further direct action by the United States . The general expectation here Was that the Soviet Union would refuse to meet the American condition that the construction must be brought to a verified halt before talks on the substance of the dispute // CAPITAL IS STERN ' AS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Weighed by Leaders // could begin . These were the elements in the evolving situation that underlined the Government 's apparent resolution : On a meeting this morning of the executive committee of the National Security Council , according to . informed sources , Adlai E .. Stevenson , United to make clear to Mr. Thant that the United States was immovable in its determination to get the missile bases out of . Cuba . The White House said this afternoon that " the Soviets are rapidly continuing their construction of missile and launch facilities " and gave no evidence of " any intention to dismantle or discontinue work on these missile sites . " The State Department this morning drew attention to a sentence in President Kennedy 's speech of Monday night that read : " Should these offensive military preparations continue , thus increasing the threat of the hemisphere , further action will be justified . ' I qIn the Organization of American States , Latin-American Ambassadors agreed with the United States view that the resolution unanimously approved last Tuesday gave the United States and other members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases by force if necessary . Although Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , denied reports that Congressional leaders had been asked by the President to return to Washington next Monday , sources on Capitol Hill said these leaders understood after the second meeting with the President on Wednesday that they would return Monday for a report and further ' discussion of the situation . The White House also announced that President and Mrs. Kennedy would postpone their state visit to Brazil next month . The President planned to meet tomorrow with the Civil Defense Committee of the Governors Conference , a group headed by Governor Rockefeller . Activity Found Continuing In its statement. ; the White House said ' ttiat , as of yesterday , " definite buil-ups in these offensive missile sites continued to be made . " " The activity of these sites , " the statement continued , " apparently is directed at achieving a full operational capability as soon as possible . " At the sites being constructed for intermediate-range ballistic missiles , with a reported reach of more than 2,000 miles , the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actively clearing new areas within the sites and improving the approach roads to the launch pads . " " For example , " the White House reported , " missiles were observed parked in the open on Oct. 23 . Surveillance on Oct. 25 revealed that some of these same missiles have now been moved from their original parked positions . Cabling can be seen running from the missile-ready tents to power generators nearby . " Conditions on U.N . Talks Officials did not expect the to be reached in gunfire it sea but in the political arena it the United Nations over the conditions he United States will set on the ' beginning to talks . officials . said these conditions are three : First , work on the missile Res shall stop and not be reRimed . Second , the missiles and the ites shall be made and remain otally inoperable . Third , no more offensive mislies shall be sent to Cuba . The United ' States , officials aid , will insist that each of these steps must be verified by bservers sent by the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rnion would agree to these conitions , reinforced by inspection . consequently the White . House lay have to decide over the weekend what further actions to take . Officials said there were several possible actions short of invasion . The most likely , it is believed , would be the extension of the blockade to include all goods . Some officials here are dissatisfied with the limitation of contraband to offensive weapons . They argue that this does not touch the problem since oil , food , machinery and spare parts can be brought in to keep the economy limping along while the missiles are already there in sufficient number to pose a real threat . Another alternative under consideration is pinpoint bombing of the missile sites .. A third , which would be an accompaniment of either of the first two , would be encouragement of guerrilla warfare . Officials are quite aware that the Soviet Union might respond to either a total blockade or pinpoint bombing by retaliatory action against the access routes to Berlin . This is a matter of great concern , because any action against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retreating in Berlin or fighting for it would probably arouse concern among our European allies . Some officials fear that in such a situation the support that the President had so far ' had from the NATO countries might weaken . However , officials here say that this was a risk accepted when the Cuban policy was framed . Furthermore , they say that the allies must also recognize that failure to carry through in Cuba would also gravely impair the West 's position in Berlin by casting doubt on the credibilty of the United States pledge to " fight , for Berlin . Pentagon ' Stresses Threat If the Soviet Union should agree to the United States conditions , the Administration would be willing to halt the blockade and begin talks aiming at the dismantling of the sites . But officials said that before United States ships were withdrawn some way must be established to insure that Soviet vessels do not continue to enter Cuban harbors . They point out that it would be ec.sy for United Nations observers to verify that work on missile sites had stopped . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House statement that the construction of ballistic missile bases in Cuba was proceeding at an accelerated pace . Also for emphasis apparently , the Pentagon announced an unusual flurry of launchings of the United States ' own longrange ballistic missiles for training or scientific purposes . The Pentagon pointed out the following : ? Two Thors , the 1,500-mile intermediate-range ballistic missile , were used in scientific booster missions , one in the launching of a nuclear device over Johnston Island in the Pacific last midnight , and the other in the launching of an unidentified satellite from Vandenberg Air Force Base . Also at Vandenberg , an Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile , with a credited range of 6,000 miles , Was launched in a " rout* training " test . Titan II ICBM was launched 5,000 miles a development test at Patrick Air ForcesBase , Florida , the Pentagon said .                     