@@724371

txt Washington The stiff United States policy toward Cuba will continue into 1965 . The Johnson administration is expected to keep Cuban Premier Fidel Castro at arm 's length . While there is evidence Havana had hoped President Johnson would take another look at United States-Cuban relations after the turn of the year , State Department and Organization of American States officials seem sure this will not take place . At this stage of relations with Cuba American planners feel that only establishment of a non-Communist government in Cuba a9c1 the removal of all Soviet military arms from the island would bring the United States to change its policy . Meanwhile , the Cuban economy is in serious condition . This can no longer be hidden by the Castro regime . Havana and Moscow The American shipping blacklist pressure continues , and Washington expects a decrease in Western shipping trade with Cuba in 1965 , after the small increase registered this year . United States pressure on free world shippers has been unremitting . Quietly a number of European nations plan to drop their shipping business in 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about relations with the Soviet Union since the overthrow of Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev . With the Cuban leader it is a matter of uncertainty . There is concern in Havana that Soviet aid totaling more than $300 million a year may be cut back . Western diplomatic evidence from Moscow , however , suggests that the Soviets are too deeply committed to cut Cuba loose from Soviet aid now . Diplomatic reports from Havana are almost unanimous that the removal of Mr. Khrushchev from the seat of power in the Kremlin took the Cuban ruler aback . He had been personally impressed by the former Soviet Premier . Soviet ' Fishing ' Of immediate concern to the Washington administration is the construction by the Soviet Union of a complex fishing base in Havana harbor . It is being watched meticulously by every possible intelligence means . United States sources say , however , the base for deep ocean trawlers so far shows no signs of housing Soviet submarines or that the fishing ships are being equipped with espionage equipment , such as radar . This Havana harbor base ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European Communist technicians too ? remains a highly sensitive question in the administration . The 2,000 to 4,000 Soviet technicians and military advisers still in Cuba , according to American intelligence reports , are scattered all over the island and could not be put together as a military unit . Safety Catches On Russians are found in the Cuban Army , Air Force , and Navy  --  with no special emphasis evident . Cubans do man the Soviet-manufactured antiaircraft SAMs , capable of shooting high-flying American jets , officials here say . But they hasten to insist that the possible use of the SAMs against United States planes is " politically controlled " by Moscow . By this they mean that President Castro is deeply conscious that the island 's teetering economy can not live without Soviet aid and that the Cubans would never shoot at United States reconnaisance planes without Moscow approval . Washington holds that the Soviets have told the Cuban regime to be extremely cautious and not to touch the American overflights . By Russell R. Lenz . Chief Cartographer What Next for Castro 's Island ?  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          