@@725134

txt Washington The majesty of " equal justice under law " is moving a strong step further into the protection of constitutional rights for the Negro . A fresh program of legislation and executive actions has been laid before Congress and the President which would literally come to the rescue of beleaguered Negroes and civil-rights workers who have been deprived of eaual justice . Its chances of being adopted are considered excellent . The moving force once again is a distinguished group of citizens on the Congress-created United States Commission on Civil Rights . Its new recommendations would continue where the Civil Rights Law of 1964 and the Voting Rights Law of 1965 ? which continued many of the commission 's earlier recommendations  --  left off . The proposals are based on firsthand field investigation in Mississippi , Alabama , Georgia , and Florida . Recommendations offered They focused on failures of local officials to prevent or punish individuals found responsible for acts of racial violence . The commission recommends that : ? It be made a federal crime to threaten , intimidate , or punish an individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stationed at the scene of likely violence , or in communities where violence has occurred , so that they can engage in " extensive investigative and surveillance activities . " That they be empowered to make on-thescene arrests for violations of federal law . That ? their staffs , especially the United States marshals , be strengthened , organized , and trained for the specialized task of curbing racial violence . ? Federal courts try cases of racial violence where state laws are violated but where " the inadequate action of local officials constitutes a denial of equal protection in the administration of justice . " The trial would be in the same state and federal districts , but would permit the selection of a jury from " a wider geographical area , " and would ordinarily be in a place other than where the crime was committed . ? The attorney general be given increased power to initiate court proceedings for equal treatment . He could then sue to prevent all-white juries being selected on a discriminatory basis . He can not now initiate suit , but can only intervene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as individual policemen be made legally liable for police misconduct . ? The personnel of local law-enforcement agencies be required to be selected on a nondiscriminatory basis , under Title 7 of the 1964 Civil Rights Act . Local failure basis The principle on which the commission based its report was stated thus : " Where local authorities fail to protect persons exercising constitutionally guaranteed rights , or where general racial violence , unchecked by local enforcement officials , deters individuals from exercising such rights . . . federal protection should be accorded . " The commission 's report began with three quotations : From the Constitution of the United States : " All executive and judicial officers , both of * Please turn to . Page 11 New goals targeted for civil rights // the United States and of the several States , shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation to support this Constitution . . . . " From the Mississippi State Constitution  --  the oath of office required of public officials in that state : " I . . . do solemnly swear ( or affirm ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and the Constitution of the State of Mississippi , and obey the laws thereof . . . . " Subversive label From a concurring opinion on Cooper v. Aaron by the Supreme Court of the United States , Associate Justice Felix Frankfurter concurring : " For those in authority . . . to defy the law of the land is profoundly subversive not only of our constitutional system but of the presuppositions of a democratic society . " The commission 's report then commenced with this statement : " This report is a study of the failure of local officials in several Southern states to adhere to their oath of office to support the federal Constitution . . . . " The main body of the report begins : " Racial violence against Negroes in the South is lawlessness with a history and a purpose . First with explicit and then with implicit legal sanction , violence has been used since the early days of slavery to maintain and reinforce the traditional subservient position of the Negro . Contemporary problems of violence against Negroes should be viewed in the context @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged The following are excerpts from the " findings " by the commission : During 1963 and 1964 , severe outbreaks of racial violence occurred in several communities in Mississippi . In many cases , law enforcement officials failed in their duty to prevent or punish acts of racial violence . Specifically , law enforcement officers : ( a ) Failed to protect Negroes from preventable acts of violence ; ( b ) Failed to conduct adequate investigations of incidents of violence ; ( c ) Arrested or abused victims of violence who reported incidents to them ; ( d ) Allied themselves or publicly expressed sympathy with extremist racist groups ; and ( e ) Failed to prosecute adequately cases in which arrests were made . . . . - Abuses outlined The responsibility for the enforcement of state law rests on elected county officials . There is virtually no state supervision over the conduct of these officials , with the result that there is , in effect , a local option on the enforcement of state law . . . . Local officials in communities studied by the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not permit persons to exercise the right to assemble peaceably to make known their grievances . Civil-rights demonstrators were repeatedly arrested , dispersed , or left unprotected before angry crowds , without regard for the right to public protest assured by the Constitution . . . . When participants in. civil-rights activities were arrested , local officials often abused their discretion in the administration of criminal justice by : ( a ) Imposing harsh and discriminatory bail requirements both as punishment and deterrent ; ( b ) Imposing harsh and discriminatory sentences and fines ; ( c ) Utilizing the latitude permitted in juvenile proceedings to curtail or penalize participation in constitutionally protected activities ; and ( d ) Subjecting demonstrators to intolerable jail conditions designed to inflict punishment . . . . Laws called inadequate The present criminal remedies available to the federal government to punish racial violence are the remnants of broad reconstruction legislation and are inadequate . The fundamental problem is that the the principal statutes . . . require , in one form or another , proof that the defendant intended to deprive the victim of federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . limited the usefulness of these statutes as remedies for racial violence . . . . Because of the inadequacies of existing law , the Department of Justice has found considerable difficulty in prosecuting cases of racial violence . The result has been an unfortunate absence of prosecutions despite the seriousness and scope of the problem ... The federal antiinjustice statute . . . prevents a federal court from enjoining state court proceedings against defendants who are being prosecuted for constitutionally protected activity . . . . The president has express statutory authority to use force to protect a class of citizens when local officials fail to protect them from widespread violence . These sources of presidential powers are broad enough to permit the use of whatever federal force may be required to protect federal rights . The policy of the federal government , which has limited the use of force to situations involving a court order , has in many situations prevented the prompt use of federal force to prevent racial violence . As a consequence persons have been injured and the exercise of federal rights deterred . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume these responsibilities ( to assure their citizens the rights guaranteed by the federal Constitution ) action by the federal government will no longer be needed . . . . In some instances , prosecutors have failed to carry out their duties properly . In the few cases in which persons have been prosecuted for violence against Negroes , grand juries and petit juries  --  from which Negroes have been systematically excluded and which express deeply rooted community attitudes  --  have failed to indict or convict . Members of the commission are John A. Hannah , chairman , president of Michigan State University ; Euguene C. Patterson , vice-chairman , editor of the Atlanta Constitution ; Frankie M. Freeman , associate general counsel , St. Louis Housing and Land Clearance Authorities ; Erwin N. Griswold , dean , Harvard University School of Law ; The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburch , president of Notre Dame University ; and Robert S. Rankin , professor of political science , Duke University . The staff director is William L. Taylor . Subsequent dispatches will report further details from the report and the testimony taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recommendations , and a separate statement issued by Dean Griswold.                     