@@727772

txt King Hussein of Jordan , saying he spoke with the " personal authority " of President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic , offered Israel for the first time today an explicit public pledge of free navigation through the Suez Canal as part of a siic-point settlement . The bulk of the proposals repeated the terms of the United Nations resolution of November , 1967 , previously accepted by both Jordan and Egypt and , subject to negotiations on carrying it out , by Israel . In a luncheon speech at the National Press Club , King Hussein reaffirmed that the Arabs had accepted the resolution and were ready to implement it , emphasizing that from the Arab viewpoint the " crux " of the Middle East stalemate is the plight of the Palestinian Arab refugees . Suggests Compensation " Once their rights have been restored ? by Israel 's acceptance of their right to repatriation or compensation ? then the final step toward peace will not be far off , " the 33-year-old monarch asserted . This step , he said , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in peace within secure and recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of force . " But until refugee rights are restored , King Hussein declared , he " would not stop " the Arab commando raids against Israel . " I am not willing to be responsible for the security of the forces of occupation , " he asserted . " it is the intolerable situation that produces the commandos , not the commandos who provoke the situation . " Has Talk With Nixon After his 40-minute speech , the King had a farewell talk with President Nixon at the White House to conclude a three-day state visit here . In a joint statement the two leaders said they recognized " the compelling need to seek actively a just and lasting peace " in the Middle East . Mr , Nixon endorsed in principle Jordan 's demands that Israel withdraw her troops from captured Jordanian territory as part of the settlement . He reaffirmed American support for " the territorial integrity " of Jordan . The statement did not mention details of a settlement , although it was reliably reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jordanian position on the elements of a settlement . In a question period after his talk , the King said that , realistically speaking , he recognized that " Israel is there " ? in the Middle East ? " and there to stay . " The tone of these and other comments today took him further than any other Arab leader toward offering to make peace and to recognize Israel 's existence and her security rights , as part of the over-all settlement . Nonetheless , his demands for complete Israeli withdrawal from all captured Arab territories and his demand that Israel agree to repatriate or compensate Palestinian refugees conflict with the Israeli position that these are subjects for faceto-face negotiation . King Hussein was understood to have emphasized in private as well as in public the Jordanian demand that Israel return the Arab sector of Jerusalem to Arab control . The United States was reported to have explored the possibilities for some joint ArabIsraeli management of a unified city of Jerusalem rather than leaving part in Israeli hands and part in Jordanian hands . Washington has never recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his press club speech , King Hussein said with slow , deep-voiced emphasis : " We can not envision any settlement that does not include the return of the Arab part of the City of Jerusalem to us with all our holy places . " Several times in his speech , King Hussein charged that there was " no basis " for direct negotiations with Israel because she had not yet accepted the United Nations resolution . Israeli officials charged this was a " distortion " and noted that on Oct. 8 , 1968 , at the United Nations , the Israeli For-1 eign Minister , Abba Eban , dec lared : " Israel has accepted ' the Security Council resolution for the establishment of a just and lasting peace and declared its readiness to negotiate agreements on all the principles mentioned therein . " The acceptance , Israeli officials said , was repeated in a private communication last I week to the United Nations representative for the Middle East , Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring . One neutral diplomat suggested that both sides were talking primarily for propaganda , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than once , with Mr. Eban . The real problems , neutral observers commented , are over substance rather than procedure . Although Israeli officials were critical of King Hussein 's speech , American officials were ) pleased by it , especially by the references to Israeli passage through the Gulf of Aqaba and the Suez Canal . It was only on this point that King Hussein went beyond previously stated Arab positions . Normally , Arab spokes. men have referred to passage through international waterways , occasionally naming the Gulf of Aqaba , but not the Suez Canal . The peace proposal , which King Hussein said the " Arabs are making Israel , " was as follows : ilThe end of all beligerency . Crespect for and acknowledgement of the sovereignty , territorial integrity and political independence of all states in the area . cRecognition of the right of all to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries free from threats of acts of war . Wuaranteeing for all the freedom of navigation through the Gulf of Aqaba and the Suez Canal . CGuaranteeing the territorial inviolability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the establishment of demilitarized zones . CAccepting a last settlement of the refugee problem . In return , King Hussein demanded withdrawal of Israeli forces " from all territories occupied in the June , 1967 , war . " " The challenge that these principles present is that Israel may have either peace or territory ? but she can never have both , " he concluded .                     