@@724052

txt After a flying trip to Gettysburg to explain his reasons to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower , Senator Barry Goldwater told the Senate toText of Goldwater speech is printed on Page 18. night that he would vote against the civil rights bill . He said that the public accommodations and fair employment sections of the bill " fly in the face of the Constitution " and would lead to the " creation of a police state . " The Senate galleries were almost full and about half the 100 Senators were on the floor when Mr. Goldwater spoke . His colleagues gave a respectful hearing to Mr. Goldwater , who is the front-runner for the Republican Presidential nomination . " If my vote is misconstrued , let it be , . and let me suffer its consequences , " the Arizona Senator said . Gov . William W. Scranton of Pennsylvania , - a rival for the Republican nomination , urged Mr. Goldwater to repudiate his opposition to the civil rights bill . Tonight it was difficult to assess the consequences of Mr. Goldwater 's speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his fellow Republicans would cause a reduction in his commanding lead for the nomination . Mr. Goldwater slipped out of Washington unnoticed today in a private airplane and flew to Gettysburg , where he conferred with General Eisenhower at 2 P.M. He undertook the trip to explain to General Eisenhower his reasons for opposing the civil rights bill . The conversation was almost wholly on this subject . Mr. Goldwater 's only comment was , " We see each other about once a month and this was just one of those meetings . " After his Senate speech explaining why he planned to Pole .1 ) 2221 passage I the bill tomorrow , he was asked " if he thought his stand would lose him delegates to the Republican National Convention , opening July 13 in San Fran ( cisco. ti His back already turned , the conservative Senator , who was walking to an elevator , merely shrugged his shoulders expressively . Mr. Goldwater took the Senate floor a little after 6 P.M. He was dressed in a dark blue suit and blue tie . Head down , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York , sat two seats to his left . The Senate Republican leader , Everett Dirksen of Illinois , and Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , moved to empty seats near Mr. Goldwater 's desk in the third row to listen . Opposed to Segregation Mr. Goldwater said twice that he was " unalterably opposed to discrimination or segregation on the basis of race , color or creed , or any other basis . " However , he , attacked the bill 's public accommodations section , which would prohibit discrimination in such businesses as hotels and restaurants . and the fair employment practices section , which would prohibit discrimination in hiring . He termed these sections a " grave threat to the very essence of our basic system of government . " Mr. Goldwater said the two sections were unconstitutional and threatened a " constitutional republic in which 50 sovereign states have reserved to themselves and to the people those powers not specifically granted to the central government . " Although he said his basic objection was constitutional , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of a Federal police force of mammoth proportions " and might create an " informer " psychology in the national life . He said that his vote would be " reluctantly cast " and that he had hoped that the bill would have been altered enough by amendments to permit a vote for it . He said he realized " fully that the Federal Government has a responsibility in the field of civil rights " and that he could have supported the bill without the two sections to which he objected . Position Is Decried Mr. Goldwater had been under pressure from influential Republicans , many of them not unfriendly to his Presidential hopes , to vote for the bill . But , as he said , he has " constantly and consistently " criticized the bill . Some observers believe that Mr. Goldwater , if nominated , may win votes from whites who are disgruntled over Negro militancy on civil rights . Senator Javits called the statement " tragic . " Senator Kenneth B. Keating , Republican of New York , said that it repudiated Abraham Lincoln , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle . " But a Southern Democrat , Senator Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana , said that a " no " vote by Mr. Goldwater might give him a chance to carry the South against President Johnson . " He is going to give the President a tough battle , " Mr. Ellender said . Mr. Javits said that Mr. Goldwater 's stand " enormously complicates our party 's position . " Some delicacy might be required to reconcile a platform plank on civil rights with Mr. Goldwater 's position , he said . Mr. Goldwater , without emotion in his voice , said that the Senate 's failure to vote for softening amendments showed that " emotion and political pressure , not persuasion , not common sense , not deliberation had become the rule of the day . " Here Mr. Goldwater was in I direct conflict with his party 's Senate leadership , which was instrumental in framing the When he began , the chamber was quiet . The galleries were almost full . It was not thought likely that General Eisenhower agreed with Mr. Goldwater 's objections to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in May , the General stressed the need for republican action on civil rights . An informed source said that the two men had ? not discussed Presidential politics as such .                     