@@725520

txt Farmers wary on Johnson Farm state political unrest has the administration hustling to protect the seats of a score of freshmen Democratic congressmen . Farmers are balking at the administration 's antiinflation drive . Their annoyance has been building for about six weeks now . If the budding revolt is not solved  --  and the White House now is moving to try to solve it  --  it could mean that from 20 to 30 freshmen Democrats could feel the impact of the upset at the polls in the fall . Although the administration is , quite naturally , not specifying the Democratic congressional seats made vulnerable by farm unrest , this information is available : Dairy states  --  such as Wisconsin and Minnesota  --  are the center of the farmer dissatisfaction . Also the corn states , particularly Iowa and Illinois . But the unhappiness , it is acknowledged here , spreads throughout the country , in every region where any kind of farming takes place . And it is the freshman congressmen , swept in by the Johnson landslide , who are feeling the political heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one , advised housewives to buy cheaper cuts of meat . Then the Secretary of Agriculture , Orville L. Freeman , was misquoted on farm prices . The headline that did the damage read : " Freeman elated at farm price drop . " This appeared in a national publication , was printed and reprinted around the nation  --  and stirred up a hornets nest . Damage sighted All Mr. Freeman was doing Nvas pointing up the fact that certain abnormalities in farm prices would soon be ironed out . Higher hog production would lessen pork prices . And vegetable prices , higher because of adverse weather effect , would also level out with more normal crops . But the damage was clone . The President was no longer the farmer 's friend . And neither was Mr. Freeman . Now  --  in just the last 10 days  --  Mr. Freeman has launched an intensive drive to quiet the farmers ' anxieties  --  and win back their support . The specifics of the action , not performed in any sense of panic but with full knowledge of the political implications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going straight to the farmer , telling him he " never had it so good . " He tells him that income per farm is expected to reach $4.600 in 1966 , an increase of about 55 percent in six years . ? He has announced an increase in wheat acreage of 15 percent , adding 7.7 million acres and a probable $100 million to $150 million increase to the wheat farmers . ? He has restored pork purchases by the Defense Department for continental use to where it was before purchases were cut . 51 ) percent in deference to the antiinflation drive . ( This earlier move , too , had done much to stir the anger of the farmers . ) Discontent traced ? He has increased the support price of peanuts by 53 a Ion . ? He has increased the support price of manufactured milk by 25 cents a hundredweight . Actually , the greatest farm unhappiness lies among the dairy farmers . This last move on the price of milk still is n't enough to make the dairy farmer happy . Thus , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The former protest . evolved , in the main , out of the administration drive to hold the line on prices . The consumer , and what could be done to help him , seemed to be the sole concern here for a time . The Council of Economic Advisers and the Budget Bureau were the ones who were getting the car of the President . The shift now obviously reflects a change in presidential emphasis , if not mood . Mr. Johnson is casing up on prices , certainly on farm prices . Politics could well be the factor that triggered the shift in mood .                     