@@726597

txt The fifth emergency session of the General Assembly voted unanimously today to place the Middle East issue on the agenda of the 22d regular session , which opens tomorrow , " as a matter of high priority . " The emergency session , summoned June 17 at the request of the Soviet Union to win the Assembly 's condemnation of Israel as the aggressor in the six-day war and to demand that she withdraw her troops , ended at 12:15 P.M. One Western delegate described the session as " a fiasco for Soviet policy . " However , the Soviet delegate , Nikolai T. Fedorenko , used the closing minutes of the session , which had been in recess for two months , to assail Israel and the United States . The speech contained no hint of a modification of the original Soviet demands , although Mr. Fedorenko did mention obliquely but favorably a defeated Latin-American resolution , which provided for Israeli withdrawal from occupied Arab areas . Ironic Allusion Noted The United States delegate , Arthur J. Goldberg , responded by pointing out the irony of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Latin-American draft he said , and the Soviet Foreign Minister , Andrei A. Gromyko , in his last speech had " castigated " the resolution 's sponsors . Deploring the " invective and harshness " of Mr. Fedorenko 's remarks , Ambassador Goldberg promised that Washington 's views on how the United Nations could contribute to peace would be expressed " constructively " when the general debate begins Thursday . " The time is long overdue , " Mr. Goldberg said , " for healing , not harshness , and for all nations to work together to harmonize their views as the Charter enjoins to help bring about conditions essential to peace in the Middle East . " Corneliu Manescu , the Foreign Minister of Rumania , is expected to be elected President of the new Assembly . He would be the first representative of a Communist nation to hold the post . Abdul Rahman Pazwak of Afghanistan was President during the 21st session . When the emergency session recessed on ' July 21 , the Soviet delegation had appeared to be working toward the presentation of a compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft never got far because Foreign Minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria rejected it in a long and stormy session with Mr. Gromyko on the night of July 20 . Usefulness to Soviet Ends - This position by a leading ' Arab Government ended the draft 's usefulness to Soviet policy in the Middle East . However , two versions of the draft , dated July 20 , show that at that time the Russians intended to ask the Arabs to tecognize the existence of Israel ? something the Arabs have consistently opposed . The first operative clause in cacti version sought the same end : the withdrawal of Israeli forces to the positions they ocupied before June 5 , when the war began . ' The wording in the two versions is the same on the key point ' of recognition . Both drafts affirm that " all member states in the area " are expected to acknowledge " that each of them enjoys the right to maintain an independent national state of its own and to , live in peace and security . " There was no sign of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , his emphasis on the basic Soviet charge that Israel 's " aggression " was possible only because of the support of the United States and other members of the North Atlantic alliance sounded to diplomats like a resumpton of the Soviet campaign to convince neutral and nonaligned nations that the United States was basically responsible . for the war . Position May Be Modified The United Nations , the Ambassador declared , should act " immediately " to compel the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Arab territories . To this . he added the Soviet Government 's " categorical support " of Abe Arab states in their efforts to liquidate the consequences of Israeli aggression . " This position may be modified when Mr. Gromyko speaks Friday in the general debate . But at the moment , according to diplomats , the speech offers little comfort to those who believe that the Soviet Union may work for a compromise settlement here . The comments of Mahmoud Mestiri of Tunisia disclosed a significant toughening of opinion on the part of one Arab Government with a reputation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictate peace terms not only to the Arabs but to the entire international community . Israel 's proposals for bilateral negotiations were assailed by Adnan Pachachi , the Iraqi representative . Israel , he said , is asking for direct negotiations at the same time that she asserts that certain matters ? the possession of Jerusalem and the west bank of the Jordan ? are not negotiable . Israel , he said , does not want any action by the United Nations that would interfere with her consolidation Df Arab territory . " Do I have to remind the representative of the Soviet Union that repetition does not convert falsehood into truth , " Ambassador Gideon Rafael asked during Israel 's reply to the speeches by Mr. Fedorenko and Mr. Pachachi . The Soviet spokesman , he said , presented to the Assembly the same fare " with which his delegation had opened its propaganda assault on my country , " offering the same remedies for the solution of a situation for which " the Soviet Union itself shares a very great measure of responsibility . " Mr. Rafael , turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future of Jerusalem , asserted that " only an undivided and peaceful Jerusalem assures the real safeguarding of legitimate universal and religious interests . " The Gov-1 ernment of Israel , he insisted , " is solemnly pledged to insure this objective . " There was no hint of compromise on Jerusalem in this passage . Nor was there any sign in the speech that the Israeli Government had modified its demands that any peacemaking be through direct negotiations .                     