@@723068

txt London Harold Wilson , Britain 's Labor Party leader , has with considerable reason been suggesting that a policy of divesting his country of nuclear weapons would dovetail with Washington thinking about such matters . Washington has indeed been long troubled by the problem of jealousy within the alliance . So long as the British have nuclear weapons the French and West Germans arc bound to want them also , which indeed is the case . It has long been a favorite Washington theory that if the British could be persuaded to renounce their own nuclear weapons perhaps the Germans would cease feeling that nonpossession equals inferiority and hence inequality within the alliance . Also , so the theory has run . British renunciation coupled with high cost could be converted into a convincing argument in Paris for the French to forget about the " glory " of General de Gaulle 's " force de frappe . " A A A There is , however , a difference between theory and political fact . In theory the French and Germans should be satisfied to be in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps this would apply to the Germans but insofar as such things can be measured de Gaulle ambitions are not restricted to anything so limited as mere equality with Britain . Equality with the United States and the Soviet Union is within the range of his concept of the true role of France . Thus , if Mr. Wilson becomes the next Prime Minister of Great Britain and proceeds to implement the policies which he sketched out in Washington to the apparent satisfaction of his listeners on the New Frontier , the only sure effect will be the nuclear disarmament of Britain itself . The chances are that General de Gaulle would drive ahead toward his own nuclear goal . A A In the meantime another factor has been injected into the equation . At the time Mr. Wilson went to Washington the odds were running 4 to 1 in London in favor of a Labor Party victory at the next general election . But Labor stock slumped on the political exchange when word came in of the Wilson statements in Washington . The reverse of the coin is that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news that Mr. Wilson had been led or " trapped " into saying he would be willing to see Britain become a " second-rate military power . " That phrase , " second rate , " will be hung around his neck a thousand times from now until election day . Odds still heavily favor a Labor Party victory . But Mr. Wilson now has made Labor vulnerable on the patriotic front . If there is a bruising rail strike and if the economy should begin to pick up in the wake of the new Maud-ling budget  --  then anything is possible , even a revival of Tory political fortunes . A There is one other usually neglected factor . Possession of nuclear weapons is sometimes regarded as morally reprehensible by those not possessing them . Indeed even some citizens of countries in possession take this view . Since the dawn of the nuclear age Washington 's moral burden has been shared by the British ally . The mutual possession of the weapon has been one of the important special bonds between the two . It is essential Wilson doctrine that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the alliance . This is risky theory . Renunciation could well be followed by an upsurge of conscious " virtue " which could become the biggest barrier between Washington and London since the burning of the White House .  --  or at least since Suez ! Washington is taking a longer chance than it may realize if it encourages Mr. Wilson to renounce the nuclear weapon .                     