@@725535

txt United States Embassy officials in Santo Domingo now rate the Presidential . campaign* between Juan Bosch and Joaquin Balaguer as Virtually a toss-up , with Mr. Bosch having rapidly cut into his opponent 's early lead . . These officials expect Mr. Balaguer , the more conservative of the two , to reach an " accommodation " with Rafael Bonnelly , a still more conservative candidate , who trails badly . Such an accommodation probably would require Mr. Bonnelly to withdraw from the race . That , officials say , would give the Dominican electorate a clear-cut choice June 1 . These official reports , leaving the strong impression that Mr. Bosch and his left-of-center Dominican Revolutionary party Might win , were made available here to counter suggestions that the Johnson Administration was wholeheartedly backing Mr. Balaguer , a former President under the dictatorial regime of the late Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina . Three Major Issues Seen The reports pictured three major issues between the two principal candidates . One ? was the April , 1965 , revolution and its after effects , with Mr. Bosch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Mr. Balaguer benefiting from a large " silent vote " by those who opposed the , revolution but feared to say so publicly . The second issue was the economy and. : unemployment , with Mr. Bosch benefiting from his party 's control of the state-owned sugar mills and its influence in local Government offices . The third major issue was " Communism vs . Trujilloism . " Mr. Bosch is accused of being willing to accept Communist Support , while Mr. Balaguer 's background in the Trujillo regime remains a handicap for him . Mr. Bosch , the reports said , has been put on the ' defensive by the . Communism issue and also . by the widespread belief in the Dominican Republic that Mr. Balaguer has the support Of the ' United States . To counter the impact of this impression among those who belieVe , it the better part of o d policy to ? elect a President Ithe. ? United States would want help , Mr. Bosch frequently bites statements by , the JohnSon : - Administration that it will back any winner without piejuclice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and thus Mr. Bosch would be damaged if violence stemMing . from left-wing demonstrations should erupt before the election . Mr. Bosch is believed to have the strongest identification with the average voter , however . His strength is primarily in the cities and around the state sugar mills , while Mr. Balaguer is believed to have a lead among the peasants . This gives Mr. Bosch some practical political advantages . The peasants make up 65 to 70 per cent of the voting population , but in the last election , in 1962 , they turned out only 50 per cent of their strength . Mr. Balaguer is having difficulty getting voting certificates distributed in the countryside , and his prospects would be damaged by rain on election day since his rural supporters would have more difficulty getting to the polls . In addition , the reports say , Mr. Bosch 's greater strength hi the cities and his party 's influence " in the streets " give it more opportunities to staff polling places , get its own voters to the polls , intimidate other voters and engage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Factor On the other hand , the support of the military gives Mr. Balaguer the almost solid back . ing of a major voting bloc ? about 150,000 persons connected by family with the armed forces . Most of the traditional economic and political powers of the Dominican Republic ajso are backing him . Mr. Balaguer also is believed by Embassy officials to have made fewer enemies during lus political career than Mr. Bosch did in his brief tenure ' as - President , in 1962-1963 , and by his controversial activities during the 1965 revolution , when he refused to exercise personal /mildership . The reports suggested that the election might be won by a " late swing " in popular sentiment , such as the one . ; that elected Mr. Bosch in 1962 . They noted that . in Dominican elections a candidate who begins to look like a clear winner in the late stages is likely to . pick up support from " several hundred thousand " voters who want to please local political leaders by getting on the right side . But it was also suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made up , or to gauge the true numbers of those who had favored the revolution and those who had opposed it . . The reports also ' do not attempt to measure the number of people who will vote against Mr. Bosch because they fear his alleged softness toward Communism or against Mr. Balaguer in opposition to his record of " Trujilloism. "                     