@@722804

txt Letters FRED WARNER NEAL.JOHN DAVENPORT.LEON COLE . Letters Dealing With the Russians Idea of Consistent ' Retreat ' in Negotiations Is Disputed Katanga Policy To The Editor of The New York Time : Your endorsement of the Administration 's latest threat to level economic reprisals against the African province of Katanga unless it speedily reunites with the rest of the Congo on terms laid down by the United Nation leaves unanswered some troubling questions both as to legal right and as to prudential action . When the U N. sent troops to the Congo in mid-1960 , it was the understanding of most Americans that its mission there was one of restoring a modicum of law and order , clearly broken down in the wake of the Belgian withdrawal . How this mission of pacification was changed into an attempt in 1961 to end the secession of Katanga province through a military operation whose code name was " Smash " constitutes one of the sorrier episodes in the history of U.N . and United States diplomacy . Last summer U.N . Secretary U Thant , with United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which Katanga would turn over 50 per cent of its mining revenues to the Central Government at Leopoldville , and would reintegrate its military forces with that Government . In return the Congo was to get a new " Federal " Constitution reputedly allowing the provinces considerable autonomy . And it is a version of this plan which you argue should now be forced through by threat of economic reprisal Negotiating Constitution It should be noted that under this plan Katanga is initially to give a great deal in return for a vague promise . On sonic accounts , Katanga has been given no real opportunity to iegotiate on the terms of the new Constitution , On other accounts , the Constitution itself ncludes provisions ? namely , that the Central Government could take over a province in case of crisis ? which would be clearly unacceptable to Katanga . In any case it must be asked whether a " Federal " Constitution worthy of the name The writer of the following letter , professor of international relations and government at Claremont Graduate School , was formerly consultant on Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor of The New York Times : In his letter published in The rimes , Bernard Brodie of the Rand Corporation objects to earlier communications " urging American restraint in negotiations on the Cuban issue " and criticizes particularly suggestions that Khrushchev should have been offered an opportunity to avoid " humiliation . " It is not clear whether his reasoning is that there was in fact no risk of thermonuclear war , or that it was a justified and necessary risk . In either event , he seems to ignore three basic truths , to wit : Russians  --  even Russian Communist leaders  --  are people . Thermonuclear war can not be " won " by anybody . The Cuban affair can not be realistically considered outside the whole context of contemporary international politics . It is true , as Dr. Brodie points AIL , that Soviet tactical theory ' , ails for bold initiatives while at the same time foreseeing the possibility of sharp retreats . It is not true , however , as he im- , plies , that it therefore follows that the Soviet Union will always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider superior force , Dr that human considerations such as prestige do not affect i Soviet political  --  and military-H leaders . Soviet Considerations To assume otherwise is to assume that the Russians necessarily agree with our evaluation of their inferiority . In the Cuban case , even our evaluation is unclear . For example , Deputy Defense Secretary Gilpatric did " not regard the Soviets as considering themselves weak . " Nor can one assume nonobjective factors are necessarily absent from considerations of Soviet leaders . Dr. Brodie himself in his book " Strategy in the Missile Age " illustrates this , pointing out that Soviet leaders are more Likely to be disturbed by our bases on the borders of the U.S.S.R. than by intercontinental ballistic missiles inside the United States , even though the latter menaces them just as much . In addition , there are always imponderable personal political considerations and , in the case of Cuba , the importance in intra-bloc affairs of prior Soviet commitments to protect new revolutionary regimes . Thus it was by no means certain that the President 's action did not risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the President was justified in taking the risk as whether he might have taken it in ways that would have lessened it . It is true that to have taken the matter up diplomatically with the Russians before an- I nouncing the quarantine might have made an adequate settlement , from our point of view , more difficult . But to the extent that it would have dimin- ' ished the , risks involved , such added difficulties would have been justified . Furthermore , assuming the Russians backed down because of superior American power , the likelihood of their retreat would have been all the more certain if the element of " humiliation " had been reduced or eliminated . Dr. Brodie 's argument is tantamount to saying that it was desirable for us to have forced " humiliation " on the Russians , 1 even if this meant increasing ' the risk of thermonuclear war.1 Surely those who see no way ultimately of avoiding thermonuclear war other than by , agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union would argue contrariwise . Dr. Brodie says the concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cuban , crisis betrays " squeamishness . " , Perhaps the Rand Corporation ' is not the best vantage point for judgment . We all wish , as Dr. Brodie wrote in his letter , can possibly be pushed through at gunpoint or through economic pressure . On this matter the framers of our own Federal Constitution has strong opinions , and these do not favor the present procedure . The Times argues that the United States has an interest in maintaining in Leopoldville a government friendly to the West and that Katanga 's secession has weakened the Adoula regime . This may be granted . But it is an elementary principle in negotiation that when one party  --  in this case Katanga -- has much to offer and the other party has much to gain , one does not proceed by threatening the first party with reprisal if he does not sign on the dotted line . It is reported in The Times that before the United States and other Western powers seek to impose a boycott on Katanga 's copper and cobalt , they will consider ' cutting off " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of the world " This is surely a strange method of " conciliation , " if , indeed , conciliation is still our aim . JOHN DAVENPORT , New York , Nov. 30 , 1962 . Transportation Laws To The Editor of The New York Times : Senator Hubert H. Humphrey in his letter commenting oit the accomplishments of the 87th Congress and outlining some of the important legislation to be submitted in the 88th Congress , made no mention of the fate or future prospects of the legislation introduced for the purpose of implementing the recommendations contained in the President 's very constructive Transportation Message .. The proposed transportation legislation is a direct method of strengthening our entire economy . It would allow the development of low-cost , efficient transportation . Not to enact it would mean that this Administration is condoning the existence of the festering transportation sore spot in our economy . Bold action or a " bold program " and " reform " ? words which Senator Humphrey used in referring to the tax reduction  --  are called for here , particularly because of the determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will lead the fight fn ? ranym . LEON COLE . New York , Nov. 20 , 1962. " to save the peace . " But  --  as he , wrote in his hook ? " we are immersed in bias , our own and that of our clients . " Please record my ; bias on the side of squeamish-1 ness . FRED WARNER NEAL . Claremont . Calif. , Nov. 27 , 1962.                     