@@726531

txt American pilots struck yesterday for the second day in a row within 10 miles of the North . Vietnamese ' border . with China , a military spokesman announced . In the raids in the same area Sunday , the spokesman said . the attackers destroyed or damaged 151 locomotives and freight cars , the largest such toll claimed for a single day 's raids on the North . Although they were less than a minute 's flying time from the border , the pilots reported that no Chinese planes were in the air . North , Vietnamese interceptors were sighted but they did not attempt to engage the American attackers , the spokesman said . Antiaircraft fire was described as light and no American planes were reported lost . Planes Strike in Wives The toll of rolling stock was taken by United States planes ' striking in waves at an 18-mile stretch of the northeastern railroad from Langdang to Langson , 10 miles from the border . The single-track line , . Hanoi 's most important overland ' link with China , crosses the border about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there to Nanning , an important , center in the Kwangsi Chuang Autohomous Region of southeastern China . In the raids yesterday , Navy pilots who were reported the day before to have knocked out the . center span of the 360-foot Lang -- son rail and highway bridge over . the Kikong River , returned to destroy one of the four spans ' of what was described by the spokesman as " a bypass bridge " a mile to the east . ? 2d Bypass Struck This morning the Navy jets returned to strike at a second bypass bridge over the river . No assessment of damage could be made immediately , however . Military sources said the two bypass spans had apparently been built ' in anticipation of the raids . Many such techniques have been developed by the North Vietnamese to reduce the effectiveness of the bombing . Pilots have reported on occasion that destroyed bridges have been replaced by pontoon spans almost overnight . Many cuts in the rail line that links Haiphong and Hanoi also resulted from the raids , the spokesman said , and a missile launching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been heavily damaged . The latest raids , following the cutting of a span of the Paul Doumer , or Longbien , Bridge over , the Red River at Hanoi Friday , . appeared to have left two major obstructions to traffic over the vital rail artery from China. , Military sources here had no comment when asked if the continued strikes close to the Chinese border were related to President Johnson 's reported decision , under Congressional pressure , to widen the list of permissible targets in North Vietnam . Until the new series of taids started , the closest bombing target to the Chinese border was the rail yard at Caonung , 30 miles away . It was hit once late last month . In the ground war , the start of two operations in the northern provinces of South Vietnam was announced . What was described as a multibattalion force of the first brigade of the 101st Airborne Division and the 196th Light Infantry Brigade swept an area 10 miles southwest of Tamky , in Quangtin Pro.vince . Thirty-five enemy soldiers were reported killed in the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American dead and 19 wounded . la Quangnam Province , units of the Third and Fifth Marine Regiments , supported by air , strikes and naval gunfire , ( swept an area 13 miles smitheast of Anhoa . They were reported to have killed 13 enemy soldiers . Two marines died in the skirmishing and 22 were wounded . A combined action platoon of United States Marines and South Vietnamese Popular Forces , in a defensive perimeter four miles southwest of Dongha in Quangtrl Province , The Not York Times Aug. 15 , 2967 U.S. jets bombed railway bridge at Langsou ( cross ) : just below the demilitarized zone , was attacked early , foday . In the fight , in which the 30-man force ' was supported by artillery and air strikes , nine attackers and one marine were killed . Popular Forces casualties were described as light A Popular Forces platoon was reported to have rescued 10 of 11 civilians whom a Vietcong force was attempting to " kidnap " from the village of Trungluong , on the Benhai River in the demilitarized zone , along the border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 162 aerial missions were flown against North Vietnam despite threatening thunderstorms , the Spokesman said . In the railroad siding at Langdang , 64 miles northeast of Hanoi , two trains , one of 20 and one of 35 cars , were said to have been " completely covered " by a string of bombs . Rapid Repair Stressed HANOI , North Vietnam , Aug. 14 ( Agence France-Presse )  - -  North Vietnam maintains an elaborate apparatus for emergency repairs to ' the ' vital rail and highway arteries between Hanoi and the Kwangsi region in China . At hundreds of places along the rail line and parallel highway are concrete sheds filled with repair materials , such as cement , gravel , stone , rails , ties and spikes . Repairing bridges calls for additional materials , . but the North Vietnamese are becoming experts at rapid bridge repair . The Hanoi-Langson-Nanning route is of critical importance because the other main rail and road route to China northwest from Hanoi to Yunnan Province  --  does not reach main sources of supply and because the port of Haiphong has a limited capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two brief air-raid alerts today , but no American planes appeared .                     