@@725989

txt Mayor Lindsay made public yesterday his long-promised legislation for reorganizing the city government , and there were indications that he would get only a part of what hi wanted . The Republican Mayor 's pro " - posals to cluster 40 city departi , ments into 10 superagencta &; or administrations , in a move to increase efficiency and reducecosts have been incorporatedinto a 79-page bill . It will be introduced next Tuesday into the overwhelm -- ingly Democratic City Council , where it faces an uncertain fate . " The burden of proof that the reorganization will effect economies is on the Mayor , " David Ross , Council majority leader , said . Several Bills Proposed At the least , the Democratic leadership indicated the single bill would have to be . broken down into a number of separate bills " to expedite consider ? a ; tion . " " If the Mayor does not move to break the bill down , " Council President Frank D. O'Connor said , " the Council may take the initiative itself . " The legislation provided few surprises . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation proposes to add 10 chapters to the City Charter . The plan has been developed in the interval since Mayor Lindsay was elected in November , 1965 , by a panel headed by Louis A. Craco , a lawyer . The bill that will go Ito the Council Tuesday is the fifth draft . Needs Council Approval Six administrations already have been created by executive order . They are Financial Management , Health Services , Housing and Development , Human Resources , Recreational and Cultural Affairs , and Transportation . The four still to be set up are the Economic Development , General Services , Environmental Protection and Correction Administrations . The Mayor has told aides that if his program fails in the Council , he will attempt to go as far as he can by executive order . Though he has already set up six of the 10 administrations in this way , he has conceded he needs Council approval to make the new setups fully effective . Mr. Ross , a Bronx Democrat , declared yesterday that it would be the " height of arrogance ? for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers , to achieve a major reorganization that the Council might disapprove . Several functions and services not provided for in the city 's body of law , or only vaguely provided for , are included in detail in the Mayor 's proposed amendments . Some of these services , such as data processing , have come into extensive use in the city government only in the last few years . The new legislation would establish safeguards against water pollution , paralleling those against air pollution , with , both field 's in the new Environmental Protection Administration . It is proposed to reinforce consumer protection , now a responsibility of the Markets Department , by giving the new Economic Development Administration the authority to " enforce all laws relating to advertising and the sale of commodities , goods , wares and services . " Police and Fire Separate The Police and Fire Departments would remains as separate agencies , and agencies set up under state law , such as the Boards of Education and Higher Education , are not included in the program . Mr. O'Connor said yesterday that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by the Council . Outside experts will be consulted , he said . Mayor Lindsay is known to believe that he could tolerate the Council 's separating his omnibus bill into several smaller bills , provided the bulk of his program emerges intact . He has also said he is ready for the Council to put his proposals under searching scrutiny , and believes that when public hearings are called , civic , business , community groups and citizens will rally to support the reorganization . Mr. Ross said the Mayor 's bill would be introduced into the Council Tuesday by Councilman Edward L. Sadowsky , Queens Democrat , and referred to the Committee on Codification , of which Mr. Sadowsky is chairman . The Majority Leader said he expected public hearings to begin next month . " If it is shown that proposals will cut costs while maintaining , or perhaps increasing , services , the Mayor will find the Council sympathetic to such proposals , " he said . The new law provides for the Mayor to appoint deputy administrators and , where needed , unite that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropping of most deputy commissioners , administrative aides and departmental secretaries now included in the various agencies . It has been charged from time to time that some of these lower-echelon jobs are sinecures or have value principally as political patronage . Mayor Lindsay and his aides contend that the full reorganization as scheduled will result in " millions of dollars " in operational savings , some in cash , some in productivity . While the Mayor has not set a timetable for enactment of the legislation , he has indicated he would like it to be done by April 15 , when his 1967-68 executive budget goes to the , Board of Estimate and the City Council . Enactment by then would permit putting the reorganizebon into effect July 1 , 1967 the date given in the proposed legislation ? and gaining its benefits in the 1967-68 fiscal year . Deputy Mayor-City Administrator Timothy W. Costello plans to make available his estimates as to precise dollar savings possible under the reorganization when the legislation is introduced in the ' Council . According to the Mayor'sI panel , the scheduled changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city recreational programs under one umbrella  --  the Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration . Some civic and community groups have complained that the lack of a single agency charged with this responsibility made it difficult to coordinate their own programs with the city 's . In general , the Housing and Development Administration would absorb such housing units es the Department of Buildings , the Housing and Redevelopment Board , the Rent Administration and the Department of Relocation . The Housing Authority , a state-created agency , . might later be drawn into this administration if the state government approved . The Departments of Commerce , Markets and Licenses , would be the principal units in the Economic Development Administration . The Transportation Administration would embrace the Traffic Department , most of the Highways Department and several segments of other agencies that deal with transportation facilities . The Department of Welfare , the Youth Board and antipoverty programs would be the principal units in the Human Resources Administration . The Financial Management Administration would take in the Finance Department , the City Register and the Real Property Assessment Department . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration . The principal departments in the Health Services Administration would be the Health and Hospital departments . The General Services Administration would be a catch-all for such units as the City Record , radio station " WNYC , the Purchase Department and the gas and electricity bureaus of the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity . Sanitation , air pollution control and water supply would be the principal units going into the Environmental Protection Administration . The Correction Administration would consist of the Department of Correction , the Parole Commission and the civil jail . The three units abolished would be the Board of Correction , the Office of Coordinator of Housing and Development and the Board a Air Pollution Control , considered to be no longer needed as adjuncts of the over-all departments of which they have been part . City agencies not affected by the reorganization , in addition to the Police and Fire Departments , would be the Law and Investigation Departments , the Budget Bureau , the City Administrator ; and the following commissions : City Planning , Civil Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boards of Ethics and Standards and Appeals . The Department of Public Events would be put under the Mayor 's office . The scientific and cultural institutions , such as the public libraries , partly supported by the city and partly through private funds , have previously dealt with the city separately . Under reorganization , they would be brought together in the Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration .                     