@@725713

txt John W. Macy Jr . He stresses the importance of avoiding even the appearance of conflict of interest . You are a government worker engaged in contracting activities . You go to dinner with an executive of a company doing business with your agency . He starts to pick up the check , saying he has an expense account and you do n't . Should you let him pay ? No , says John W. Macy Jr. , chairman of the Civil Service Commission who doubles as the President 's overseer of ethics for the 2.5 million Executive Branch workers . Value lint it set You are an employee of the Department of Defense , and a company sends you a tie clip shaped like one of the planes they build under a defense contract . it all right to accept the tie clip ? Yes , says Mr. Macy , if you judge the gift . to be of " nominal intrinsic value " ( worth not . more than $4 ) . Otherwise , it should be returned . These a re only two of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to comply with a mass of newly defined and codified rules and regulations , " The ethical commitment of the bulk of the government . service is very high , " Mr. Macy said in a Monitor interview . " Actually , the practices of people in government are much more circumscribed than those for people in the private sector . " Anyone working for the executive side of // *Stiffer standards set for U.S. executive-Unit employees // the federal government these days is expected to be cleaner than the proverbial hound 's tooth . He also must avoid any practice that might give even an appearance of conflict of interest or wrongdoing . Guidelines assist Mr. Macy explained that President Johnson 's executive order of May , 1965 , listing general standards of ethical conduct for government officers and employees was not issued because of any increase in unethical conduct . Nor were the guidelines that were issued recently by 62 separate agencies detailing additional specific rules . " We start by accepting the philosophy that man wants to do good , " he said . " The guidelines are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inadvertently do something that will hurt both him and the government . " A phone call momentarily interrupted the interview taking place in the Executive Office Building headquarters , across the street from the White House . Even though it was already past the regular quitting time , Mr. Macy was far from through with his day . Once he completed his assorted jobs for the President . ( including the regular task of trying to round up talent for high-level job openings ) , he had to return to the Civil Service Commission and take care of his work there , l ' , ' nvironment sought Mr. Macy apologized for the interruption , and continued . " We ca n't legislate ethics , " he said . " But we can try to create an environment for ethical performance in the public interest . " Despite the publicity over the Bobby Baker case , and the recent controversy stir-/rounding Connecticut Sen. Thomas J. Dodd , the Executive Branch has been relatively free from scandal in recent years . Mr. Macy said that the new ethical standards accomplish several pUrposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent conflicts of interest through a requirement that all officials in responsible positions file quarterly reports of employment connections and financial interests . ? The printing of each agency 's code in the Federal Register and distribution to all employees , gives the workers forewarning of the rules . It also gives legal notice to the business community of the bounds of propriety in dealings with federal offices and employees . ? Each agency must have counseling and advisory services to assist those officials and employees who may have knotty problems . Trips scrutinized " We believe we have made clear to everyone what is expected , " Mr. Macy said . " If it is not clear  --  and there are many gray areas which do present difficulties  --  the problem can be discussed in confidence with the agency 's counselor , " The test for every action , is for the individual to ask : Is this good public policy ? " Some of those in regulatory agencies , for instance , have been accustomed to tak ing part in Industry promotions . We recognize the responsibility of according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to look at it to see if the taking of a trip by the official would have the wrong appearance . " He added that invitations to such functions can not be made to or accepted by an employee . Invitations now must be referred to the head of the agency for appointment of a representative to attend the function . And in most cases , the individual will not be allowed to accept transportation expenses . " After all , a plane ride is certainly a gift , " Mr. Macy said . The new standards of ethical conduct include regulations on gifts , entertainment and favors ; outside employment ; indebtedness ; gambling ; dishonesty or immorality ; disloyalty ; use of intoxicants to excess ; misuse of government vehicles ; and fraud . Specific applications to the agencies cover hundreds of pages in the Federal Register . For instance : State Department personnel overseas can not make foreign investments or buy or sell foreign property . Members and employees of the Securities and Exchange Commission may not buy stocks on margin . Or an Indian employee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate in any decision involving his tribe , band or pueblo . Reporting required Possibly the most significant of the new procedures is the disclosure provision . It requires the quarterly reporting of outside employment or business connections , financial interests , creditors , and real property interests . The provision applies to all presidential appointees and to civil service super grades . Lower  --  echelon employees who have contracting or procurement responsibilities or who make decisions have economic impact on nonfederal enterprises , also must file quarterly statements . Names of affiliations and types of interests are required , but not dollar amounts . Full income disclosure is excluded . Mr. Macy personally checks the disclosure statements of about 165 presidential appointees , including the statement of the President ( although this is not required by law ) . President Johnston , in turn , looks over the quarterly statement of Mr. Macy . In each agency , statements are reviewed by an individual familiar with the duties of the employee , and who could detect any pos ? Bible conflict of interest . Only 10 changes In the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Macy has requested 10 of the 165 top officials to make changes in their stock holdings or business connections to avoid " the appear . ance " of any possible conflict of interest . All have made the changes or arranged to put holdings in trusts . The disclosure requirement and providing of special counselors to advise employees about standards of conduct has been attacked by Sen. Sam J. Ervin ( D ) of North Carolina , chairman of the Senate constitu -- tional rights subcommittee . The Senator has written Mr. Macy , saying that it seems unnecessary to require federal employees to reveal their personal business and financial affairs , and that the approach smacks of " Big Brother . " Congress has never adopted a stringent code of ethics for its members , officers , or senior committee staff members . A joint resolution on ethics was adopted in 1958 , but has had little effect . It has no enforcement provisions . The recent bipartisan committee on congressional reform failed to include in recommendations a proposal that all members of Congress and top aides disclose their income and assets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unworkable One area which demands further attention , Mr. Macy said , is that concerning political involvement by Executive Branch employees other than those under the office of the President . Many provisions of the 27-yearold Hatch Act are no longer workable , he said . " It would be very healthy to have a bipartisan review like the Hoover Commission to clarify political participation of government workers and financing of political parties . " We have to find some way to live with these political dinners . It is very important that public employees be free from pressure for contributions or for personal political activity . But the prohibitions should not extend so far that the federal employee feels he has no obligation at all to participate in the political process . "                     