@@722288

txt United States air crews engaged M propaganda missions over Vietnam have been temporarily grounded on orders from Brig . Gen. Rollen H. Anthis , chief of the United States Air Force advisory group here . This followed the death Sun1day of eight United States servicemen when their C-47 transport crashed and burned in a ICommunist - infiltrated area I ! northeast of Saigon . It had been dropping copies of a message ! from President Ngo Dinh Diem ! marking the Chinese New Year . I The plane carried South Vietnamese markings , but was piloted by Americans . General Anthis ' orders prevented the dropping of a New Year 's message from President Kennedy assuring the Vietnamese of continued assistance . Why the two messages could not have been dropped at the same time , thus avoiding any necessity for another hazardous flight over dangerous terrain , caused speculation . It was believed this had something to do with Vietnamese sensitivity over the role played by Americans here . American sensitivity over the danger of hurting Vietnamese feelings is often cited by officials as a main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States ' deepening involvement in the anti-Communist war . U. S. Pilots Better Trained " Must n't hurt their feelings , " was the explanation given for the omission of the nationality of the downed plane in a joint communique issued Monday more than thirty hours after the crash . It was explained that Vietnamese feelings might be hurt if it were officially acknowledged that American pilots had to be used instead of Vietnamese pilots on hazardous lowlevel leaflet drops because of the Americans ' superior training . " We must't give the impresslon that the United States is running the show , " one American official observed . " Naturally there have been a few American casualties and there probably will be more , " he said . " But these are not combat forces and are under instructions to shoot only if they are shot at . " Reporting Curbed by Secrecy " This type of comment , originated in Washington and circulated here by the United States Information Agency . maintains the fiction that United States service men are keeping discreetly in the background and are engaged solely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' overlooks the fact that United 1States warships have been patrolling the sea frontier against infiltration from Communist North Vietnam since early December . The United States informa-tion policy on Vietnam has not been marked by candor . Official secrecy has curbed reporting . United States correspondents are barred from helicopters operating here by an unexplained order from Admiral Harry D. Felt , Commander in Chief , Pacific . A reason frequently given for the secrecy is the presence of the International Control Commission for Vietnam , which is supposed to report violations of the 1954 armistice agreement partitioning the country into Communist and non-Communist sectors . This agreement permits only 685 military advisers and forbids the bringing in of any new military equipment except for replacements . Saigon is teeming with American servicemen and everyone knows that the new Military Advisory Command greatly exceeds the ceiling on personnel set by the Geneva agreement . Vietnamese in Laos Worry U. S. VIENTIANE , Laos , Feb. 14 ( AP ) ? Responsible United States officials here express increasing concern over reports that 10,000 North Vietnamese combat troops , advisers and technicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The new military intelligence estimate , which American 4experts consider reliable , is that seven to ten battalions of North Vietnamese combat troops totaling about 5,000 men are in operation or stationed in five sensitive areas . Five thousand other North Vietnamese advisers and technicians are reported to be helping the neutralist forces and the troops of the pro-Communist Pathet Lao movement .                     