@@722361

txt At least fifty French civilians : were killed and about 150 wounded in the heart of Algiers : today as French Army forces clashed with European demonstrators . Physicians at the city 's principal hospital said about forty of the wounded were likely to die . They said the victims included many women and several children . It was one of the bloodiest days Algiers has seen in seven years of war and seven days of cease-fire . The shooting started shortly after several thousand men and women had gatherA in a large square in front of the central post office for a march on Babel-Oued ordered by the Secret Army Organization . As soon as the first shots were heard the firing became general . The Secret Army is devoted to preventing by force the implementation of cease-fire agreements between the French Government and Algerian nationalist rebels . Leaflets Proclaim Strike The Secret Army had distributed leaflets proclaiming a general strike and urging all Algiers citizens to march on Babel-Oued. a working-class district , that has been cordoned off since bloody fighting there between , soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons have been arrested in the district , a Secret Army citadel . The leaflets termed the army operation in Bab-el-hued genocide and called on the citizens to halt it . The authorities immediately served notice that the demonstration was forbidden and would be dispersed by the army . The notice was read over the radio several times . The first shots rang out shortly after leaders of the demonstration , carrying French flags and singing " La Marseillaise , " had forced their way through a single line of conscript soldiers at the entrance to the Rue d'Isly , a main throughf are . It was not clear who fired first in the incident , which lasted barely more than ten minutes . Soldiers were seen shooting into the crowd at pointblank range with automatic rifles and Associated Press Radlopheto submachine guns . Machine guns that had been set up on the sidewalks also opened up . Physicians later said many of the victims had been shot in the bade . ' Some of the soldiers emptied entire magazines of their automatic rifles and submachine guns and then reloaded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen standing or marching side by side fell to the ground , clawing at the air and at each other . " When the shooting stopped , the street was littered with bodies , of women as well as of men , dead , wounded or dying . The black pavement looked ' pale gray , as if bleached by fire. , Crumpled French flags were lying in pools of blood . Shattere glass and spent cartridges lay everywhere . Leaders March Os Gaily At the head of the demonstration the leaders were unaware ; of the bloodshed . They gaily Marched up the Rue d'Isly , applauded by onlookers . Those w heard the bursts of shooting thought shots had been fired into the sir by civilians to celebrate the demonstration . The demonstrators had linked arms and were advancing as a solid phalanx the width of the street . They were preceded by a blonde girl in the tight blue pants and motorcycle boots that have become the unofficial uniform of women followers of the Secret Army . A mile from their objective , the demonstrators were stopped by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emptied canisters of tear gas on the demonstration , which then flooded back toward the city center . On their way back the ringleaders realised that there had been bloodshed . As firemen collected bodies . youngmen and women , still carrgiitg their flags but no longer singing , hurled invective at the conscript soldiers . These were standing where they had been all along , flat against buildings , weapons at the ready ashen-faced and many still trembling . The crowds cried : " Assassins , assassins ! " A woman screamed : " That 's what we get for wanting to be French ! " Immediately after the first bursts of fire at the Rue d'Isly. shooting started in widely scattered parts of the city as civilians opened fire from balconies and windows  --  some shooting into the air , others taking potshots at soldiers or gendarmes or simply at pedestrians who , by behavior or by dress , could be identified as Moslems or foreigners . Sporadic firing continued in the center of the city for the rest of the afternoon . Meanwhile , the army continued its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their arms . The area remained shut off and residents were kept indoors except for two hours this morning , when housewives were allowed to shop .                     