@@722624

txt ALGIERS OFFICERS DEMAND CHANGES IN CIVILIAN REGIME Ben Bella 's Political Bureau Scored as Army Factiort Calls for Its Ouster MILITARY CHIEFS SPLIT Oran Commanders Support Vice Premier  --  He Flies There From Capital By HENRY TANNER Special to The New York Times . ALGIERS , Aug. 26  --  The military commanders controlling Algiers called on the National Revolutionary Council today to meet to supplant Algeria 's current civilian leadership . The officers declared that the Council , which is the highest authority of the nationalist movement , now had become Algeria 's " only legal institution . " The officers commanding two of Algeria 's six military regions , known as willayas , thus struck back at the Political Bureau established and headed by Vice Premier Ahmed Ben Bella . The Political Bureau an . nounced yesterday its decision to postpone indefinitely the elections that had been scheduled for Sept. 2 to choose a constituent assembly . The Bureau said " interference " by military commanders had led to the decision . It also declared that the interference had made it impossible for the Bureau to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Observers described the Political Bureau 's dramatic move as a " semiresignation . " Today 's declaration by the military commanders was regarded as an effort to turn this " semiresignation " of the Bureau into a full-scale abdication of power , This was believed to be true although the officers promised that they would not use force " to drive anybody out of Algiers . " The Fourth Willaya , which issued today 's declaration , holds Algiers and all of central Algeria . The commander of the Third Willaya , controlling the strategic mountain region of Kabylia , east of here , was on hand when the declaration was read and apparently approved it . Mr , Ben Bella flew today to Oran . The military leaders there are among his stanchest supporters . It was not known when he would return to the capital . Late tonight , military commanders in western Algeria announced that they were backing Mr. Ben Bella 's Political Bureau // and appealed to the army officers in Algiers to join them in this support . The military declaration in Algiers bitterly accused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that the Bureau had organized armed bands to ambush and kill army officers . The statement charged that the members of the Bureau , since their installation in Algiers Aug. 3. had played politics instead of dealing with the problems of Algiers and the country . The military commanders would have wanted to meet with the Bureau to consider joint moves to remedy Algeria 's economic ills and to halt kidnappings , thefts and other crimes committed by " uncontrolled elements , " it said . The Bureau refused to hold such meetings and chose to make the army responsible for everything that went wrong , the declaration added . " They accuse us of requisitioning homes , " , the lieutenant reading the declaration exclaimed . " Well , they are right , we are requisitioning . " ' We are taking homes left behind by French extremist terrorists to give them Lo refugees , to the homeless , to the families of our dead and to these men , " he added , pointing to a group of wounded soldiers who attended the reading of the statement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bought or requisitioned villas . To some observers , the declaration seemed to be not so much a political credo . They viewed it as an outcry from men who were frustrated and bewildered , who felt ill at ease in the political arena and feared that the goals of the nationalist revolution would be trampled in a political power struggle . For all its vehemence , the declaration did not contain any hard terms that would put the break between civilian and military leaders beyond the point of reconciliation . There was no ultimatum to the Political Bureau , nor any threat to use force . Observers also noted that the officers here did not presume to speak for the entire Algerian army . Observers voiced some concern , however , over the demagogic tone of the statement . They noted that the tendency to make extreme statements has been growing steadily since the beginning of the power struggle among Algeria 's nationalist leaders , with each faction believing it must prove that its patriotism and nationalism are unsurpassed . Mr. Ben Bella and ' Mohammed Milkier , Secretary General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest when they addressed a rally here Thursday . Mr. Khider exhorted the masses to be vigilant becaw " the French are still herd . " Mr. Ben Bella said , that if Angolari nationalists wanted Algerian volunteers , they would get them  --  referring to the rebel movement against Portuguese rule in Angola . Then the military commanders found it necessary today to accuse the Political Bureau of subservience to the French , of working through French confederates and of favoring French capitalists . Under questioning , they added later that they would respect the cease-fire agreements concluded with France in March at Evian-les-Bains.                     