@@726466

txt As the UN General Assembly 's emergency session heads toward a close , the feeling prevails that the situation in the Middle East is heading for new crises . At issue will be not so much the relations between Israel and the Arabs as those among the Arabs themselves . The Arabs , it is felt here at the UN , are beginning to see through some of the myths and untruths they have been fed for two decades . One of them said with a flash of anger : " I hope the Israelis mean it when they say they will not give up the territory they conquered . This will bring the contradictions within the Arab world to a head . " The " extremism " of some Arab countries ? Algeria and Syria primarily  --  is directed mostly to forcing a showdown through which a new start for the Arab world may become possible . And if that happens , among the first to pay the price will be Egyptian President Nasser . The " extremists " are after him for having gambled with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be forced to his knees within a few hours . Soviet standpoint Strangely enough , it is the Soviets who try to prop President Nasser up in the eyes of the Arabs . They have tied their fortunes in the area to his and probably wonder what would happen to their position in the Mideast should Mr. Nasser fall . That helps to explain Soviet eagerness to remind the'General Assembly that a state of emergency still exists in the Mideast . Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko addressed a letter Tuesday to the president of the Security Council to warn that " the military clashes provoked by Israel in the Suez Canal area are extremely dangerous and could grow into a wider military conflict . " Mr. Gromyko reiterated the Soviet view that Israel should be made to withdraw from the territories it conquered . " That is the aim the UN should seek to achieve , " he stated . At the same time , the Soviet Union obviously is anxious to take a position distinguishable from that of the Arabs . Even though the Kremlin broke relations with Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be respected . Moscow also is said to quietly warn the Arabs against rush initiatives likely to upset the present equilibrium . The United States for its part would be quite happy to assist the Soviet Union in this endeavor . Washington does not have the slightest intention of humiliating the Soviets ( or for that matter the Arabs ) and has consistently avoided a polemical stance . Both the United States and the Soviet Union agree it is essential that there should be no confrontation between the two superpowers . Stability needed They also agree on the need for trying to bring stability to the area , because instability breeds confrontation and confrontation can menace the peace of the world . The two superpowers , of course , view the Mideast problem in its world context ; the Arabs , in its regional context . The perspective is accordingly quite different . For the Arabs , the problem is to learn the lesson of one of the worst humiliations in their history . Some of them like to quote Mao Tse-tung , the Chinese Communist leader , when he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recalled that the Soviet regime followed World War I and his own take-over in China after World War II . : The " extremists " want to let the situation evolve toward more radical forms in the . hope of seeing groupings take power who aim to bring the Arab world into the 20th century . They believe the regimes resisting change ' are those supporting and being supported by Washington . These contrasts , of course , are being reflected at the UN . Compromises primarily designed to save certain governments in power are no longer being accepted . Various attempts by the United Arab Republic to find a way out of the impasse have been systematically sabotaged . At the same time , there seems to be a clearer realization that Israel 's existence can not be ignored forever and that past statements calling for the physical elimination of Israel have caused deep revulsion throughout the world .                     