@@726852

txt The Police Department is nvestigating the possibility hat a typed list found in a detective 's notebook is an ac ? ounting of payoffs made by 147 East Side restaurants , stores and other businesses to the police . The list of the names of the businesses and adjacent figures from 20 to 2C0 was folded in a small black notebook found on a Lexington Avenue subway train on Jam 11 , 1967 . The book was delivered to District Attorney Frank S. Hogan , and the detective was transferred out of the East Side 's 17th Precinct . " This is a very serious matter that is still under investigation , " Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said yesterday . " But we have been unable to find anyone willing to admit that they transferred money to a police officer . " Mr. Leary said no action except the transfer could be taken against the detective until the ! investigation was completed . Police officials refused to discuss the detective 's explanation for the list . The list was turned over to Mr. Hogan last Jan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Needle , a satirical magazine . Mr. Hammer told an interviewer yesterday that he had received the notebook from , a reader of a column he once wrote for a weekly newspaper , , ! The West Side News . No information about the list was released by the police or ' by Mr. Hogan 's office during , the investigation . Mr. Hammer said he gave the information to newspapers after reading in The New York Times on Monday about alleged payoffs to city employes . The list contained the names of some of the most wellknown restaurants , stores and hotels in the 17th Precinct , which covers the area between ! 36th and 59th Streets and Fifth ! Avenue and the East River . The businesses on the list in eluded 102 restaurants and bars , 14 hotels , 8 nightclubs ' and six large , fashionable stores . Next to each name was a numera1-60 next to the name of a Park Avenue hotel , 105 next to a Fifth Avenue department store , 100 next to a popular cocktail lounge . Meaning of Figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confidential Investigation Unit were attempting to determine whether the numbers ' ? which add up to 8,049 ? represented weekly or monthly payoffs to local policemen , or Christmas gifts for officers . Under the new State Penal Code , adopted last Sept. 1 . merchants convicted of paying the police for favors could . be jailed for up to four years . If the charge was giving gifts , the sentence could be up to one year . Policemen accepting money or gifts would be liable for the same sentences under the new code . Check marks appear next to many of the numbers on the detective 's list . Other numbers are followed by the notations " Out " or " S " . Police officials refused to discuss any possible meanings of the markings . The list recalls a list discovered last April in . the petty cash records of Reichhold Chemicals , Inc. , in Brooklyn . Detectives of the Department of Investigation who found the list said the notations such as " Water Dept. 25.00 " represented payoffs to city employes . The Reichhold list and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes were described by the Investigation Department as rare evidence in black and white of petty graft in municipal government . Hammer 's Plans Mr. Hammer would not identify the person who found the notebook , and said he planned to publish " the whole story with pictures " in the-February issue of his small magazine . Mr. Hogan 's office questioned representatives of many of the listed businesses , but investigators from the office said they could not obtain " enough " evidence to seek indictments . Last April 17 the District Attorney turned the notebook over to the Police Department , and two days later the detective who allegedly owned the notebook was transferred . In addition to the list , the little loose-leaf book contained dozens of pages with the type of information normally carried by detectives . Several pages contained typed procedures for a detective investigating a crime . Some police identification cards of known criminals were inserted between pages .                     