@@724412

txt Temple City , Cal. , Dec , 1 , Special ? Timothy W. Nicholson , 22 , heir to part of a Chicago fortune started by a millionaire great-grandfather , was charged with murder today in the gunshot death Monday of , his twin brother , Todd . The murder complaint was issued by John Hopkins , Los Angeles county deputy district attorney . Ti m othy was arraigned in the Municipal court at near-by Alhambra and held without bail for a preliminary hearing . No date was set for the hearing , but California law I requires that it be held in Superior court from five to seven days after arraignment . Timothy was locked up in the Los Angeles county jail . He had previously been in custody in the pity jail here on a sheriff 's office booking of suspicion of murder after his arrest at the shooting scene . The love lives of the twins figured in other developments today . Police said that Todd at the time of his death was involved in a romance with Rita Musgrave , 25 , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared today at Phoenix as a witness in a suit by Rita 's ex-husband for custody of their two children . A detective of the sheriff 's office flew to Phoenix to interview Rita . Timothy is defendant in a pending suit to cancel an annulment of a marriage he entered into when he was 19 . This marriage was dissolved by a court ruling on a complaint by his mother that he had falsified his age to get a marriage license . The former wife , Patricia , 27 , was reportedly Todd 's girl friend before she met and married Timothy . In Their Apartment The shooting took place in an apartment occunied by the twins in a 40-unit apartment house here that they owned jointly . Each received $500,000 at age 18 from a trust set up for them by their late father , Edward Carry Nicholson . Timothy told sheriff 's police that the shooting was accidental and an attorney for the family said it was " just another loaded gun tragedy . " Authorities said they found discrepancies in Timothy 's story which , together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fired Twice The fatal weapon was a .22 caliber rifle which was on a gun rack in the apartment . Police said it had been fired twice , one bullet piercing the ceiling and the other striking Todd in the rhpqt killing ' him They said the fact that two shots were fired was a factor in their decision to reject the theory of accidental death . The Nicholson twins were great-grandsons of Edward F. Carry of Chicago a former president of the Pullman Co. , who died in 1929 . The twins were also related to members of the Cudahy meat packing family , a result of the marriage of a sister of their grandmother to Edward A. Cudahy , a former president of the packing company .                     