@@727516

txt Corruption , still rampant in South Vietnam , also seems to be disturbing the Communist Politburo in the north . In a major address this fall , Truong Chinh , third-ranking member of Hanoi 's Politburo , stressed a need for a " strong and stable rear area " in the north as a factor " deciding victory or defeat " in the war in the south . He then enumerated the economic shortcomings  --  including corruption  --  which he said detracted from the stability of the northern rear . Last year , in a March address , President Ho Chi Minh also complained about corruption in the north . Livelihoods ' at stake In discussing North Vietnam 's economic shortcomings , Mr. Chinh said : " Circulation and distribution must be improved in order to assure good service to production and the people 's livelihood , .. . and we must fight against hoarding , corruption , and profiteering . " Since the beginning of the United States war of destruction over the northern part of our country , the management of the economy and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of small producers again had an opportunity to develop . In agricultural cooperatives , the cooperative members ' right to mastership has not yet been firmly consolidated . The rather widespread situation of corruption and the lack of democracy in production and distribution have affected the cooperative members ' active spirit of production . " War exploitation charged Mr. Chinh continued his criticism by saying : " Taking advantage of the war situation , a number of persons in the old exploiting classes and speculators have resumed their activities and exploited the workers under modified forms . On the other hand , the speculation rowdies have colluded with a small number of aberrant elements in state organs and enterprises to steal raw material , material supplies , and goods of the state , . . thus , to a certain extent , upsetting the market . " Concerning the countryside , Mr. Chinh urged that the collectivization of farmlands be stepped up as a means of fighting " against corruption , waste , and officialdom . We must prevent all schemes for changing land and property of collective ownership into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Continued ' education ' urged " As for the bourgeois individuals who have been admitted to joint state-private enterprises , " he said , " we must continue to educate them so as to raise their political and ideological level . . . in order that they may have conditions for continued reform and become real workers of a socialist country . " As for those who steal the ' property of the state or the community or those who speculate on and monopolize the market , we must endeavor to educate them and , in serious cases , punish them . " Informed sources here assume that many of the economic shortcomings referred to by Mr. Chinh resulted from the decentralization and dislocations caused by the American bombing of North Vietnam . This has apparently enabled lower-level Communist cadre to engage more freely in corrupt practices , especially selling on the black market rice gathered from the collective farms . These sources hold that as the supply and distribution system encountered more difficulties , collective-farm members devoted an increasing amount of time to cultivating their own private plots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise , opposed by the Communist regime , began to develop , mostly in the form of small tradesmen , craftsmen , and others who operated outside of collectives . Capitalism ' at issue in north Mr. Chinh , who advocated " revolutionary violence " in his speech for both North and South Vietnam , warned that in the north , " the struggle between the socialist path and the capitalist path is still going on to definitely determine who will defeat whom . This is a protracted , hard , and complicated struggle . . . " This correspondent has also interviewed defectors from the North Vietnamese Army , who report that the black-market price of rice was four times higher than the government-controlled price when they left the north last year . Mr. Chinh is considered by some exports to form , or lead , the " hard line " or " pro-Peking " faction in North Vietnam 's Politburo . He was a prime mover behind North Vietnam 's ruthless and bloody campaign for farm collectivization in 1956 , but when the program failed , he was temporarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spot in Hanoi 's Politburo , however .                     