@@723720

txt The Federal Trade Commission proIposed today stringent curbs on cigarette advertising . The commission issued a set of proposed rules that would do the following things : ( " Require every cigarette advertisement , package and carton to contain a clear warning that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health . ( " Prohibit any statement or implication in any cigarette advertisement that smoking promotes good health or physical Prevent any advertisement asserting that one brand of cigarettes is less harmful to health than another , unless the advertiser has substantiated that claim in advance . Armed Forces May Act The Defense Department , ' meanwhile , announced that its top health officers would meet next week to decide what ought to be done to discourage smoking among the 2.7 million men and women in the armed forces . The department indicated that it had no plan to bar smoking . However , policies such as the refusal to accept free cigarettes . for distribution on military bases may be adopted . In New York City , a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute said Saturday that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not yet seen the Federal Trade Commission 's statement . Officials of the major tobacco companies , and of the advertising agencies who represent them , could not be reached for comment . In a statement accompanying its announcement , the commission noted that the courts had held that failure to disclose relevant facts in advertisements could be a violation of the law against misleading advertising . Form of Warning Given The commission proposed a specific warning for all cigarette packages and cartons and for every advertisement . The warning could take only one of two forms . The basic warning is as follows : " Caution  --  Cigarette Smoking Is a Health Hazard : The Surgeon General 's Advisory Committee on Smoking and Health has found that ' cigarette smoking contributes substantially to mortality from certain specific diseases and to the ever-all death rate . ' " The alternative form is designed for those who want a shorter warning , particularly for brief television announcements . It says : " Caution  --  Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Health . It May Cause Death From Cancer and Other Diseases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it said , " if each advertiser were free to formulate a different cautionary statement , the result would be that many consumers would be confused and might fail to appreciate its significance . " The need for specific and re : peated warnings about the health hazards of smoking is necessary , the commission said , to get the findings of the Surgeon General 's committee across to the public . The trade agency also indicated that it might ? take further steps " intended especially to protect the youth of the nation " against unfair or deceptive cigarette advertising . It invited suggestions from the public as to how- this could best be done . The commission 's action came in a set of Trade Regulation Rules governing cigarette advertising . The rules were issued under the commission 's statutory authority to protect consumers against-unfair or deceptive advertising . Comments orr the proposed rules from any interested person were invited and must be filed , in writing , with the commission by March 2 . The commission has scheduled public hearings beginning March 16 . The rules will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may be modified as a result of the written and oral testimony . " Although there has been mounting evidence of the grave health hazards of cigarette smoking since at least 1954 , the annual consumption of cigarettes per person has steadily and sharply increased , " the commission said . In that period , " the total number of cigarettes sold to the public has increased from about 380 billion to about 520 billion . " " Meanwhile , total advertising expenditures by the industry appear to have doubled in this period , exceeding $200 million in 1963 . It would appear that the massive and increasing cigarette advertising has materially contributed to the sharp and continuous growth in cigarette consumption , in the face of the mounting evidence of the serious health hazard involved in cigarette smoking , " the commission continued . The current pattern of cigarette advertising , the commission said , " may create a psychological and social barrier to the consuming public 's understanding and appreciation of the gravity of the risks to life and health involved in cigarette smoking . " Cigarette advertisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is less hazardous to health than others . For example , statements such as " Brand X gives you greater protection " would be barred . Likewise , advertisements would not be permitted to carry general statements about " the new improved filter of Brand Y. " An advertisement would be permitted to state " Brand Z filters out all of a certain chemical in cigarette smoke , " the commission said , If the advertiser had substantiated that claim . The commission noted , however , that " if it is not scientifically established that the elimination of that chemical significantly lessens ' the health hazards of cigarette smoking , the advertiser would be required so to state " in the same advertisement . The commission 's rules would also require that any advertising assertion about the tar or nicotine content of cigarettes be ' verified in advance , in accordance with a testing procedure ' specified by the commission . This , prohibition would also apply to assertions about other ingredients of cigarette ' smoking . Even if a cigarette manufacturer could accurately say that his product contained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertisement would be required to state that it had not yet been established that reduction of the tar content to that amount affected the health hazard of smoking .                     