@@727652

txt Nixon 's Trip An Expectant Europe Has Plenty of Problems to Discuss LONDON ? " Everybody is flattered that he is coming , everybody hopes to get something out of it . " That appraisal by a Continental observer last week summed up the state of mind among governments on this side of the Atlantic on the eve of President Nixon 's trip to Europe . There is a mood of intense expectation , not so much over specifics as over the fact cf the trip . An American President is coming to Europe . After the Johnson years that is definitely a change . The conclusion has already been drawn that , as The Financial Times of London put it , " Mr. Nixon is much less likely to allow himself to become preoccupied with Vietnam and Pacific problems as the Johnson Administration was . " More Favorable On the whole , the President should find in Europe a more favorable attitude to him personally than might have been expected even a few weeks ago . He has hardly been a favorite American personality here in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cartoon impression of Richard Nixon as a dirty player . But this first month in office has made a favorable impression on the European press and on European politicans and intellectuals . A diplomatic official , asked last week about his country 's agenda for the talks , said it consisted only of seeking a better estimate of the personal qualities and thinking of Richard Nixon and his advisers . The President will inevitably run into displays of antagonism . Some radical student groups have announced plans to demonstrate in such likely locations as outside Buckingham Palace . But authorities at this point do not expect serious trouble except possibly from the ferocious West Berlin students . No Grand Design The understanding in Europe was that Mr. Nixon would be coming over not to dispose of items on an agenda but to observe and learn ? that he would not be bringing any package like the greed design for European unity and Atlantic cooperation that President Kennedy brought here in 1961 . The most serious difficulty that the President faces is political squabbling among his hosts . Last week , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other nations of Western Europe burst into the open . The issue was a Belgian-Italian-German plan For consultation on foreign policy in the regular council meetings of the Western European Union . This almost forgotten organization is the one European group in which Britain sits with the Common Market Six ? France , Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . Ten days ago the council , at its London headquarters , talked about the Middle East . This so infuriated General de Gaulle that he had his London ambassador phone the poor civil servant who is secretary to the W.E.U . at 3 in the morning and threaten to drive him from his job . French spokesmen got out of their files those old Gaullist statements about how Britain is too pro-American to be part of Europe , and France began a boycott of W.E.U . meetings . The point , naturally , was not a little conversation in the W.E.U . but the fear of the French ? and the hope of the other six ? that such talk would very gradually bring Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest , as the French did , that Britain was seeking a " back door " to the Common Market , because there is none : France has a veto . But even European talk in the W.E.U . forum might form habits of mind , and that was too much of a threat of unity for the general . The performance of the West Germans was an instructive part of the story . They joined in the W.E.U . council meeting 10 days ago and another last week , defying France and swearing solidarity with the others . Then a Bonn official spokesman did an apparent volte-face , snying France was right in asserting that most W.E.U . meetings required unanimous consent . That statement was superseded by another saying lawyers were studying the whole question . Then , on Friday , there came to light the story of another astonishing move by General de Gaulle  --  one positively guaranteed to sow dissension in Western Europe and create irritations for the Nixon visit . It seemed that , on Feb. 4 , the general had invited Britain 's Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the ambassador that France 's partners in the Common Market were too pro-American , and he said he had not been involved in creating the Market and had no special faith in it . NATO Would Go President de Gaulle said he was ready to talk with Britain about something to replace the E.E.C .  --  a larger , loose trade association with a small inner political directorate of France , Germany , Italy and Britain . He said NATO , " with its American dominance , " should be abandoned . The British immediately informed the other allies , to their evident shock . Mr. Soames , on Feb. 12 , replied to the French Government that Britain still wanted to join the Conlon Market as such , could not agree on an inner directorate excluding the smaller West European countries , rejected General de Gaulle 's views on NATO but was willing to carry on broad talks on his ideas . What General de Gaulle said to Mr. Soames was all consistent with his past positions . But why say it now ? Most observers thought the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . unless they behaved  --  stopped playing with Britain  --  and was generally showing , just before the Nixon visit , how he could throw his weight around . The implication of all this for Mr. Nixon was that there probably is no business to be done with President de Gaulle on the subject of European unification . As long as the general reigns , Western Europe will remain divided and weak , unable to mobilize its people and resources to cast its due weight in world affairs . The other countries of the West lack the means or the will to overcome Gaullist views . Nevertheless , there will be problems to discuss , and good reasons for talk , even when concrete agreements can not be expected . Officials in Britain and other countries with no admiration for Gaullist policy think nonetheless that it is wise for Mr , Nixon to see General de Gaulle ? in fact to spend more time in Paris than anywhere else . At least a degree of personal cordiality could be restored to Franco-American relations . President do Gaulle has been putting it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true that the new President and Secretary of State Rogers lack the commitments and emotional history for General de Gaulle of such past American officals as Dean Rusk and George Ball . The French President , with his own financial troubles , has also dropped hints that he might be more reasonable about international monetary matters . The monetary question could turn out to be a sleeper on this Presidential trip . Mr. Nixon has said that it will be an important subject of discussion . Of course no details can possibly be reached , but even to impart some fresh motion to the drive for reform would be notable . Monetary Reform For Britain this Is as interesting a topic as any on the list of subjects for possible discussion . Monetary reform is regarded as urgent in London because it is the historical anachronism of the pound 's role as a world trading currency that makes it so vulnerable to outside pressure . In London , in Bonn and elsewhere the projected SovietAmerican negotiations for the limitation of missile systems are of prime interest . Mr. Nixon will please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered , that the United States will not reach basic security agreements over their heads . The President may find it more difficult to please his questioners if they ask about America 's own plans for a " thin " antiballistic missile system . There is much fear here that this project will start a futile , expensive new round of weapons escalation . There had been hope in recent months that the United States would drop the idea , what with the signs of American public opposition and the new Soviet willingness for missile talks . But the latest hints from Washington are that Mr. Nixon will go ahead with the system . Some European leaders will want to know how that squares with arms limitation hopes . The whole question of EastWest relations will underlie much of the discussion in every capital Mr. Nixon visits . The strength of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , estimates of Soviet attitudes , contingency plans for any further Russian aggression in East Europe ? all these will doubtless be explored . Over all will be the desire of Europeans to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All but the French will be especially concerned that Mr. Nixon not identify with General de Gaulle 's nationalist policy . France will be looking for some fresh token of special regard . If the President can square that circle , he will be off to a miraculous start in relations with Europe . - 7-ENN , I5                     