@@727631

txt Despite renewed East German threats against West Berlin , it is not thought here that Moscow will sanction a major East-West crisis . The stakes for Soviet leaders are too high , in the opinion of diplomatic observers . Such a crisis would serve no objective and would merely defeat Soviet interest in missile talks with the United States and a possible summit meeting with the new American President . It would also endanger ratification of the much-sought nuclear nonproliferation treaty , now under consideration in Bonn and Washington . This view is supported by the relatively temperate Soviet comment on East Germany 's announced restrictions on land journeys by Bonn officials to West Berlin . Bonn and London reforge links : Page 5 The restrictions are a response to Bonn 's plans to hold a federal assembly meeting in West Berlin March 5 to elect a new president . The East German action affects only surface travel to the divided city . It can not prevent air access to West Berlin , which is under the control of the allied powers . So far the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Newspapers term the election plans a " deliberate provocation " and cite hostile East European reaction to the West German decision . A long article in Pravda Feb. 14 warns if West Germany goes ahead with its plans , it will have to " bear // *West sees little risk of Soviet test in Berlin // the full responsibility for the consequences . " But it does not say what is meant by this . Some experienced Western analysts believe that , although the Russians must support East Germany militancy over the Berlin issue , their main goal in Europe now is to stabilize the status quo and seek an accommodation with the United States . Two factors are seen behind this policy : ( 1 ) the heightened political role of West Germany and ( 2 ) the potential threat of Communist China , which again is stirring diplomatically . According to Reuters , West Germany said Feb. 14 it has information indicating that the Soviet Union will harass allied air corridors to West Berlin in retaliation against West German presidential elections planned in the divided city . Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in overland traffic to the city . These predicted moves , he said , were based on concrete information in the hands of the West German Government . Flanked thus by two rising political powers , the Soviet Union , it is felt , can hope to contain or restrain their influence only by coming to terms with Washington . In the case of West Germany , it is not believed ' that Soviet leaders fear a direct military attack , despite the frequent denunciations of alleged West German efforts to acquire nuclear weapons and of Bonn 's " revanchist , neofascist " policies . If war were to break out , the argument goes , Soviet military power is more than sufficient to annihilate West Germany . The West German threat to Moscow is instead seen to be political . It is noted that the Soviet Union has lost much of its post-World War II empire . Albania is no longer a faithful follower . Yugoslavia has gone its own Communist way . Romania , even after the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia , pursues an independent course . Analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was slipping away , resulted from the fact that as the Communist bloc began to disintegrate West Germany moved in to fill the breaches with its " new Eastern policy . " By establishing diplomatic relations with maverick Romania , Bonn gave Moscow reason to think it was trying to undermine Soviet influence in Eastern Europe . The fact that West Germany is slowly extending its interests in Asia and also trading with Communist China has only added fuel to Soviet suspicions . Recently the press has carried expressions of concern over a possible Bonn-Peking axis . Ideally , Moscow wants a European settlement which would legally consolidate the situation formed in 1945 . It seeks a peace treaty with Bonn that recognizes the existence of the East German state and the borders of both Germanys . But any settlement of the European problem looks to be a long way off . On the big political questions neither side is willing to give anything at present , and Moscow continues to pour fourth its standard anti-West German invective . Within this familiar framework , however , it does appear that Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical matters . Direct trade between the two countries , for instance , exceeded 2 billion marks last year . Cultural exchanges continue . Tourism is on the rise . Some observers speculate that meetings between the Soviet Ambassador in Bonn and West German Foreign Minister Willy Brandt centered on possible revisions of the nonproliferation treaty . Within this context , they say , an East-West crisis over Berlin would not square with Moscow 's current objectives . It would hardly convince President Nixon , soon to make his first official visit to Europe , that Soviet leaders want to pick up the line of peaceful coexistence enunciated before the events in Czechoslovakia .                     