@@725319

txt SANTO DOMINGO ; Dominican Republic , Feb. 9 WM ? Enraged mobs burned one policeman to death in downtown Santo Domingo today and shot and killed a second . Five civilians were reported killed and 43 others injured as rioting swept the city after police fired into a mob of anti-American demonstrators . Four of the dead were among 800 students who gathered in front of the National palace this morning , chanted anti-American slogans , and held a " minute of silence " to mourn Viet Cong guerrillas killed in Viet Nam . Police opened fire on the mob after a scuffle between a policeman and one of the student headers . Four persons were killed and 43 injured . Triggers 2-flour Riot The shooting triggered two hours of riots in the city and sporadic firing continued into the night . One policeman was murdered near a downtown hospital , where several of the wounded students were being treated . Witnesses said the officer was grabbed by an angry mob and beaten to the ground . The witnesses said gasoline was poured on the policeman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second policeman apparently was killed in the shooting heard around the city after troops of the inter - American peace force ended the rioting and enforced uneasy calm . The seventh victim was a civilian . There were no immediate details on how or when he was killed . Attacked by Mob UPI photographer Julio Pimentel was attacked by the mob that set the policeman afire but escaped without injury . Cars driven by reporters for the National Broadcasting company were caught twice in crossfires in the streets . Two cars were scarred with bullets but none of the occupants were injured . The student demonstration originally was designed to protest the government 's negative attitude toward a leftist-oriented administration at the National university . It quickly degenerated into an anti-military and anti-American protest . After fleeing from the palace , the students flooded into the downtown area where they began rioting . The disturbances were checked by inter-American peace force troops but they flared again . Mobs overturned and burned an unmarked United Nations automobile and damaged two official cars owned by the Canadian embassy . The driver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and beaten by the mobs . American paratroop patrols beat oft mobs trying to set fire to the Canadian cars . Erect Street Barricades After fleeing from the palace grounds , the students formed again in the downtown area and , shouting , " Kill all Yankees , " erected street barricades of garbage and debris , burned cars , and hurled rocks at all traffic . Brazilian troops patroling the area opened fire on demonstrators with automatic weapons and tear gas rifles . The city 's main street , El Conde , was taken over by the demonstrators .                     