@@723761

txt THE HAGUE , The Netherlands . Feb. 9 ( .. P ) ? Princess Irene and her fiance . rrince Carlos de Borbon y Parma , relaxed in the privacy of the royal palace tonight after a hectic 24 hours in which Irene decided to give up her rights to the throne rather than jeopardize the monarchy . The decision was forced on her last night . She met , the issue and decided in favor of love ' and life abroad . If she had insisted on both marrying the Roman Catholic pretender to the Spanish throne and keeping her position as second in line to the throne , the coalition government would have quit . The decision was made after a five-how. crisis session which ended shortly before 3 a. m. today . Irene , 24 , Don Carlos , 33 , Queen Juliana , Prince Bernhard , Crown Princess Beatrix , 26 , and Princess Margriet , 21 , then had an engagement party that broke up around 6 a. m . The royal crisis was on every tongue . The Dutch by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no Sunday papers in the Netherlands , but word of mouth news encouraged thousands to stand before the palace gates all day long . Irene and Carlos , radiantly happy , broke their seclusion in the late afternoon for a 20-minute session before cameras in the palace gardens . Then they strolled 200 yards to the gates , greeted the throng , and received rousing cheers . Explanation to Come The government promised to explain the issue and the solution to parliament on Tuesday . The report will outline the cabinet 's firm stand which compelled Juliana , Bernhard , and the engaged couple to accept a hard constitutional fact . Prime Minister Victor Marijnen is reported to have told the royal family that there was no guarantee that parliament would approve the marriage , as required by the constitution if the royal member is to keep her rights to the throne . Holds Spanish Claim Opposition centered around Irene 's recent secret conversion to Catholicism , and Carlos ' political position as a claimant to the Spanish throne . The constitution forbids any member of the royal family , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Carlos apparently would not give up his position as the leading figure in the Carlist wing of Spanish royalty . Marijnen told Queen Juliana that a demand for parliamentary approval , preserving Irene 's right of accession would compel his cabinet to resign . This struck Crown Princess Beatrix as a threat to the throne , palace informants said . One well-qualified source said : " Irene then was under pressure from Beatrix and also Princess Margaret to step aside . " The emergence of Beatrix , a cool , competent daughter of Juliana , as a prime influence in the crisis was not altogether surprising . She is preparing to be queen with considerable eagerness and talent . Irene and Don Carlos flew with Bernhard from Madrid to The Hague last night , knowing only that their engagement had at least the blessing of her parents . It was a daring gamble to win government support , but it ran into headwinds too stiff to beat back . Gives Up $55,550 Yearly By choosing to renounce her rights and live with Don Carlos , probably in France , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government grant of S55.550 annually . Queen Juliana 's private fortune is immense , however , and there is little doubt that Irene will not have any financial troubles . With the controversy squeezed out of the affair , the love story took over main interest . Crowds at the palace were genuinely enthusiastic . Irene grinned . Don Carlos , tall , dark , and elegant , held her hand protectively and on one occasion lifted it high in a salute .                     