@@724340

txt Washington This year 's election campaigners are adding their names to those who think that United States presidential campaigns are altogether too long . Vice-President-Elect Hubert H. Humphrey believes that the national presidential campaign would be safely and effectively confined to a six-week period , rather than the traditional 10 weeks plus . The Republican vice-presidential candidate , Rep. William E. Miller of New York , said recently the campaigns were " too expensive , too arduous on the candidates , too boring for the public . " Both Sides Agree At a recent Washington symposium the publicity heads of the Republican and Democratic National Committees similarly agreed that the presidential campaigns were overlong . " We have to realize that with jet planes and television the job of making candidates and issues known to the public can be accomplished in far shorter time , " Richard L. Guylay , GOP publicity chief , comments . Voters Ready Early Ask 10 citizens how they felt during the closing days of the recent presidential campaign , and the replies will be almost unanimous that the speeches were getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off two weeks early . How to shorten the campaign ? Interviewed on NBC , Senator Humphrey proposed that national nominating conventions be held in September , rather than in July or August . He added : " Then get down for at least two weeks of preparation and maybe a six-weeks ' campaign instead of a 10-week 's campaign . " Mr. Humphrey argued that the nation should catch up politically with latest communication and transportation developments . " Actually , with the jet airplane and with the radio and television and the news media that we have today , we can get to the people with our message in a much shorter time , " he said . " What we really find ourselves doing in these long , extended campaigns of two and three months is replaying the old material . . " It is my view that the people were ready to vote in this election at least two weeks before it was over , and that they actually made up their minds about two weeks before the election date . " Geared to Slow Pace Experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Johnson victory , plus the candidates ' failure to debate the issues deeply , also contributed to the feeling that the campaign was overlong . The 10-week type of campaign was geared to the slower pace of the campaign train and to communication techniques before television was available . Today a presidential candidate , instead of making one lengthy campaign sweep by railroad across the continent and back , can fly by jet across the continent and back a half-dozen times  --  or more . He can crisscross the nation , telescoping time  --  and expending huge sums of travel money . Country Compressed In effect , the jet and the TV have reduced the United States nearly to the size of Britain , for campaign purposes , and the British general election covers just three weeks . It would be up to the national committees of the two parties , phis such " advisory " groups as the governors conference , to determine the campaign length . " Maybe we can have a little bipartisan soul-searching anti bipartisan reasoning and negotiation and come to an understanding . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               