@@727073

txt There was no connection between Gov . Nelson Rockefeller 's speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors last week and the reluctance ? so far ? of Gov . Raymond Shafer of Pennsylvania to support Rockefeller publicly . But the event and the non-event illustrate some internal contradictions of the Rockefeller campaign . Rockefeller has two major assets . The first of these is the assumption by many Republicans ( and practically all Democrats ) that he could run a better race next fall than Richard M. Nixon . This assumption got some support last week from the respected Muchmore Poll of California , which showed Rockefeller easily carrying that vital state against Robert Kennedy . Eugene McCarthy , Hubert Humphrey or Lyndon Johnson , while Nixon lost California to McCarthy or Johnson and carried it only against Kennedy and Humphrey . Aside from the startling support for McCarthy disclosed by the poll , its importance was that it showed Rockefeller attracting far greater Democratic support against any opponent than Nixon could get  --  for instance , 34 per cent against Kennedy , while against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic vote . These figures may mean more to the leaders of a minority party than the latest Gallup Poll , which showed Nixon narrowly defeating any Democratic candidate in a national sampling , but without much margin of safety and with large pools of " undecided " voters . Rockefeller 's Assets Rockefeller 's other great asset is his long experience in Federal and state government , domestic and foreign affairs , leading to an expectation that he can provide new and hopeful answers to the baffling problems facing the nation . A profoundly serious man , Rockefeller takes it as his obligation to provide such answers . The speech to the editors showed how these two assets work against each other . The more sobering and detailed answers Rockefeller provides ( in this case , his proposals for rescuing the cities ) , the more he is likely to bore his audiences , alarm them with the size of his spending plans or offend them with his liberal , activist approach . Both Humphrey and Nixon , for instance , apparently made a bigger hit with the editors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller did with his massive white paper on the cities . This did nothing to help the Governor 's image as a popular figure and big vote-getter . Another internal contradiction grows out of the Rockefeller decision to stay out of the primaries and avoid arousing the latent animosities of 1964 . This strategy is heavily dependent upon the ultimate support of the Republican Governors in the major states , and upon the fears of Republican businessmen and others that Nixon can not win . The trouble is that the businessmen , independent voters , Republican moderates and dissident Democrats who must support the Rockefeller " draft " movement want and need an announced , visible , fighting candidate , while many of the Governors for varying reasons of their own do not yet want to be forced into a public choice between Nixon and Rockefeller . Shafer of Pennsylvania , for instance , is chairman of the Republican Governors ' committee that will tour the country in May , holding hearings on the party platform . Since Rockefeller is also a member , Shafer argues that if he declared an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a Rockefeller publicity ex. ercise ; if Shafer announced that he was supporting the New York Governor , it would haves much the same effect . George Romney of Michigan replies to Rockefeller overtures by pointing out that he is still wrestling with a Nixon-oriented Legislature . James Rhodes of , Ohio , one of the biggest gubet ' - ' natorial catches of all , is said to be anxious to avoid an open ' contest between Nixon and , Rockefeller until he has the ? Ohio delegation solidly under , ; control . Tricky Political Footing ? These internal contradictions are not insuperable obstacles ; but they make the political foinw , ing tricky , and for the moment they leave the Rockefeller cam- , paign dangerously reliant upon ' the continuing resistance of Rear ' publican favorite sons to XII : on 's pressures . The most important of these ' of course , is Gov . Ronald Realafl ; of California . His incipierl paign threatens Nixon 's ; SuppOtt in the South and War. , and ufiVq , settles the conservative oRposi'Vl tion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ td ' swing some conservative baclEIP ing and perhaps the nomination ' to Rockefeller in return for place on a party-unity ticket :                     