@@725359

txt Gen. Wallace M. Greene Jr . United States Marine Corps commandant sees a long road ahead in Vietnam but feels his new teen-age marines can take it . They 're motivated , ' he says . Interview on Page 10 . Gen. Wallace M. Greene Jr. , 23d commandant of the Marine Corps , flatly says of combat in South Vietnam , " Progress in the past seven months is astounding , but what - ? remains is staggering . " The general wants Americans to understand the antiguerrilla war has no end in sight , that " we 'll be there for a long time . " He does n't believe the United States will leave South Vietnam until the Asians can stand on their own feet politically . He stresses this , over and over again , making it clear his marines may be winning fire fights but this does not mean the " hold and clear " strategy is yet in sustained action . In a relaxed interview this spruce , wiry marine says he is taking in draftees by the thousands , underlining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has no alternative if he is to end up with 278,000 in his corps by mid-1967 . Today he has 214,000 . With the aid of draftees the Marine Corps will actually pass its Korean fighting peak of 261,343 men . Draft totals The Marine Corps took 4,000 drattees in November , 9,000 in January , 3,000 this month , and is expected to take another 5,000 in March . To Gen. Greene the draftees may not be " pre-motivated " as volunteers are , but to him they can be made sharp too . Of new draftees he says , " they are more mature . " A bit older , he finds these 19 to 21 year olds have had some experience out of school , and that it helps . New marines are spewing out of the boot camps at both Parris Island , S.C . and at San Diego . Both camps are " cranking up at capacity , " and this will continue for many months . A new fifth Marine Corps division is certain . General Greene ca n't praise his marines in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he gets a glint in his eye . Just back from Southeast Asia General Greene says that more than 2,000 marines have asked for an extension of duty in South Vietnam . Motivation studied To boys who were 18 , 19 , or so he asked , " Why did you do this ? Why did n't you go home ? " I got the same answer from everyone of these teen-agers . ' We feel that we 're making a real contribution to our country . We like these Vietnamese we work with . We see the benefits that come frOrn our operations here , not only in civic action , but the military patrols , and we want to stay here . ' " They 're motivated . " General Greene is willing to talk about the Marines " way out " future too . Several months ago a panel of Marine Corps officers turned in a year-long study of what the corps should plan for the coming 20 years . High-speed air transportation concerned them . The possible use of rockets to carry marine battalions to Africa or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the late 1970 's . General Greene reminds you that the Marine Corps developed amphibious landing in the 1930 's and the use of helicopters for troops after World War II . They proved the usefulness of helicopters in Korea . Now he wants to see marines lifted en-masse off rocket pads . Plans for 1985 To him the use of rockets is the logical step to follow the " validation of vertical development " by helicopters . " It seems to me , " he says , " as if the helicopter has not only come into its own , it 's almost taken the place of the jeep . " In a file marked " top secret " the " think factory " of the Marine Corps has turned out plans up to 1985 that wonder out loud what its role will be , what the United States Security needs will be , what new weapons will be asked for , and who the enemy may be . General Greene , his staff says , has " a fierce loyalty to the people he commands . " Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corps , but General Greene at first found it hard to put it into words . " You know , it 's a thing of the spirit . You ca n't lay it clown on the table and say , ' there it is , ' " he said . He thought the best way to describe the esprit de corps was a visit that he had recently from a former marine who now lives in Riverside , Calif . ? This man walked in one day to meet his commandant . He had enlisted at the age of 15 in the year 1906 . He had been a drummer . He spent 10 minutes telling about his six years in a blue uniform , " the finest of his life , " and for those 10 minutes he lived it all again with General Greene who was very proud of the drummer who still remained enthusiastic after all those years .                     