@@727743

txt Mayor Daley ordered Chicago police yesterday to take over security on the city 's waterfront and appointed Capt . Verner J. Soballe to a newly created post of seaport commissioner . The mayor acted shortly after receiving the report of an investigation committee headed by Soballe outlining conditions at Navy pier and the Calumet harbor . The widespread looting and the disregard for law and order on Chicago docks were disclosed more than a week ago after an investigation by THE TRIBUNE . City , state , and federal in quiries into circumstances surrounding the reports were started in an effort to avert threatened boycotts by ship ? pers and to preserve the economic advantages to the city and other Great Lakes ports . Daley announced that 20 policemen will be assigned to the harbors until such time as Soballe can establish security measures and provide a permanent seaport security force . " For the first time we will have a real security system , " Daley said . " We 've talked to the unions and they will cooperate . " The recommendations accepted by Daley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ docks . In the past , workers have walked off the job when police arrived . He Changes Mind Daley was reminded that last week he told reporters that the reports of dock thefts were not a police matter . He replied : " Well , you change your mind when you get into the picture . " Pilfering goes on not only in the ports but in every department store . We 're alarmed at it and we intend to improve the situation . " We will have security in operation when the port opens and will be ready to stop pilfering . " Daley confirmerl that he and the head of his department of investigations , Thomas S. , had known of the problems at the ports since early January . He said no action was taken until the problem was made public by the newspaper investigation " because the ships are not in operation yet . " Invents own Job Capt . Soballe was appointed to the $20,000-a-year post of commissioner of the Chicago seaport after submitting the report which included a recommendation to create the post @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for the city 's Navy pier operations and Cainmet harbor . Previously , they had been independently administered by Capt . John Manley , city port director , and Maxim Cohen , director of the Chicago regional port district at Calumet harbor . Both Manley and Cohen will remain it their present positions . In the report to the mayor Soballe noted : " security of cargo at Navy pier and Chicago Regional porl district facilities is inadequate to insure reasonable protectior of cargo from loss due to theft . pilferage , and damage . " The report stated that current . iM provements to protect cargo al both facilities will not be adequate , The report stated that freedom of access to cargo handling areas at the ports and laxity of cargo control measures render It Impossible to affix blame to any groups of persons or organizations for past losses . The cat ' investigation supported TunautiE disclosures of a lack of responsibility for waterfront security . Port officials blamed terminal operators , who in turn blamed law enforcement agencies , including the United States bureau of customs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a recognized responsibility for over-all responsibility of cargo at the city 's ports is a major factor in the cargo loss problem . " Recommendations in the 10-page report advised that the city assume full responsibility for the protection of cargo , security , and control and the development of the Chicago seaport . Wants State Control Gov . Ogilvie has asserted on several occasions that Chicago ports must be unified and under state control . Soballe 's report urged the mayor to request added customs officials for Chicago 's ports . Soballe 's duties as new seaport commissioner will be , according to the report : 1 . Restrict and control access to dock areas . 2 . Eliminate access to dock areas of all unauthorized private persons . 3 . Arrest , search , and detain all persons who are under suspicion , and search their vehicles . 4 . Control entry and release of cargo , this to include requiring the filing of manifests before a ship unloads , photographing holds before cargo is removed , search ' and detention of entering and departing transport vehicles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gates . 5 . Provision of guarded points of entry for persons and transport vehicles . 6 . Additional fencing . 7 . Shape-ups and paymaster operations to be conducted , outside cargo areas . 8 . Providing adequate lighting on docks and parking areas . 9 . Using roving patrols on the docks during other than normal works hours . Duties Are Told Soballe will coordinate all , reporting procedures , investiga- ! tion , and collection of informstion involving cargo losses with customs inspectors , police , ship- ' pers , insurance firms , and oth- ! er interested agencies . Daley at the press conference j told reporters that reports of thefts estimated at 15 million ! dollars annually from Navy pier and Calumet harbor were " tremendously exaggerated " and that Soballe 's preliminary report placed losses at only 61,750,000 for the three year period from 1966 thru 1968 . Soballe , however , in his report stated : " Total losses to Chicago seaport receivers from theft and pilferage can not be determined from records available . " Soballe recommended that the city impose a security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piers and from facilities leased from the city and port district partially to offset costs of cargo protection . He recommended further that the city pay the remaining costs . Henry H. Caldwell , assistant attorney general , was named chief investigator for the Illinois Commission on Economic Development subcommittee on Chicago ports . The commission will begin hearings at 9:30 a.m . Friday in the State of Illinois building .                     