@@728197

txt The Nixon Administration plans to enter into the talks with the Soviet Union on strategic arms next Monday with no specific proposals , but it will be prepared to explore such steps as a moratorium on the testing of multiple warheads for offensive missiles . According to experts on disarmament , the exploratory noncommittal approach to the opening phase of the strategic arms limitation talks  --  or SALT , as they have come to be known ? represents a decision reached by the White House after considerable debate in the Administration . Aside from reflecting a cautious attitude , the decision embodies a compromise between disarmament and military factions . The disarmament faction won the point that substantive issues could be broached in the preliminary round of talks . The military won the point that the United States would not be committed to any suggestions advanced at this time . Curbing the Race ' There are indications that the Joint Chiefs of Staff under the Johnson Administration agreed to the idea that the United States offer specific proposals on limitations on arms but that they have since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years after the talks were proposed by President Johnson , the United States and the Soviet Union will sit down in Helsinki to discuss ways  --  as they put it in their joint announcement ? of " curbing the strategic arms race . " Both sides have been emphasizing their serious intent , but both have also been underlining the preliminary nature of the talks , which are largely designed to develop the procedures and agenda for substantive discussions . The two superpowers will sit down for the first time to discuss limitations on the weapons that provide the backbone of their strategic power ? intercontinental missiles , missile carrying submarines and longrange bombers . The talks will also cover defensive weapons such as the antiballistic-missile ( ABM ) systems whose deployment is threatening to set off a new spiral in the nuclear arms race . The negotiations will not formally encompass conventional weapons , although there is a realization that they can not limit strategic weapons without raising the question whether military resources would then be diverted to build up conventional forces . The expectation in American circles is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the talks would be recessed to prepare for substantive negotiation , which might be held in another city , perhaps Vienna . MIRV a Central Factor At least outwardly the approach of President Nixon . who met with the National Security Council today to review the United States negotiating position , differs from that of his . predecessor at the White House . The Johnson Administration , according to Government officials , had been prepared to submit at the:outset a proposal for limitations - on both offensive and defensive strategic weapons . It was said to cat ) for a freeze on the size and numbers of land-based and seabased offensive missiles at present strength . Within certain limits the United States and the Soviet Union would have been permitted to deploy systems designed to provide a " thin " defense against an accidental launching or the potential Chi= nese missile threat . The proposal , it was said , did not deal with what is emerging as a central factor in the strategic arms race : the development of the multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicle , or MIRV . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of United States delegation . warhead that can be guided to individual targets , it greatly increases the striking power of a single missile . Partly to win the approval of the Joint Chiefs for the freeze , the Johnson Administration 's proposal , at least initially , did not contemplate control over the testing or deployment of MIRV warheads , according to the sources . But thea expectation of disarmament officials was that a moratorium on MIRV testing would have come up early in the negotiations , raising a basic question that could have found the Joint ' Chiefs and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency at odds . Because of the postponement of the talks following the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia in August , 1968 , the Johnson Administration never presented its proposal . There have since been indications that the Joint Chiefs have raised new reservations in working out a position for the talks . Soviet Gains in Weapons In the opinion of disarmament experts , their resistance springs in part from the change Associated Press Vladimir S. Semyonov is leader of the Soviet group . in Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in objecting to disarmament proposals , had to run the risk of a confrontation with the President , who. envisaged an arms-control agreement as the crowning achievement of his tenure . There no longer is-strong support for disarmament either on the White House staff or in the Defense Department 's Bureau of International Security Affairs . Furthermore according to the officials , President Nixon , while embracing the principle of controls , his proved to be much more cautious - than his predecessor . Recent Soviet . weapons developments have also contributed to the skepticism reportedly being shown by the Joint Chiefs . During the last year the Soviet Union . has engaged in a rapid buildup of strategic weapons and has in place or under installation about 300 more land-based intercontinental missiles than ' the 1,054 possessed by the United . States . The United States still has an offsetting superiority in seabased missiles and , intercontinental bombers ? a point stressed by disarmament officials who believe that the Soviet Union is entering into a rough strategic balance with the United States that will permit it to contemplate some restraints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pentagon has been to revive doubts about the desirability of entering into a freeze on offensive weapons ' and limitations on defensive weapons . Even without resistance from the Joint Chiefs , there is some doubt in disarmament- " circles whether the Administration would have adopted the Johnson Administration 's proposal for a freeze . Areas of Mutual interest The basic objective of the Nixon Administration remains the same : a limitation on , rather than a reduction in , armaments designed to maintain the present balance . As Secretary of State William P. Rogers put it recently : " What we hope that we can do is negotiate an armslimitation agreement which will keep us in the same relative position that we are now  --  and which can be ' verified . " A disarmament official who has served in both Governments insists that the freeze proposal was primarily designed to probe the Soviet position and that the Johnson Administration had three or four proposals ready depending upon the Soviet reaction . Similarly , the exploratory approach of the Nixon Administration is designed to probe Soviet thinking to uncover areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the opinion of some experts , is that it may raise questions in the Russians ' minds , particularly among skeptics , whether the United States is serious . Such an objection was raised by Morton H. Halperin , who served as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Johnson . Administration with responsibility for arms control and then as a member of the staff of the National Security Council in the Nixon Administration . In an article in The Washington Post yesterday , Mr. Halperin , now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution , maintained that the exploratory approach " would only serve to strengthen the arguments of , those in the Soviet Union who have been arguing that SALT has from the start been a fishing expedition designed by the United States to gain intelligence information about Soviet programs and to stall Soviet strategic programs until the United States is free from the burdens of Vietnam and could again step up its own strategic spending . " Nixon Demanded Secrecy The United States delegation is entering the negotiations under a Presidential edict of secrecy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there be no discussion of the United States position by officials . The order could be interpreted as an effort to reduce interest in the forthcoming negotiations , but disarmament officials regard it as a sign of serious intent , with the President desirous of having nothing said that might ruffle the Russians , who have wanted to hold the discussions in strict secrecy . The Soviet delegation , according to a Soviet Embassy official , will be headed by Vladimir S. Semyonov , a Deputy Foreign Minister . The selection of Mr. Semyonov , who is regarded as one of the Foreign Ministry 's principal troubleshooters , was interpreted by American officials as further indication of the seriousness with which Moscow is approaching the talks . The American delegation , which is regarded by Democrats among the disarmament officials as a little to the left of the White House and the Pentagon , will be headed by Gerard C. Smith , director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency . Thus far , perhaps because of a desire to maintain secrecy , Ithe Administration has made no move to assure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as advisers , as in the past .                     