@@722486

txt Honolulu , June 9 Ell - The second attempt at a high altitude nuclear detonation over the Pacific was scheduled today for any time after Tuesday and was to be so powerful the danger area was extended . A joint task force 8 announcement said the next test at Johnston Island , 800 miles southwest of Honolulu , would be in the megaton range , which is equal to more than one million tons of TNT . The shot would be fired " at an altitude of hundreds of kilometers , " the announcement said . 67-Mile Increase The Johnston danger perimeter was increased 67 miles at sea level and up to 390 miles at 40,000 feet altitude . At the high altitude the zone would take in all the Hawaiian Islands while heretofore only Kauai Island had been inside the danger zone at the high level . The announcement said there would be no danger to naked eye observation of the test anywhere in the Pacific outside the test area at ground level . But anyone traveling in a plane at heights usually flown by commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the blast if the aircraft was within the zone . The official announcement set no specific date for the blast but said the danger zone extension to accommodate the megaton blast would be effective Tuesday . Unofficial sources had indicated Wednesday as the earliest the second Johnston high altitude shot would be attempted with June 18 a more likely target date . First Shot Fails The first shot last Monday ended in a failure when the system tracking the Thor missile failed and both the missile and the nuclear warhead were destroyed by the test safety officer before there was a nuclear blast . Test officials said the parts of the missile and warhead fell harmlessly into the sea or were floating in the atmosphere . Today 's announcement said the Johnston Island shot would be fired during hours of darkness which indicated that all air operations likely to traverse the danger zone at high altitude would likely be suspended . This could affect both commercial and military jet operations . Washington , June 9 fUPD  --  The United States detonated a nuclear explosion near Christmas Island today ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atomic Energy commission said the weapon was dropped from an airplane and was of intermediate yield - probably about 100,000 tons of TNT .                     