@@725646

txt The frug , the bugaloo , and the jerk -- young America 's latest and most contortionist African-inspired dances -- are about to invade the Soviet Union . The twist , the shake , and the letkiss are old hat . In the southern port city of Taganrog they are danced in dress suit and tuxedo with the alleged encouragement of officials of the Ministry of Culture . The source of this amazing bit of information is one Leonid Shkolnikov , in charge of the dance programs of Soviet television . It all came out through a letter signed " Svetlana M. " in the trade-union daily Trud . The letter was so challenging that the editors called upon the authority of Mr. Shkolnikov to answer it . Svetlana 's letter and Comrade Shkolnikov 's reply throw light on a new development which to old-time Communists must be as baffling as a flying saucer on Broadway . Dancers ejected Less than two years ago ( Nikita S. Khrushchev was still Premier ) the newspaper Soviet Culture sounded an alarm because " the twist had arrived in Saltykov Hall in Moscow Province @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with furtive glances over the shoulder . " Fortunately , wrote the paper , senior police chief Alexander Kashirin was able to " preserve order . . . . He is known and feared . Kashirin ruthlessly ejects people for violation of dance norms . " The Kashirins have lost the battle . Still , good Soviet parents squirm when their children dance the twist , Svetlana tells us . But why should they ? she asks . " This youth is as normal as the one of 20 years ago . Only then young people danced the tango and the fox trot . Today we dance the twist and the shake . What 's bad about it ? " " It 's exotic , it 's avant-garde . Anyhow I love exoticism . In my opinion it enriches our existence . But perhaps I am wrong , " the letter writer concluded . " Answer me , please . " Mr. Shkolnikov admitted that the answer was not an easy one . Instead of theorizing , he drew on his own experience . Only recently , he said , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kiev railway station , " The girls looked like boys and the boys , with their long hair and their slightly rouged lips , like girls , " he wrote . They sang something in English and danced , not the twist but the shake . As he eyed them , one of the dancers cried : " Well , Papa , will you adapt yourself to world civilization ? Go and get yourself long hair .... You do n't want to ? Then better scram . . . . " Dances suggested Another one of Mr. Shkolnikov 's experiences : In one school he suggested several dances , including the bossy nova and the letkiss . But the children did not seem happy . " Which dance do you want to learn ? " he asked . " The Penguin , " came the answer . " And why ? " " Because it is the dance of American explorers . " " All that is needed is a transatlantic label to make a dance popular . Here is your exoticism , Svetlana . Do you understand now ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Things are becoming absurd , " he went on . In Taganrog there is a craze of dancing only in dress suits and tuxedos supplied by an English agency which organizes dancing contests . Officials of the Ministry of Culture are said to have encouraged this nonsense . But Mr. Shkolnikov is not quite sure of himself . " One should not be swayed by Western fashion . Still , the question arises : Should we not catch up with them ? " July 5 , 1966                     