@@728142

txt Washington , Oct. 14 ? The Nixon administration today denounced as a " shocking intrusion " by an enemy country into the affairs of the American people a public indorsement by North Viet Nam of tomorrow 's nation-wide anti-war demonstration . Vice President Agnew , speaking for President Nixon , called on the sponsors of the moratorium day protest and members of Congress backing the demonstration to " openly repudiate the support of the totalitarian government which has on its hands the blood of 40,000 Americans . " Letter Signed by Premier Agnew denounced a letter signed by North Viet Nam 's premier , Pham Van Dong , and addressed to " Dear American Friends " stating that the Hanoi government wished " great success " for tomorrow 's demonstration . It described the protest as reflecting the demand of the American people to save United States honor and to prevent their sons and brothers from dying uselessly in Viet Nam . " The letter , made public by the North Vietnamese delegation to the Paris peace talks and cabled to the White House by the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the United States progressive people against United States aggression will certainly be crowned with total victory , " The North Vietnamese premier referred to tomorrow 's demonstration as " your fall of-fensive , " Calls AcOon Incredible Agnew said at the ' White House a f ter discussing the Ilanoi letter with the President that it was " an incredible message " showing " a gross lack of understanding on the part of a dictatorial regime of the meaning of free expression and open dissent in a free country . " The White House said the Vice President 's statements and views were shared by President Nixon . Agnew asserted the least that the sponsors and leaders of tomorrow 's demonstration and those members of the Senate and House who have given their support to the protest can do is " disassociate " themselves from North Viet Nam 's indorsement of the anti-war movement and make clear to the Hanoi regime that they do not share its objectives in Viet Nam . The Vice President commented that if a public repudiation is not forthcoming , the objectives of the demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Talks Agnew said on this point that failure to repudiate the North Vietnamese premier 's letter would invite the risk of the Hanoi government 's misconstruing the objectives of the anti-war demonstration as being the same as those of the communist enemy . Agnew implied that such misinterpretation on the part of North Viet Nam could undermine the efforts of President Nixon to end the war with an honorable , negotiated peace . The Hanoi letter was first disclosed shortly before Agnew made his statements at the White HOuse by Sen. Hugh Scott Pa. , the Senate Republican leader . Called Powerful Offensive The lett  --  er Noted that a " large sector of the U. S. people , encouraged and supported by many peace-and-justice loving American personages , are ... launching a ... powerful offensive thruout the United States to demand that the Nixon administration put an end to the Viet Nam agressive war and immediately bring all American troops home . " About an hour after Scott released the letter , Rep. Rogers C. B. Morton R. , Md. , chairman of the Republican national committee , read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cong 's foreign minister , Madame Nguyen Thi Binh , in a separate statement , also hailed the moratorium and renewed standing communist accusations that Washington is bent on prolonging the war .                     