@@723754

txt NICOSIA , Cyprus , Feb. 4 ilIPD - Two bombs exploded at the American embassy tonight , knocking o u t telephone lines and injuring a United States marine guard . The embassy announced it will begin evacuation of American citizens from Cyprus tomorrow . A spokesman said that the embassy was recommending the removal of American families from the strife-torn Mediterranean island . The first 200 women and children are expected to leave Nicosia by plane for Beirut tomorrow morning on two chartered commercial planes . fin Washington , the state department said evacuation would be on a voluntary basis and said preparations for it were made " in view of the tense situation on the is/and . " The department estimated that 1,500 Americans live on the island . Series of Incidents Two bombs knocked out the embassy telephone exchange and ripped a side entrance of the hilltop embassy building . Then a third explosion destroyed an ' automobile belonging to a Briton at the Averoff hotel . The explosions followed a series of incidents involving Greek and Turkish Cypriots which threatened Cyprus with new violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wound in the embassy bombings . He is Henry Therique , 26 , of North Windham , ' Conn . Damage to the embassy was described as superficial by an American spokesman . Sees Fuse Lighted The first blast was set off just below the second story office of Ambassador Fraser Wilkins . The blasts shattered ' windows in nearby houses and were heard thru wide areas of Nicosia . An American embassy official who witnessed the bombing said : " I saw a Land Rover a car approach the driveway and a man lay down something . He lit the fuse and ran back to the Land Rover . " The official said he rushed toward the spot just as the bomb exploded . He called for the embassy guard , who arrived as the second bomb went off , slightly injuring the guard . Makarios sped to the scene and told a senior embassy official , ; Such people are the biggest enemies of Cyprus . " He had appealed earlier to both the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities to avoid incidents . " Greeks and Turks on Cyprus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be solved by peaceful means , not by arms , " he said . " The presence of Brit iSh troops or any other troops on the island will not contribute to the restoration of peace if peace and normality are not the common pursuit of the Greeks and Turks on Cyprus . " He referred to incidents which he said " occur almost daily " between Greek and Turkish Cypriots and said , " In every case one side throws the blame on the other . " Blow to Relations Makarios , in a radio broadcast on the bombing , said , " The abominable criminals , thru this horrible action attempted to destroy friendly relations between the United States and Cyprus . " He called the perpetrators " traitors to their own fatherland " and urged all Cypriots to furnish any information that may lead to the arrest of the bombers . Reports spread thru the hateridden capital , Nicosia , that several Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots had been captured by oppusing sides in skirmishes during the day . The bomb explosions and reported clashes were the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting Christmas week which took an estimated 200 lives . Ankara radio said Greek Cypriots raided four Turkish Cypriot villages today , kidnaped 52 Turkish Cypriots and ransacked several houses . The broadcast reported Greek Cypriot raiders fired on the Turkish Cypriot village of Aduyia for two hours . Greek Cypriots set up roadblocks and captured about 50 Turkish Cypriot workers , according to the broadcasts . In some places Turkish Cypriots returned the fire and captured seven Greek Cypriots . Ankara radio reported there ' were other similar incidents and said that Gen. Peter Young , British commander of t h e Greek-Turkish-British force now enforcing a truce on Cyprus visited the scene of the clashes . A Shock to U. S. Washington , Feb. 4 C.Pt  --  The United States expressed shock tonight at the bombing attack on the American embassy in Nicosia and called for punishment of the offenders . The state department gave the official view in a short statement read by Press Officer Robert J. McCloskey . " We are shocked by the irresponsible attack on the United States embassy in Nicosia , Cy-1 prus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Makarios and the government in Cyprus will result in the prompt restoration of order and the discovery and the punishment of those who have committed this regrettable act . " About 1,200 of the 1,500 members of the American community on the island are women and children . Most Americans here work for the embassy or the big United States communications complex . The Americanowned Cyprus Mines corporation copper mine ' also employs a number of Americans .                     