@@728117

txt An Army colonel told a Senate inquiry today that a former provost marshal general had ordered criminal investigation records altered to omit references to William 0 . Wooldridge , then Sergeant Major of Ithe Army . Lieut . Col. Jack G. Pruett , commander of a criminal investigation unit , said that the Army 's chief provost marshal had ordered him . to have reports linking Sergeant Wooldridge to alleged irregularities in the operation of service clubs at Fort Benning , Ga. , redone or rewritten to exclude the sergeant 's name . The former Provost Marshal General , Maj. Gen. Carl c : Turner , could not be reached for comment . The Provost Marshal General is adviser to the Army Chief of Staff on military police affairs , including criminal investigation activities . The subcommittee is investigating alleged improprieties and corruption in the operation of the service clubs . On Tuesday , the Senators heard testimony that a group of sergeants had siphoned off funds from Army service clubs in West Germany . An Army investigator said he believed Sergeant Wooldridge headed the group although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prosecution . The sergeant 's lawyer , David L. Thomas , dismissed the allegation as speculation . Yesterday , witnesses told the committee that the sergeants had stolen $5,000 to $7,000 a week from slot machines alone while mismanaging the service clubs in the Augsburg-Munich area . General Turner retired from the Army last year and was appointed Chief United States Marshal by the Nixon Administration last spring . He resigned from that post Sept. 5 , after only five months in office , following reports of laxity in the supervision of noncommissioned officer clubs while he was Provost Marshal General . Colonel Pruett said that he had suggested to General Turner more than once that Sergeant Wooldridge be removed from his post as the first Sergeant Major of the Army , the Army 's highest enlisted position , but that the general each time demurred , saying " He 's just a good old country boy . " At this point , Senator Karl E. Mundt of South Dakota , the ranking Republican member of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , broke in to ask , " Did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country boy ? " Sergeant Wooldridge , who has sat stolidly though the committee hearings this week , denied through his attorney , David L. Thomas , that he was guilty of any wrongdoing . Colonel Pruett also said that General Turner had reported that Gen. Harold K. Johnson , then Chief of Staff of the Army , had ordered that any investigation relative to the sergeant be conducted at the highest Army level , in General Turner 's office . General Johnson had appointed Sergeant Wooldridge as - . Sergeant Major of the Army . Picture of Frustration The testimony of Colonel Pruett , commander of the First Criminal Investigation Detachment in Washington , coupled with that of another Army investigator , Chief Warrant Officer Rex M. Harding , painted a picture of continually frustrated efforts by Army investigators to delve into alleged wrongdoing not only by the sergeant but also by a band of senior sergeants who were regularly assigned to the same posts . Senator Mundt likened the travels of the group of sergeants to the migration of " flocks of blackbirds " moving from one " posh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asked how these sergeants could regularly appear at the same places , Colonel Pruett said , " There must be someone at the top in a position to make these assignments . " He said that the Army 's Office of Personal Operations at the Pentagon moved soldiers from assignment to assignment . Mr. Harding testified that he had come across a letter on the I desk of one of the sergeants he was , investigating at Fort Benning addressed to Sergeant Wooldridge and requesting help in getting " a preferential assignment " for another sergeant . The letter was addressed " Dear Tiger , " Mr. Harding said . Inquiry Report Delayed Yesterday 's testimony disclosed that an investigation from 1964 to 1967 into the activities of several sergeants , including Sergeant Wooldrige , at service clubs in the Augsburg-Munich area of West Germany , had been closed and the report filed only locally . Today 's testimony revealed that the report got to Colonel Pruett 's office in the United States only after an investigation of similar irregularities at Fort Benning , Ga. , had been undertaken . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turner for- ' bade its being sent to Mr. Harding , the investigating officer at Fort Benning . The Fort Benning investigation , according to Mr. Harding , turned up evidence that a wooden fence had been built for the house of a sergeant involved in service club operations at club expense ; that club cashiers had been falsifying records ; and that liquor from club stock had been given to a retired sergeant major . In the last case , Mr. Harding ; testified , he asked for a search warrant to look for the liquor in the sergeant major 's house . In a move he described as " certainly strange , " Mr. Harding said , the Fort Benning provost marshal refused to issue the warrant . The testimony did not make clear what were the irregularities in the operation of service clubs to which Sergeant Wooldridge was allegedly linked by the Fort Benning investigation reports . about the sergeants at Fort Benhing and suggested they might also be interested in the report that he had been unable to obtain on the activities of the sergeants in West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was questioned about some of his activities the questioning took an unusual form . He said that he and another investigator had been told " we would not be able to interrogate Wooldridge in our usual fashion during a criminal investigation but that we would just interview him and that our questions would be confined " to certain subjects . The subjects did not include the sergeant major 's activities while he was stationed in Germany . Colonel Pruett later testified that this had been done at the order of General Turner . He also said that General Turner had been ' provost marshal for Europe and had been stationed at Heidelberg , Germany , during part of the time Sergeant Wooldridge was in West Germany . Sergeant Wooldridge later told reporters that he knew General Turner " but not well . " Role in Appointment Colonel Pruett was asked whether Sergeant Wooldridge 's selection as Sergeant Major of the Army in 1966 had taken into consideration the investigation into service club irregularities in Augsburg with which he was allegedly involved . The colonel pointed out that the Augsburg file had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed . . Colonel Pruett also told the committee that he learned in April , 1967 , that " Sergeant Major Woolridge and others acting with him had tried to bring large quantities of liquor with him " into Hawaii from Vietnam aboard the private plane of Gen. Creighton W. Abrams Jr. , without declaring it and paying duty . He said that General Turner had ? told him that " no cornplaint file was to be initiated " by the criminal : investigation unit concerning this incident and that the general would handle it himself " due to the sensitivity of the individual . " General Johnson , the former Chief of Staff , said over the phone today that he had not known of the existence of the Augsburg report on irregularities in service clubs but had been informed that the Sergeant Major " was a part of the attempt to smuggle in liquor from Vietnam . " " Since the duty , a penalty and a fine were paid " in a customs case , General Johnson said , he took no disciplinary action . " I figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he 's paid the penalty any citizen would have paid . " . Colonel Pruett was asked why he had not protested General Turner 's order deleting Sergeant Wooldridge 's name from the investigation reports . He replied that he had been " thoroughly upset " but had said nothing to General Turner about the order . " When you 're in the service , sir , " he explained , " you lock your heels . " Mr. Harding was subsequently rotated , in a normal shift , to Vietnam . There , he testified , he came upon the same group of sergeants once again involved in the operation of service clubs . He said two of the sergeants were working for club , systems and a third was workling for the Meredem Company , which sold goods to serviced clubs . Sergeant Wooldridge is listed among the company 's stockholders . Mr. Harding was not investigating the activities of the sergeants in Vietnam , he said ; he merely came across their activities by accident . He said he had reported to local officials what he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            