@@721287

txt 1 WASHINGTON , June 10 ? 1The Republican National Committee unanimously approved today a resolution giving Vice President Nixon equal credit with President Eisenhower for Administration programs and laccomplishments . The group ignored the sub , ordinate , nonexecutive character of the Vice-Presidency . In , every field of governmental activity , foreign and domestic , ; praise was given to " the leader ! ship of the President and the ( Vice President " as though they were equals . They were praised for having preserved the peace , maintained national security , increased the nation 's economic strength , curbed the forces of inflation and insisted on fiscal integrity . Rockefeller Factor Denied " We continue to be grateful for the quality of their leadership and the breadth of their achievement , " the resolution said . " We pledge to them our unremitting effort to assure the continuance of their policies through the election of a Republican Administration in November . " Senator Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , Republican Nail tional Chairman , declared that lit was not the intention of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership made by Governor Rockefeller of New York on Wednesday . He recalled that the committee adopted at its December meeting a similar resolution , also giving equal credit to the Vice President with the President in shaping and executing Administration policies . Timing of Statement Senator Morton said he was confident such a resolution of praise for Mr. Nixon would have come from this meeting even if the Rockefeller attack had been delayed for several days . The National Committee statement was issued at a time when the Rockefeller camp appeared to have all but struck its battle ! ; flag . George L. Hinman , New York 's National Committeeman , ( said Governor Rockefeller did not plan now to have his name placed in nomination at the Republican convention although he , ' was available for a draft Mr. Hinman said that the Governor had no illusions about the almost certain nomination of Mr. Nixon and that the Governor would support him in November . But Chairman Morton said he did not accept this forecast of Governor Rockefeller 's course of action . He said he regarded him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination , and he believed he would become an avowed candidate shortly . The chairman admitted to having had pro-Nixon views before his selection to the party // post , but said he was certain he could conduct a fair and free convention . " Would Governor Rockefeller make a good President ? ' " the chairman was asked . At first Senator Morton said Mr. Rockefeller would be better than " some " of the Democrats seeking the Presidency . Called upon to define " some , " the Senator quickly corrected himself and said Mr. Rbckefeller would be better than " any " of the Democrats . With some of the excitement of the Rockefeller-Nixon dispute ebbing , Republican leaders turned to attempting to ridicule their Democratic opponents . Senator Morton pointed to the age of Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts , the leading contender for the Democratic Presidential nomination , who is 43 years old . Recalling the saying , " Never send a boy to do a man 's work , " Senator Morton said that " in Democratic circles these days , they are sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to the rival Presidential aspirations of Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri and Adlai E. Stevenson . Miller Hopeful on House While Republicans conceded that they had no chance to recapture the Senate this year , Representative William E. Miller of upstate New York , chairman of the Republican Congressional Campaign Committee , said the party could regain control of the House . But he noted that this would require a gain of sixty-six seats from the Democrats , and therefore would require superior candidates and good organization . Repercussions continued from yesterday 's announcement by Mr. Miller that the " overwhelming " sentiment of the twentyfour-member New York Republican House delegation favored Vice President Nixon over Governor Rockefeller . It was established that only eighteen members had attended the dinner where the resolution was voted , and , of these , only eight would admit that they had voted affirmatively . An absentee , Representative John V. Lindsay of Manhattan , telegraphed The New York Times that he would have dissented vigorously had he been present . One Explanation In his talk with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Governor Rockefeller 's sudden challenge to Mr. Nixon to outline before the convention his stand on vital new issues . Mr. Hinman disclosed that Governor Rockefeller , by telephone , had suggested this course of action to Mr. Nixon shortly after the New York Governor quit the race for the Presidency late in December . He said the Governor had been waiting for Mr. Nixon to act and had issued the public statement only when lit became clear to him that the Vice President did not intend to follow the Rockefeller advice . Asked if the Rockefeller statement would hurt Mr. Nixon 's chances of carrying New York and its forty-five electoral votes in November , Mr. Hinman said it would not hurt if the Vice President " Started immediately to develop andoutline a program based onl the important issues . " " Could Mr. Nixon be elected , if nominated ? " Mr. Hinman ' was asked . " I certainly hope so , " he re- ! plied . Wanted Positive Course Mr. Hinman said Governor Rockefeller had been fully ' aware that his statement would not win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft movement . The Governor acted , he said , because he felt the Republicans had to take a positive course and this in the long run would help both the party and Mr. Nixon . The Republican party is al minority party , he said , and can- ' not afford to be described as " a controlled , closed party , not alone as to candidates , but also to discussion of the issues . " L. Judson Morhouse , New York State Republican chairman , visited Washington briefly last night , attending a reception given by a Michigan group pushing the Vice-Presidential candidacy of Representative Gerald R. Ford Jr . Mr. Morhouse returned to New York without attending any committee sessions . Representative Jessica Weis , the New York National Committeewoman , attended today 's meetings , but had nothing to say for publication on the Nixon-Rockefeller contest . She voted against the pro-Nixon resolution of the House delegation , explaining yesterday that she felt she should not take a stand as a member of the party'se state executive committee . Morton Prediction Denied A spokesman for Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Morton had got the idea that the Governor would shortly announce his candidacy for the Presidential nomination . " It did n't come from anyone around Rockefeller , " he said .                     