@@724039

txt United Nations , N.Y . Chief Albert Luthuli , the African Nobel Peace Prize winner who is under detention and whose writings are banned in South Africa , has further risked his precarious status by slipping out of that country a message to the UN Security Council . His message protested the sentences handed down Friday condemning to life imprisonment many of his chief associates in the once-moderate leadership of the African National Congress . This appeal on behalf of the convicted defendants in the so-called Rivonia trial became the centerpiece Friday in a day of strong but so tar ineffectual protests by African and Asian leaders here . Council to Hear Plans It should be apparent by midweek whether the Luthuli plea helped the Africans ac complish anything more in their campaign to turn back apartheid in South Africa . On Monday or Tuesday the Security Council is expected to hear a resolution proposing a further tightening of the UN-approved isolation which so far has had so little effect on the government of Hendrik F. Verwoerd . At the moment , two alternate resolutions are proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many African leaders are demanding a measure which would have the Security Council impose mandatory economic sanctions . At this time , and for the foreseeable future , such a resolution is virtually bound to fail . It can not gain the votes of the three Western permanent members of the Council  --  and would probably provoke a veto from Britain or France if necessary . Milder Resolution Norway 's Ambassador , Sivert Nielsen , has been circulating among the Africans a much milder resolution . It is one which , in effect , has the Council appoint a committee to study possible further steps to be taken against apartheid ( mandatory white supremacy ) . This Norwegian initiative contains two elements which the more impatient Africans do not like . It gives this study committee six months before reporting back to the Council . And , in its original form , it does not specifically mention sanctions as one of the methods to be studied . The African leadership appreciates that the Norwegian plan is specifically timed to keep up some momentum for antiapartheid moves until after the American and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : What then ? These skeptics point out that last December they agreed to another Scandinavian initia tive which resulted in a six-month study committee . The work of that committee was summarily rejected by the Verwoerd government . As a result the Africans arc seeking assurances from Washington and London that the two Western capitals will be ready for some kind of definite action after their elections , when the second six-month committee would report back . So far they have not obtained such assurances . There is little evidence that they will . Militancy Favored However , there is a fair chance that Britain , France , and the United States would abstain on a vote , letting a Norwegian - type resolution pass . It is believed that Washington might , in fact , vote for it if the wording remains relatively innocuous . If , on the other hand , these compromise measures do not succeed , several African leaders favor going down with flags flying on a tough resolution demanding sanctions right away . Their plan then calls for returning the issue to the African summit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more militant action in Africa against apartheid . It is hard to tell which thesis will prevail . But a majority of African diplomats here prob ably still favors diplomatic means  --  even if this means still another delay because of the American and British elections . African traces freedom struggle : Page 12.                     