@@726836

txt PORTLAND , Ore . ? For 23 years , Wayne L. Morse has been the controversial focal point of Oregon 's politics . He has taken unpopular stands on both foreign and domestic issues , attacked Presidents from both parties , become Involved in intraparty battles , and switched his registration from Republican to Independent to Democrat in the 1950 's . Even so , the 67-year-old gadfly of the Senate has weathered past assaults from the opposition with little difficulty . This year , however , Senator Morse , who is seeking his fifth term , finds himself in an unusual position ? as the underdog within his own party . Rigorous Campaign Two public opinion polls taken within the past year show Mr. Morse , one of the Senate 's most vocal critics of the Vietnam war , to be trailing fellow Democrat Robert B. Duncan by up to 25 percentage points . Mr. Duncan is a former two-term Congressman who was defeated for the Senate in 1966 by Mark 0 . Hatfield , a former Governor . Mr. Duncan 's strong showing In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 40 Democrats in the state Legislature , has forced Senator Morse to undertake a rigorous campaign . Since last summer he has crisscrossed Oregon , speaking in almost every town In an attempt to restore his sliding political fortune . Most political observers said last week they would be surprised if Senator Morse did n't rebound to win the Democratic nomination again . A neutral Success Former Gov . George C. Wallace of Alabama , who says he 'll announce his candidacy for the Presidency " in the very near future , " reported last week that more than 100,000 Californians had registered as members of his American Independent party , thus presumably qualifying it for a place on the California ballot next November . Slightly more than 66,000 signatures were needed . Mr. Wallace said he now expects to get the party on the ballots of the 49 other states and , possibly , to win the Presidential election . Another third-party movement may also have succeeded in California . The Peace and Freedom party , a New Left group that opposes U.S. intervention in Vietnam , said last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , needed 66,000 to get on the California ballot . observer who has followed Senator Morse 's career discounted the polls . " Wayne has done a magnificent job of taking care of his constituents , " he said . " These men are going to think twice about booting him out . This is coupled with his ability to shift gears and soft pedal those things that have been most abrasive in the past . " Mr. Morse 's decline in popularity is blamed on two factors : first , his opposition to the war , and second , disenchantment on the part of state labor leaders , who had formed his biggest bloc of support . Oregonians generally support the war despite the fact they elected the dovish Mr. Hatfield in 1966 . Other peace candidates have met with little success . Mediator Role Senator Morse 's falling out with labor Is traced back to his role as mediator in the airline and railroad strikes over the last two years . Also , his position on the war is at variance with most state labor leaders whn remain stanch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's 1966 defeat on his making his support of the war the single issue of the campaign . When he announced his candidacy last month , however , he played down his differences with Senator Morse on the war . This time , he says , " there is very little to argue about " except tactical decisions . He denied that he had ever said that he supported the President 's handling of the conflict . And to underscore his desire to keep the war from taking centerstage , he said , " I 'm in favor of all peace alternatives and negotiations . " Accent on Youth Instead , Mr. Duncan is basing his campaign on the need for a youthful face to represent the state . The 47-year-old lawyer said he offers a " record of independent thinking , a record of cooperation with others and a willingness to work with others without rancor , without namecalling and without bitterness . " An observer remarked recently , ' ' l have a feeling there is an undercurrent that it is time for a change , but Duncan has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change and have an equally effective man . " The winner of the Democratic primary is expected to have clear sailing in the November general election unless Gov . Tom McCall changes his mind and seeks the Republican nomination . State Representative Robert Packwood , a 35-year-old Portland lawyer , is the only Republican who has indicated he will run , hut he has never conducted a statewide campaign .                     