@@726228

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Shriver 's Plan for Youth Census To the Editor : In his letter published April 1 , William Barus makes assumptions and draws conclusions from my proposal for a universal census of America 's youth which are totally off the mark . It is particularly ironic that I should be criticized for advocating compulsion . First of all , I specifically stated three or four times that I flatly opposed compulsion . Moreover , my years of public service have been associated with two of our nation 's most dramatic examples of voluntarism . The Peace Corps has enlisted tens of thousands of volunteem from every part of the nation and serving in every part of the globe . The poverty program has enlisted the volunteer support of over a third of a million men and women , to say nothing of the fact that every participant in our programs voluntarily elects to be in it ? whether in Job Corps or VISTA or Upward Bound or any of the hundreds of programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Present System Young men now register for Selective Service at age eighteen ; by the time they are examined , many of them are found to have serious enough physical or mental handicaps to be rejected for service . Girls do not register , but we know that many of them similarly are handicapped for employment or family responsibility by the time they are eighteen . We know this through our experience with the women 's division of Job Corps , through VISTA , and through the Peace Corps . I proposed simply that we take advantage of an existing institution , as an economical method , but extend it to younger boys and to girls , to help identify the needs of our youth in time to be of help to them . If identification with the Selective Service System is es bad as some believe , then let it be another vehicle . My concern  --  a concern dramatically reinforced after six years of the Peace Corps and three years of the antipoverty program  --  is that we do whatever we can to provide opportunities for self-employment as early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions were , raised about national service and related matters . I expressed my conviction that girls as well as boys should be given opportunities for all kinds of service . But I expressly stated that I have seen no evidence to justify compulsion . The issue of national service , however , is entirely separate from the issue of registration or census which I propose . I. would force nobody to take advantage of Job Corps or Neighborhood Youth Corps or remedial education or health care . I would not even force registration itself under threat of penalty . Picture of Needs I simply propose a program . for reaching all young people so that we could get a national picture of need'and to get direct contact with individuals in order better to open up opportunities for them . I 'd permit any young man or woman to be a " conscientious objector " to this type of registration . And I so testified . I am concerned with opportunity , not direction . Has compulsory education in the public schools made ours a regimented society ? Has Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears of a " dog-tag society " when Social Security Was first considered in 1935 . ) Those who see tyranny and big-brotherism in a simple proposal like mine just do not have confidence in our democratic convictions . It would take much more than a census of youth 's needs to make goosesteppers out of us . SARGENT SHRIVER Director Office of Economic Opportunity Washington , April 7 , 1967 ? Bus Stops To the Editor : It is typical of the actions of the Transit Authority that they have conductors on the new equipment serving the IND line from Queens blaring through a public address system the express stations ( the names of which and their order of occurrence being well known to at least 98 per cent of the daily riders ) , while drivers of the bus lines in Manhattan are not compelled to announce their stops to riders . Many of them are visitors who find it next to impossible to determine from inside the bus how close they may be to approaching their intended destination . JAMES F. KELLY Forest Hills , L.I. , March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Editor : The New York Times has rendered a great disservice to the peace and Civil rights movements in this country by making a futile attempt to dissociate the two . In an April 7 editorial The Times severely criticized the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference , for " fusing " the peace and civil rights issues into a single concern . Logically , the welfare of nonwhite peoples in this nation is inextricably linked with the welfare of nonwhite peoples around the world . American Negroes , Puerto Ricans , Indians and Mexicans all have an exceedingly direct stake in the Administration 's posture in Vietnam . They have experienced first hand the Government 's disrespect for humanity and dignity at home and are compelled to voice their outrage at the calculated destruction abroad of their Vietnamese brothers . The American Government seems , in fact , to be embarked upon a program of systematic genocide in Vietnam and it is for this reason , perhaps more than any other , that colored peoples everywhere must speak out and act courageously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ' guilty of silence while American nonwhites who have been deprived of their full citizenship are sent to their death in President Johnson 's illegal , immoral and unjust war . In order to dramatize the growing opposition to the war , . thousands of Americans of . all races , creeds , religions and national origins will gather together in San Francisco and in New York City on April 15 far the Spring Mobilization protest march and rally . Before the eyes of the world , the Spring Mobilization launch a sustained , serials movement which will begin ? to put an end to the senseless slaughter that is taking place in the name of democracy . Rev. ) JAMES BEVELL National Director . Spring Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam New York , April 8 , 1967 ? . ? . ? War Stand Rejected To the Editor : I consider that my support of the Urban League and membership in the N.A.A.C.P. , to say nothing of my contributions to various liberal causes , entitle me to consider myself a white person of goodwill as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Times of April 5 . Far from being willing per- ' sonally to boycott the Vietnam war , however , or even to have my son claim status as a conscientious objector , I assert that ' it is necessary to support the . war in Vietnam . Dr. King 's , simplistic asser-tion that our Government is th ? " greatest purveyor of violence in the world today " and his analogy between the use of new weapons by our forces in Vietnam and the use of strange medicines and tortures by Hitler 's murderers in the concentration camps of Nazi Germany raise grave doubts in my mind as to his ability to think clearly . Dr. King and his Ilk do not speak for me and mine . JOSEPH LEWIS SIMON New York , April 5 , 1967                     