@@725462

txt By Gordon N. Convene , chief photographer Coloreds will be ousted from this tawdry area of Cape Town . Foes charge move is unfair extension of apartheid ; government says it is wiping out a slum . Story : Page 6 . Cape Town District 6 rises on the flanks of Devil 's Peak just out of the center of Cape Town . It is the home of some 30,000 Coloreds who live in slum conditions among factories and warehouses . Today District 6 has become a hot issue . The government has proclaimed the area white . This has stirred up a storm of protest . Government foes charge the action is " race clearance , " not slum clearance . The Coloreds would be moved out to the Cape Flats area where large Colored communities are rising some distance from the city . Protest rallies , prayer meetings have been held demanding that the government withdraw its proclamation . Speakers have indicated " shame and abhorrence " at the action . It shows , they say , a disregard for the welfare , sentiments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The area provides workers for many Cape Town factories , the barrow boys , newspaper vendors , flower saleswomen , and vegetable hawkers that make the Mother City of South Africa a lively and colorful place . This has been their traditional home for generations . The name goes back 100 years when the city was divided into six polling sections . All others have lost their identity , but District 6 retains the name  --  and its own flavor . Cape farmers can send their truck loads of fruit and vegetables there any time of day or night and get their money on the spot . A good deal of Cape Town 's laundry is done there as well as its tailoring and dressmaking . The population is predominantly Moslem . Alleys and lanes It has many alleys and lanes  --  Rotton Row , Drury Lane , and Lavender Hill . There are many herbalists , butchers , grocers , tattoo artists , cinemas , bars , hotels , bathhouses  --  all seasoned with the spicy smells of curry shops . The Cape Town City Council has been trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to redevelop the area for its present inhabitants , for which it has long had a plan . The Cape Times editorialized recently : " This is a grabbing of what is rightfully another 's ? an act of sheer selfishness that is horrifying and numbing in its callousness . " Government move defended Nationalists defend the government 's move as necessary to clean up an unhealthy , crime-ridden center of " skollies " ( ruffians ) , prostitutes , and thieves . The people , they say , will be moved to another area where they will have a chance to improve their living standards . P. W. Botha , Minister of Community Development , said the outcry appeared to be more on behalf of the slum owners than Colored people . The government was actually saving them from exploitation by property owners and giving them their own community life with all their own facilities and amenities , he added . The move is also apparently part of a plan to consolidate Coloreds into one area where they can be given a say in their own local administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future in their " bantustans . " There are no such independent states proposed for the Coloreds and Asians in South Africa . Colored intellectuals point out that their people have been harder hit by apartheid than the natives . While Africans aspire to rights they have never had , Coloreds have been steadily deprived of rights they had for a long time  --  the common role vote , residential rights , university training alongside whites , attendance at cultural and entertainment affairs with whites . They maintain there is an air of joylessness in District 6 these days as a result of government " harassment . "                     