@@724356

txt A Democratic task force set up to establish legislative priorities for the 1965 session drew fire yesterday from newly elected State Senators from New York City . The 10-man group of politicians and educators was established by the Democrats to help them run the next Legislature , As a result of the Nov. 3 election the party will control both the Senate and the Assembly for the first time in three decades . The announcement of the setting up of the task force was to have been made tomorrow by William H. , State Democratic Chairman . The group will be headed by William J. vanden Heuvel. an aide to Senator-elect Robert F. Kennedy and his former special assistant when he // STATE TASK FORCE SPLITS DEMOCRATS // was United States Attorney General . The dissatisfaction with the plan was touched off When 19 of the 23 Senators , meeting at private luncheon with Senate Minority Leader Joseph Zaretzki in the ? Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , were told of the project . Some complained that they had not been consulted in the formation of the special unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would find impossible to support and that it would put them in the position of publicly opposing their own party 's policies . In the discussions that took place , one of the Senators pointed out that some members of the task force had been part of former Gov . W. Averell Harriman 's staff seven years ago . " They are Incompetent , selfcentered and arrogant , " he asserted . " If they set up a program for us , they will destroy us . " Senator Zaretzki tried to placate the dissenters , but the complaints continued for about 10 minutes . Eventually they subsided , with dissent still simmering . Parley Called by Zaretzki Information about the revolt in the caucus room came from several of the legislators as they left the three-hour session . The luncheon meeting had been called by Senator Zaretzki for a discussion of proposed committee chairmanships in the 1965 session . Mr. Zaretzki denied later that there - had been real opposition to the task force . He said that those Senators who had voiced dissatisfaction had misunderstood the purposes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . The Manhattan Democrat , who is expected to be the next majority leader , said he had informed his colleagues that the nine-man force was an offshoot of the 40-man advisory council set up by the party last year . He said final approval of its policies had to come from the state committee . On the Senate committee chairmanships that had to be filled , he said there would be a post for each of the 33 Democrats in the next session . He pointed out that there were 28 standing committees of the Senate and 38 joint assembly and Senate committees , more than enough to take care of everyone . He said yesterday 's meeting was a preliminary one and no decisions had been made . Mr. Zaretzki met Friday with nine of the 10 upstaters who will serve in the next Senate . He said this meeting was also a preliminary one . Other members of the task force named by Mr. are : Dr. Clark Ahlberg , vice president of Syracuse University ; Mrs. Joyce Phillips Austin , an assistant to Mayor Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship and Public Affairs , Syracuse University . Justin Feldman , counsel to the New York County Democratic committee and chairman of the state committee 's reapportionment committee ; Daniel Gutman , counsel to Mr. Harriman when he was Governor and now dean of New York Law School . Howard Miller , an associate professor of political science at the Maxwell School , Syracuse University , and former deputy state director of the budget ; Howard D. Samuel , assistant president of ' the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America ; Dr. Wallace Sayre , professor of public administration at Columbia University , and Nassau County Attorney Jack Weinstein , professor of law at Columbia University .                     