@@720993

txt Mayor Daley withdrew him ; elf Monday night from conaderation as a Democratic candidate for governor . His announcement that he ; will not seek the nomination was made at the conclusion of his annual report to the people of Chicago . tdecast over station WBBM-TV . " Urged by Many " " Many people from downstate , the suburbs and the city have urged me to be a candidate for governor of Illinois , " the mayor said . " I appreciate their confidence and consider it a great honor . My official obligation is to the people of Chicago who have twice elected me mayor . I feel that I can not leave unfinished the many projects we have under way and that we have initiated . " I am not a candidate for governor . " Tells of Fire Survey Earlier in his report , the mayor disclosed that a survey of Chicago 's fire department will be undertaken shortly by - the National Board of Fire Underwriters . " Altho the Chicago fire department is considered one I of the best in the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fire Underwriters to conduct a thorn study of its operations , " the mayor said . He noted that a reduction in fire insurance rates on Chicago residences has been granted as a result of an application filed by the city Dec. 4 with the state insurance director . Tells of Rail Plan " As we enter the 1960s. we can face the future with ' faith and confidence , " the mayor said . " A feasible plan for consolidating railroad terminals , which will provide new streets and highways , new r e s i d en tial neighborhoods and commercial areas on the south side , has been presented to the railroad industry . I am hopeful they will make a great contribution to Chicago 's future by accepting the plan . It will I also provide a site for a branch of the University of Illinois . " Nearby will be the great new lake front convention hall  --  a magnificent building which will serve as a cultural and recreational center as well as a facility which will assure Chicago 's continued leadership as the convention capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayor touched on the city payroll scandals uncovered by TRIBUNE reporters by saying that " with ? I'ew exceptions , found in any enterprise which employs thousands of persons , the 39,000 city workers are hard working and conscientious . In government , as in private industry , there is always room for improvement . In 1960 we will intensify programs for better supervision and personnel practices . Above all , we will continue to insist that the city receive full value for every tax dollar spent for material or services . " The mayor urged a71 citizens to cooperate in improving their government by reporting to the city 's department of investigation " any city worker who is not putting in a full day 's work . " In reviewing the year 's accomplishments , the mayor singled out the arrival of the 4,000 ton Dutch ship Prins Johan Willem Frisco as the first ship to reach Chicago by way of the new lock system in the St. Lawrence seaway . Mention Queen 's Visit Among other high spots he mentioned the International Trade fair on Navy pier , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . He noted that more than 9,000 permits were issued for new residences and apartment buildings in 1959 , that 49 miles of new sewers were built , and that 30 miles of new water mains were laid . The mayor recounted addition of personnel to the police department and emphasized that the police traffic division brought a new safety record to Chicago for the seventh consecutive year . " The progress we have made in every area of local government and urban renewal has brought a new confidence , a new faith in the future of the city , " the mayor said .                     