@@721996

txt West Berliners huddling beneath umbrellas in front of Schoenberg city hall to hear address by Vice President Johnson after his arrival there to assure Germans of American support . Berlin city flag ( foreground ) , and the American flag dominate the scene . Vice President Johnson stretches out hand to greet a woman in West Berlin after welcoming crowd jammed street , forcing him to get out of car and walk . Behind Johnson is West Berlin Mayor Willy Brandt . BERLIN , Aug. 19-American pledges to protect the liberty of West Berlin and free access to this city are firm , Vice President Johnson assured the people of West Berlin today . The Vice President told an enthusiastic crowd of 300,000 Berliners , at- a mass welcome ' demonstration in front of West Berlin 's city hall : " To the survival and the creative future of this city the Americans have pledged our lives , our fortunes , and our sacred honor . " Assures German Unity Johnson , who had been sent here by President Kennedy to boost the morale of Berliners after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halt the refugee flow , also assured Berliners that their City and country one day will be reunited again with the aid of the free nations . The Vice President , accompanied by Gen. Lucius D. Clay ret. , former United States military governor in Germany , and Charles Bohlen , state department expert on Russian affairs , arrived in Berlin at 5 p. m. 500,000 View Johnson Within two hours he had converted the mood of a dejected and despairing city into one of new hope and confidence that the free world will stand by Berliners in their struggle against communist domination . From the airport , the Vice President and his party , including Mayor Willy Brandt , West German Foreign Minister Heinrich von Brentano , and other high German and American officials , drove thru the streets of West Berlin lined by 500,000 cheering men , w 3 m e n , and children . Frequently Johnson 's limousine was stopped by the surging crowd . At one point he stepped out of the car and , in true campaigning style , shook hundreds of hands , paused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he made his way on foot for about five blocks . At Potsdamer Platz , where the Communists have erected a concrete wall to prevent East Germans from escaping to the west , the Reds withdrew their guards a few minutes before the motorcade , escorted by 100 West Berlin policemen , arrived . Wo n't Forget Duty A huge electric news bulletin board facing East Berlin reported Johnson 's arrival and his statement at the airport , in which he said : " I have come here at the special request of President Kennedy . . . to honor your courage , your faith in freedom , and to assure you that your friends will never , never forget their obligations to you . " This city will continue to be a fortress of the free , because it is the home of the brave . " In a special greeting to the 1,100,000 Berliners , now imprisoned in the communist sector , the Vice President said : " We can never forget the suffering and heroism of the people in East Berlin , who have now been forced into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and free women . Ca n't Hide Misery " Altho an , iron curtain now divides this city , it can not bide the misery and brutality imposed by those harsh and illegal decrees . " The words of the Vice President were broadcast by western radio stations into East Berlin and surrounding East Germany . The division of this city , Johnson said , has united the free nations even more strongly . " We will be separated neither by communist tricks , nor communist threats , " he said . Earlier , on arriving from the United States , Johnson conferred with West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer in ? Bonn . In a brief speech , the Vice President said , " The American people have no genius for retreat , and we do not . intend to retreat now . " " I am very satisfied , " Adenauer said after his talk with Johnson . Altho the Vice President 's plane arrived here an hour late from Bonn , the huge crowd around the city hall , which had begun gathering at 1 p. m. , waited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clay , who is remembered here as " the savior of Berlin " during the Russian 1948-49 , blockade , brought rousing cheers and shouts of welcome . Thousands waved handkerchiefs , hats , umbrellas and paper flags . Berlin Mayor Rejoices Mayor Brandt , who welcomed the American visitors at the city hall , expressed the feeling of Berliners when he remarked , " Yesterday I was full of sorrow . Today I rejoice with a full heart . " He referred with gratitude to the quick response of President Kennedy to Berlin 's appeal for help and in his personal request to the President to take political ' action , instead of resorting only to paper protests , in face of the latest Red challenge . Johnson told the Berliners , " President Kennedy wants you to know , I want you to know , and the people of the United States want you to know that the pledge he has given to the freedom of Berlin and the rights of free access to Berlin is firm . " Expresses U.-S . Concern He expressed the deep concern of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures taken by the communist authorities to divide this great city . " Later the Vice President addressed a special session of the West Berlin house of representatives . He said that he had come here in a moment of danger and tension to reaffirm unwavering United States solidarity and support . Johnson pointed the practical measures the American government is taking to meet ' the Russian challenge . On Sunday the Vice President will tour West Berlin , visit the Marienfelde reception center , and view the barriers erected by the Communists around this city since a week ago .                     