@@724809

txt The House voted today to repeal excise taxes that now cost buyers of automobiles , jewelry , handbags , household appliances and many other products about $4.8 billion a year . The tax-cutting bill was easily steered to passage , 401 to 6 , less than three weeks after President Johnson had proposed the legislation . Favorable Senate , action within the next three ) weeks seems likely . Spokesmen for a number of industries have promised to pass along the benefits to consumers by holding the line on prices . Part of the $4.8 billion in savings , however , may be offset by price increases to absorb possible wage rises and other costs of manufacturers and retailers . While no estimate was available on the probable division of the benefits , it was widely , assumed that consumers would ! get the major share , at least ! of those afforded in the next few months . Cuts Will Be in Stages The bill calls for repeal of ! the taxes in stages over a fouryear period , starting July 1 with a reduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would take effect next Jan. 1 . Reductions of $1.4 billion would be spread over the succeeding three years . Four Democratic Representatives and two Republicans voted against the measure . The Democrats were Charles S , Joelson of New Jersey , Paul C. Jones of Missouri , John 0 . Marsh Jr . of Virginia and Howard W. Smith of Virginia . The Republicans were John F. Baldwin of California and Robert P. Griffin of Michigan . Shortly after the House voted , the Senate Finance Committee announced that it was temporarily setting aside the Administration 's bill for medical care of the aged to speed action on the excise tax bill . The committee scheduled a public hearing on the tax re // duction measure for next Tuesday . It announced that only one witness , Secretary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler , would testify . Immediately after hearing him , the committee will go into closed session to act on the bill . In the House , the bill stirred so little controversy that only half of the four hours scheduled for general debate was used . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cutting taxes despite prospects of continued budget deficits . President Johnson , in proposing the cuts , had said a major purpose was to assure continued expansion of the national economy . Greater emphasis in the House debate , however , was placed on the desirability of eliminating onerous taxes , most of which had been imposed in wartime to discourage the consumption of civilian goods . The bill 's manager , Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas , presented it to the House mainly as a means of improving the tax structure and removing inequities . He said he was not urging favorable action primarily to stimulate the economy , although most economists seemed to expect such a result . Excise taxes , most of which are taxes on sales of specified articles by manufacturers or retailers , now produce more than $15 billion in annual revenue for the Federal Government . Some Will Be Retained The bill would repeal virtually ail such taxes except those classified as special-purpose excises , which are used for such purposes as highway construction and to aid enforcement of liquor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes are among the levies retained . The 10 per cent manufacturers ' tax on new passenger automobiles would be repealed in four steps for ultimate savings of about $225 on the average car if present prices are maintained . In the first step , retroactive to last May 15 , the rate would be cut to 7 per cent . It would he further reduced to 6 per cent next Jan. 1 , to 4 per cent Jan. 1 , 1967 , and to 2 per cent Jan. 1 . 196S , with full repeal effective on Jan. 1 , 1969 . The average saving on cars purchased after May 14 and before next January would be about SOS . Effective July 1 , the bill would repeal the 10 per cent retail tax on jewelry and related articles , furs , cosmetics and other toiletries and luggage , handbags and other leather goods . Various manufacturers ' taxes would also he repealed July 1 . These include levies on business machines , sporting goods other than fishing equipment , phonograph records , musical instruments , television sets , radios @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and oil applicances , mechanical pens and pencils , lighters , matches and playing cards . The rate on b refrigerators and freezers is now 5 per cent . On nearly all of the other items it is 10 per cent . Repeal of the 10 per cent manufacturers ' tax on air-conditioners would be retroactive to May 15 . Taxes paid on airconditioner s and automobiles from Slav 15 until enactment of the bill would be refunded to tile manufacturers . In most instances , the refunds are expected to he passed along to consumers . The 10 per cent tax on local and long-distance telephone and teletype services would be reduced to 3 per cent next Jan. 1 and repealed in stages over the follownig three years . Taxes that would be repealed next Jan. 1 include those on admissions , cabarets , club dues , electric light bulbs and parts and accessories for passenger automobiles . The rates now range from 8 to 20 per cent .                     