@@725399

txt A leading authority on Chinese history suggested today that high Administration officials were " too excited " over " Peking 's vast blueprints " for exporting the Chinese Communist revolution John K. Fairbank , director of the East Asian Research Center at Harvard University , told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that some " commentators who really ought to know better have overreacted to the visionary blueprint of world revolution put out by Lin Piao last September . " In that statement , Marshal Lin , the Chinese Defense Minister , talked of how the Communist movement , based in underdeveloped countries , would strangle the world 's advanced countries . He said the CommuAssociated Press Wirephoto Prof. John H. Fairbank before Senate panel yesterday . nists would do this in the same way that Mao Tse-tung , operating from the countryside , gradually strangled the cities con- trolled- by the , Nationalists during , the Chinese civil war . In recent , testimony before-the House and ' Senate Armed Services Committees , Secretary of Defense Robert S. cited the LM statement as blunt warning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has compared it to " Mein - Kampf , " the book in which Adolf Hitler- outlined his ; plans ; fo ? Nazi domination of the world . . Professor Fairbank said that , in his view , - the statement was simply " a re-assertion of faith " that the " parochial example of rural-based revolution " in China was a model for =developed countries , ' It was issued , he said , " mainly as compensation for China 's ? recent defeats in many parts of the world . " Communist China , like China for a thousand years under emperors in- Peking , is still governed by . a " great Confucian political fiction , the myth of rule by virtuee ' Mr. Tairbank said . Rule , by virtue requires that rulers " proclaim their true teaching , claiming that it will still win the world even if they themseves are too weak to support it in practice , " he declared . Second Hearing This was the second hearing devoted to an examination of Communist China 's military strength , economic condition , possible expansionist designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially in view of the American ' involvement in the Vietnam war : It was to the last two points , that Mr. Fairbank particularly addressed himself . Mr. Fairbank said there should be two parts to United States policy . ' First , he said , the United States should open the door to China 's participation in the world scene . Second , it should " hold the line " militarily on the Korean border , the  --  Taiwan Strait and " somehow in Vietnam , " he said . These recommendations paralleled those made Tuesday by A. Doak Barnett , director of the East Asian Institute at Columbia University . Mr. Barnett is a political scientist , Mr. Fairbank a historian . Mr. Fairbank said that bringing Peking into the international community would not be easy and would not happen soon . He said he doubted that it was feasible to remold Mr. Mao , chairman of the Chinese Communist party . ' Deal With Successors ' . " But I think it is high time we got ourselves . ready to deal with his successors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . China , he asserted , is still suffering from the frustration caused by her decline in the 19th century after centuries of selfconfident , self-sufficient superiority . Therefore , the problem of bringing Peking into world relationships is a " primarily psychological problem , " he said . " The Chinese feel themselves not part of the international world , " Mr. Fairbank said . " We look at what 's happening and think of Chinese Communism on the march without looking at their history . " He said China should be included in all international conferences , such as those ' on ditz armament , and should , be admitted to the United Nations , He freely conceded that the Chinese would be " disruptive and extremely annoying " in the United Nations but said that he would favor their admission " even if they said they would dynamite the place . " As on Tuesday , when Mr. Barnett made the same proposal , committee members accepted with equanimity and apparent approval this suggestion , which has been regarded as political anathema since the early nineteen-fifties . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of containment of China , " an attitude of firmness backed by force , " because " the Chinese are no more amenable to pure sweetness and light than other revolutionaries . " Mr. Fairbank was reluctant to get into questions of Vietnam policy , saying , " An expert witness on history is not an expert witness ' on policy . " " I do not wish to dissociate myself with the Administration 's policy , nor do I wish to underwrite it , " he said . " It 's a fact . " But the committee members would not let him concentrate on China . In response to questions about Vietnam , he said that he was " not happy about our being there " and that he believed it would have been better to have sought an independent Vietnam in 1954 , even though the country would have come under the influence of Communist China . However , he said , the United States got invOlVed , because it did not realize that in doirs so it was getting into the framework of power politics . Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus . of power politics , " and " perhaps power has to be used in smaller wars if Ave are to avoid bigger wars , " ' The containment of Chinese influence in South Vietnam is only partly . military , he said . In a larger sense , the contest is in " nation-building , " whether South Vietnam Is to be organized on the authoritarian pattern of a Communist state or more along Western lines , he went on . Therefore , he said , " The real test is not whether we can fight but whether we can be more constructive than destructive while we are fighting . " He was asked whether the Chinese would enter the war if North Vietnam exhausted its military manpower and faced defeat . He replied that he thought " China would have to defend the state on their southern border " to prevent the setting up there of a " non-Communist type state , " just as it intervened in Korea for the same reason . Mr. Fairbank said he did not think the Chinese would re- , spond to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , should the United States expect to stop fighting during negotiations . The Chinese way , he said , is to do both at once . Therefore , ' he said , it might be necessary to have some limited escalation of the war during negotiations to convince the Chinese of American staying power .                     