@@723006

txt Premier Khrushchev is believed here to be - grappling with enormous political and economic difficulties that will force him to stand pat on the major issues dividing East and West . Government analysts cite a series of extraordinary vacillations in Soviet foreign and domestic policies since the Cuban crisis last fall as evidence of Mr. Khrushchev 's distress . Because of his preoccupations , they expect no new flareup in the dormant Berlin situation , no major change in the uneasy truce over Cuba , no progress in the Geneva negotiations for a nuclear test-ban treaty and only some stiffening of Moscow 's propaganda against the West . Experts here further believe that the impasse is likely to last a long time because Moscow 's main problems do not lend themselves to quick solution . They ? ook for a bitter continuation of the debate over the allocation of Soviet resources , to a prolonged duel , primarily between civilian and military leaders , about defense policy and to a desperate but probably futile effort to contain the Soviet conflict with Communist China . Experts Are Uncertain Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the views of individual members of the Soviet leadership to determine whether the Communist Party chiefs are united in the face of difficulty or weakened further by internal dissension . But they say that at least spirited debate and collective changes of heart are indicated by Moscow 's recent handling of the test-ban negotiations , of proposals for Berlin talks , of the troop withdrawals from Cuba , of the conflict with China , of military allocations and strategy , of Communist party reorganization and of the so-called de-Stalinization campaign . On various aspects of all these questions , Mr. Khrushchev has taken several positions only to abandon them again amid signs of resistance and debate . The most serious problem is believed to be economic , involving lopsided industrial development , serious and unexpected agricultural failures and strains on the Soviet investment budget at the very time that Washington had been emphasizing its lead over Moscow in the nuclear arms race . The Russians are again revising their economic plans , planning structure , military production schedules and the party establishment charged with supervision of the economy . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the event of serious dissatisfaction with both the objectives and the performance of the economy . What is more , these new experiments were ordered in the midst of what appeared to be an extensive argument about military strategy , in which Soviet military leaders opposed exclusive reliance upon a missile force and the doctrine of " massive retaliation . " For the time being , Mr. Khrushchev appears to have abandoned his view that important non-nuclear weapons are obsolete and that the size of the standing Soviet army can ibe considerably reduced . The rigid Soviet attitude at the Geneva ? est-ban talks so soon after new expressions of interest in an agreement may be related to this military argument , analysts here suggest . The change in Geneva and the slow approach to Berlin talks that Moscow had suggested may also stem from Moscow 's desire not to exacerbate the already strained relations with Peking , they add . Similar vacillation has been evident in the Soviet decision to withdraw some troops from Cuba , and the signs in Havana are that the subject is a sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to , tone down the quarrel with Peking has already forced Moscow to accept many insults and denunciations in silence , experts here point out . They believe the Chinese are behaving as though they have the Russians on the defensive and judge the current efforts to arrange a truce to be merely a continuation of the competition by other means . Finally , the analysts see signs of discord in Mr. Khrushchev 's effort last week once again to redefine his view of Stalin and to explain away his own service to the late dictator . That speech , it is thought , was aimed at the evident restiveness of Soviet youth and the extension of literary and artistic dissent into politics . Conceding comparable difficulties in the Western alliance and with the American economy , Government specialists here say it must chagrin the Soviet leaders to be so distracted by their own troubles that they can not properly seek advantage over the West . The speculation here is that Mr. IKhrushchev will leave the West alone until he has completed his own reorganizations and reappraisals . Chinese Advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , March 14 ? Peking has maneuvered Moscow into a weakening position in the struggle between the two for ideological leadership of the Communist bloc , according to Western analysts here . " The Russians are trying hard to preserve their position of leadership , but are steadily losing ground , " one specialist said today . He was commenting on letters exchanged between the Chinese and Soviet Communist parties affirming the need for talks on their acute differences . The texts of the letters were published by Peking today . The Soviet letter suggests that Moscow help to convince Peking that a face-saving formula should be found to restore a semblance of unity in the Communist bloc . However , Peking , in agreeing to the talks , publicly established stiff terms for settlement of the dispute . The Soviet letter sought to minimize the differences separating Peking and Moscow , attributing them to " different conditions " in the two countries . It said the differences had been " artificially exaggerated . " The main thing that unites the parties , the letter added , are " incomparably loftier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , emphasized that there were " serious differences on a series of important questions of principle . " The differences could be explained , the Chinese letter said , by the " question of how Marxism-Leninism is understood and what attitude is taken toward it and the question of how the Moscow declaration and Moscow statement are understood and what attitude is taken toward them . "                     