@@725444

txt Santiago , Chile Stodgy Hispanic traditionalism and lack of quick-service eateries are teaming up to slow government plans to change the working habits of the people of Santiago . While government employees have adapted well to the new system , private offices and downtown businesses are resisting the changes . Beginning in January , public offices began to operate on new Anglo-Saxon-style office hours : 8-12 and 1-5 , or something similar . Previously , typical office hours were 9-1 and 3:30-7:30 . In the old days , employees went home on lumbering , old , overcrowded buses for lunch . After eating a big meal and enjoying the traditional siesta , they returned to work in the same buses . One motivation for the new hours Was relief of the city 's congested transportation , and this has been somewhat successful . No quick service Under the new hours , lunch is eaten downtown . However , the typical Santiago lunch is a big meal , starting with a robust bowl of soup , called cazuela , and ending with a heavy dessert . Not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major cities in the United States . However , most government departments have installed their own luncheonettes to meet the needs of their employees . Private offices , such as insurance companies and large commercial firms , have by and large kept to the old hours , though some have responded to the government plea to join in the unified workday ( " jornada iinica " ) . Most stores also have kept to the old system . Downtown commerce shuts down around 12:30 or 1 , and only reopens at 3:30 or 4 , closing down again at 7:30 or 8 . The resistance to the changes on the part of private offices and businesses is due in part to the lack of inexpensive restaurants for personnel , but also to plain old-fashioned traditionalism . Santiaguinos , as the 2,000,000 people of this capital are known , like to have a substantial lunch and they like to eat it at home . Furthermore , a minimal lunch in a typical downtown restaurant costs about $1.25 , which is about a third of a day 's pay for many office workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program and most recognize that the city will eventually yield to modernity . Housewives , especially , are pleased with the new hours , which bring their families together for more hours . President Frei , in promoting the changes , definitely had this in mind . Bars may not sell wine or hard liquor between 4 and 7 p.m . Some Santiaguinos are beginning to think about changing the hour of the evening meal , which is traditionally eaten at 9 or 10 p.m . The reduced early lunch and the abandonment of the traditional late afternoon snack ( called onces ) cause hunger in the early evening . Most South American cities , like their counterparts in Spain , still maintain the traditional divided workday . This was established as an escape from the relentless midday heat . However , even nontropical Chile and Argentina followed the tradition .                     