@@726297

txt Mayor Lindsay stood firm yesterday on the May 20 deadline for enforcement of the city 's clean-air law . " As Mayor , I am determined to get compliance with the Air Pollution Control Law , " he said . " Despite the inconvenience , hardship and difficulties that may unfortunately occur , this Mayor is determined to have clean air , clean streets and a clean city . " Mr. Lindsay 's statement strongly supported the position of Air Pollution Commissioner Austin N. Heller . Sanitation Commissioner Samuel J. Rearing Jr. , on Sunday , and Herbert B. Halberg , Commissioner of the Department of Marine and Aviation , on Monday had said that the deadline could not be met , City Council President Frank O'Connor also took that position on Sunday . Manpower Lack Cited Mr. hearing naa Sala Ile utu not have the trucks and manpower to move the extra refuse if any substantial number of the 9,000 apartment house owners affected by the law failed to upgrade their incinerators and the city sealed them off for violations . Mr. Rearing also said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the refuse collected , land-fill sites for disposal were inadequate . The Peham site in the Bronx , which is filled two feet over grade , and the Fresh Kill site on Staten Island have been the city 's two big landfill operations . The Sanitation Commissioner is negotiationg with Parks Commissioner August Heckscher in an effort to start land-fill operations at Split Rock Park , near the Pelham location . Many Bronx civic and conservation groups , and the Bronx Historical Society , anxious to preserve the swampy area as a wild-life preserve , are fighting this effort . Councilman Mario Merola , Bronx Democrat , prefiled a. resolution in the Council yesterday " calling upon the Mayor to immediately cease , desist and rescind an imminent plan to use valuable , historical , geological , natural , virgin park lands in the Southeast Bronx for a land-fill operation . " Commissioner Halberg , noting that burning of harbor and waterfront refuse in open barges would be barred beginning May 20 , asserted that ' havoc would be caused on the waterfront . He said dangers to navigation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be crippled , and waterfront construction virtually halted . I Both Commissioner Halberg and Commissioner Rearing were criticized by Commissioner Heller and the Citizens Committee for Clean Air yesterday . Mr. Heller said that the Sanitation and Marine and Aviation Departments had " had at least eight months to develop - their methods of handling the additional burden imposed by Local Law 14. " 75 Inspectors Planned Announcing he would have ' 75 inspectors in ? the field to : heck on violators , he said : " Cries to postpone the in:vitable are almost certain to r:ontinue . Experience has shown little of consequence can be gained by delay or extension . I Our task is difficult but not impossible . 1 can not abrogate my responsibility and therefore will proceed to enforce the law . " The Commissioner , who is on holiday , said in his statement that either signed contracts for upgrading incinerators or applications to operate them would be accepted as " legal commitments " for compliance . Mrs. Carter F. Henderson , president of the Citizens Committee for Clean Air , scored what she called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Now we learn , " she said , ghat not only the Sanitation Department , but also the Department of Marine and Aviation has not prepared itself to comply with the law . " The late objections bring both the law and the Council , which passed it unanimously , " into disrespect " and " flout the will of the people , " Mrs. HenrInrcnn cold O'Connor 's Position Mr. O'Connor , meanwhile , explained his position in letters ! to Mrs. Henderson 's committee and to the Business Council for ' Clean Air . The latter had criticized him for suggesting that , if the deadline could not be met , the Council would give top priority to any legislation ' needed . Noting that he was a cosponsor of the " clean air " law . Mr. O'Connor wrote , in part : " Legislation . however , requires enforcement by the executive branch of government and , at the present time , we are faced with the spectacle of three different city agencies fAir Pollution Control , Sanitation and Rent Administration at public variance over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance at a City Hall news conference that , knowing that compliance would he " very tough , " the city would " be reasonable and use common sense " in administering the law .                     