@@727145

txt Cruel Hoax ' : Veto Called For I A spectator listening to the debate in the House of Representatives on the so-called " crime-control " bill during the last two days prior to its final passage would have reason to doubt whether the Bill of Rights could get fifty votes if it were up for consideration . The tone and quality of the debate would have dismayed Thomas Jefferson and James Madison if they had had the misfortune to hear it . Members of the House were more intent on demagoging against crime and putting themselves on record in favor of law and order than they were in analyzing the grave defects of this bill . One of the worst failures in the bill is its feeble provision on gun control . Rifles were used to shoot down President Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . But this bill permits the murderous mail-order traffic in rifles and shotguns to continue . The bill does ban mail-order sale of pistols and revolvers , but it does not even require registration of the ownership of these dangerous weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an inconvenience than registering an automobile or obtaining a prescription for a drug . In arguing against registration , the gun lobby constantly points to the Constitution 's protection of the right to bear arms . But the Constitution also assures the right to vote ; yet to exercise that right every citizen must register . Why should owning a gun be more sacrosanct than the right to vote ? Title II of this bill is an attempt to overrule recent Supreme Court decisions on the admissibility of confessions in Federal courts , methods of arraignment of suspects , and police procedures in the questioning of suspects . Many members of Congress talk as if suspects are presumed to be guilty . Most of Title II is undoubtedly unconstitutional because two of the major decisions Congress attempts to overturn were founded upon provisions of the Bill of Rights and can not be reversed by a mere statute . In short , this Congressional vaporing will promote confusion and help no one . Title III would permit the sweeping use of wiretapping and electronic devices for comparatively minor suspected crimes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of the long struggle for human liberty could sanction this reckless invasion by the Government of the privacy of the individual . Except for the financial assistance for local police forces , virtually nothing in this measure is going to assist in combating crime on the streets . Representative Celler of New York has accurately described it as " an illusory bill which was a cruel hoax on people whose fear of crime is a fact of life . " After the House approved it yesterday , President Johnson sent a letter to Congress renewing his request for tighter gun controls . We trust the letter is not an indication that the President intends to become a party to this hoax on the crime issue . We urge him to return this monstrous bill to Congress with the veto it deserves .                     