@@726994

txt Governor Rockefeller will announce Thursday afternoon that he is a candidate for the I Republican nomination for President and - that he will enter the Oregon Republican primary on May 28 . The statement of candidacy being prepared by the Governor 's speechwriter , - Hugh Morrow , will be delivered 18 months after Mr. Rockefeller began regularly proclaiming that he would never again run for national office . But even as the first drafts of the statement were being reviewed by the Governor last weekend , his advisers were still deeply divided over what he should say about the war in Vietnam . A Moderate Dove ' Many of the dozens of men he has consulted about the war during the last two weeks have warned Mr. Rockefeller that his announcement will have little impact unless he takes a position dramatically different from the hard-line policies of Richard M. Nixon . These advisers ? including Senator Jacob K. Javits and Lieut . Gen. James M. Gavin , retired ? have urged Mr. Rockefeller to picture himself as " a moderate dove " with views somewhere between those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men close to the Governor ? including his top political adviser , George A. Hinman  --  have advised him to avoid detailing his views on Vietnam at this time . They have urged him to describe the war as " a grave crisis which demonstrates that the nation needs new leadership . " Expects Peace Talks Mr. Rockefeller has told friends that he is " really agonizing " over the political effect of making an early commitment on Vietnam because he believes that President Johnson may begin peace negotiations before the November elections . At the same time , Mr. Rockefeller has said privately that he believes Mr. Nixon made a " major tactical blunder " in saying that he had plans to end the war without revealing what those plans are . When he has been alone with friends , Mr. Rockefeller has scornfully mocked Mr. Nixon by patting his suit pocket and saying that he keeps a ' peace plan there while hundreds of Americans die each week in Vietnam . The Governor has said he will " pound away " at Mr. Nixon 's secret plan during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor do not know what his personal views on Vietnam are at this time . He has regularly deflected questions on the war by saying that he does not have enough information to discuss the issue . The last public statement that Mr. Rockefeller made on Vietnam was in August , 1965 , when he said : " President Johnson merits the support of free men everywhere for his strong stand in Vietnam and his manifest determination to defend and save human freedom from Communist aggression and so ultimately to win a more certain peace . " Mr. Rockefeller has met with at least three dozen men to discuss their views on Vietnam . The advisers he consulted included Henry A. Kissinger , a Harvard professor who has been his chief adviser on foreign affairs , and Oscar Ruebhausen , a New York lawyer and close personal friend who has been helping Mr. Morrow with the candidacy statement . Others consulted were Adam Yarmolinsky , a Democrat who served in the Defense Department under Presidents Johnson and Kennedy , and his brother , David Rockefeller , who is chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed the war must be ended as soon as possible . Mr. Rockefeller will announce his candidacy only one day before the final deadline to have his name removed from the Oregon Presidential ballot . Until Friday , he could have had his name removed from the ballot by filing an affidavit stating that he would not become a candidate . He had filed similar affidavits before other primaries and had refused to enter the March 12 New Hampshire primary . In that election , Mr. Nixon , who declared his candidacy in January , received 84,005 votes to 11,691 write-in votes for Mr. Rockefeller . But in Oregon , Mr. Rockefeller has chosen a battleground where he won in the 1964 Presidential primary . In that lelection Mr. Rockefeller outpolled Barry Goldwater by 92 , - 142 to 49,197 , and many Oregon Republican leaders have said that they believe the New York Governor will win again this year .                     