@@726447

txt Governor Rockefeller , Mayor Lindsay and Senator Jacob K. Javits have been meeting privately to exchange views on support for a Republican Presidential candidate in 1968 . In conferences in recent Months , the state 's three leading Republicans hive agreed , for different reasons , that their support must be fora candidate from the party 's moderate wing . But there is no consensus among them that any particular Republican moderate , such as Michigan 's Gov . George Romney , can win the nomination . At the meetings , some of which have been held at Mr. Rockefeller 's apartment at 812 Fifth Avenue , the Governor has firmly insisted , as he has publicly , that Mr. Romney provides the best opportunity for the party moderates to erase the loser stigma of the Nixon and Goldwater campaigns of 1960 and 1964 . Motives Debated Mr. Rockefeller has tried to persuade the Senator and the Mayor that the moderates ' only hope for survival in the party 's power structure is to support Governor Romney right up to the opening of the Republican National Convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early Presidential primaries in New Hampshire and Wisconsin , Mr. Rockefeller has argued , New York 's three most influential Republican officials should support him . Some of the tew Republicans privy to the substance of the discussions takethe Governor 's advice at face value . Others suspect that his private insistence on support for Mr. Romney is based on more personal motives . They feel it is part of a careful strategy that dictates Mr. Rockefeller 's only chance to win the nomination for himself could come through a situation in which Mr. Romney and other moderate or liberal Republicans were defeated in primaries , but able to achieve a convention floor deadlock with a conservative candidate . One knowledgeable observer of the situation skeptically cites the Governor 's recent statement that , as a last resort , to hold the New York convention delegation solidly behind the moderate cause , he would head the delegation as its " favorite son " candidate for the nomination . " It sounds a little like he just could n't resist the urge to admit that he wants it , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Romney is not , as has been speculated widely in political circles , that he could provide balance , geographically and ideologically , in the second spot on a national ticket headed by the Michigan Governor . Mr. Javits now feels that there is little chance that Mr. Romney , or any other Presidential nominee , would select him for the Vice-Presidential nomination . Instead , Mr. Javits has told the Governor and the Mayor that he does not savor the prospect of running for reelection to the Senate in 1968 on a Republican ticket headed by any candidate to the right of Mr. Romney . The Senator feels that the Presidential candidacy of former Vice President Richard M. Nixon , for example , would hurt him in his re-election campaign next year . More Pessimistic Somewhat more pessimistic than the Governor , Mr. Javits is said to believe that " the ball game is over for the moderates " if Mr. Nixon defeats Mr. Romney in the New Hampshire primary next March . The Senator 's feeling has been expressed in the comments he has made on Mr. Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the candidate of the conservative element " and as a perpetrator of " ploys " to damage Mr. Romney 's prospects . Mr. Lindsay , who has been mentioned occasionally as a possible Vice-Presidential candidate , disagrees with the Governor and the Senator on different aspects of the party 's chances to win the Presidency in 1968 . The Mayor has agreed to continue to state publicly that he is for a moderate Republican for the Presidential nomination . But he has refused to announce his support for Mr. Romney . He has made it clear to the Governor and the Senator that he thinks Mr. Romney will lose to Mr. Nixon in New Hampshire and again , if they oppose each other , in Wisconsin . If this happens , Mr.Lindsay Feels , the moderate wing of the party should immediately con ; ider supporting Senator : harles H. Percy of Illinois for he nomination . A number of iberally oriented ? Republicans ) elieve that a Percy-Lindsay icket , . though improbable , : ould be an audacious chalenge to any conceivable Demo'ratio ticket . Mr. Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                