@@721222

txt Does cancer have something in common with such familiar ailments as the common cold , mumps and measles ? A growing number of medical scientists theorize it does , and they 're stepping up their research to prove it . If they are successful  --  and scientists call recent discoveries encouraging ? at least some forms of man 's No.2 killer may be prevented by vaccines . The theory : Some human cancers may be caused by viruses , those extremely tiny bits of infectious matter which cause scores of illnesses ranging in severity from cold blisters and colds to yellow fever and polio . Clues implicating viruses as a possible cancer cause have been pouring from medical laboratories in recent months . Researchers caution no major breakthrough is imminent . but they are heartened by their findings . Some believe research on the virus-cancer link along with the search for chemical cures , holds the most promise for eventual curbing of cancer 's mounting toll . , Surgery and Radiation Some 265.000 Americans will die of cancer this year . estimates the American Cancer Society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living will be struck by the disease sometime . Surgery and radiation now are the only known cancer cures , but they often are ineffective . Virus research . of course . is only part of the manypronged campaign being waged against cancer . Because cancer is not a single disease . but rather a host of related maladies in which once normal cells grow wildly . destroying healthy cells . researchers doubt if there 's a single cause or cure . Scientists have increased the time and effort being spent to try to develop new drugs and improved treatments . But they also are pushing efforts to discover what triggers cancer . This has led to increasing interest in the relationship , if any . between various types of cancer and such 1 things as smoking . auto exhaust , sunlight . radiation and hormones ? as well as viruses . . Virus study is the " hottest " area in cancer research , many scientists state , and prospects of pinning down some virus-linked cancers are rated good . " Now we believe some human cancers must be caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the University of Minnesota . explaining the recent rush by many scientists to explore this relationship . Speculates Dr. John R. Heller. director of the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda . Md. : " In the net two or three years somebody is going to establish a virus as a causative agent of one of the human cancers . " Bigger Research Budgets This is a far cry from the view in scientific circles little more than a decade ago , when those who suggested that viruses may cause some human cancers were all but laughed out of their laboratories . Now the theory is attracting noted scientists and bigger research budgets . Top vinslogists. fresh from successes against polio and other viral diseases , are focusing their powerful electron microscopes o .. , suspected cancer viruses . Dr. Albert B. Sabin , the University of Oncinnati virologist who developed one of the new oral polio vaccines , will turn to cancer research first thing next year with a $611.900 Federal grant . Dr. Jonas Salk of the University of Pittsburgh . developer of the first effective polio vaccine . is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will delve into the cancer problem . among other projects . The National Cancer Institute is spending $3.9 million this year on virus research , double its outlay last year . The Cancer Society is spending $1.8 million a year on virus research , compared with $228.000 a year three years ago . " There is every reason for looking into the relationship between viruses and human cancer . " states Dr. Sabin . " Viruses have been definitely encountered ( causing cancer ) in fowl and rodents and if this occurs in one specie of animals it is likely to occur in others . " Involved in Leukemia One of the latest bits of evidence indicates that viruses are involved in leukemia , ths usually-fatal blood cancer . Dr. Steven 0 . Schwartz of Cook County Hospital in Chicag.i recently reported that he and his colleagues have found a mysterious virus in the brains of human victims of leukemia . In their expert . ments. the Chicago scientists injected mice with this virus to find out if it could cause the disease . It did . The mice came down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But does the virus cause leukemia in humans ? This question so far is unanswered , but Dr. Schwartz thinks virus plays a big role In the disease . He injected the virus into 14 healthy volunteers  --  inmates of the Conk County Jail . The prisoners ' bodies soon produced an agent , perhaps disease-fighting antibodies . The fact that the prisoners did not develop leukemia raises the possibility that it is a combination of the virus with other particular conditions in the body that causes cancer in humans . Or perhaps the virus is not a cause of cancer but merely rushes into an already diseased area . Nevertheless , when the agents . or antibodies , were extracted from the prison volunteers ' blood and injected into mice , the mice became immunized against the original virus . This experiment , says Dr. Schwartz , suggests the possibility of a vaccine which can protect humans against leukemia . As with other vaccines , it might give protection by introducing a mild , harmless form of the virus which would spur the body to retaliate by generating miHons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they retain in the body long after the disease subsides , providing ? detense against future attacks . If cancer viruses are anything like other viruses already found , they would be tiny bits of matter , much smaller than germs ? se small they can be seen only with the ultra-powerful electron microscopes . Viruses range in size from 143,000 of an Inch down to 1-2.800,000 of an Inch and even smaller . Each of these specks consists of a core of nucleic acid wrapped in ati overcoat of protein . The acid is the substance which governs the heredity and growth of the virus . Scientists believe it is this part of the virus that penetrates a healthy cell , where it causes more viruses to be reproduced . The once-healthy cell is deranged and perhaps destroyed in the process Neither Living Nor Dead Viruses by themselves are neither living nor dead . Alone , they are incapable of growth and reproduction : they are more like a chemical which can be taken apart and put together again , something scientists ca n't do with living organisms . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , taking control of the cell and forcing it to make new viruses . After destroying the cell , the viruses attack others unless curbed by the body 's natural defetises . When the body 's defenses are overwhelmed . a number of diseases , such as the common cold . yellow fever or polio . may resuit , depending on what type of virus is involved . But In the case of cancer , researchers seeking to link the disease with viruses are faced with this mystery : How can viruses . which in most viral diseases destroy cells . cause cancer , a disease marked by a wild . disordered gt ... tit of cells ? One theory , based on recent discoveries about how a virus penetrates cells , is that the virus takes over control of the cell 's hereditary machinery . Instead of destroying the cell . as in known viral diseases . the virus may somehow pervert the cell into turning out new malignant cells . Even if scientists nail down proof that viruses cause some human cancers , they still would face a monumental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not enure either the quick development of vaccines to protect people from the viruses , or of drugs to treat the disease , researchers caution . Because cancer is actually many diseases . a multitude of viruses may be involved . This could complicate man 's quest for an anticancer vaccine just as a multiplicity of viruses frustrates attempts to develop a common cold vaccine . Neither have scientists been able to brew drugs which effectively attack the cause of colds or many other viral diseases . Scientists , for example , recognize the viruses that cause flu and have developed effective vaccines against them  --  but so far are unable to come up with a cure . Despite the many prob . lems. researchers are not discouraged ; they say the prospect of anti-cancer vaccines makes the virus theory particularly appealing . Theories that viruses can cause human cancer are not new . Scientists have pondered the possibility ever since the early 1900 's when Dr. Peyton Row of the Rockefeller Foundation in New Yost City discovered a form of cancer in chickens which was traced to a virus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frogs , rats , hamsters and several other all ! . male  --  but not In nun . In recent months , however , researchers , such as Dr. Schwartz and his associates in Chicago , have come up with evidence that viruses or " something " very similar are present in some human cancer tissues . Whether they caused the cancer or rushed Into an already diseased area is still a question . Wading Miee At Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo , N.Y .. Dr. James T. Grace , Jr. , has been injecting mice with an extract taken from human malignant growths . The extract is carefully filtered so everything except something as small u a virus is screened out- Mice receiving the injections have developed cancer , Dr. Grace so far has not been able to find whatever it is in the extract  --  a virus or something else -- that produces the cancer in the mice . Nor does he have proof that the same agent could cause human cancer , though this Is a working assumption of many researchers . Dr. Sarah Stewart of me National Cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cancers and from urine of children with cancer produces malignancy in human cells grown in a test tube . Some researchers believe they may have caught a glimpse of viruses in human cancers with electron microscopes . Dr. Leon Dmochowakl of the M. D. Anderson Rational and Tumor Institute in Houston . Texas , reports seeing virus-like particles in leukemic cells taken from a patient . Earlier this year , Dr. C. Barber Mueller of the State University of New York said be spotted what looked like viruses in cancer cells taken from 13 patients suffering with cancer of the colon . In neither case , however . are there indications that utese particles caused the cancers .                     