@@724393

txt A Federal appeals court held unanimously today that Virginia 's system of paying tax-financed tuition grants to white students in segregated private schools was " a transparent evasion of the 14th Amendment . " The decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit struck down the tuition-payment plan in only 2 of the 10 Virginia districts that have opened hastily organized all-white " private academies " with state aid to avoid or limit " race mixing " in classrooms . The two districts are Prince Edward and Surry Counties . Sobeloff Writes Opinion But the language of the opinion , written by Chief Judge Simon E. Sobeloff , was widely regarded here as having made untenable the entire tuition-. grant plan . It is the last surviving fixture of Virginia 's " massive ' resistance " strategy of 1258-59 for defying or evading the desegregation orders of the , Federal courts . The 14th Amendment to the Constitution guarantees . equal protection of the laws  --  both state and Federal  --  to all citizens . In the two cases decided today , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to equal public education . Although he will remain on the bench as an Appeals Court judge , Judge Sobeloff , who is 70 , retires tomorrow as chief judge of the court . Hand-Written Concurrence Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . of Greenville , S. C. , who will succeed him as chief judge , was the only member of the five-man court to place a hand-written concurring note. - tion on the opinion . On a corner of the opinion were penned the words " I concur , " followed by Judge Haynsworth 's signature . The decision was received here as " the handwriting , on the wall . " One segregationist spokesman commented that " we do not expect to get any better treatment than this from the Supreme Court . " . A decision on whether to take the case to the Supreme Court had not been reached tonight , but such an appeal was not expected . A far broader attack on the tuition-grant tactic will be ar- gued in Richmond Dec. 14 before a three-judge constitutional court  --  one empaneled for suits challenging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a decision today attacked only the application of the Virginia tuitiongrant law in the two counties . The constitutional challenge ? brought by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , as were the suits decided today ? involves nine of the 10 districts , One member of the constitutional court will be Judge Albert V. Bryan , who participated in ' the decision today . Whatever that court 's ruling , observers expect a Subsequent appeal to the Supreme Court that would establish guidelines for other Southern states using the tuition-grant plan . Alabama , Arkansas , Georgia . Louisiana , Mississippi and North and South Carolina have generally similar tuition-grant plans , designed to permit white students to attend segregated private schools without financial hardship . Virginia was the first state to use the system . Today the . Virginia General Assembly , in an emergency session to adopt a court-ordered reapportionment plan , was struggling to reinforce the state 's legal defense against the constitutional challenge to the tuition-grant " package " by repealing its most vulnerable provisions , The House voted overwhelmingly this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince Edward public school systems are the only two in Virginia that closed schools in recent years . Prince Edward County 's entire public school program , for both whites and Negroes , was shut from 1959 until last September , when the Supreme Court ordered the schools reopened . For five years , Negroes in the county had no publicschool education . Whites attended a segregated " private academy " and received tuition grants . In Surry County , a Tidewater farming area whose population is 65 per cent Negro , the white public school was closed after a Federal court had ordered the admission of seven Negro students . The Negro publin schools remained open . Commenting on the situation ' in the two counties , the Court of Appeals declared that " if such strategic maneuvers , resorted to in response . to the law 's requirement , pass muster , Prince Edward and Surry have indeed accomplished a remarkable feat , stultifying a decade of judicial effort to bring about compliance " with the Supreme Court 's decision of 1954 barring public-school segregation . In the Surry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John D. Butzner Jr. , who ' had denied tuition ' grants to white students in Surry Academy and had ordered the reopening of the white public school . In Prince Edward Colin* the situation was more complex . In 1961 , District Court Judge Oren R. Lewis had enjoined the payment of tuition grants there so long as the public schools remained closed . When they were ordered reopened last June 25 , Judge Lewis lifted this prohibition , but with the proviso that there be no retroactive payments . Today , the Court of Appeals ! raised the possibility that Prince Edward officials had acted in contempt of court by secretly dispersing $180,000 in tuitiongrant checks in the dawn hours of last Aug. 5 . Judge Lewis was " fully empowered " by the appeals court to determine whether any of these payments represented retroactive grants and whether there had been contempt . The appeals court ordered the lower court to enjoin permanently the tuition grants . The Court of Appeals also upheld the N.A.A.C.P. lawyers in their demand that Judge Lewis enjoin ' the county from discriminatory hiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The opinion said generally : " The defendants assert that injunctions preventing the use of tuition grants to maintain a separate school for white pupils will infringe on the white pupils " right of association . ' " There is a right of association which the Constitution respects and protects . However , to invoke the right in the manner of Prince Edward and Surry is merely to assert euphemistically a right to enforce involuntary s seeregation of the races in public facilities . "                     