@@728032

txt Astronomers are asking meteorologists : Which places have the highest probability of clear skies on Saturday , March 7 , 1970 ? That 's when a total eclipse of the sun will be seen  --  clouds permitting  --  over a large part of Southeastern United States . With the sun high in the sky in the early afternoon , the event should be a spectacular . As the moon 's disc comes between sun and earth , the day will darken into night and bright stars will twinkle in a black afternoon sky . This , the longest total eclipse in the United States since 1869 , will last for more than three minutes in parts of Florida and for a somewhat shorter period farther north . Meteorologists say that good weather is most likely in South Carolina , but that the best place to view the eclipse will be on the Pacific Coast of Mexico 's Tehuantepec isthmus . American oceanographers are going to have an opportunity to look over their Soviet " competition . " The big Russian research ship Akadamik Kurchatov will visit Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Kurchatov has been host this summer to a three-man team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Famed MIT engineer Harold Edgerton and two students , Mike Hobart and Jim Sholer , are now aboard taking deep ocean photographs and making acoustical and heat-flow measurements in the deep sea . Should governments decide to embark on an " international oceanographic decade " of cooperative research ? as the United States has suggested ? many of their scientists already will have established easy working relations with each other . Trends .. . Communication satellites may soon have a population problem of their own . Two British communications engineers , J. K. S. Jowett and A. J. Jefferis , say the preferred , so-called synchronous orbit could easily become overcrowded . This is the orbit , 22,300 miles out , where satellites remain more or less over a given spot on the earth . The way the system now operates , the engineers reckon that no more than one satellite could be set up for each four degrees orbit without getting interference . The North American region already may be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Scientists are meeting with philosophers this week in Santa Barbara , Calif. , to examine the implications of advanced biological research . Why ? Because many scientists are becoming quite concerned about the so-called biological revolution . By the 1980 's , it is said , there may be monkeys trained to do household chores . Not the kind of monkeys we know today but anthropoids that have had their chromosomes changed  --  to create a new creature  --  a slave creature to do menial tasks . There is also talk of modifying human beings . Sponsored by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , the conference will soon publish a set of recommendations to help put the new biological knowledge into the service of all humanity . The aim is to stop a willy-nilly , uncoordinated application of new biological techniques that could have far-reaching and disastrous consequences to organic life on this planet . In Washington Congress is making a similar effort in the field of technology . First steps are being takep to harness and coordinate the nation 's swiftly spreading technologies and assess their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , research , and development is devising a plan based on a report by a National Academy of Sciences committee under Harvard physicist Harvey Brooks . It 's called " Technology : Process for Assessment and Choice . " The NAS report recommends creation of a presidential council of advisers to keep the president informed of technological developments and what they could mean to ? for instance ? the environment . Also proposed is a new panel in Congress ? to monitor the works of the several committees involved in separate aspects of technology . Discussing the present helter-skelter growth of technologies , the NAS report warns : " If society persists in its present course , the future holds great peril , whether from the uncontrolled effects of technology itself or from an unreasoned political reaction against all technological innovation . "                     