@@724519

txt BASIC G.O.P. PLAN FOR LEGISLATURE UPHELD BY COURT 3 VERSIONS VOIDED Redistricting Is Based on 1960 Census-2 Houses to Grow By HOMER . BIGART A ' special three-man Federal Court upheld yesterday the , basic Republican plan for the , : legislative reapportionment ofi New York State . Whether the plan is valid un-I der the New York State Constitution awaits the outcome of a test brought by New York City , Radio Station WMCA and other plaintiffs in the state courts . The panel held that Plan A  - -  one of four plans enacted by , the Republican majority at a ' lame-duck special session of the Legislature of 1964 ? complied , with the order issued by the I court last July 27 . The order ' stipulated that the state he reapportioned to implement the Supreme Court 's historic " oneman , one-vote " ruling of last June . Plans B , C and D were ruled invalid . The court said that these plans did not comply with the order of the Court and were in conflict with the 14th Amendment of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one most acceptable to the Democrats ' and the least palatable to the ' Republicans , who had been forewarned by their lawyers that , Plans B , C and D had scant chance in the courts . A straight reapportionment based on the 1960 Census figures , Plan A provides for a Senate enlarged from 58 to 65 members and an Assembly enlarged from 150 to 165 . Each legislator would have one vote . Two of the rejected plans provided fractional votes for some legislators . The decision was handed down just before 5 P.M. yesterday by Judge Sterry R. Waterman of the United States ' Court of Appeals and Federal ' District Judges Sylvester J. ' Ryan and Richard H. Levet.1 The court said that an " ex planatory " opinion would be ' flied shortly . Democrats had contended that i all foci ' plans involved gerry- ; wandering by the Republicans . But last week the plaintiffs in the case  --  New York City , Radio Station WMCA , Nassau County and others  --  were sharply rebuffed . The court declined // to consider gerrymandering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court said , to supervise district lines , even when they allegedly violated the State Constitution by having " peculiarities " of shape , unless the alleged gerrymandering produced State Senate and Assembly districts that were unequal in population . The court pointed out yesterday that it had not passed upon claims that the Reapportionment Compliance Act , enacted by the lame-duck session , was invalid under Article III of the State Constitution . The court also denied to the state an injunction against proceedings brought in the state courts by opponents of the plans . Immediately after the ruling last Thursday on gerrymandering , the plaintiffs had asked the court to withhold its decision on the four plans until the legislation could be challenged in the State Supreme Court . The contention was that the plans ' violated anti - gerrymandering provisions of the State Constitution . Motion for Stay Denied But the judges denied a motion requesting a stay of the proceedings . The plaintiffs have contended that the four plans violated , Article III , Sections 4 and 5 , of the State Constitution . The secitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and contiguous . New York City and Radio Station WMCA also sought to overturn the plans on the grounds that they had been adopted at a special session of the Legislature . It was Station WMCA that four years ago filed the original suit challenging the constitutionality of the state 's apportionment on the grounds that the representation in both houses discriminated against city and suburban dwellers . WMCA and its president , R. Peter Straus , contended that this violated the " equal protection " clause of the 14th Amend- ' ment of the Federal Constitution . Population the Basis The same three judges who comprised yesterday 's Statutory Court threw out the 1962 complaint . The Supreme Court decision upset that ruling and declared the state 's legislative apportionment plan unconstitutional , The court ordered that both the Senate and the Assembly be apportioned on the basis of population . Plans B , C and D contained disputed elements that lawyers : had considered vulnerable to at- ' tack by the courts . Plans B and D used the number of voters in the 1962 state election as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a provision for fractional voting in the Assembly . The Democrats , who took control of the Legislature this ; month for the first time in three decades , have vowed to , pass their own reapportionment plans during the current session . But because of the power struggle for Democratic leadership of both houses , the Legis1-ature has been stalemated , and no business has been transacted.                     