@@726952

txt LONDON  --  In a recent Commons debate one Labor M.P . observed that Malta is " under pressure to make itself available to the Soviet fleet . in the Mediterranean . " This is no mere emotional parliamentary nightmare . On the contrary , it is a subject of growing concern to Britain 's Defense Ministry and armed services . Malta is the cross through which west - east and north - south Mediterranean communications pass . Its tiny islands contain only a third of a million inhabitants who used to live primarily on what the Royal Navy spent . During World War II the Maltese fought so bravely for Britain that they were decorated en masse . Mussolini 's Claim Thanks to Maltese harbors and airfields , sheltering Allied convoys and facilitating strikes at Axis communications , the African and southern European campaigns were won . Mussolini laid claim to the island , contending Maltese was a form of Italian , but this is about like saying Aztec is a Texan dialect . Maltese is of Phoenician origin . Malta remains crucial to the strategic picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old " East of Suez " commitment will at least see a strengthening of Britain 's position on NATO 's Mediterranean Sea flank , thus holstering the alliance . However , even this idea is coming into question . Russia Moves In Since last June , when Israel clobbered the Arab armies , Russia took the major decision to build up its Mediterranean forces and to further advance its political ties along that sea 's southern and eastern shores . A Soviet regular fleet of some forty vessels is now kept there . Although this is still far less powerful than the U.S. Sixth Fleet , Moscow continues to strengthen its position . The Soviets are said to be adding helicopter ships to their naval detachment . Presumably they plan to put themselves in a position where they could , if necessary , land forces to support friendly governments against attempted coups d'etat as the U.S.A. and Britain did for the Lebanese and Jordanian regimes a decade ago . Were pro-Soviet governments to request such aid , nobody could legally object . Russian political prestige from Syria to Egypt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advilers . This dispatch has brought appreciable Soviet influence as far westward as Oran . There is now some talk about the possibility that Algeria may turn over to Moscow the naval base at Mers-el-Kehir which France is in the process of evacuating . Furthermore , de Gaulle wants Britain to disengage from vestigial tics to Malta as one precondition for Common Market eligibility . Malta becomes perceptibly more involved in the Mediterranean cold war . At the same time Malta 's internal situation is marred by unemployment , stemming from shrinkage in British and NATO military usage . Consequent political bitterness between the two major parties is on the rise . Mintoff 's Movement The pro-Catholic Prime Minister Borg Olivier faces unavoidable pressure from Dom Mintoff 's anticlerical labor movement because of the economic squeeze . Mintoff 's supporters argue that NATO no longer provides adequate sustenance , while at the same time earning Malta hostility from the pro-Communist world . A growing current favors neutralism and closer relations with the Eastern bloc . Mintoff , who has always dreamed of squashing the powerful position of the church in Maltese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Mediterrauti.1 trends continue  --  increasing w ) - viet political influence eind , naval presence  --  there is no reason to dismiss the possil that some day Moscow nAght offer to take over both the military and economic responsibilities once assumed there by a richer and more prestigious Britain . From Czar to Kremlin This would not be Rusla 's first connection with - Malta . When Napoleon took the islard , its previous rulers , the Knights of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem , offered the post of Grand Master to Czar Paul . That madman designed himself a special ceremonial robe , but British seizure of Malta forestalled his efforts to wear it sur place . Nobody for a moment imagines the Kremlin is planning to use force to extend or consolidate in Malta its already for . midable Mediterranean position . However , if Moscow 's skillful diplomacy and increasing power continue to be accompanied by Malta 's slow disruption , it is not hard to foresee a dismal future . We would then discover that the men who today , lead the Soviet Union are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian benefactor , the hapless Paul .                     