@@724426

txt Washington Washington is asking whether Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara can carry off his order abolishing the Army Reserve and building up the National Guard . Experts suspect that he can . Reactions to this sweeping measure are coming in fast  --  and furiously . As might be expected , the Reserve Officers Association has called the action " monstrous " and demands public hearings . Reservists in the Congress  --  there are more than 80 ? have not been slow in voicing their concern . Many intend to fight the order , and , as Secretary McNamara must go to Congress for money to increase the size of the guard , they will have their opportunity . Sen. Strom Thurmond ( D ) of South Carolina , one of the first to react , and a reservist himself , said he certainly intended to examine the order " extensively . " But the expectation is that with this order , as with that other highly controversial McNamara ruling closing down military bases , the Defense Secretary will come out the winner . For one thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years and has facts and has the figures to back up his order , justifying it on military , cost , and efficiency grounds . Large Savings It is going to be hard to attack a measure that will save probably $150 million a year . It is going to be difficult to dispute an order that , as the Defense Secretary asserts , will increase the combat readiness of the units , will streamline the management structure , and will eliminate units for which there is no military requirement . By putting reserve units in the National Guard and eliminating certain ones , the total manpower will be reduced by 150,000 men . There was an authorized strength of 400,000 for the National Guard and an authorized strength of 300,000 for the Army Reserve . Now instead of 700,000 in the two there will be only 550,000 in the guard . Actually , the size of both the reserve and the guard are below strength at present . A good 150,000 or so of reserves will be given a chance to transfer to the guard . Others will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maneuvers , but as individuals , not as a unit . Modern Technology One thing Mr. McNamara is insisting on is that " key " officials in the executive , judiciary , and legislative branches of government ( who have ready reserve status ) be taken off and put on stand-by basis . It is unwise and senseless , he insists , in a crisis to take such men out of their vital jobs and let them serve as reservists . " We will not tolerate the dilution of the ready reserve by retaining officials who could not serve in time of war , " he says . As might be imagined , the one group to approve the plan to abolish the Army Reserve and beef up the National Guard is the National Guard Association of the United States . A major reason for making the change , according to Secretary McNamara , was that modern military technology leaves little time after the outbreak of hostilities to train , equip , and bring up to full strength skeleton reserve units . The center of fire of those opposing the order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be known that the order is an administration one , and fully supported by President Johnson . It will be the Defense Secretary 's job to present it and fight for it on Capitol Hill . But it will be President Johnson , it can be taken for granted , who will use his well-known techniques and finesse to persuade recalcitrant congressmen that this decision must be approved .                     