@@725562

txt The Republican leaders of the politically split Legislature , in a move toward compromise with labor and the Democrats , have softened the controversial union penalties in Governor Rockefelldr 's plan for discouraging strikes by government employes . The Republican amendments would , in addition , wipe out the wage penalties still hanging over the nearly 6,000 New York City welfare workers ? who struck in January last year . Also covered under the amnesty would be the 17 city ferryboat officers who were dismissed after an officers ' walkout last spring and are still out of work . Under the amendment , the officers would be rehired . The Republican Governor 's plan , which would replace the present law against such strikes ? known as the Condon-Wadlin Law  --  would have withdrawn all recognition from a striking public-employe union . It would also have provided for unlimited court fines against any union that defied an anti-strike inj11210.1031. the present limit on such fines is .  | a day .. The amembnents to the Rockefeller bill would , instead of withdrawing all recognition ' from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 1 that is , the right to have meni7 bers ' dues withheld from their , paychecks . Also instead of limitless court fines , the amendments provide that fines could not exceed the total of one-year 's dues paid by the union 's members . The amendments were introduced yesterday by the majority leader of the Republican-ruled Senate , Earl W. Brydges . He said that so far the changes represented only the position of Republican legislators and had not been agreed to by the other parties to the ticklish negotiations ? the Governor , Speaker Anthony J. Travia of the Democratic-ruled Assembly and the State American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . Labor Silent Pending Study The A.F.L.-C.I.O. , backed by the Democrats , had denounced the Governor 's original penalties as " union busting . " Today , the labor organization , which has more than two million members , said it would have no official comment until it had studied the Republican amendments carefully . However , A.F.L. - C.I.O. sources made it clear that they were still not satisfied , arguing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contended , for example , that taking away the dues check-off privilege was tantamount to taking away union recognition . And on the question of fines , one labor source said : " they have n't really changed anything . From unlimited fines to several million dollars in fines . What's-the difference in that ? " Democratic leader Travia coulthnot be reached for comment , but it was understood that if the State A.F.L.-C.I.O. found the amendments unacceptable , he would too . The Governor , a spokesman said , was officially " sticking to his original bill , " but would try to serve as a mediator behind the scenes to bring the opposing positions together so that some meaningful legislation could be passed this year . Senator . said . his amendmens had been discussed with the panel of labor relations experts who had conceived the Governor 's bill , but that as yet the panel had not given its " formal approval . " Although all parties to the negotiations remain at odds over the question of union penalties , there seems to be no ' disagreement about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Earlier this year , after the crippling ' New York City transit strike , the . Legislature enacted a speciallaw " to exempt the 35,000 transitvforkers from the penalties of the CondonWadlin law . Without the special exemption , enacted at the Governor 's bidding , the transit workers could not ; have been paid the raises they won in their strike . At the time , the Democrats tried to push through similar exemptions for the welfare and ferry workers , but the moves were blocked by the Republican Senate . New York City is holding up about $95,000 in back pay for nearly i500 former welfare workers as a backstop in case the exemption is not granted and the wage penalties must be imposed . The controversial penalties against unions are but a small part of the Governor 's antistrike bill . The bill also would greatly soften the present stringent penalties against union members , such as automatic dismissal . The thrust of the Rockefeller proposal is to shift the strike-deterrent emphasis from punishment of workers to punishment of unions , and also to improve the bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York . For example , state employes , who have never had formal collective bargaiTling rights , would receive such rights under the Rockefeller plan . Also , elaborate procedures would be set up for fact-finding and mediation of contract disputes . Unlike the penalty section , this part of the Governor 's program is supported by the State A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Democrats .                     