@@726243

txt In recent speeches and statements the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . has linked his personal opposition to the war in Vietnam with the cause of Negro equality in the United States . The war , he argues , should be stopped not only because it is a futile war waged for the wrong ends but also because it is a barrier to social progress in this country and therefore prevents Negroes from achieving their just place in American life . This is a fusing of two public problems that are distinct and separate . By drawing them together , Dr. King has done a disservice to both . The moral issues in Vietnam are less clear-cut than he suggests ; the political strategy of uniting the peace movement and the civil rights movement could very well be disastrous for both causes . Because American Negroes are a minority and have to overcome unique handicaps of racial antipathy and prolonged deprivation , they have a hard time in gaining their objectives even when their grievances are self-evident and their claims are indisputably just . As Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights struggles of the past dozen years , it takes almost infinite patience , persistence and courage to achieve the relatively simple aims that ought to be theirs by right . The movement toward racial equality is now in the More advanced and more difficult stage of fulfilling basic rights by finding more jobs , changing patterns of housing and upgrading education . The battlegrounds in this struggle are Chicago and Harlem and Watts . The Negroes on these fronts need all the leadership , dedication and moral inspiration that they can Summon ; and under these circumstances to divert the energies of the civil rights movement to the Vietnam issue is both wasteful and self-defeating . Dr. King makes too facile a connection between the speeding up of the war in Vietnam and the slowing down of the war against poverty . The eradication of poverty is at best the task of a generation . This " war " inevitably meets diverse resistance such as the hostility of local political machines , the skepticism of conservatives in Congress and the intractability of slum mores and habits . The nation could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the war in Vietnam continues , but there is no certainly that the coming of peace would automatically lead to a sharp increase in funds . Furthermore , Dr. King can only antagonize opinion in this country instead of winning recruits to the peace movement by recklessly comparing American military methods to those of the Nazis testing " new Medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe . " The facts are harsh , but they do not justify such slander . Furthermore , it is possible to disagree with many aspects of United States policy in Vietnam without whitewashing Hanoi . As an individual , Dr. King has the right and even the moral obligation to explore the ethical implications of the war in Vietnam , but as one of the most respected leaders of the civil rights movement he has an equally weighty obligation to direct that movement 's efforts in the most constructive and relevant way . There are no simple or easy answers to the war in Vietnam or to racial injustice in this country . Linking these hard , complex problems will lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   