@@724097

txt San Francisco , July 14-Former President Eisenhower , striving to be the peacemaker for Republicans , tonight called for the unification of the party 's strength to combat the Democrats and restore Republicans to the presidency and other controling positions in government . The general drew some of the loudest acclaim at the G. 0 . P. convention with his attack on " sensation seeking columnists and commentators , who could n't care less about the good of our party , " and with his warning against giving the federal government exclusive power in such fields as civil rights , health , education , and care of the aged . Urges Halt in Strife He urged Republicans not to stain their image " by consorting with radicals of any kind . " Eisenhower began his address by asking the delegates " to bank the fires of fiercely competitive intra-party poIiAP Wirepholal Eisenhower urging Republicans to unify for Presidential campaign . tics " while he talked of the party 's history . He told of the founding of the G. 0 . R , committed to battle injustice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the private competitive enterprise system . He then noted " the raucous cry of demagoguery " and " sustained barrage of political misrepresentationby the opposition have never ceased and have risen since the 1930s . Wars Under Democrats " When public opinion polls Indicate that Democrats can keep America at peace more surely than Republicans can , certainly nothing but public misinfcrmation , or blind partisanship is reflected . " Eisenhower said . " When we remember that all three of America 's wars in this century  --  World War I. World War II , and the Korea war  --  were started during Democratic administrations , it is hard to believe an informed public should conchide Republicans are less able to keep the peace than Democrats . " He also recalled that social security coverage had been extended during his administrations . " We must learn that when any Republican concerns himself too much in condemning this or that decent faction of decent people in the party , he is hurting himself and the party , - Eisenhower said . " Strength is found in unity . under a consensus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscribe to our basic doctrines . " Involve Minor Questions He said divisions within common sense Republicanism do not come from differences over basic ideals and principles , but involve minor questions and are too often exaggerated In import . ance . " If such differences should ever become so deep and permanent that even after our platform is agreed and our nominees selected . we are unabio to unite in good will for victory , then our quarreling groups could hardly co-exist in the same party , " Eisenhower said . " I do not accept , not for a single moment , the need for any such ridiculous outcome . For a minority party , it would , be tragic and , in addition , stupid . . . . " So let us particularly scorn the divisive efforts of those outside our family , including sensation-seeking columnists and commentators , who could not care less about the good of our party . " At the close of his speech , Eisenhower was presented the convention gold badge of honor by Edward W. Brooke , attorney general of Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Negro in this country . Mrs. Eisenhower was given a similar badge by Mrs. John A. Love , wife of the governor of Colorado .                     