@@722964

txt The Administration 's effort to establish an allied nuclear force is being hampered by differences in Washington and major political problems in other Western capitals . Officials insist that talks of disarray throughout the North Atlantic Treaty Organization were exaggerated , ' but they concede that there is confusion and indecision in their current proposals . Differences abroad and within the Administration , they say , as well as the inherent difficulties of the project , account for the fact that there appear lmost weekly different schemes for nuclear forces and weapons cyst ems . Administration Comments Efforts to identify the basic issues in the situation h a v e evoked the following comments from Administration sources : ( 1 , The rapid development of any major allied policy is. certain to be blocked by the political uncertainty in the major capitals : President de Gaulle 's opposition to any international military agreement , Chancellor Adenauer 's probable retirement later this year and Prime Minister Macmillan 's political battle over the next year against a challenger , Harold Wilson , who is opposed to any British ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an allied nuclear force , though much greater now than it was two years ago , still suffers from a lack of enthusiasm . The Administration wants to offer Western Europe a great " voice " or " role " in nuclear strategy , but it also continues to insist upon retaining the ultimate decision to fire nuclear weapons . In effect , it wants a veto over the decision of other allies to go to nuclear war and yet wants to be free of allied // DISPUTE IN NATO IMPEDE A-FORCE // veto if it should ever wish to respond to an attack . ( 1 The Administration 's interest in an allied nuclear force derives largely from a desire to circumvent President de Gaulle 's effort to lead a separate European nuclear force . But enthusiasm here is further diminished by the feeling that it is really unnecessary and too costly for the allies at a time when Washington wants them to contribute more conventional , rather than nuclear , strength to the alliance . Dissension within the alliance , especially since President de Gaulle 's veto of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater dissension and even some recriminations within the Administration . Some important officials appear to have been charged with negligence or at least lack of foresight in the handling of relations with the allies . Bonn Called Key One of the main differences hinges on policy toward West Germany . One school here believes that the Bonn Government has become the key to any real progress toward the creation of an allied nuclear force . Others , however , fear that too much wooing of the Germans may only whet their appetites for a truly national nuclear force that they are technically capable of developing . Another difference centers on the best way of achieving any kind of international nuclear force . One approach , now being presented to the Europeans by Livingston T. Merchant , the President 's special representative , is to proceed at once with the organizational design of an allied force , involving both American and British national forces assigned to NATO command and other forces consisting of mixed crews of Americans , Britons , Germans , and so on . A dissenting group , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaken existing weapons systems and raise insoluble problems of management , control and command . This group has urged instead that emphasis be placed upon " educating " the Europeans , especially the Germans , in nuclear matters , primarily by training them in nuclear strategy and weaponry at American centers . These trainees , it is said , will come to realize the intricacies and enormous expenses of a really independent nuclear force and will then urge the Government to be satisfied with participation in an allied force . This , it is said , could then be established with surface vessels easily adapted to carry Polaris missiles , vessels that would add to NATO 's strength without detracting from existing weapons systems . Europeans Fear Stalemate The fundamental problem , officials say , derives from the United States ' gradual loss of nuclear superiority over the Soviet Union . This raises the prospect of a prolonged stalemate between the nuclear giants and has raised doubts in Europe that the United States will agree to risk its own destruction to defend Europeans against a limited and modest Soviet advance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations help to create a conventional force equal to that of the Russians in Eastern Europe , they could then be certain of repulsing a non-nuclear attack without reliance on American nuclear power . In Europe , however , especially in Germany , there has been concern that this would merely turn the continent into a battlefield while the United States sued for safety . By different means , West Germany and France have wanted to acquire enough of a nuclear force to deter a Soviet attack or at least to guarantee that the United States would be forced to use its nuclear weapons in defense of European interests . The Kennedy Administration recognizes this concern in Europe , though it disagrees with the assumption upon which it rests . Washington , in turn , fears the spread of nuclear weapons to many nations , some of which might fall under less responsible governments than those now in power . For that reason , officilas here have strenuously but unsuccessfully resisted France 's effort to develop a French nuclear force . Their concern now is to give other European nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of much greater Power that the French to make certain that they do not follow President de Gaulle 's lead or example .                     