@@721661

txt President Kennedy indicated today that his Administration would move swiftly to check the economic decline and assist mil-. lions of unemployed . He will probably make an an- , nouncement of his plans in his . State of the Union Message to a joint session of Congress Mon. day . To clear the path for Administration action , he called a conference for tomorrow with Secretary of the Treasury ' Douglas Dillon , Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg and Representative Wilbur D. Mills ; Arkansas Democrat . Mr. Mills is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , which originates tax and unemployment compensation legislation : Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , said the President wanted to discuss at the meeting measures that should be taken to assist the economy . Jobless Aid Likely Informed quarters said a likely move would be the extension of unemployment compensation benefits for workers , many of whom have exhausted present statutory benefits averaging about twenty-six weeks . Length and amount of benefits vary by states . Today the President held his first Cabinet meeting . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make Cabinet sessions fruitful . The President remarked that his reading of memoirs of Cabinet members of past administrations had convinced him that the sessions had not : always been as useful as they might have been if the Cabinet had talked with greater freedom . The group invited to Mr. Kennedy 's Cabinet meetings is smaller than the one that attended sessions under Dwight D. Eisenhower . A number of White House officials and heads of independent agencies were not invited by Mr. Kennedy although they had been by Mr. Eisenhower . Stevenson There Those at today 's meeting included the President , Vice President Johnson , the ten departmental heads and the following officials : Adlai E. Stevenson , Representative to the United Nations ; Dr. Walter Heller , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers ; David E.-Bell , Director of the Bureau of the Budget ; Theodore C. Sorensen , special White House counsel , and Fred G. Dutton , Cabinet secretary . ' None of the Cabinet members would discuss the substance of subjects dealt with at the meeting . Most left by back ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President made more appointments . He named Mayor Ivan A. Nestingen of Madison , Wis. , an early Kennedy - for - President supporter , to be Under Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Ile had considered his brother-in-law , R. Sargent Shriver of Chicago , for this post . But he finally decided against this selection , although Mr. Shriver had been backed by Secretary Abraham A. Ribicoff . Other appointments were : Nicholas deB . Katzenbach as Assistant Attorney General , Office - of Legal Counsel . Mr. Katzenbach , 39 years old , of Princeton , N. J. , is a former general counsel of the Air Force , a former Professor of Law at Yale and presently Professor of Law at the University of Chicago . John William Bush and William Tucker as members of the Interstate Commerce Commission . Mr. Bush , 51 , is Director of Commerce for the Ohio State Government . Mr. Tucker , 37 , of Athol , Mass. , is a decorated World War II paratrooper . Since 1955 he has been counsel and secretary of Trailways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Howard Morgan as members of the Federal Power Commission . Mr. Swidler , 54 , is a Nashville lawyer who formerly served as assistant solicitor of the Interior Department and on the legal staff of the Tennessee Valley Authority . Mr. Morgan , 46 , who is in the construction business in Portland , Ore. , was an Oregon Public Utility Commissioner . from 1957 to 1959 . He is a former member of the Oregon Legislature .                     