@@723049

txt Washington Wild horses could n't draw a comment from official Washington about the Canadian election regarding which it distressfully feels it has said a lot too much already . But what the administration would like most , irrespective of party , would he a strong Canadian government with a big majority in Parliament that would play ball with it in defending North America ? particularly by an agreement per-:flitting nuclear armed missiles or airplanes in Canada . Instead of that , three of the four Canadian parties seem to be pretty much committed against United States nuclear bases there , and the chances now seem , to Washington eyes anyway , to be moving toward another coalition government in Ottawa , with no party getting a massive majority . Capital Braced Washington braces itself for any result , mouth gagged and ears tingling from remarks coming down from the North which are not all flattering . At the same time it realizes that from now on , the United States , whether it likes it or not , is apt to be featured in other elections around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to it . A Washington bombshell virtually precipitated the Canadian election , and then a 1second one helped create its climax . For both results it is sorry . Back to 1958 In 1958 Prime Minister John G. Diefenbaker and his Conservative government accepted the Bomarc missile system  --  a ground-to-air missile capable of carrying , but not equipped with , nuclear warheads . It built two launching installations while eight were built in the United States . ? After the October Cuban crisis Mr. Diefenbaker started secret conversations with Washington as to whether these Bomarcs should carry warheads . On Jan. 30 the State Department published a brusque press memorandum inferentially c  --  iticizing the Diefenbaker government fur failing to propose " any arrangement sufficiently practical to contribute effectively to North American defense . " Reaction Prompt With a loud bang the Diefenbaker government fell , the Prime Minister denouncing the United States for an unwarranted interference in Canadian affairs . At that point he seemed to be a hopeless underdog . But Mr. Diefenbaker , con sciously modeling his campaign after Harry Truman 's in 1948 , roared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against me but the people , " and inferentially appealing to the deep Canadian instinct not to be pushed around by its big southern neighbor . " Bomarc missile " became an emotional , fighting slogan . Another Bombshell Some in Washington liken Mr. Diefcnbaker 's oponent , Liberal Party leader Lester B. Pearson ( a Nobel Prize winner ) to Adlai E. Stevenson , in the sense that he is an internationalist and intellectual without being a match for his rival as a stump speaker and crowd rouser . Mr. Pearson indicates he will cooperate with the United States on the nuclear defenise program . Then came United States bombshell No. 2 . Way back on Feb. 13 , Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara , in closed session before a House Appropriations subcommittee , gave his views on Bomarc missiles . He spoke primarily of the eight launching sites in the United States . He said they suffer the same defect as manned ' interceptors ? they can be knocked out before they get off the ground by enemy attack . But they are good , just the same , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would cause the Soviet Union to target missiles against them and thereby increase their missile requirement or draw missiles onto these Bomarc targets that would otherwise be available for other targets , " Ignorance Involved Mr. McNamara 's testimony was sifted by a censor but what United States Army censor knows anything of political slogans in Canada ? It is just that patronizing United States ignorance that is a galling feature of the sibling rivalry along the border . The edited McNamara text was released March 29 , Bomarc and all , and an anguished Canadian pro-Pearson reporter told this writer that if the administration had " deliberately tried " to help Mr. Diefenbaker it could n't have done better . This is ironic because Mr. Diefenbaker is not the Kennedy administration 's favorite politician . In a nationwide TV speech to Canada Mr. Diefenbaker said the McNamara evidence meant " we arc just a decoy to draw fire , " in almost every speech since he has mentioned it .                     