@@726231

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 30 Letters to the Editor of The Times Student Exemption To the Editor : Dale Gieringer , in his April 10 letter , defended student exemptions on the ground that drafted students are hurt more than drafted nonstudents . I am a student myself , but I feel that this argument ignores more serious moral questions . In practical terms , most college students are drawn from a restricted segment of society . They are economically privileged : only a tiny number of institutions can afford to consider an applicant 's record independently of his scholarship needs . They are racially privileged : a good lower school system makes college admission easier . This hidden discrimination ? based on no difference in intellect or drive ? is an intrinsic Part of the student deferment . Mr. Gieringer 's letter argues that the drafted student . " sacrifices the crucial years of his life . " This is an understatement : like everyone else , drafted students not only sacrifice . two years of their individual freedom , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that anyone in college is better than anyone who is not , and that the college student therefore deserves a better chance to live . The drift of this judgment is disturbing : are " the uneducated " ( those without college diplomas ) bright enough for jury duty ? Should n't the elite 's informed opinion get extra weight on Election Day ? A society which values education does not need to bribe its students . We can believe in education without believing that those who benefit from it are inherently better than those who , for whatever reason , do not . . SIMON N. WHITNEY J5 . New Haven , Conn. , April 11 , 1967 ? Auxiliary Police To the Editor : The letter from P. Randolph Harris published March 20 suggesting as an anticrime measure the resurrection of the World War II City Patrol Corps had the right idea but the wrong mechanics . Under the New York State Defense Emergency Act , the New York City Auxiliary Police was organized late in 1950 and , on paper , still exists . It differed from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer reports to the Police Commissioner rather than directly to the Mayor , a preferable system since it avoids the appearance of two Independent police organizations and insures coordination of their activities . Dangers of Lawlessness As an attorney who has studied the subject , I am aware of the precedent , going back to Colonial times in this city , for such organizations , and equally of the discipline and control necessary to prevent such an organization 's becoming a lawless vigilante committee . I am proud of the success of this organization , of which I was , and still am , the ranking volunteer Officer . A few.years ago , in the absence of the paid chief and assistant chief , in which event command devolved upon me , I Could have supplied auxiliary police manpower to any part of the city where needed or , in a general emergency , quickly turned out close to.15,000 auxiliary ' policemen . We had 22,000 enrolled , of whom over 17,000 had completed training . In addition , many regular ' police sion and precinct commanders regularly or periodically utilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordinating ' on their own local level . Although auxiliary police units continue to operate effectively in the suburbs and throughout most of the state as well as in other states , the organization is defunct for all practical purposes in New York City . Former Mayor Wagner apparently had no interest in the auxiliary police , and its active training program resulted . only when the . State Civil Defense Commission vaguely threatened to take over and operate within New York City on its own . When that threat became stale , the auxiliary police organization was left to wither ? on the vine . Not even an executive order from the Mayor is required to reactivate the auxiliary police ? at this time . All that is necessary is for the Mayor and Police Commissioner to determine that they desire an active auxiliary police corps ; the authority and structure are already on the books and the volunteers who contributed tens of thousands of hours during the 1950 's will do so again if only a little attention is paid to their morale . BARRY GOLOMB Colonel Adjutant New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1967 ? Aim of Government in South-West ' Africa To the Editor : The contention in your March 26 editorial that the-South African Government 's grant of selfgovernment to Ovamboland was a " maneuver " to confuse the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee is far from convincing since this step toward greater autonomy for the ? peoples of South - West Africa had been foreshadowed in the Odendaal Commission 's report which inquired into the needs of the territory during ' 1962-63 . Paramount in this issue are the wishes ' of the local ' popuration  --  not what outsiders ? in their wisdom see fit to postulate:for South-West Africa . At Oehakati the South African Government not only acceded to Ovam.boland 's request for self- government but went further by offering self - determination to all other groups to enable each to " attain complete independence and determine its own future freely ; . . . to decide whether it prefers to pursue its own course as an independent nation , or whether it chooses to cooperate with other nations in some way or another . " Population 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires the " fragmentation " of South-West Africa . My Government has no such desire , and here too the final word rests with the peoples of the territory . As homogeneity ( linguistic , ethnic or religious ) is the very foundation and raison d'etre of the majority of the states of the world , your criticism that the granting of self - determination to a. homogeneous entity such as Ovamboland would lead to the establishment of " another racially segregated state " simply astounds one  --  likewise your claim that a self - governing Ovamboland " would jeopardize the bright economic prospects for the territory as a whole . " The Administering . Power 's policy is the opposite , be seen from , page 49 of " SouthWest Africa Survey 1967 " ; " The growing ? autonomy of the ' various peoples should not be construed as an effort to maintain them for all ' times as totally distinct and . isolated units . too small to maintain a viable economy in. the modern sense. : On the contrary , it is hoped and can be confidently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , on the basis of agreement between equals . " However , we both agree that the territory has bright economic prospects  --  a view also shared by the local population . The remarkable progress already achieved by channeling into , its economy South African and other capital , modern skills , technology , enterprise and initiative , aided by the expert ad. vice of more than seventy commissions of inquiry , has culminated in. the present five-year development program costing $154 million . Economic Prospects During the last session of the General Assembly . the South African delegation repeatedly pleaded for continued . dialogue which , in the words of my For. : eign Minister , was " so necessary for better understanding and cooperation . " Could it be that your inference that Washington . may find it more difficult " even to defend the idea of a dialogue , let alone launch one , " is , perhaps , based on the content of the General Assembly 's resolution rather than on my Government 's aim to promote self - determination for all the peoples of South-West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations New York , April 12 , 1967 Existence of Slums To the Editor : ? Page ' One of The Times . on April 3 showed La Guardia addressing the state Constitutional Convention in 1938 and appealing for " action to fight slums . " Now , 29 years later , we are again having a state Constitutional Convention , and one of our most urgent needs is the elimination of slums . Authoritative studies confirm what average men and women know  --  namely , that in the intervening 29 years our slums have considerably worsened . Whose fault is it ? Our politicians ' ? The public 's indifference ? Maybe these do play a part . But is it unreasonable to , wonder if there is n't something basic in our system which , through class division , perpetuates ' have and have-nots ? IRVING K. ROLLING New - York , April 3 , 1967 I ? Issues at L.I.U . To the Editor : The Long Island University dispute is clear : its top leadership has been repudiated by a majority of students and faculty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside as the impulsive rantings of a fickle faculty . Rather it is rooted in a democratic urge to shape affairs which intimately touch members of a university community . The student strike , which admittedly destroys the learning process , is nevertheless a reasonable , yet desperate , instrument to reach goals when efforts at dialogue have struck out . And despite William Zeckendorf 's claim of anarchy , the strike has been conducted with restraint and respect . On balance , from available evidence , the administration intends to nullify student-faculty bargaining power by refusal to judge grievances on merit and chooses to counterattack . No tug-of-war is always exactly equal , but it is much worse when reason is abused by either side . If the administration snuffs out legitimate arguments by coercive pressures , then I am deeply convinced it abandons the right ? and privilege ? to hold positions of such overwhelming responsibility . Is this a fair mirror for a center of learning ? R. J. NOVOGROD Assistant Professor Department a Political Science Long Island University Brooklyn , April 9 , 1967 ? To Quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 ) that the Federal Government is investigating the construction of quieter jet engines for commercial airliners is gratifying . Under the best circumstances , the report suggests five years before the design could be completed , hardware produced and installed on the first aircraft . What is to be done about the noise problem from jets before technical improvements can show a substantial improvement ? The problem was illustrated recently by the announcement that one airline has replaced all propellor planes in its fleet with jets ? and within three years the other lines will follow . The study conducted for the Federal Housing Agency suggests insulation and air conditioning for homes and businesses . Even if financing for such an undertaking could be arranged , it condemns the people affected to a cavelike existence . A partial approach might be to permit airlines to schedule jet flights only during certain less ' aggravating hours . DAVID Mr , FALL Washington , April 11 , 1967                     