@@727405

txt Battle smoke over the Nigerian war front has been obscuring the real progress going on in nearby Ghana . In less than a year ? on Sept. 30 , 1969 ? Ghana 's caretaker military government says it intends to hand over its executive powers to a civilian administration . This will mark the climax to a period of diplomatic good neighborliness and austere fiscal reform . During the rule of former President Nkrumah , Ghana was n't even on speaking terms with . Upper Volta and the Niger Republic ? two of its neighbors . But so cordial have their relations become since the overthrow of Mr. Nkrumah in 1966 that there 's talk of a major breakthrough in west Africa in the field of economic cooperation . Ghana also is looking to Nigeria so that their two airways may pool their VC-10 aircraft on the London-West Africa route . Even more impressive is Ghana 's determination to pull out of an economic rut following the Nkrumah extravagances , which left the country ? 300 million ( $720 million ) in the red . Last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade gap from some ? .40 million in 1965 to about ? 5 million in 1967 . Many white householders in Salisbury favor having African servants , together with their families , " live in " on white premises . It 's an arrangement which helps to preserve family life among black Africans . But under Rhodesia 's new Constitution , separate development officially is scheduled to come five years from now . Under it , servants ' dependents will have to be housed in special African townships several miles from the city and well away from white areas . Meanwhile South Africa is going even farther down the separation path . The town of Pietersburg is to be proclaimed the republic 's first " white city . " Africans will be barred from town at night either as residents or as visitors . At least two Palestinian Arab guerrilla groups want to spread their warfare against Israel to African soil . The Syrian-backed Al Saiqa ( Thunderbolt ) and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine claim part of the credit for the recent sabotage of an Israeli trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Eritrea . Both groups work with the Eritrean Liberation Front ( ELF ) . This is a local guerrilla organization fighting against Emperor Haile Selassie 's rule and for Eritrean independence . More Palestinian blows against Israeli interests in Africa are forecast  --  especially in countries where Israeli influence is strong , such as Ethiopia , the Ivory Coast , and Malawi . Morocco 's Communists have shocked some African comrades and annoyed Moscow by their stand against Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia . Ali Yata , veteran Moroccan Communist leader , declared " wholehearted solidarity " with Czechoslovakia and " surprise and grief " at the Soviet action . Trends ... Egypt is seeking both American and French expertise to inject new vigor into its crisis-ridden tourist industry . International Host , a United States firm , will manage Cairo 's new Fontana Hotel under a 20-year contract effective in 1970 . The Egyptian Government 's General Organization for Tourism and Hotels is to receive 75 percent of all profits and the American management firm 25 percent . If Fontana profits are less than 10 percent of the invested capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Earlier this year a French group concluded a similar agreement to operate Cairo 's grandiose but old-fashioned Manial Palace Hotel . Japan 's busy traders are pushing their gains in North Africa . Their country 's first-ever appearance at the annual Algerian International Trade Fair last August has proved to be a huge success . As a result , Japanese firms have been landing fat new contracts in Algeria , Morocco , and Tunisia . Kinsho-Mataichi is an example . It 's buying 8,000 tons of Algeria 's long-neglected copper-ore concentrate . This shoves Algeria close behind Morocco as North Africa 's second largest exporter of that ore . Algeria , incidentally , was the first African country to sign a formal agreement for a pavilion at the big Osaka Fair scheduled for 1970.                     