@@726286

txt The nation 's highest military court ruled today that the limitations on police interrogation and confessions announced last year by the Supreme Court must also be applied in military law . As a result , all servicemen must be advised of their right to remain silent and have counsel  --  supplied by the Government , if necessary  --  before they may be questioned by military policemen . The 2-to-1 decision was handed down by the United States ' Court of Military Appeals . Its rulings can not be appealed to a higher court , so the decision is final . Military spokesmen said that the Air Force would not be greatly affected by the , ruling , since it now used lawyers in special and general courts-martial and expected to have enough legal manpower to represent suspects who asked for counsel . Decision Was Expected Army and Navy legal officers were uncertain of the effect , upon them , but Rear Adm.I Wilfred Hearn , chief legal officer of the Navy , said that his branch might have to ask for more lawyers . All three branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel to advise servicemen as prescribed by the Supreme Court . The appeal involved the bad conduct discharge and sixmonth prison sentence meted out in a general court-martial last June to Airman 3d Cl . Michael L. Tempia of Dover Air Force Base , Delaware . He - had been found guilty of violating the Uniform Code of Military Justice by taking indecent liberties with females under the age of 16 . While the charges were being investigated , Airman Tempia was given the elaborate warning required by Article 31 of the code . It informs the serviceman that his statements may be used against him , and that he may consult with counsel before he submits to interrogation . The airman asked to confer with the base legal officer but the officer declined to advise him on the ground that that ' might disqualify him from acting on the case later . The Court of Military Appeals threw out the conviction on the ground that the warning did not comply with the standards announced last June 13 by the Supreme Court in the case of Miranda v. Arizona . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a lawyer will be provided if . he can not , afford to pay one , while the military code warning , which has been in effect since 1951 , merely advises the serviceman of his right to employ counsel . The Supreme Court reversed the conviction for rape of Ernesto A. Miranda of Arizona in a ruling that sharply limited the power of police to question suspects . The Court said- that a suspect must be clearly warned that he may remain silent , that anything he says may be held against him and that he has the right to have a lawyer present during interrogation . Judge Homer Ferguson . writing for the majority , said that military tribunals were bound by the Miranda decision beca.use it announced standards for the enforcement of the Fifth Amendment , which is binding on all Federal courts . " The time is long since past when this court will lend an attentive ear to the argument that members of the armed forces are , by - reason of their status , ipso facto deprived of all protections of the Bill of Rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Chief Judge Robert E. Quinn dissented . He said the military code 's warning adequately protected servicemen 's constitutional rights , and that the majority decision served " to legislate not adjudicate . " All three judges are civilians . The case was taken to the Court of Military Appeals by the Judge Advocate General of the Air Force , Maj. Gen. Robert W. Manss . However , Admiral Hearn , the Judge Advocate General of the Navy , intervened in behalf of the Navy as a friend of the court . He argued that military law was not affected by constitutional imitations and that the Miranda decision did not apply . to courts-martial .                     