@@727809

txt The National Council of Churches and the United States Catholic Conference issued a joint appeal to Congress yesterday to eliminate the special exemption that churches now enjoy from income taxes on unrelated business income . In a separate action , the General Board of the Council , which includes most major Protestant and Orthodox denominations in the country , also urged churches to pay their " just share " of municipal fire , police and sanitation services on a voluntary basis . The moves were made at the board 's final session of a twoday meeting here at the Statler Hilton Hotel . The 250-member body , which meets quarterly , is the principal policy-making group of the council between triennial sessions of its Gen ' eral Assembly . Other Actions The 140 members present also took the following actions : 330pposed deployment of the proposed Safeguard antiballistic missile system . llAdopted a policy statement on the Middle East that criticized both Arab and Jewish " nationalism " and urged a strengthening of United Nations efforts to achieve peace in the , area . ' Urged a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black Manifesto " calling upon I churches to give Negroes $500-million in " reparations " as partial payment for wages not paid during the slavery period . The joint **25;2075;TOOLONG Catholic statement on taxation was approved two weeks ago in Houston by John Cardinal Dearden , chairman of the administrative board of the conference , and a committee of board members . Months-Long Talks The tax statement was the product of several months of negotiations between the two bodies and grew out of the ' work of a joint committee that had been meeting regularly to develop means of cooperation between them . Officials said that a communication would be sent in the name of both organizations to the House Ways and Means Committee , which is considering changes in the tax laws . The statement urged elimination of the " special exemption of churches " from taxation on income from regular commercial business activities not related to the religious functions that otherwise make churches exempt from the Federal income tax . Under present tax laws , secular nonprofit organizations must pay corporate taxes on socalled " unrelated business income . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision . Neither Protestant nor Catholic leaders could say to what extent churches were involved in unrelated business activities , but several examples have gained widespread publicity . The Cathedral of Tomorrow , a 2,200 - member Protestant church in Akron , Ohio , for instance , owns the Real Form Girdle Company in Brooklyn , and the Columbia Broadcasting System 's television station in New Orleans , WWL-TV , is owned by the Jesuit-run Loyola University Pressivo Mounting As a result , prectaire has been mounting in religious circles to eliminate what yesterday 's statement termed the " potential advantage " that churches have over taxpaying organizations in the same fields . Last January , Protestants and other Americans United for Separation of Church and State announced it was filing suit against the Stratford Retreat House , which is defined by the district director of internal revenue as a church and operates a number of businesses . The joint statement also urged the closing of the socalled " Clay-Brown " loophole under which nonprofit organizations can purchase business organizations on credit , lease them back to their previous owners for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untaxed profits to pay the purchase price . A proposal now before the Ways and Means Committee ( would eliminate this possibility by taxing all income on non'profit organizations resulting from debt-financing . The church leaders feared that such a step would endanger churches ' tax exemption on passive investments , such as stock portfolios , or where a religious organization also had a mortgage or other debts . They proposed that the socalled loophole for churches could be closed by taxing debtfinanced rental income on property not intended for expansion of religious activities . In making these recommendations , the church leaders l , urged a continuation of traditional church-tax exemptions , including that on passive income , and asked for a " fiveyear grace period " for churches that elect to divest themselves of present unrelated business activities . The council 's own statement in behalf of its Protestant and Orthodox constituency went beyond the joint , appeal to consider non-Federal taxation , saying that churches " should not begrudge paying taxes on auxiliary properties to help defray the costs of civil government . " Some Groups Contribute " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of municipal services which they receive , such as fire , police , and sanitation services , " the council declared . " Some do this through voluntary payments ' in lieu of taxes ' ; others might offer to pay servicecharges for the particular services they use . " Numerous religious organizations , including the American Jewish Congress here , have begun to make such voluntary contributions to local governments . The council document also urged an end to tax exemption on housing allowances for clergymen , and stated that it is " good policy " for churches to make public declarations of their income , assets and expenditures . The resolution on the antiballistic missile system noted that numerous " knowledgeable persons , " including leading scientists , had questioned the wisdom of the system proposed by the Nixon Administration . It added that the board op-. posed " deployment of the ABM on the basis of the case now made as to its necessity for ' national security , its effectiveness , its effect on the arms race and disarmament negotiations generally , its implication for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national resources . "                     