@@723493

txt In a speech that seemed aimed at such conservative critics as Senator Barry Goldwater , President Kennedy rejected tonight a foreign policy based on " black-and-white choices of good and evil . " " In this dangerous world , " he said , such a policy is one " of retreat , not of strength . " Speaking in the Mormon Tabernacle here at the end of the third day of his " nonpolitical " tour of eleven states , Mr. Kennedy declared : " If we were to resign from the United Nations , break off with all countries ' of whom we disapprove , end foreign aid , call for the resumption of atmospheric nuclear testing and turn our back on the rest of mankind , we would not only be abandoning American influence in the world  --  we would be inviting a Communist expansion which every Communist power would welcome . " " Our policy would not have much deterrent effect in a world where nations determined to dePresident Kennedy will leave Salt Lake . City ( 1 ) today for Tacoma ( 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 3 ) , Coos Bay ( 4 ) , Redding , Calif. ( 5 ) and Lassen Volcanic National Park ( 6 ) , to spend the night . fend their own independence could no longer count on America , " he said . The President was given a tremendous ovation by the overflow crowd in the Tabernacle , both before and after his address . He was interrupted several times for applause , particularly when he mentioned the conclusion of the nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviet Union . Mr. Kennedy did not mention Senator Goldwater by name . White House sources said they considered the speech an . exposition of Mr. Kennedy 's views on the difficulties of foreign policy , rather than an attack on anyone or any group . Most of the proposals rejected by Mr. Kennedy however , have been made by Senator Goldwater . And the Arizonia Republican a leading contender for his party 's 1964 Presidential nomination often has been criticized for having " black-and-white " views . In the final draft of the President 's speech , language that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like " total victory , " with which the Senator is identified , were eliminated . Mr. Kennedy has been putting increasing emphasis on foreign policy as he moved westward on what had been billed as a five-day tour designed to press the cause of conservation of natural resources . In his first speech of the day , at Great Falls , Mont. , Mr. Kennedy almost entirely ignored a prepared text that stated his natural resources policies and claimed credit for a number of advances in that field . Instead , he bore down heavily on a theme which has been creeping into all his speeches ,  --  the necessity for building and maintaining a domestic society and economy capable of supporting the United States ' involvements abroad . Treaty No Panacea Despite conclusion of a nuclear test-ban treaty , Mr. Kennedy told a crowd of 15,000 in the Great Falls High School Stadium , " the competition with the Soviet Union will go on . " Which society is the most productive ? " he asked . " Which society educates its children better ? Which society produces the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , is the happier ? " And he noted : " As we go , so goes the cause of freedom . " No other nation , he said , has the power to maintain world frecr'om . " We have a lot to do in this country and I 'm out here to get your support for doing it , " he said . Later , at the Hanford , Wash. , plutonium production facility , Mr. Kennedy helped break ground for a new electric generating plant that will use the excess heat from the facility . There , he laid out a six-point program for increasing the nation 's power capacity , and linked ' the ability to produce electric power with economic success . A. huge crowd , one of the most enthusiastic to see Mr. Kennedy on this trip , stood along the streets of Salt Lake City , supposedly a center of conservative sentiment , when he drove in from the airport . The Mormon Tabernacle was crowded to its capacity of 8 , - 000 and more stood outside to- , night to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech tonight at Salt , Lake iCty dealt exclusively with , foreign policy , and the problems of conducting it . The world is full of contradiction and confusion , " he conceded , " and our own . policy , seems to have lost the black-1 and-white clarity of simpler times . " Nonetheless , the President , said , " we can not return to the day of the sailing schooner and , the covered wagon , even if we , wished . " " And if this nation is to survive and succeed in the world of today , we Must acknowledge the realities of that world , " he continued . Facing those realities , Mr. , Kennedy said , means : " We must , first of all , recognize that we can not remake the world simply by our own command . We can not remake other nations in , our own image , nor can we enact their laws , nor can we operate their governments , nor can we dictate their policies . " Second , we must recognize that every nation determines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States has rightly determined that our interest is best served by preserving and protecting a world of diversity in which no monolithic power can acquire that ability to dominate freedom . " " Third , we must recognize that foreign policy in the modern world does not lend itself to simple black-and-white choices of good or evil . " If we were to treat foreign policy as merely a medium for ' delivering self-righteous sermons to supposedly inferior peoples , we could give up all thought of world influence or ' leadership . " ; The President declared : " The purpose of foreign policy ii , not to provide an outlet for our , sentiments of hope or indignation ; it is to shape real events ; in a real world . "                     