@@726028

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Changing Medical Care To the Editor : The Jan. 3 editorial " Medicine 's Next Decade " points out that medical practice is changing and expresses a concern that medical care will become assembly-line care . Medicine is changing and a highly trained family physician has been suggested as a proper substitute for the general practitioner , whose numbers are decreasing . There is an assumption , pointed out in the editorial , that first-class medical care requires " many laboratory tests and X-rays on a scale exceeding the capabilities of the lone physician . " This may be so for the patient admitted to the university teaching hospital but is not so for the overwhelming majority of patients who seek medical care from their physician . These patients bring problems which require clinical skills and judgment of the physician which are , on occasion , supplemented by appropriate use of the laboratory . Solo practice is dying out only in small part because one man can not know all of the laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer provide the continuous coverage needed by his patients . Giving up the solo practitioner should not be equated with giving up a family or personal physician . Physicians may well practice in groups but , hopefully , these will be groups of appropriately trained primary or famil : ; physicians . Many medical schools and medical educators recognize the danger in specialization as a means of delivery of primary care . In giving up one method of delivery of medical care , we ' must be sure from facts , not feelings , that we are replacing it with something better . JoEL J. ALPERT , M.D. Medical Director Family Health Care Program Harvard Medical School Boston , Jan. 5 , 1967 Impact of Bombing To the Editor : In Harrison Salisbury 's little noted or quoted news article of Jan. 1 he finally admits that " the American bombing has had a serious impact on North Vietnamese industry " and that " the question of distribution is serious because of United States bombing of supply routes . " The Times caption read " North 's Economy Badly Disrupted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of United States bombing were not the killing and wounding of North Vietnamese civilians . And it certainly pulls the rug from under the contention of letter writer Peter H. Juviler ( Jan. 4 ) that we should stop the bombing becaue it is not achieving any of its objectives ? especially since he sets up Salisbury as final authority on the matter . The trouble with this bombing discussion is that too many participants are posing as militaryobjective experts as well as bleeding hearts . GERARD P. KIRK Bridgeport , Conn. , Jan. 4 , 1967 ? Salisbury 's Reports To the Editor : In his letter published Jan. 9 , Zygmunt Nagorski Jr . suggests that Harrison Salisbury 's dispatches from North Vietnam are a disservice to this country . He argues that Mr. Salisbury " is lending the tremendous prestige of your newspaper and his own byline to tell the other side 's story ; that ... he is condemning half of the war only ? our half  --  leaving the Communist side untouched . " Such criticism is misplaced for several reasons . Mr. Nagorski conveniently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people were getting a truly one-sided view of the war  --  the one presented by the Johnson Administration . He overlooks the fact that The Times prints Mr. Salisbury 's reports side-by-side with dispatches from Washington and Saigon fully explaining the American position and often contradicting what Mr. Salisbury has written . Thus , far from being one-sided , The Times 's presentation is a serious attempt at balanced coverage . He refuses to recognize that American society is largely premised on the assumption that a free and open clash of ideas will help to resolve serious public problems . Therefore , with its balanced coverage , The Times is performing a public service by providing a much-needed forum for the confrontation of viewpoints on the war in Vietnam . Mr. Nagorski would have us forgo this competition of ideas because Mr. Salisbury has " significantly contributed to the intellectual and moral doubts of our own society ; ... to the general undermining of the notion of intellectual and moral integrity of President Johnson and his aides . " The argument , however , confuses cause and effect . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick to believe Mr. Salisbury , this is because the Administration 's consistent lack of candor has created a public attitude of deep suspicion . Far from causing these suspicions , Mr. Salisbury only has confirmed them . NORMAN A. OWN New York , Jan. 9 , 1967 ? Incinerator Devices To the Editor : Regulations promulgated by the city for air-pollution control place an unfair burden upon apartment-house owners and consequently will force another unwarranted tax on tenants of their buildings . By May 1968 each apartment building will be required to modify existing incinerators with pollution-control devices . The cost will be up to $10,000 for each apartment incinerator . These costs will have to be passed on to the tenants in the form of rent increases . In view of the fact that the city 's apartment incinerators account for less than 4 per cent of the measurable pollutants , to make the city dweller bear a major share of the cost of air pollution is eminently unjust . This wasteful plan will not drive air pollution from the city . But it will send many more of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . LEONARD A. LAMPERT Jamaica , L. I. , Jan. 6 , 1967 ? For Private Car Ban To the Editor : Mayor Lindsay 's proposal to ease the city 's traffic congestion by boosting parking fines by $10 or $15 illustrates the lack of realism with which the problem has been generally approached by the city fathers . It is high time a few simple facts were stated and faced . Traffic congestion in midtown Manhattan has reached a stage of crisis , and is getting worse . One-way avenues help only slightly and briefly . ( Fifth Avenue , for example , is now as jammed as it ever was when a two-way street . ) Widened highways and extra bridge levels , similarly , serve chiefly to bring more cars into the city  --  ex. ' actly what we should avoid . According to the traffic court reports , fewer than half the parking tickets issued are ever , paid up . The ignoring of tickets being widespread , it is hard to see how increasing the . amounts of the unpaid fines will help . Use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep cars out of midtown is not to let them in . Private cars should be prohibited from entering the central area during business hours ; an increase in public facilities ( buses . and taxis , and yes , subways ) would serve transportation needs much better . To date , as far as I know , no politician has had the courage to support the above program , though it is one that has been offered many times , by distinguished urban experts as well as informed laymen . Hopefully , Mayor Lindsay may be the first . EUGENE RASKIN New York , Jan. 6 , 1967 ?                     