@@721941

txt The six nations making up the European Common Market . took a new step toward European unity today by agreeing on an organized system of future political cooperation and consultation . The six heads of government also instructed a working group of high officials to prepare a " European statute , " presumably to be ratified by the countries ' parliaments , that would give the new system of political cooperation a legal basis . None of the six  --  France , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg  --  gave // up any national sovereignty today , nor did they commit themselves to do so in the future . But they took another move toward what may ultimately be a sort of European confederation . Today 's agreement represented essentially a victory for the ideas of President de Gaulle ' of France . However , faced with strong opposition from the Netherlands , France was by no ' means able to win her way completely . Today 's declaration says that the heads of government have decided " to give form and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the economic treaties that join them . For tnat purpose , they said , they have agreed to " organize their cooperation and assure its regularity " and hope to crown the process by the creation of ! new institutions . They agreed to " hold regular meetings " to " coordinate policy in order to further Europe 's political unity and thus strengthen the Atlantic alliance . " And they instructed a working group of officials to " develop proposals as to ways and means of giving a statutory character to the unity of their peoples . " President de Gaulle failed to win a commitment for meetings at specified periods , say every three or four months . He won only the concept of " regular " meetings . The next will be held in Rome , probably in October . Concessions to Dutch There were several concessions to the Dutch in the declaration , including a commitment to take a new look at , three proposals dear to them . These are fusion of the exec- ! utives of the three European ! economic communities ( the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Atomic ! Energy Community ) , universal ! suffrage elections for the Euro- ! pean Parliament and the cre- : ation of a European university. ! There was also , at Dutch in- , sistence , a reference to the " desire " of the heads of state ! that other European countries ! " ready to assume the responsi- ' bilities and obligations " of thei existing economic communities : should join them . This was , in ! essence , an invitation to Britaind Most important of all , . from : the Dutch viewpoint , France ! had earlier withdrawn some elements of President de Gaulle 's ! original proposal that the Neth-i erlands found unacceptable . These included a plan to dis- ! cuss defense matters and a ' proposal to establish a perma-I nent secretariat to prepare the meetings of the heads of state. ! The heads of government had ! struggled in an impasse on ! several key points all morning in their meeting at the Redoute in Bad Godesberg , a graceful eighteenth century building now used as a restaurant . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months of often lonely opposition  --  was reached during lunch on a Rhine cruise steamer . Dr. Joseph M. A. H. Luns , the Dutch Foreign Minister , made the key concessions today because , in the words of a Dutch official . " we could n't possibly afford failure with the world in its present state . " Dr. Luns had singlehandedly blocked agreement at the first meeting by the six heads of government in ! Paris in February . Under the Dutch Constitution ! Dr. Luns has full charge over foreign policy , although the , Premier . Jan Eduard de Quay , l was present today . The others attending were i Chancellor Adenauer of West Germany and Premiers Amintore Fanfari of Italy , Theo Lefevre of Belgium and Pierre Werner of Luxembourg .                     