@@723497

txt Letters to The Times STANLEY B. DUNN.HOWARD V. CORCORAN , M.L. REINTAN M. BALL . ' Letters to The Times To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Sept. 28 " The Trial-by-Jury Luxury , " published in answer to Chief Judge Desmond 's invitation for public debate on whether we should abolish jury trials , is a most unexpected argument to find in The Times . Jury trials in civil cases are not a luxury , even if they are more expensive than non-jury trials . A luxury , by definition , excludes necessities . But democracy needs every procedure which expresses the will of the people and which acts as a check against the absolute power of any branch of the government , whatever its cost . For the trial judge , sitting alone , has more absolute power in the exercise of his office than has any other public official . The jury 's abuse of its function , as demonstrated in recent civil cases in the South , will be corrected by the appellate courts . There is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a jury . The civil jury trial is not the only cause . We ought always to remember that our courts furnish a unique professional service unavailable to the vast majority of people in this world , It is a service well worth paying for . Would justice be served as weh Without civil juries ? We think not . Civil jury trial is not a luxury . It is a guarantee of " the true administration of justice " which " is the firmest pillar of good government . " M. L. REIN , President , Supreme and Surrogate 's Court Attaches Association . New York , Oct. 1 , 1963 . Our Stand on Coups Military Support of Latin-American Regimes Opposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : I am writing as an American student and teacher living in Latin America . As such , I am constantly carrying on discussions with the students here of right , center and left-wing inclination  --  usually the latter . Often forced to defend or join n castigation of United States poli-ties I am at a loss to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . President Kennedy , some few weeks ago , stated that we would not permit another Communist nation in Latin America . These were ' strong words , and were interpreted rather literally here . Yet a short time following this utterance the United States " permitted " the overthrow of two democratically elected Presidents , with the somewhat pathetic statement that the diplomatic pressure exerted to prevent these was evidently not enough . In taking such a stance , the United States is in effect condoning the dictatorship of the military right , while at the same time deploring that of the Communist left . To . the people of Latin America the innuendo is clear : the U.S. will tolerate ( and in most cases support ) a totalitarian government of the extreme right , because such government will remain friendly to the U.S. and its interests . additional dining room for an overflow attendance . The entire day was a most stimulating one for West Virginians , Who were present from all sebtions of our state . Governor Rockefeller , Mrs. Rockefeller , and his staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . HOWARD V. CORCORAN , Chairman , Republican State Executive Committee of West Virginia . Wheeling , W. Va. , Sept. 30 , 1963 . Jury Trials Defended Continuance Is Seen as Necessity , Not as Luxury ' New Frontier ' Approach Such a position is difficult to reconcile with the " New Frontier " approach to Latin America as implemented by the Alliance for Progress , and is rather reminiscent of ulation explosion and the growth of Not Military Threat The Communist threat in Latin America at present is hardly a military one . Rather , . the military is the oppressive tool of the totalitarian right , which is hardly much better than the totalitarian left . But , it is argued , the military is essential to protect the workings of democratic institutions which exist in Latin America . If we truly believe that democracy is the political way of life which Latin America should follow , we can only evidence such belief by putting confidence in the peoples of Latin America , and withdrawing support from " militarily backed democracies , " which are in no true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truly progressive men on the Latin-American political scene . Both he and Ramon Villeda Morales were democratically elected Presidents . If the United States sits idly by , continuing its military support to Latin America and its tacit consent to large military expenditures , loss of faith in a " New Frontier " for Latin America occasioned by the Bay of Pigs invasion will continue to deepen until " not permitting another Communist nation " will amount to a return to the Trujillo-Perez JimenezBatista days . STANLEY B. DUNN . Manizales , Colombia , Oct. 4 , 1963 Rockefeller in W. Virginia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Reference is made to your editorial of Sept. 28 titled " The Winter Book , " wherein you state : " His own weekend visit to West Virginia a few days ago was notable chiefly for the lack of enthusiasm he generated . . . . " For the record , your information is inaccurate on Governor Rockefeller 's visit on Sept. 21 . We had two record-breaking affairs during the Governor 's full day in Huntington . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to standing room only at a luncheon of the West Virginia Republican Women 's Federation . In the evening , at the fund-raising dinner , which was the principal reason for the Governor 's visit to West Virginia , we not only filled the largest hotel ballroom in Huntington at the Hotel Prichard but had to set an Naming of William Ballard TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Mayor Wagner , who almost two years ago made history by appointing Harmon Goldstone as the first architect member of the City Planning Commission , deserves additional praise for his decision to add architect and planner William Ballard , as chairman , to that body . Even more than a tribute to the architectural community this appointment is an important commitment to progressive urban planning on the part of our civic government , and should be a source of satisfaction to all the citizens of this dynamic city . WALKER 0 . CAIN , Chairman , Committee on Urban Design , American Institute of Architects , New York Chapter . New York . Sept. 30 , 1963 . For Better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Out of its budget millions , could not the city spare a few thousand dollars to make the sand boxes in its parks fit for youngsters to play in ? I can talk only of the small parks on the East River between 49th Street and 61st Street . In each the sand box is a disgrace . What they are like in less salubrious parts of the city , I would not care to imaging . Any child who plays in these boxes emerges like a chimney sweep . A few truckloads of fresh white sand would do the job . And perhaps one day our park architects will realize that sand boxes have to have some sort of canopy over them . Otherwise they ' are unusable for days after rain . IAN M. BALI " New York , Oct. 2 , 1963.                     