@@726498

txt Fire bombings proinpted Elgin authorities to impose a curfew in their city last night for the second time within a week . Mayor E.C . Alft called for the curfew shortly after 10 p. m. last night as at least a half dozen fires burned in several areas of , the city . Twenty-two squads of state police and cars from Carpentersville and other communities streamed into town in response to Alft 's appeal for help . Police Are Posted Police wearing helmets and armed with shotguns and rifles were posted on almost every corner as the 5-square-block center business district and the northwest side , which is predominantly Negro , were cordoned off . The biggest fire occurred in the new Sears , Roebuck and I company store at 51 S. Spring st. , a block from the police headquarters . All the fires were reportedly small and were quickly brought under control by the Elgin fire department . At least four Negroes were arrested in connection with the fire bombings . Other Fires Reported Other fires were reported at the Lincoln State bank , 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 222 Douglas st. ; Elgin Oil company , 152 N. Spring st. ; and Gromer bakery , 595 N. st . The mayor was called from his home to the city hall about 10 p. in. , when the first fires were reported . He ordered the fire department and police to withhold all information on the disturbance from the press. ; Newsmen were ordered to leave town . When a TRIBUNE reporter in- , troduced himself and asked him about the disturbances , Aift ordered his seizure . He was physically taken from the city hall . A policeman with a rifle prohibited him from using public phones . The mayor told newsmen his action was taken because of the press coverage during the racial disturbance in Elgin last Saturday night , when a group of about 240 Negroes threw rocks and bottles at passing autos and hurled some Molotov cocktails . Burglar alarms and police sirens were heard thruout the city . A group of Negroes were reported to be stringing a rope across a street on the northwest side . There were numerous instances of rock and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state policemen in Elgin patroled the outlying areas and shopping centers to prevent fires being set there . Policemen from St. Charles , Sleepy Hollow , and the Kane county sheriff 's office worked with the Elgin police in the central area . The Elgin state police said they had no reports of any shots being fired . The mayor halted all sale of gasoline in Elgin in an attempt to prevent the making of Molotov cock , tails . Elgin 's two hospitals did not report injuries in the disturbance .                     