@@721080

txt The House Armed Services Committee ordered today a thorough investigation of all military manuals because of an uproar over statements in an Air Force training manual that communism had infiltrated American churches . The manual citing the allegations was withdrawn and Secretary of Defense Thomas S. Gates Jr . apologized yesterday to a representative of the National Council of Churches , which was named in it . However , while several mem- , hers of Congress expressed in- , dignation over the manual and joined in demands for a full inquiry , Representative Francis E. Walter , chairman of the House Committee on Un-Amerl- can Activities , took an opposing tack : The Pennsylvania Democrat , who has often warned about the dangers of communism in this country , told a newsman that the charges linking communism with churches were true and that his committee might investigate the withdrawal of the manual . Meanwhile , two more Air Force manuals attracted notice and reinforced the demands for investigations . One , entitled the " Open Mess Operating Manual , " gives detailed advice on how to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Successful open messes are known for their good food , drinks , atmosphere and service . " Open messes are distin guished from the ordinary dining facilities at military installations in that they are self-supporting and not operated with appropriated funds . Th inuals are prepared by service personnel as instructional material . The manual on open messes recommends " subtle control " on liquor consumption at parties as follows : " With before dinner cocktail parties the simplest way to handle the problem is to specify a time for cocktails and a time for beginning of the meal . Then , stick to it . " Another passage offered a technique to get customers to order alcoholic drinks instead of non-alcoholic drinks on bingo nights as a means of increasing profits . The text follows : " One open mess secretary noted on bingo night the guests would usually sip a soft drink such as cola . The following bingo night each table contained a small table tent listing three mixed drinks at special prices . The drinks selected were colwful , tasty , cool , and served in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is an example of good salesmanship since it is understandable that on a bingo weekday night , the majority of guests would normally not prefer a heavy drink , but would welcome a light , refreshing beverage . Needless to say , the profit on mixed drinks far exceeded the profit on colas . " The manual cited as " another example of salesmanship " the fact that " many commercial bars , where small children are permitted , feature a mixed drink especially designed for children which consists of pink lemonade or ginger ale served with a slice of orange and maraschino cherry . " Charts on Drinks The manual includes charts of the average number of drinks consumed at varioussized parties as a guide for purchasing sufficient liquor and hiring an adequate number of bartenders and waiters . To illustrate the variable factors involved in beverage costs , the manual offers five different recipes for a martini ? " one of the top two or three most popular drinks at all bars in this country . " The recipes vary according to the proportion of gin and vermouth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of gin . Another manual that attracted attention was one outlining procedure for uniform operation of Air Force commissaries . The manual describes in great detail the jobs of personnel , under such headings as " nature and purpose of work , " " scope and effects of work , " " supervision and guidance received , " and " mental demands . " Commenting on the Air Reserve Training Manual that referred to communism in the churches . and was prepared at Lackland , Tex. , Air Training Center , the Air Force announced that it had received some information by telephone and was expecting detailed information by mail . The Air Force promised yesterday that it would investigate how the manual was prepared and who was responsible for it . The Air Force announced that it had issued a new rule providing that " from now on , any Air Force agency preparing any manual will establish review panels . " At present basic manuals are prepared under the direction of the headquarters at the Pentagon , but each command and lower echelon headquarters may prepare its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee inquiry was ordered by its chairman , Representative Carl Vinson , Democrat of Georgia . He acted in ' response to a request from Representative Frank Kowalski , Democrat of Connecticut , who called attention to the manual on open messes and commissaries . Mr. Kowalski , a West Pointer and former Army colonel , recently caused the withdrawal of another Air Force manual that instructed enlisted men how to wash dogs , prepare cocktails , polish shoes and do other jobs for officers . Representative Vinson directed a committee headed by Representative Melvin Price , Democrat of Illinois , to study all service manuals , starting with the Air Force . Mr. Price , commenting on the Air Force Reserve training manual , said : " To be that stupid , you have to work at it . "                     