@@724937

txt London When Britain 's new Conservative leader , Edward Heath , is asked what precisely he would do now , if he were Prime Minister , to remedy Britain 's economy , his short answer is : " But if we were in power , Britain would not be in this plight . " Yet Mr. Heath , friendly but no-nonsense in his gray suit , silver tie , and silver hair , has basic views about how to set right the British economy , as well as incisive criticisms of Prime Minister Harold Wilson 's calendar of " blunders . " Just now Mr. Heath , an attractive , justunder-fifty bachelor who calls himself a " working-class product " because he 's self-achieved and attended a grammar school , is off for a French Riviera holiday . Opportunities stressed He has given clear evidence , in the House of Commons , that he will chivvy the Laborites unmercifully come October . He has held his first press conference , has appeared on television  --  and the Conservative Party is undeniably showing new vigor . Mr. Heath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see whether these are nice generalizations or will spark policies for a modernized Britain . " We must respect the individual above By Felix Palm Edward Heath ' We must respect the individual ' everything , " he declares . " It 's not a matter of middle class or working class or upper class7 -- I want a society where the people have much greater opportunities . Cultural as well as materialistic . " There are a half dozen steps he would take to this end : ? Remove the protectionism that shelters British industry . The coal industry is protected , the internal airlines are protected . The Labor import surcharge protects still other industries . ? Readjust the onerous tax structure so as to give greater incentives to all sorts of people , including the promising young technologists that British industry needs . ? Remove obstacles to economic growth : promote wider plant bargaining , get rid of restrictive practices , and find ways to make management more efficient , even if this means more mergers . ? Speed up regional development . ? Make retailing and wholesaling more competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molds strategy // through the abolition of retail price maintenance . ? Hold back the domestic economy sufficiently to inject new life into the export drive . If these are generalizations , the Tory policy statement which will be presented at the Conservatives ' conference at Brighton Oct. 13 will be more specific . The Labor Government is of course readying a National Plan for Britain and this , too , will aim at British rejuvenation . Confidence at issue Mr. Heath is no more ready to countenance devaluation of the pound than is Mr. Wilson . He argues that there is no rational reason for devaluing the pound , because Britain 's price , level is comparable to that of other countries . The whole issue is a question of confidence . And Mr. Heath would be no true Conservative if he did not believe  --  as he does believe  --  that if a Conservative government came to power , a big amount of international confidence in Britain would almost automatically revive . This technician faults the Labor government for a good many confidence-harming measures . " The past nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one gimmick after another , " he told a television audience recently . Record criticize d The Labor regime has tossed piecemeal measures into the hopper , he says , without ever developing an over-all approach . And Mr. Heath notes wryly that " every time Labor has taken some remedial step , it then has denied that it would have the efiect desired  --  denied for instance that the rise in the bank rate would have domestic impact . " At home on most any governmental subject  --  Mr. Heath has been Minister of Labor as well as Common Market negotiator  --  he is not yet contemplating a visit to Washington . But he is by no means hostile to the usual trek that " shadow ministers " make to visit with officials in the American administration . He is aware that Prime Minister Wilson gains domestic and world support by being able to say for instance that President Johnson approves his Vietnam policies . Role recommended Mr. Heath asserts that the Commonwealth initiative , in seeking to send an emissary to Hanoi and Peking , was ill-timed . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emissaries would be received . He thinks Britain 's most effective role can be played as cochairman of the Geneva Convention . It is as cochairman with . Mos cow that Britain can most influentially press for peace talks , in his view . As the Tory official who carried through the British bid to enter the Common Market , Mr. Heath might be expected to have complaint of Mr. Wilson 's recent moves to sidle up to the market . He does . He believes that Mr. Wilson 's Laborites are still emotionally hostile to the Common Market , and that the five Wilson conditions attached to entry make it totally unlikely that Britain could get in . Motives studied Mr. Heath does not think President de Gaulle is intending to wreck the Treaty of Rome , but rather mainly to change a number of top market personnel . He does not believe Britain should make another Common Market bid yet , nor should it damage its case by trying to take advantage of the present struggles betwen France and the other five . Brisk , expertly articulate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heath is a far remove from the image of a tweedy Tory or a " grouse mood " lord . Surely one of his sharpest indictments of the ' Wilson government is that it has blown an uncertain trumpet , given no credible , clear leadership . People resist change , Mr. Heath comments , and so a prime minister must state clearly what he intends to do . ? Whether  --  and how soon  --  Mr. Heath will have such opportunity remains to be tested . But the Gallup poll is putting the Conservatives ahead again .                     