@@724537

txt BONN  --  General de Gaulle 's particular genius is to discern and exploit the inevitable . This is the political factor behind his drive to deprive the dollar , and to a lesser degree the pound , of their favored position among world currencies . The financial situation prevailing after World War II and the Bretton Woods ' agreements which established the International Monetary Fund has appreciably altered . France , West Germany , Belgium and even Spain are far . Wealthier while Britain approaches relative impoverishment . Furthermore , during eight years there has been a steady gold leakage from the United States . Washington , through half measures , has been unable to cure its " aurophilia . " Squirreling Away Gold France now has a gold stock approaching twice that of Britain and continues to convert dollars Into bullion . Even Spain has been rapidly cashing dollar reserves for gold . And this occurs at a time when there is increasing worry in Europe about take-over purchases of European companies by gigantic American concerns . In France there is grumbling about U.S. economic " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is the economic background to a parallel political trend as de Gaulle seeks increasing weight for Europe in world councils . His drive to replace with gold the dominant currency position of the dollar is thus politically convenient . Britain plays a subsidiary role in French calculations . In fiscal matters de Gaulle relies heavily on Jacques Rueff , a brilliant monetary expert who once supervised currency reforms in France , Bulgaria , Greece and Portugal . Rueff ; in no sense anti-American , fears over-dependence ' on the dollar and pound as reserve currencies . Dollars - flow steadily into Europe and out of the U.S.A. and , because they can be converted into gold , this process has shrunk our formerly vast bullion reserves and produced crises for three American Presidents  --  Eisenhower , Kennedy and Johnson . But so far-Washington has come up with halfbaked remedies and failed to treat two basic difficulties . These are the huge expense of supporting global defenses ; and unchecked investment by U.S. business in developed , not underdeveloped , countries . It is this investment that de Gaulle calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leak by ordering repatriation of American solders ' families and touched off disgruntlement among our military . But approximately the , dollar sum it was hoped would be kept in the U.S.A. by this move was spent by the Ford Motor Company at the same time to purchase full control of a British subsidiary . The leak continued . Europe filled up with U.S. firms buying factories . General Motors is spending $100 million at Antwerp . De Gaulle was furious when even the company that makes computers for the French nuclear force sold out to General Electric . Unbalanced Economics There is something wrong with an international economic system that simultaneously creates a balance of payments problem in the United States and worries Europeans about too great . an American investment here . This problem may not be , met by the French formula for revising the monetary system ' but ft will certainly not be met by silly devices such as taxing ? Americans journeying abroad . Our balance of payments problem , with which we have been tinkering for eight years , is no longer a short-range problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aide of the ocean may become politically unhealthy . One basic factor is the uninhibited postwar growth of American concerns , some of which , despite our antitrust laws , now do an annual business exceeding the gross ' national products of entire nations . General Motors is thus bigger than all of Holland . Immanse firms are by nature dynamic and seek new outlets for investment and manufacture . The larger they get the more they have to expand , and prosperous Europe is a natural area . Although Europe has few complexes about the bigness of business and prefers cartels to free competition , Europe 's Common Market has not yet managed to build international combines capable of competing successfully with the intruding American giant . Were automobile plants in Germany , France and Italy to join , they could compete even with General Motors . But they hold back while dynamic , overgrown U.S. manunoths needing by their very nature to continue growing , muscle in . Two-Sided Problem Whatever happens to French ideas on monetary reform , the problem of our own balance of payments deficit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must consider curbing some of our giant enterprises  --  as it did a few years ago With du Pont  --  and Europe must prod its industries into more efficient combines . We want to keep our dollars home and the Europeans want to keep their companies . These are two halves of the same problem coin .                     