@@728296

txt Secretary of State Rogers 's prediction that United States proposals for a Middle East compromise would encounter resistance all around has now been confirmed by bitter rejection in Jerusalem , vituperation from Moscow and abuse at Rabat , where Arab leaders have been meeting . The American peace plan deserves something better . While it calls for concessions from both sides , it offers Arabs and Israelis alike the best hope of achieving their basic objectives without resort to another war which neither they nor the world at large can afford to risk . To Israel , the Rogers formulations offer secure and recognized boundaries , free navigation through international waterways and " security arrangements more reliable than those which existed in the area in the past . " The Secretary of State is not seeking to impose a dictated settlement on either side . He has made clear his agreement with the Israeli view that details must be worked out in negotiations between the parties directly involved , and has reasonably proposed that this be done under the procedures followed at Rhodes in 1949 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines and rising violence in the occupied areas where one million Arabs are increasingly restive . Even if the Israelis can withstand this two-pronged assault  --  and they probably could for years to come  --  the economic and psychological cost would be heavy , with consequences for Israeli society that no friend of Israel can contemplate with equanimity . To the Arabs , the Rogers proposals offer the return of the bulk of their lost territories , a role in Jerusalem and a just settlement of the refugee problem under conditions consistent with the Security Council resolution of Nov. 22 , 1967 , which they have accepted . The alternative for the Arabs is a lengthy struggle that would only strengthen Israel 's determination to hold on to the occupied areas for the margin of security they provide , and that would prolong the misery of the refugees . Such a struggle could be disastrous for existing Arab governments , which can not hope to survive indefinitely under the hardships and humiliations it would inflict on their people . The Rabat conferees would be ill-advised to close the door to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which U.N . Secretary General Thant is basing some hope of progress . The Russians , in stirring up warlike sentiment among the Arabs , must reckon the self-defeating consequences of a long and frustrating struggle . While undiscriminating Soviet support for the Arab cause may win : temporary credits for Moscow , the day will surely come when thoughtful Arabs will begin to question whether an apparent Soviet determination to keep the Middle East in turmoil really coincides with their own interests . Furthermore , continual conflict in the Middle East perpetuates the stoppage of the Suet Canal , which had become an increasingly important artery for Soviet shipping . A new outbreak of warfare could precipitate a great-power confrontation which neither of the big powers wants ; but peace is still possible if both throw their weight behind the kind of even-handed compromise Secretary Rogers has proposed .                     