@@722111

txt BERLIN , Oct. 24 IUD-West Berlin police hurled 36 tear gas grenades at East Berlin police tonight in the second exchange within 24 hours . They acted after the Reds threw 26 grenades at a loudspeaker truck broadcasting on the border . A similar communist tear gas barrage at a loudspeaker truck last night brought immediate retaliation from the West Germans . The incident came after a United States official at the only crossing point open to the western allies began turning back American motorists in civilian clothes if their cars bore United States army license plates . Two Cross Border Tonight , however , two Americans wearing civilian clothes crossed into East Berlin unopposed in a car bearing United States state department plates . High western allied sources said United States military authorities have ' decided to try to prevent any further accidental border crossing incidents . This was the reason , they said , that Americans in civilian clothes driving privately owned cars with United States army occupation license plates were turned back by American military police at the EastWest Berlin border . They described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( The Associated Press reported that American authorities late Tuesday night lifted the ban on private trips to East Berlin by civilian members of the American mission . However , a new communist regulation requiring such civilians to s h o th identification to East German police remained in effect . No Explanation Given There was no official state department or army explanation of the tactic which came two days after American military police marched into East Germany to free a state department official detained by communist border guards . United States officials in army and state department cars continued to move freely in and out of East Berlin thru the Friedrichstrasse checkpoint , the lone crossing spot on the border still open . The East German interior ministry said last night East Germany has the right to control civilian traffic , and that civilians would have to show identity cards . British and American officials replied that no allied traffic is subject to East German control . Several reporters said their cars with United States army license plates were halted at the Friedrichstrasse crosspoint today by an official in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's American military police command . " If you wish to go into East Berlin we advise you do so in uniform , " the official told the reporters . An MP officer said later he was under orders to " turn you back if you are in army licensed vehicles " and wearing civilian , clothes . . Report a " Siegfried Line " HOF , Germany , Oct. 24 ( UPDThe East German Communists are building a miniature Siegfried line along the 174 mile border facing Bavaria . The new line to halt the flow of East German refugees includes underground bunkers and concrete slabs which are replacing barbed wire bArricades . Official Bavarian sources said East German people 's police , militia border police and civilian groups began building the defenses along the vinding border about a week ago . Local government and border police in Helmstedt , the West German checkpoint about 200 miles to the north , reported the East Germans have constructed several bunkers with firing slits pointing west and erected signs warning of land mines . Observers said the reports from Bavaria in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be constructing a new line of defenses along the entire east-west German border .                     