@@726698

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The . Times To Regulate Crane Use To the Editor : The buckling or overturning of construction cranes has been a relatively frequent occurrence in New York City . Over the past ten years fourteen lives have been lost and scores injured in crane accidents . Following the June 26 crane collapse which injured four persons in the midtown area , I convened a board of inquiry to examine into the entire question of cranes operating on the city streets . Noting that the public safety and convenience is seriously affected by the specter of towering cranes hovering over busy city streets , The New York Times of Nov. 10 comments editorially that the board of inquiry which I convened " has bogged down . " That statement is , in part at least , inaccurate . Following extensive hearings , at which were represented the views of industry , labor , civic groups and a host of others . the board of inquiry , chaired by Deputy Buildings Commissioner Norman Samnick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " . . that a substantial danger exists to the public at large , and to those engaged in the construction industry in particular , by reason of present equipment and practices and that the potential for future disaster is great . " The board proposed , and I urged adoption of , a series of reforms . Boom Limited Included among the reforms proposed were the banning of all cranes with a boom in excess of 250 feet in length ; the banning of assembling or disassembling of large boom cranes outside the property line ( thus barring a clogging of the streets at a most critical juncture of crane operation ) ; a mandate that all assembly and disassembly operations shall occur between the hours of midnight and 5 A.M. , when pedestrian and vehicular traffic is at a minimum ; and a limitation upon the maximum loads permitted on all long boom cranes . Not unexpectedly , segments of the construction industry opposed these reforms . In its final report the board of inquiry correctly characterized such opposition as " specious , " noting that the industry was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the potential for disaster is great . Additionally , the public convenience is daily disrupted under the present regulatory scheme for crane operations . As the board of inquiry concluded , the answer lies in swift legislative or other regulatory action . Indeed , the near tragic collapse of a crane on Nov. 10 provides clear portent of the terrible fruits of inaction . For myself , I am convinced that absent such decisive action , it is only a matter of time until other disasters occur and the injuries then sustained will truly be a waste and disgrace . CHARLES G. MOERDLER New York , Nov. 11 , 1967 The writer was formerly New York City 's Commissioner of Buildings . ? For a Medical Ombudsman To the Editor : Now that free legal services for the poor are to be available in New York City , a new office of Medical Ombudsman , publicly financed , and with branch offices situated in convenient locations throughout the city , should be created . Its function would be to guide , advise and represent the public on any question , problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would provide current information on Medicare , Medicaid and the leading nonprofit health insurance programs such as Blue Cross , Blue Shield , Health Insurance Plan ( HIP ) and Group Health Insurance ( GHI ) , as well as the features of the commercial insurance carriers  --  extent of coverage , limitations and exclusions , and procedures for applying such resources toward the individual 's health care needs . The Medical Ombudsman would also serve as a central information source on location of public and private health facilities , lists of physicians and other providers participating in Medicaid and in the various private health insurance programs , etc . The office would also serve as adviser to and advocate for the individual citizen confronted with difficult problems in meeting extraordinary bills for hospital care or other health services . Experts on public health programs and health insurance would constitute the professional staffs of these headquarters . Local residents ( including senior citizens ) could be enlisted from the communities to perform the basic function of interviewing , recording questions and problems and providing routine information . While it is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the health and social service administrations , Social Security offices and various social agencies , these reflect the same fragmentation that characterizes our health care facilities generally . IRVING BALDINGER Director of Community Relations Group Health Insurance , Inc . New York , Nov. 7 , 1967 ? Chief of Staff 's Tenure To the Editor . It is ominous that a group of distinguished citizens , including two ex-Presidents , should need to affirm at the present time that they " believe in the great American principle of civilian control and a civilian Commander in Chief , " as the Citizens Committee for Peace with Freedom in Vietnam announced ( Times , Oct. 26 ) . A real basis for concern of this kind exists in the fact that the President signed a bill into law on June 5 ( when the attention of the world was on the Israeli-Arab crisis ) which fixed the tenure of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for four years . This provision is a rider to the bill authorizing military appropriations for the fiscal year 1968 . The power of the President as Commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove military , . commanders . This provision , ac- , cording to the law , is , interestingly enough , scheduled to taker . effect as of Jan. : 1 , 1969 , which ' will be just after the election ' , and prior to the inauguration : t . Thus , whoever is the newly ' ? elected President May well be ' ' heir to military commanders who share with him a four-year ' ' . DAVDAVIDBAKAir , term Professor , of Psychology , : The University of Chicago. , Chicago , Oct. 31 , 1967 ? Israeli Withdrawal To the Editor : In view of the Israeli pmnouncement that any United ' Nations resolution requiring her withdrawal from conquered ter- ; ritory is unacceptable because it would prejudice her position in the ultimate settlement , should not the United States join the rest of the world in demanding that withdrawal ? The Arabs have said through , King Hussein that they will recognize the sovereign rights of , Israel and her right to navigation in international waterways , as long as the Arab refugees are properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arising from the Khartoum Con- ' ference and assuring Ismertsovereign rights and security , : there remains no valid moral or legal objection to Israel 's giving ' up Arab lands that she occupied ' in the June war . Genuine and concrete sup. ? port by the United States for " the principles of the political independence and territorial integrity of all states of the Mid . dle East " is essential to a just solution of this particular prob .. lem , with its great threat to the ' authority of the United Natioasand to the peace and security ; of the world . RICHARD H. BALLINGER : College Station , Tex . Nov. 8 , 1967 ,                     