@@721566

txt The Most Rev : Geoffrey Francis Fisher , Archbishop of Canterbury , became today the first head of the Anglican Church to call upon a Pope in Rome . Dr. Fisher made his " courtesy visit " with Pope ' John XXIII at noon in the Vatican and remained in private conversation with him for an hour and five minutes . All sources emphasized the cordiality of the meeting and of the conversation , which ? took place . through an interpreter . But it was not thought that the unity of Christian churches was much advanced by . the meeting . On the Archbishop 's side , it was stated that the Pope had " expressed to Dr. Fisher his great desire to increase brotherly feelings among all Christians . " There was reason to believe , however , that the Pope showed no particular interest when Dr. Fisher spoke of a " commonwealth of churches . " Although differences between English churchmen and Rome had been simmering for centuries , the overt break was accomplished by acts of the English Parliament , in 1534 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VII to his divorce ' from Catparine of Ara , gon and by other ? differences , decided to assert his supremacy over theEnglish . church . He had ? Parliaihent , pass the Acts of Supremacy , declaring him " Supreme Head in Earth of the Church of England . " Dr. Fisher Sees Cardinal ' Particular importance was attached by Vatican sources 1 today to the meeting that the Archbishop of Canterbury held in the afternoon with Augustin Cardinal Bea , head of the Vatican Committee for Promoting Christian Unity , They - discussed possible participation by the Church of England in the ecumenical , or , universal , council of the Catholic Church called by Pope ' John . The council should be held ' within the next two years . No I decision was made on Anglican participation . The Pope , however , was more interested in Dr. Fisher 's meeting in Istanbul with Athenagoras I , ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople and head of the autonomous Orthodox Church . Athenagoras , whom the Pope knew personally when he was apostolic nuncio , or ambassador , in Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the " separated brethren " for unity . At the end of the meeting , the Vatican press service issued a communiqu ? in which nothing was said about church unity . As for the substance of the conversation , it said merely that Pope John had recalled Pope Gregory I , who " sent saints and famous missionaries to Great Britain " and that the Pope and the Archbishop had brought up some " pers9nal memories of a spiritual nature . " ' Good Example ' Seen Dr. Fisher said at a news conference that the-Pope had met him in " a most friendly , natural , sympathetic , and cordial way . " He said he did not know whether the meeting had achieved anything , but he added : " We have given a good example , and good examples are often imitated by others . " This was taken by some to mean that Dr. Fisher 's visit might soon be followed loy a similar call by Athenagoras . Dr. Fisher said he had not advised Athenagoras to visit the Vatican . " That does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he added . Dr. Fisher said that there had been no so-called " surrender " to the Pope . " There was no sign of surrender , " he said . " There never was meant to- be . Small groups of extremists may still think that I surrendered something , but they are wrong . " ? The Archbishop traveled by car from the British legation . to the Holy See , and waved to a group of newspaper men and photographers waiting for him at the entrance to the Vatican . From the courtyard he went , by elevator to the " official " floor of the Vatican Palace and then walked through ten magnificently frescoed halls -6 the library , where Pope John waited for him at the door . The Pope and the Archbishop shook hands . According to Dr. Fisher , the Pope said , " It is a pleasure and a happiness to see you . " The Archbishop replied , " We are making history . " The Pope agreed , saying , " Yes , we are . " The Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass chandelier in the center of the Pope 's private library . Their talk . was attended b ? one other person . Msgr . Antonio Samore , who acted as interpreter . At the . end of the meeting , the Pope gave Dr. Fisher a gold medal and six books . The Archbishop gave the Pope an , illustrated book on Canterbury Cathedral and a book on the coronation rites for Queen Elizabeth II .                     