@@725488

txt The current political uncertainty in South Vietnam has torpedoed prospects of the second Honolulu conference planned by President Johnson with Vietnamese leaders . This is the opinion of experienced observers here and the unofficial opinion of many officials . However , the final decision rests with the President . " I suppose there 's an outside chance the conference could take place , " said one official . " But if you calculated the United States has abandoned the idea , I do n't think you would be wrong . " At his Honolulu conference with South Vietnamese Premier Nguyen Cao Ky in February , President Johnson talked of a follow-up meeting to see " if we have only talked , or something has been accomplished . " What has been accomplished since then , of course , is that Premier Ky 's prestige and political credibility at home has plummeted sadly . At best he now heads an interim government which is merely caretaking until a new government emerges from elections promised within three to five months time . At worst he may not even politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the follow-up conference in Honolulu , a time within three to six months was discussed . Many officials earmarked June to July on their calendars . American officials are anxious lest the impetus given South Vietnam 's economic and social development programs at Hono lulu be lost in the current uncertainty . Thus they would like to see Premier Ky last through the interim before elections . They believe he , better than a completely new government installed on a temporary basis , can keep the programs moving . Since Honolulu , President Johnson has dispatched a string of delegations , fact-finding committees , and experts to South Vietnam to maintain the pressure for tangible progress to be reported by the next meeting in Honolulu . Whether Saigon will be able to report within six months time the clear-cut economic advance President Johnson is looking for , remains to be seen . But it is doubtful whether a presidential meeting with Premier Ky could be meaningful under the present circumstances . And the character and political objectives of the new government are of course a series of question marks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           