@@723191

txt Letters to The Times JOHN E. AINSWORTH . Bowie , Md. , May 31 , 1963 . MICHAEL J. BOSINGER.A.I . MADISON .... Letters to The Times Rejection of Civil Defense City of Portland 's View That Peace Is Only Solution Backed To THE EDITOR OF TIrE NEW YORK TIMES : During the last decade our Government has sought continuously to " educate " the people to accept the fishnet of civil defense as though it were a lifeboat against a sea of annihilation . During the Cuban crisis and after thinking about civil defense for 13 years , the people of Portland decided at the polls that civil defense is not even worth 20 cents a person a year . According to City Commissioner Earl , " The people of Portland are far ahead of Government officials in their view of modern weaponry . " Civil defense is " useless . Portland is a target area . If it falls the H-bomb there is nothing we can do to alleviate its results . . . . the people of Portland feel the only solution is peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact from fiction over the last decade is sufficient to convince one that this accurate and clear declaration by the representatives of the city of Portland does indeed represent the opinion of the people of the entire nation ; that the " national lethargy " encountered everywhere by the civil defense authorities is indeed that basic skepticism and intelligence upon which democracy and its institutions are built and by which they survive . While the Defense Department may regard the clear rejection of civil defense by the people of Portland as a serious setback to the possibility of national survival , I regard it as a major first step to insure national survival . Clarity of Position Can it possibly he made clearer that the people of Portland as representative Americans thoroughly understand the relation of 100-fold overkill capacity and proliferation of nuclear weapons to the probability of accidental holocaust , of holocaust by brinkmanship , of holocaust by psychopathic leaders , and of holocaust by minuscule " wronged " nations ? " . . . the people of Portland feel the only solution is peace . " Can it possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will strongly support the President on every possible kind of credible step toward establishing peaceful relations with all nations and the developing of peace-keeping machinery for the world ? The confidence of the nation in the integrity of its leaders will not be shaken by the always present vocal minority which claims that the most trivial effort or concession for peace will wipe out our 100-fold overkill capacity and trigger a landslide surrender of liberty ; that despite our world leadership in technology we are too naive to negotiate safely for peace ; that our unparalleled 150-year experience in establishing and developing democratic institutions is insufficient background for the establishment of the safe world peace-keeping machinery necessary for preservation of these institutions in the future . JOHN E. AiNswoaTit , Bowie , Md. , May 31 , 1963 , No Normal Rental Market To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : An important aspect of the housing survey mentioned in your informative front-page story on rent control on May 27 requires further consideration . In spite of the large number of residential units constructed in the last decade , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of low and many middle income groups . It is undisputed that present vacancies are chiefly in those higher rental brackets . The prospective vacancy survey will be helpful , therefore , only if it indicates the number of vacancies in different rental categories . There is no normal rental market while large segments of our population can not afford the rents now demanded for vacant apartments . MICHAEL J. BOSINGER , President , Tenants ' Association of New York . Maspeth , L. I. , May 27 , 1963 . Keeping Politics Out of Court TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial in The Times of May 25 entitled " The Liquor Mess " is of special interest to me , as a practicing attorney . Of particular import is the last paragraph in which you call for legislative reforms prohibiting " practice or intervention openly or covertly of governmental employes and political party officials before Federal , state and city agencies . The prohibition should extend to the law offices of such employes and party officials , including legislators themselves , of course . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not go far enough , for the influence of these same peo ? ple extends into the courts . Time and again a practicing attorney finds that if his adversary is a legislator , Federal or state , or for that matter even city , or a member of a firm having such a partner , the influence is immediately manifested by the presiding judge . It has been my experience that the attorney without such political connections finds himself at once on the defensive and fighting against odds whin are beyond the issues of the immediate case and to the prejudice of his client . While it would be unfair on the one hand to restrain such officials from earning a livelihood because of inadequate compensation from the legislative position , nevertheless the influence exerted by them in the courts , whether knowingly or innocently , is as much a problem needing solution as that to which your editorial refers , and I , for one , believe the need for reform is urgent . A. I. MADISON , Brooklyn , May 31 , 1963 . Integrating by Fiat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your June 4 editorial " Desegregating the North " states a situation but does not outline the reason for failure of the attempts made by the " liberals " who wish to force the balance of mankind into a Procrustean bed , whether or not the subjects of this " reform " will accept the confinement . The patterns of discrimination are the result of widespread popular feeling and have no relation , whatsoever , to legislative fiat . The reason that " open enrollment " and the so-called Sharkey-Brown-Isaacs Law and similar efforts fail is that the people simply do not accept them . The Prohibition Law and the laws against betting on horses failed for exactly the reasons that the efforts of the " liberals " are also failing . The whole story is that when the Negroes move in the whites simply move away . This applies to housing , schools and any other activities that lead to close association of the races . Until the " liberals " find a way to chain people to housing in which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they do not wish their children to attend , we are going to find the ghetto patterns which cause the hand-wringe , - so much pain , The so-called " civil rights " laws are simply another " experiment , noble in motive , " and will meet ; with I the same result . General Eisenhower has said something to the effect that the change must come in men 's hearts . That is the fact , Coercive legislation serves only to exacerbate race relations . JAMES ANDREWS . New York , June 4 , 1963 . Curran Cites Union Stand To THE EDITOR OF TIIF , NEw YoRk TIMES : Your comment on the lay-up of the Savannah ( " The Savannah Wo n't . Sail , " May 22 ) can only compound confusion and obstruct useful thinking on the subject . We share your concern over the lay-up and the situation that led to it . And we believe it should be kept in mind that the Government 's decision to lay up the vessel was based on a dispute with a particular union , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only from lack of responsibility of the officials of that union but , from atrocious mishandling of labor relations by the company which held the operating agency agreement , I think it would have been pertinent also to acknowledge the fact ; that the National Maritime Unions and its affiliate , the Brotherhood of Marine Officers , have conveyed to President Kennedy a pledge on be. : half of their members that , given ( the opportunity , they will see to that the Savannah operates smoothly and does the job for our country that she is meant to do , It seems to me The Times should try to shed light and encourage constructive thought on these prob- ' , lems . The " **25;379;TOOLONG " with which you generally approach problems in the maritime field does not help . JOSEPH CURitAN , President , National Maritime Union of America . New York , May 24 , 1963 . Controlling Populations To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW York TIMES : Since foreign aid will never catch Up with population growth in many of the underdeveloped countries , the best foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a losing battle which will bring all of us to a common human level ? the lowest . LEE H. GAMSU . New York , May 29 , 1963.                     