@@724820

txt Congress and Vietnam Signs are growing of Congressional interest in ending the " leave-it-to-Lyndon " era in American foreign policy . There is Senator Fulbright 's new proposal to give the O.A.S . a major voice in channeling American military assistance to Latin America . There is the provision in the new foreign aid bill for a thoroughgoing Congressional investigation and for terminating the aid program in its present form in 1967 . There is the trip to Europe , at their own expense , of four House Republicans to investigate the crisis in NATO . And there are the recent criticisms of Administration policy in Vietnam and the Dominican Republic by Senator Robert F. Kennedy , plus his current charge that the United States is neither meeting its aid responsibilities to the underdeveloped countries nor identifying itself with the world revolution under way in those areas . Factors that go beyond the President 's limited experience in foreign affairs and the extraordinary vacillations in Dominican policy have set off the present questioning at home and abroad . The reluctance of Secretary of State- Rusk to employ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the meager use made by the President of nonofficial task forces in the foreign policy field , the overdependence on military and intelligence agencies and the divorce between the Administration and the nation 's intellectuals  --  all point to a need for more vigorous Congressional interest . Nowhere is this more vital than on Vietnam , where grave constitutional questions are raised by the official acknowledgment of an increasing combat role for American troops . During the eighteen months of the Johnson Administration , the number of American troops in Vietnam has been tripled to about 46,500 ; a further build-up to more than 60,000 appears imminent . American . planes have entered into combat both in South and North Vietnam ? in the latter case openly attacking a foreign country with no declaration of war . American warships have bombarded the North Vietnamese coast . And there are indications that American ground troops  --  first employed as advisers in South Vietnam , then deployed to defend American installations and now directly engaged in patrolling action  --  will soon take on a full combat role as a tactical reserve aiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point has there been significant Congressional discussion , much less direct authorization of what amounts to a decision to wage war . That is why 28 Democratic Congressmen , on the initiative of Representative Rosenthal of Queens , now have wisely asked the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee to hold public hearings on the Administration 's Vietnam policy . American casualties in Vietnam , while still relatively minor , already exceed those of the SpanishAmerican War . The choices open to the President are exceedingly difficult ones ; they should not be his alone , either as a matter of sound policy or of constitutional obligation . If he takes it upon himself to make an American war out of the Vietnamese tragedy  --  without seeking Congressional and national consent ? he may open the country to divisions even more dangerous than those that developed out of the Korean conflict .                     