@@726495

txt Vice President Humphrey called tonight for a massive effort to help the impoverished areas of the United States , an effort that he likened to the Marshall Plan . The Vice President , speaking in Detroit , which last week experienced the nation 's most devastating Negro riot , also suggested that the states form " councils for civil peace " to prevent riots . He said " the first thing is to re-establish law and order in this country by whatever legal means it takes to do it , " and " the rule of the jungle must not and will not prevail . " Speech Warmly Applauded More than 2,000 delegates and wives at a dinner meeting ending the convention of the National Association of Counties warmly applauded the Vice President 's speech in Cobo Hall . Cyrus R. Vance , President Johnson 's personal representative in Detroit during last week 's riots , announced here today that " law and order have been restored to Detroit . " Mr. Humphrey emphasized that the same type of aid that had been used to help the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " including the same " methods , techonlogy and techniques . " If technical assistance of longterm low interest loans are needed for overseas devedopment , surely they are needed here at home . " Price Must Be Paid Massive investment of private capital needed in new nations " is insured by your Government , " he told the county officials . He said such investment was also " needed in America 's slums and rural poverty areas . " " Whatever it will take to get the job done we must he willing to pay the price , " he said . " Our commitment to the building of free , safe and Just communities must be no less than the commitment we have made to military defense of our country , to the exploration of outer space , to the rebuilding of a devastated western Europe after World War II . " " We had a Marshall Plan for the impoverished areas of Europe . Maybe we need an American plan for a new day , " he said . The Vice President said , " A state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious groups , the state attorney general 's office , the Natonal Guard , law enforcement agencies and officials of local government . " " It could provide a state community relations service designed to prevent violence and to gain community cooperation and hear the voices of those who have gone unheard . It could set up a coordinated early-warning system so that coming disorders might be detected in advance and perhaps , be stopped before they began , " he said . Such a council " could provide a way and a means for those who would be the innocent victims of violence to have an opportunity to forestall that tragedy and to bring to bear their knowledge , their information and their sense of citizenship , " the Vice President went on . Mr. Humphrey suggested similar metropolitan councils for civic peace be formed " with the same broadly based representation  --  to do the same job on a community basis . " These would be particularly useful where metropolitan boundaries cross state lines . Federal funds could be usde for such metropolitan councils , he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in trouble " but he also said he expected the nation to make it through the present urban crisis . He said he did not believe that the ghetto dwellers " will fall victim to the demagogues and agitators who would tear down what men of peace have built with their life 's blood over generations . " He warned that " hopes raised must not be dashed " but , he said , " the injustices of 100 years will not be wiped away in five , and the behavior patterns of a lifetime will not be , wiped out in a month or two . " He made three broad sugges-tions : The first was the re-establishment of law and order . There is no justice for anyone , particularly the poor , " in senseless violence and lawlessness , " he said . The second proposal was for " the hard , frustrating work of rooting out the conditions which have led to the slum and the life of physical and spiritual poverty within it . " He suggested efforts to improve jobs , education , housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the life of their community so they become part of what they call us  --  the establishment . " Unified Effort Urged The third suggestion was for a unified effort at the community level using available buildings for community leaders to find jobs and recreation for youngsters . The Vice President also met privately with Detroit 's Mayor , Jerome P. Cavanagh , Gov . George Romney , and Joseph Hudson Jr. , a department store president who heads the planning effort for the rebuilding of devastated areas in the city . The meeting was " constructive , " Mayor Cavanagh said . " He was n't in a position to commit cash but he understands these things very well , " the Mayor said . Earlier today , Daniel P. Moynihan , a former Labor Department expert on Negro affairs , told the meeting that " anyone who suggests they know things that can solve the urban problems is a fool or a fraud . " Mr. Moynihan also spoke at a news conference . " We can not explain the events " this summer said Mr. Moynihan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute of Technology and Harvard University . As he spoke here , Detroit was still recovering from last week 's Negro riot . The last of 4,700 Army paratroopers left the city and the National Guard , which had been federalized , was turned hack to state control . Guardsmen still patrol parts of the city . After touring the riot areas in Detroit , Mr. Moynihan said " you 've got to clean It up , " " They still have n't cleaned up Watts yet , " he added . Mr. Moynihan also said he feared that the election of a right-wing President and repressive measures against Negroes could result from this summer 's rioting , " Nihilism can ruin the slums ; the reaction to it can ruin the nation , " he said . Mr. Moynihan suggested a three-point national program that he said could help end discontent among the poor . The program included full employment , with the Government as an employer of " last resort , " automatic family allowances and health care . Mr. Moynihan noted , for example , that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But since 1960 this has changed with welfare climbing during years of economic boom , he said . Part of the problem Is " an Image of who needed help that was almost romantic , " he sold . Liberals have not faced certain problems because they were protecting the good name of the poor . " A new group of poor is growing up , he said , that some might call " the undeserving poor . " Traditional Negro leaders have not reached these people , he said . But the riots this summer may help Negro leaders recognize that the Negroes at the bottom " are in trouble . " Mr. Moynihan also said a lack of a sense of " participation " was a serious problem . " For 50 years The New York Times and all good American liberals " had one major cause , he said : " Break Tammany Hall . Break the power of the bosses . " But he said the old system did mean " some contacts with that lower class . " In 1965 Mr. Moynihan wrote a Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Action , " which became widely known as the Moynihan Report . It argued that the true cause of the American Negro 's plight was an unstable family structure rooted in centuries of discrimination and economic starvation . President Johnson planned to use the report as a basis for discussion at a White House civil rights conference in July , 1966 , But after Negroes and whites criticized the report , it was not used at the conference . Woman Killed by L. I. Train An elderly woman was fatally hit by a train last night as she walked on the tracks of the Long Island Rail Road just outside the Douglaston , Queens station . The woman , who appeared to be about 65 years old , was unidentified .                     