@@726949

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Feb. 20 Tuesday ( 01,8 ) - United States and South Vietnamese forces struck back today at communist forces who had shelled Saigon 's Tan Son Nhut air base almost at will for two days and menaced the South Vietnamese capital with scattered attacks . United States military spokesmen said the harassing barrages of rocket and mortar fire at the airport had stopped this morning . ? Americans and South Vietnamese troops attacked a force of Communists in the market place of Tan Thai village 3 miles northwest of Tan Son Nhut . United States commanders believe most of the rocket positions are located in Tan Thoi . Within Easy Range Military officials said the Communists were using Tan Thoi , which they captured Sunday , as a base of operations for the attacks . The village is within easy mortar range of the air force base and headquarters of Gen. William C. Westmoreland . South Vietnamese forces engaged communist patrols on the outskirts of Tan Thoi yesterday . They were joined - by American troops and opened a frontal attack on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25th infantry division intercepted a communist force about 5 miles from the airport yesterday and fought a six-hour battle which ended about dusk . United States officials said the GIs suffered four killed and 15 wounded . There was no immediate report on the number of Communists killed . Kill 227 of Enemy South Vietnamese forces battled Communists for control of the Binh Loi bridge yesterday . The bridge is a link across a road connection between Saigon and the large United States bases at Bien Hoa and Long Binh . Officials said 227 Communists have been killed in two days of fighting for the bridge . The Communists opened the second phase of their 1968 offensive Sunday morning with a series of attacks on 47 cities and towns thruout South Viet Nam . The big air base at Tan SonNhut was hit with more than 115 of the powerful 122 mm. rockets Sunday and yesterday . One rocket landed in the airport 's civilian passenger terminal Fight Stubborn Force At Phan Theit , a provincial capital 100 miles northeast of Saigon , communist forces clung stubbornly to the girls ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and South Vietnamese forces fought thru yesterday in an effort to root the Communists out . At Hue , United States marines gained another block along the south wall of the Citadel and implanted a United States flag on one of the old fortress ' battlements . Desperate communist defenders fought the marines eacht step and appeared determined to fight to the last man . Reds Lose 36,339 The fighting in Saigon , Hue , and in Phan Theit was part of a wave of communist attacks that has cost them 36,339 lives in three weeks , government spokesmen said . Allied losses were put at 4,092 dead and 15,054 wounded . Scattered skirmishes broke out along the demilitarized zone where United States commanders have been expecting a major North Vietnamese invasion . United States warplane s bombed North Vietnamese air fields for the fourth consecutive day , hitting the Phuc Yen Mig base 18 miles northwest of Hanoi , the Yen Bai air field 78 miles northwest of the capital , and the Dong Hoi air base and storage area in the southern panhandle . Khe Sanh Mostly Quiet I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the demilitarized zone , remained mostly quiet , the United States command said . B-52 bombers made three runs against North Vietnamese troops , supply , and artillery concentrations ringing Khe Sanh . The heaviest fighting yesterday was outside Tan Son Nhut 's northern perimeter and on two sides of the base in the north-1 west suburbs of Saigon . Moving to prevent arrival of rocket replacements for the Viet Cong , United States army helicopter gunships and air force planes attacked a string of sampans in a canal 29 miles west of Saigon . Intelligence reports said there were 96 sampans loaded with 122 mm. rockets . The United States command claimed 20 sampans sunk and others damaged in six straight hours of attacks before dawn . Reds limn Vtee iiomes The South Vietnamese , many of whom billeted their families in Tan Thoi , said the guerrillas who seized the village had burned down 160 homes . The Viet Cong first blew up a key railroad bridge linking Tan Son Nhut and Bien Hoa , the big United States and South Vietnamese military air base a few miles away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two bases .                     