@@724316

txt Lenin . . . Stalin . . Khrushchev .. . Now the fourth era in Soviet history begins . Whose name will it bear ? It is almost certain that the man who will dominate it will not be one of those who now holds one of the two top posts . Nor can we have any idea how long the struggle for power will last , how it will be fought , with what weapons it will be won . Power struggle there surely will be . A A A In what directions will the faceless men who have brought Khrushchev down seek to alter Soviet policy ? Apparently they will first try to improve relations with Peking . They begin with the handicap of a kind of surrender . In destroying Khrushchev they yield to China . This is not " negotiating from strength " in a power struggle between such ruthless , cold-blooded adversaries as the two Communist giants . But relations can certainly be improved for a time . Before very long , the stark fact that there can not be two bosses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist state into the position of dominance , or leave the two locked in bitter rivalry , as before . Will the new regime be able to bring the satellite nations back on a shorter leash ? It may try . But again it is likely to fail . It is hard to retract privileges once granted . The leaders in Warsaw , East Germany , Budapest , and Communist Party leaders elsewhere are speaking up favorably of Khrushchev . To tighten the Cornmunist alliance Will not be easy unless there is external danger . Nor will it be easy to take back the privileges Russians have gained at home . A little more freedom to speak and write , a better standard of living , some relief from fear of arrest by night  --  these boons whet the appetite for more . Even a new dose of terror would not destroy the deep and natural yearning for them . Ultimately they will have their way . A It is hard for Westerners to understand why each new totalitarian regime must destroy and humiliate its predecessor . Can there be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so recently lavished praise on Khrushchev turn on him so savagely ? Had he , like Stalin , purged thousands of officials against the wall , we might better understand a fierce , punitive reaction . But Uncle Nikita was a genial boss . He served his country and his party . Was to destroy him the only way to get power ? And what has really happened to him , anyway ? A A A Evil systems , some of us believe , bear within themselves the seeds of destruction . Perhaps this latest episode , so far from finished , will carry the drama of Bolshevism in ancient Russia a step further toward inevitable denouement . A new generation approaches power . They are no longer the hoary old revolutionaries . They are technicians , theoreticians , bureaucrats . Behind them are able scientists , dedicated organizers , a whole new educated class . Many of them must be increasingly disillusioned : frank and critical , perhaps , toward the failings of the Khrushchev regime as it goes out ? and toward the managers of the palace revolution who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go deep . They have contributed much to the modern world . Freed from the increasingly murky iialectical materialism by which the Soviet state professes to live , they will again contribute . The period of power transfer in a police state is inevitably hazardous . The world is perhaps fortunate that the fall of Khrushchev was accomplished so neatly . But the end is not yet .                     