@@726093

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 27 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . Industrial Planning To the Editor : Prof. George J. Stigler has long been deeply concerned as to why some ideas in economics gain in acceptance and others do not . And the unique focus of his concern in recent years , amounting at times , I fear , to something approaching a mild neurosis , has been the seeming acceptability of some of mine as compared with his . His guest column on your editorial page of Jan. 28 on my Reith lectures , which because of absence I have only now seen , reflects this continuing distress . Professor Stigler 's problem , perhaps understandably , troubles me rather less than it does him . I would like for his sake , nonetheless , to offer a suggestion or two . Professor Stigler 's diagnosis of the problem has always turned on facility and persuasiveness of expression . In my view these have little to do with it . I believe that most people of discrimination would feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expresses . The much more important need , if one is to be persuasive , a need which , inexplicably , Professor Stigler has always overlooked , is to avoid nonsense . The column in question illustrates the point . Price Control in public housing and in leased facilities , homes that would care for from six to eight children each in a noninstitutional atmosphere . Permission to the city to develop long-term care facilities . More than 2,000 youngsters now await placement in foster homes or in voluntary institutions . The problem created by this tremendous pressure has been damaging to the children . The city has no long-term care institutions , At least 40 per cent of the children who are placed in institutions or in foster homes could be maintained in their own homes if a homemaker were sent there to help tide the family over emergency periods . Homemaker Services New York City has 380 fulltime homemakers . The city receives reimbursement of 87.5 per cent of the cost of these services from the state and Federal governments . However , when the city uses homemaker services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent from the state , with no Federal aid . The new legislation would increase the state subsidy to 80 per cent , thereby encouraging greater development of homemaker services by the voluntary groups to cope with the estimated 20,000 emergency situations in our city annually . Expansion of homemaker services would mean financial savings for public and private agencies . It now costs up to $32 per day to maintain a child in a public institution . The cost of temporary homemaker service is less . Most importantly , longterm placement can be avoided . Day-care centers are of immense value in ' providing guidance for children of working mothers . In New York City there are 88,000 working mothers with children under six years of age . In September 1965 there were only 6,141 children enrolled in ninety day-care centers . There were 5,000 children on waiting lists . We find that the shortage of day-care facilities is a major factor in delinquency and mental illness . He says I am wrong in believing that large firms control their prices , deeply influence their customers through their salesmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that our foreign policy ? the weapons competition , space race and development Of the competitive SST ? are uninfluenced by industrial interest . ( His disagreement extends here to Dwight D. Eisenhower . ) He implies that governments , including that of New York City , are more than adequately supplied with money , and decides the matter on the basis of simple per capita totals which include apparently those ' for defense . He chides me ( incorrectly I believe ) for going back to 1936 for my ideas on industrial planning although he himself has built a brilliant reputation on his insistence that nothing of importance has been added to social thought since the death of Jeremy Bentham a full 104 years earlier . The handicap that even a distinguished scholar like Professor Stigler staggers under in popularizing ideas of this sort will be evident . The remedy , it is also evident , is not to put such ideas more lucidly . On the contrary . The remedy , quite clearly , is for Professor Stigler to bring his distinguished scholarship to the side of common sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1967 ? Medical Personnel From Abroad To the Editor : In order to put this letter into proper perspective , it must be stated that I am a great admirer of Mayor Lindsay and appreciate his courage in attempting to right the city although hampered by a legacy of twenty or more years of " donothing " government . However , his announced plan for nurse recruitment is so characteristic of the manner in which medical people deal with shortages of personnel that I am sure this program was instituted at the urging of his medical advisers . Our hospitals are now heavily staffed with foreign doctors and technicians whose homelands are in desperate need of their services . To continue this practice of luring vital personnel with offers of high salaries must certainly be viewed as immoral . We must ask ourselves if we have the right to consider a life in New York to be above one in England , Puerto Rico , India or the Philippines . Thus I feel strongly that there must first be a candid recognition of the fact that the present shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Feb. 1 letter of landlord Leon Katz , who urges that rent control not be killed this year but gradually strangled to death in order that the " rich tenants " may be " evicted , " so that the landlords may obtain the " voluntary " 15 per cent increase , must be attacked by all tenants . It will be , of course , when they are made aware of the dangers all tenants face if the proposals of the landlord organizations are given any consideration by the City Council . There are 1,600,000 tenants presently under rent control . The landlords profess to be seriously concerned by the shortage of housing for those who need it most , and suggest that those needing decent housing could all be housed in those apartments in which the " rich " are living . What arrant nonsense . Those landlords who are weeping crocodile tears for the tenants who need housing are the landlords who were instrumental in misleading the voters into the defeat of the referenda in the last three elections which sought to make more low-rent public housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place to live . The rent-control law was designed to prevent landlords from exploiting the shortage of housing to their advantage . With urban renewal having torn down more rent-controlled housing than it has replaced , it is obvious that the rent-control law must not only be retained . It must be strengthened , and the loopholes removed , so that tenants may indeed secure the protection the law provides , with proper implementation . Westchester Experience A final point which is frequently overlooked . The danger to tenants in the proposal that there be vacancy decontrol can not be stressed too much . The experience of tenants in England , where vacancy decontrol was part of the " phasing out " of the wartime rent control , and the experience of tenants in Westchester County as well , must be noted . The harassment of tenants by landlords seeking to evict tenants so that they could decontrol the given apartment creates dreadful conditions under which tenants are forced to live . Some tenants who can not endure the treatment give up , but most of them are broken into , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exploit people needing shelter . ESTHER 7 . RAND Co-Chairman Rent Control Committee Metropolitan Council on Housing New York , Feb. 2 , 1967 ? Centers for Children of Working Mothers To the Editor : We emphatically agree with your editorial plea Jan , 10 for additional day-care centers . We find that many children are needlessly placed in institutions when a minimum of preventive care  --  such as day-care centers and homemaker services  --  could avert the tragedy of family disruption . Therefore we seek legislation to accomplish the following : Development of more extensive homemaker services through increased state aid , A minimum of 2,000 homemakers should be engaged to go into the home and provide emergency care for families on a 24-hour basis to keep the fainiltes intact . Major expansion of day-care centers , especially in underprivileged communities . Creation of 200 group homes THE RED ROSE The red rose , signifying love , with thorns about her tenderness , bows to my coming home and dreams her garden dreams that I express . Now , she is shaped by law and word , by sun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free from chance , reefing the hasty ropes of time ; and she it is whose beauty burns blazing with hope in winter days , whose welcome shows when every grief has faded and the snow pack dies . Then in the ambit of her grace she folds her petals round the heart , giving the hazard of our eyes the peace that follows every hurt . MICHAEL PARR services represents a national shame and disaster . Billions go into research in the " ivory towers " and there is no one to teach medical students , technicians , and nurses . Billions are squandered on almost meaningless " arbeits " and " pot boilers " and there is still no one to take care of the sick people . Some rays of light are on the horizon in our fair city . The City University is now timidly getting involved in the area of training hospital personnel ; and the proposed Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens has made known its intention to be strongly committed to the care of patients and the training of personnel . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be stealing trained personnel , but rather exporting them to the . deprived nations of the world . IRWIN A. AL1V1ENOFF , M.D. Director of Laboratories and School of Medical Technology St. Mary 's Hospital Brooklyn , Feb. 6 , 1967 ? Peace Aim Doubted To the Editor : In his testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations ' Committee , Ambassador Edwin Reischauer called the continued bombing of North Vietnam " a psychological blunder " because it makes settlement of the war more difficult . Mr. Reischauer seems to believe that peace in Vietnam is really the aim of the Johnson Administration . It seems increasingly evident to me , however , that the President wants not peace but rather an excuse for maintaining an American military presence in Southeast Asia . I can think of no other explanation for the obstacles he continues to place in the way of a peaceful settlement of the war . DANIEL M. BERMAN Professor of Government The American University Washington , Feb. 5 , 1967 STANLEY STEINGUT Assemblyman Eighteenth District Chairman , Joint Legislative Committee on Child Care Needs New York , Feb. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Judging from the election returns in Nicaragua the only group that supported Somoza for President was the people . This follows the pattern set in the Dominican election , where an equally large majority of the peasants and industrial workers repudiated the lawless electioneering of Communist - backed leftist candidates . Looks as if the downtrodden masses of Latin America are a lot smarter and more discriminating than United States liberals ( and The New York Times ) realize . Editorial Feb. 6 Ever since the Castro take-over in Cuba ? by bullets rather than ballots  --  the masses have shown they 'd rather have a conservative leader supported by the military than a leftist leader supported by the Communists . GERARD P. KIRK Bridgeport , Conn . Feb. 7 , 1967                     