@@723618

txt Chief of the Washington Bureau of The Christian Science Monitor Washington A tall restless Texan with a homespun accent and a driving energy has succeeded John Fitzgerald Kennedy as President of the United States . In his first hushed statement , before the microphones at Andrews Air Force Base , Lyndon Baines Johnson declared with complete simplicity : " I will do my best . That is all I can do . I ask for your help , and God 's . " President Johnson has come a long way , from his boyhood in Stonewall , Texas , to that solemn moment of swearing-in , in ' the forward suite of the presidential jetliner waiting to speed back to Washington . He has , through sorrowful circumstance , broken the ban which decreed that no Southerner had a chance to become President . Strong Rights ' Stand He will undoubtedly maintain unchanged the basic foreign policy of his predecessor , though his method of operation will differ from that of the late President Kennedy . He is likely to retain Secretary of State Dean Rusk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Cabinet members may be replaced by his own appointees . Having little over a year to go before he must stand for reelection , President Johnson probably will launch few new policies , domestic or foreign , but devote his energies to tidying up programs for presentation to the electorate in 1964 . Though a Southerner  --  or Southwesterner ? President Johnson has taken a civil-rights position about as strong as was Mr. Kennedy 's . He ' has worked long hours ? to carry out fair - employment practices through the presidential Fair-Employment Commission he has headed . Some Southerners call him a " renegade " for this , and for presiding as Senate majority leader over the passage , in 1957 , of the first civil-rights legislation since Reconstruction days . He does n't seem to mind ; his position has given him national stature . Busy Traveler As Senate majority leader he found a formula for enacting much " Eisenhower " legislation , by giving a Democratic twist to needed bills proposed by the Republican administration . Associates sometimes wondered whether this vibrant sixfoot-three individual would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of trips as presidential emissary ? to Southeast Asia , the Berlin wall , Scandinavia , and the NATO countries  --  Mr. Johnson managed to keep the vice-presidency alive . Most observers believe that , having been defeated by Mr. Kennedy in the 1960 presidential cOntest , he was looking ahead to 1968 for another try at the White House , when Mr. Kennedy would not have been eligible for a third term . Probably the biggest omission in the Johnson travel itinerary has been the Soviet Union . Now he must establish relations with the redoubtable Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev . Mr. Johnson inherits a foreign policy stance  --  bolstered by this acknowledged nuclear superiority of the United States and with a more acceptable regime consolidating power in South Vietnam . But he still will have the problems of negotiating on European unity with French President de Gaulle and a new government in West Germany . Career Began in ' 31 Mr. Johnson entered political life in December . 1931 , as secretary to Rep. Richard Kleberg of Texas . Six years later he was elected to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prot  --  g ? of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Sam Rayburn  --  Mr. Roosevelt personally encouraging him to run for the Senate when incumbent Morris Sheppard passed on in 1941 . He lost by a slim vote but in 1948 was elected , to the Senate by an 87-vote margin . Four years later the Senate Democrats chose him as their minority leader , the youngest in history . When the Senate political alignment changed , he became majority leader , and earned a strong reputation for skilled maneuver . Kept Informed When 1960 rolled around , Senator Johnson , aided by his friend , House Speaker Rayburn , sought to contest the presidential nomination with Senator Kennedy , but the Kennedy band wagon was too superbly organized . When the Massachusetts senator won the nomination he picked Mr. Johnson to be his running mate  --  and thereby held Texas and several other sorely needed Southern states in the Democratic column . Besides serving as the Fair-Employment Commission chairman and directing the administration 's space program , Mr. Johnson had been kept closely informed by the late President on all policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he must learn policies and programs afresh . Continuity has been good here . President Johnson is a compelling personality . Deeply concentrating on the business at hand , he usually accomplishes what he has set out to do . As President he is likely to demand untiring zeal and hearty loyalty from subordinates . He had a serious heart attack nearly a decade ago , but is reported to have completely recovered . President Johnson does not have the command of rhetoric that Mr. Kennedy had , but no one will have any trouble in understanding what President Johnson wants and intends ; he comes through loud and clear . ,                     