@@722329

txt PARIS , March ** most leadly terrorist attack launched in France since Algerian negotiations began killed three persons and injured forty-seven in suburban Issy les - Moulineaux today . A small delivery truck parked in a busy street blew up just after 8 A. M. , killing two policemen on duty near by and a civilian just about to enter a post office . The injured were almost all passers-by . Had the explosion occurred a little later , when delegates were to attend a Leftist conference near the site of the explosion , the street would have been thronged and the casualty toll would have been immeasurably higher . Denouncing the Rightist Secret Army Organization as the perpetrators of the attack , Roger Frey , Minister of the Interior , warned the public this evening to expect more trouble soon . The Secret Army Organization , led by Rightist former army officers and by civilians , has been using terror tactics in Algeria and France to block a peace settlement with the Al gerian rebel nationalists that would lead to an independent Algeria . The organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek to continue French ! control and would overthrow the regime to keep this control . French and rebel negotiators in Evian-les-Bains , on the French side of Lake Geneva , have been working since Wednesday to complete peace accords and may be able to announce within a week a ceasefire in the seven-year war . M. Frey warned in a statement on radio and television that " in the days to come everything will be attempted by the enemies of the Rept.blic to prevent peace , In their intellectual and moral poverty , isolated within the nation , they try to spread terror and to set Frenchmen against each other . " He was alluding to the possibility that the Rightists might try to start a civil war . Reinforcements Added Further reinforcements have been brought into the Paris area and key public buildings have been fortified to guard against ) the expected intensification cf the terror campaign . Anti-aircraft batteries have been set up on the grounds of the Elysee Palace , where President de Gaulle lives , and security around the Eiffel Tower , the main television and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road blocks and street patrols have been increased and thousands of cars and pedestrians are being checked night and day . Despite these precautions , the bloody incident indicated to an uneasy public that the security network was far from impregnable . The delivery truck had been stolen yesterday at Enghien , a northern suburb . It was driven into Issy-les-Moulineaux in the southwest and parked about 7:30 A. M. in front of a municipal assembly hall . Peace Was Parley Subject The annual congress of the French section of the Leftist World Peace Movement was to have opened in the hall a little later . The congress was to have discussed Algerian peace . The meeting was held later elsewhere in the town . The French Left , and notably the Communist party , has been one of the major targets of the secret organization . More than twenty of the blast victims were hospitalized in serious condition . The inside of the post office and the assembly hall were damaged , as were neighboring buildings . Few windows were left intact in the neighborhood . The explosion was heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely the activities of the Secret Army Organization had the impression that this was one of the few times in France , perhaps the first , when the group was out to kill . There have been six deaths , including those of three terrorists , and a large number of injuries in bomb attacks in France , but most of these casualties have seemed accidental . The vast majority of the attacks here have produced no casualties . In Algeria killings : have been a daily occurrence . The Socialist Mayor of Issyles - Moulineaux , Bonaventure Leca , and the municipal council called on the population to dem-. ostrate against the attack this afternoon . Several thou . sand people marched through the streets denouncing the " odious crime , " then observed a minute of silence at the site of the explosion . Despite a ban on demonstrations , the police made no attempt to interfere . Numerous statements from political parties and trade unions denounced the Secret Army Organization and warned of possible further bloodshed . One statement came from a police union . One police union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was revealed today , after he had protested against orders to the police to oppose an anti-Rightist street demonstration Dec. 19 . The action was taken by the Prefect of Police , Maurice Papon , who had at first suspended M. Roux pending an administrative inquiry .                     