@@728089

txt A Harvard University Overseers ' report , made public today , has found students and many professors unhappy over the quality of the university 's teaching and its relevance to the world outside . The university , meanwhile , announced that it was naming a 35-member committee to develop proposals for changing the structure of Harvard , a move recommended in the report . Members of the faculty , students and alumni as well as Overseers will serve on the panel in a linking with trustees that is unusual in the nation 's troubled institutions of higher learning . In Palo Alto , Calif. , Stanford University announced a revision of its governmental structure , including plans to name four young graduates as trustees . Page 28 . Harvard 's president , Nathan M. Pusey , named Dr. John Dunlop , professor of political economy , as chairman of the new group , the University-wide Committee on Governance . Harvard , whose 15,000 students return to classes Monday , underwent a violent clash when militants seized University Hall and the police evicted ' them last April . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 138 students and 14 teaching appointees . The 4,000-word interim reTort of a long-range study com'mi ttee of the Board of Overseers , recommending the restructuring effort , was approved in principle last Friday by the 30-member board . The Overseers and the Sevenmember Harvard Corporation are the university 's two governing boards . Each includes the president and treasurer . The Overseers ' committee , headed by Judge Henry J. Friendly , of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit , in New York , declared there was an urgent need " to re-establish the high sense of mutual trust and confidence that formerly prevailed at Harvard . " It called for " rededication of teachers to their primary task of learning " and recognition that " a difference of opinion may be honest and not mere hypocrisy . " Unrest Linked to War The report held that student unrest and violence across the nation stemmed most importantly from the Vietnam war and the military draft . " The majority of Harvard students believed ' the war to he unjustified and many considered it to be positively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over racial discrimination and social injustice . At Harvard , Judge Friendly 's committee declared , " the stu- , dents ' faith in the university as a teaching institution has been undermined by absences of senior professors , the impersonality of some of the instructional process , . and the narrow , abstract and technical mode in which the intellectual concerns of the faculty are sometimes expressed . " The students , it went on , complain that the instruction lacks " relevance " and doubt it will show how to stop " institutional racism , the Vietnam war or the arms race . " The students also , the report added , " feel a great pressure to do everything presently in their power to force reason and humanity on a world which they think in many ways to he inhumane and senseless , and they in turn as ' the university ' to do likewise . " " Many professors have voiced concern to us over what they consider a lessened sense of teaching responsibility by their colleagues , especially in relation to undergraduates , " the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work in the Faculty of Arts and sciences did give " intellectual and emotional satisfaction . " Problems Discerned Judge Friendly 's committee , set up last April 14 , said it had found a number of universitywide problems requiring solution . It cited standards for handling obstructive activities , the university 's responsibility to the wider society , planning for luniversity growth , admissions , investment and financial policies , joint school programs and outside activities of faculty members . It suggested that the new university-wide committee study ways to strengthen the central administration to provide the burdened president with officers able " to detect trouble areas . " Better communications among all groups were held to be " rather plainly needed . " " There is need also to reexamine the method of selection and tenure of the governing boards ; the nature and extent of their responsibilities ; and the relations between them , assuming that the his-toric bicameral structure is found to have continuing merit , " the report said . A university-wide senate would also be considered . The new committee is to include two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trustee of Radcliffe College and an alumni representative . Mr. Pusey , Harvard 's president , has asked deans of eight faculties to nominate two faculty members and one student each , while the dean of the major Faculty of Arts and Sciences was asked to name two faculty members and three students  --  one student each from Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges and one from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences . The members of Judge Friendly 's committee were Amory Houghton Jr. , former Ambassador to France ; Paul H. Nitze , former Deputy Secretary ' of Defense , Francis Keppel , former United States Commissioner of Education ; George Putnam , Boston financial executive , and Mrs. Carl J. Gilbert , chairman of the Radcliffe College board of trustees .                     