@@726916

txt The City Health CommissionIer arranged yesterday with drug companies to make enough typhoid vaccine available to protect every person in the city ) as uncollected garbage clogged more sewers . " If there was sewage in the streets , we 'd recommend the entire city to be immunized , " Dr. Edward O'Rourke , the Commissioner , said : He spent the ' day in his office as the Health ) IDepartment kept all bureaus open . The danger of sewers backing up into streets and basements , especially after a heavy snow or rainfall , will continue for a week after the sanitationmen return to work , Dr .. Arthur Bushel , first deputy health commissioner said last night . ' He said that it would take ' sanitationmen a week to collect the accumulated garbage , and that the danger of typhoid and other diseases would continue until this accumulation was removed . Dr. Vincent F. Guinee , director of the Health Department 's Bureau of Preventable Diseases , said in a memorandum to Dr. O'Rourke : " The most significant health hazard in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by garbage-clogged sewers . Direct contact with sewage or cross contamination of the city 's water supply with sewage would expose the city 's population to organisms which cause hepatitis. anabiasis , bacillary , dysentery and typhoid . " In addition to these diseases , the illness of acute sewage poisoning must also be considered . This appears as explosive outbreaks of clinically mild diarrhea . " Members of the Board of Health conferred by telephone last night to determine if the health hazards had reached a state of imminent peril . A declaration of imminent peril by the Board of Health gives the Health Commissioner sweeping powers to meet the health crisis , including the power to occupy such commercial buildings as hospitals . Last Thursday the Board of Health declared a health emergency . Arrangements Made Physicians and community groups have questioned the Health Department about the availability of the vaccine , Dr. O'Rourke said . " We 've arranged for all we 'll need , " he said . Immunization of the city would require 1,400 liters , Dr. O'Rourke said . A liter is equal to 1.057 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a booster shot two weeks later . Dr. O'Rourke said that some of the vaccine might have to be shipped into the city from New Jersey . The city , he explained , would immunize without charge , and also distribute the vaccine to private physicians , who would charge a fee . Dr. O'Rourke said that the cost of the vaccine had not been worked out . Dr. O'Rourke said enough vaccine was available for seven million of the eight million city residents . He said that it was not required for infants , persons recently discharged from the military service , or for those who have traveled abroad recently . The city has 156 registered typhoid carriers , Dr. O'Rourke said . Last year , the city had 21 cases of typhoid fever , 1,965 cases of hepatitis , 1,686 cases of amoebic dysentery and 730 cases of bacillary dysentery . Although rats have been reported rummaging in piles of uncollected garbage Dr. Guinee said in his report to Dr. O ' - Rourke : " The rat population in New York City has not been responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were no reported cases of leptospirosis , typhus fever , or rickettsialpox . Dr. O'Rourke said that the Health Department was watching for an increase in common diarrhea , which always precedes typhoid . No such increase has yet been reported . The United States Public Health Service has offered the city the services of its sanitarians , epidemiologists , and waste specialists . Dr. O'Rourke warned yesterday that a failure of private carters to collect garbage from stores and restaurants could create a great health hazard . He said this situation could be " more dangerous than it looks , " because the private cartmen " haul a far greater proportion of putrescent organic wastes  --  food garbage ? than the city trucks . " On Friday Teamster employes of the private garbage collectors who remove waste from hotels , restaurants and other businesses refused to drive their loaded trucks through the picket lines set up for the first time by striking city garbage men at city incinerators . The Teamsters , members of Local 813 , normally dump most of their refuse from the 100,000 businesses at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     