@@726170

txt SAIGON , March 5 Sunday - South Vietnamese rangers overran a Viet Cong camp in the Mekong delta and found the bodies of 11 Vietnamese civilians chained together by their ankles , their throats cut , government sources said today . An earlier announcement had given the number as 12 . A Vietnamese spokesman said an aged man also was found chained . He had been shot and was still alive . He was taken to a hospital at Can Tho . The Vietnamese source said the victims were found yesterday during a sweep of a delta area about 65 miles south of Saigon . He said the rangers killed 17 Viet Cong and captured three in ale sweep . B-52s Strike Troops B-52 bombers struck before dawn today at a suspected enemy troop concentration 23 miles northeast of Tay Ninh in war zone C , where 45,000 United States troops are engaged in Operation Junction City , biggest drive of the war . B-52s had hammered a communist base camp and a supply area in northern South Viet Nam yesterday , striking 7 miles southwest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demilitarized zone , United States headquarters said . After Friday 's sharp fights near the demilitarized zone , in which United States marines , war planes and artillery accounted for 271 enemy dead , headquarters reported no significant ground action in South Viet Nam . Three Divisions Massed But intelligence sources say three communist divisions  --  about 35,000 men  --  have been massed north of the border as a possible invasion force . American spokesmen said air force and navy planes conducted limited raids over southern North ' Viet Nam yesterday . Air force fighter-bombers pounded a storage area , where pilots reported touching off a large oil fire and damaging five barges . Flyers from the aircraft carriers Ticonderoga and Kitty Hawk attacked two storage areas 27 miles south of Dong Hoi . Pilots reported four explosions in one area and said they destroyed a bunker and started fires in the other . Other planes from the Kitty Hawk claimed they destroyed 50 per cent of the supplies in a third storage area , 37 miles southeast of Dong Hoi . Korean military headquarters announced today the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was operation Meng Ho Fierce Tiger 8 , conducted for 60 days along South Viet Nam's'central coast around Qui Nhon by elements of the Korean Tiger division . Korean forces reported killing 211 enemy soldiers and capturing 403 , a spokesman said . He said Korean casualties were " extremely light . " Hit by Artillery In Saigon , the United States command announced that American artillerymen h a d fired on two civilian targets this week , killing six friendly Vietnamese and wounding 26 . This announcement came while the identity of two jct planes that bombed and strafed the refugee-packed , pro-government village of Lang Val Thursday night officially remained a mystery . Unofficial sources expressed belief United States jets were responsible . Differendes persisted on the number of casualties . A reporter on the scene in Lang Vei , a mile from the Laotian border and 15 miles south of the zone , said villagers reported at least 100 persons were killed and 175 injured . Other Reports Vary The United States command in Saigon listed 83 dead and 175 wounded . A South Vietnamese spokesman said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ howitzer shells ripped Wednesday into Trung Luong village , 30 miles southwest of Saigon , killing five civilians , wounding 24 and destroying 24 houses . No explanation was given for the delay in the report . Five sampans were spotted by an American aerial observer on a stream 75 miles II , rtheast of Saigon yesterday and , after asking and receiving clearance from the South Viet Nam army , he called in artillery fire . One sampan of the flotilla was destroyed , one person was killed , and two were wounded . The persons were later found to have been friendly . There was an artillery accident yesterday in the central highlands that injured eight Americans .                     