@@726854

txt President Johnson is now in , his third week at his ranch and , besides getting a lot of work done on his new year 's legislative and budget proposals , he has been screened off by the Texas hills from the agitation in Washington about the value of another gesture for peace in Vietnam . The indications now are that he will head back to the capital this weekend determined to resist the pressure for a pause in the bombing of North Vietnam if , as most Administration officials believe , Hanoi has nothing else to offer in return . Behind this resolve there is a realization that North Vietnam may well score some propaganda points around the world with its offer to talk if ' the bombing of its territory stops . Worse Damage Seen But the Administration calculates that a long bombing pause while the war in the South dragged on would hurt it even more among most Americans , and that a resumption of bombing while the talks dragged on would lead to an even worse propaganda setback around the world . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is I offering would not quickly yield a satisfactory settlement . So Ifar , that is the private estimate of the President and all of his top advisers , though they are , as they have said in public , asking Hanoi for evidence that their suspicion is wrong . The President has made only one allusion to the North Vietnamese offer , but in the context of his known views it fully revealed his intent . In toasting Premier Levi Eshkol of Israel at the LBJ Ranch Sunday , Mr. Johnson likened American refusal to budge on the bombing and the Israelis ' refusal to budge from conquered Arab territories until a satisfactory peace was in view . " Making peace is punishing work , " he said . " It demands enormous courage , flexibility and imagination . It is ill-served by hasty slogans or half-solutions . I know you understand this , sir , better than most men . " The reference to " hasty slogans or half-solutions " was al variation of Secretary of State ; Dean Rusk 's statement that it i would be folly to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the other side goes right on , doing what it 's doing . " Since the start . of the bomb-j ! ing of the north three years ! ; ago , the Johnson Administrad ition has insisted that the raids ) ! were retaliation for North Viet- ! ! nam 's " aggression " against ! ; South Vietnam . Diplomatically , 1 therefore , the Administration ! has offered to end the bombing ! only if that " aggression " were ! also ended or at least signifi- ; cantly reduced . Bombing Halted 37 Days ! Two years ago , those terms ! ; were temporarily eased . In re-I sponse to worldwide pressure to build upon the customary ! Christmas and New Year 's truces in Vietnam , the President halted the bombing for 37 days land in effect offered to pause I , even longer if Hanoi agreed to come to the conference table . Hanoi refused , though many American officials could not understand why it would not trade even protracted and ' meaningless talks for a pro ! longed respite from bombard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tet lunar New Year 's ' truce , the tables were turned . North Vietnam , through the Russians , said that it might talk if the bombing stopped . The Administration concluded that the talks would lead nowhere and would be used primarily to gain a military advantage while the bombers remained grounded . Terms Restated Thus Mr. Johnson stated his original terms in a new way : There would be no halt in the bombing without some reciprocal but militarily meaningful halt by North Vietnam . " Heading into this year 's holiday period , the pressure on ' the President built up again . He deflected it in two ways . On the propaganda level , - he kept offering to meet the North Vietnamese anywhere , at any time , leaving the impression that they had only to give the word . On the policy level , however , he made it abundantly clear that , if the bombing was an obstacle to talks , it would stop only if he had assurances of prompt and productive talks and reason to assume that while the talks continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grAad . The President held firmly to that formula against the preChristmas counsel for another pause and he is holding to it now in the days leading up to Tet , which begins Jan. 27 . Difficult to Resume His closest advisers reason that if he stops bombing without such assurances he will find it virtually impossible to resume . Mediators and peace emissaries will be traveling all through the North Vietnam target areas , they think , and promising but unproductive speeches will be made at a peace conference while the war in South Vietnam continues , perhaps at an accelerated pace . To endanger those envoys by bombing or to sabotage those ' talks would result in a much ' greater propaganda defeat than , polite but firm insistence on , ' reciprocity before the pause , ' the President has been told , ' and he appears to agree . And to stop bombing for al long period in this election ' year , he has been told , would lead to political charges that the troops were being forced , Ito fight with their hands tiedj ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefs wouldI ' agree . and so would he . How can he be sure the ; talks would be unproductive ? ! ; The Administration 's estimate , I is that , if Hanoi wished to halt ; the effort to help seize South ! ' Vietnam by force , it would : have no reason not to scale ! down its military effort in ex ! change for a bombing pause . But it , as Secretary Rusk intimated at his news conference , last week , it wishes merely ; Ito discuss peace for North ! ; Vietnam without a settlement , lin the South , there is , in the ; American view , very little to ! talk about . I It is this formula that has provoked the charges that Mr. Johnson prefers a military to a political solution . But there is no sign anywhere around . the White House that he will alter the formula on that account .                     