@@726379

txt Gamal Abdel Nasser , once fiery speaker , daring and successful gambler at the level of international affairs , unchallenged dictator in Egypt and a self-styled chieftain of pan-Arab nationalism , leaves one indelible mark at this critical point in his career : He opened the Arab world , North Africa and the oil-rich principalities aE the middle east to communist influence . His land program  --  he distributed 261,000 acres of land to peasants and passed laws that ownership of land was limited to 300 acre tracts  --  is in chaos . Only a steady inflow of foreign foodstuffs keeps Egypt from famine . Wo n't Be Remembered His construction of the Aswan high dam , begun in May , 1964 , is not to be finished before 1969 , and it is unlikely , on the basis of events of this day , that Nasser 's name or efforts will be remembered when it is completed . His creation of a viable Egyptian army with jets , tanks , mobility , and high morale has suffered an irreparable blow in the fighting with the Israeli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came with the nationalization of the Suez canal in 1956 . The action was sweeping , Nasser insisting that Egyptians , who never had been given pasts of importance in the predominantly French Suez canal company , take over every phase of its operation . This move brought the counter-action by combined British . French and Israeli forces in the abortive attacks on Egypt and the , canal area . After a few days the attack was halted due to American , Russian , and United Nations pressure on the two European powers . Altho Nasser had been militarily defeated by the English and French , and roundly trounced by Israeli forces which poured across the desert toward the canal , rolling up Egyptian levies as they came , the affair turned into a political victory . All the lost territory was returned to Nasser , reparations were paid , the Israelis moved back , behind their original boundaries . Outlawed Red Party This shift in affairs gave Nas- ? ser the ' personal stature to rally all Arab , nationalists . Almost immediately he turned to the Soviet Union for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So were communist agitators in Egypt . Nasser , already feeling his domestic strength , rooted them out , imprisoned thousands , and outlawed the party as a political instrument . Indeed , before long Nasser had outlawed all parties except his own , the Arab Socialist union . Briefly he tried to link Syria with Egypt in the United Arab Republic , but the union broke up in 1961 . He was , of course , president for the three years of its existence . In , retrospect , Nasser unquestionably qualifies as a despot . Not an educated man , he reacted viorently , flamboyantly , and often quite illegally by most western standards in upsetting ancient practices , standards , and cultures . Loved by Peasants Yet he appeared to be loved by the peasantry . He constantly told them he was concerned for their welfare . Nasser reportedly holds himself to a moderate and reasonable ascetic life . Entitled under his Moslem religion to have four wives , he had only one , who bore three girls and two boys . Never Iligher than Colonel When he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never got around to promoting himself higher than lieutenant colonel . Nasser is the son of a postal worker and was born in Alexandria . As a boy he spent most of his early years at Beni Mer , a village in upper Egypt where he saw the struggles for food by poor farmers and workers . When he was 17 he was involved in subversive activities and arrested as a rioter and plotter . A little later he was smashed on the head by a rifle butt in the hands of an Egyptian policeman supporting British authorities in a street melee . This did not , however , prevent him from gaining an appointment to military school in 1936 , and he emerged in 1940 as a second lieutenant . He came out of the Palestine war of 1948 a confirmed plotter against Egypt 's royal regime , shot with corruption and immorality . He developed the free officers committee which in July , 1952 , succeeded in overthrowing the porcine King Farouk . At the time lie remained in the background and , Gen. Mohammed Naguib , popular military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later Nasser put Naguib aside but had to " reinstate the general because of. : public reaction and resentment : This did not last long , however , and before the end of 1654,2 , Nasser was once more the de facto chief of state altho his titles were premier and military governor of Cairo . This , was corrected in a June , 1964 , . ' election when he became president without an opposition can : ' dictate .                     