@@727533

txt Washington , Dec. 19 ? Government sources indicated today that the United States and North Korea are near agreement on the release of the 82 surviving crew members of the captured American intelligence ship Pueblo . Government sources for the first time said there is " lots of optimism " that the crew will be released soon ; possibly before Christmas . American officials made clear that the two countries are closer than they have ever been before in the long negotiations over release of the crew . U. S. May Apologize One government source indicated that the United States might be willing to eat some crow in the form of an apology to get the crew back in the waning days of the Johnson administration . ( In Seoul , South Korea , the newspaper Kyunghyang Shinmum said clothes and ambulances had been brought to the truce village of Panmunjom to prepare for the return of the American sailors . " This further strengthens the possibility that the Pueblo crew may be returned around Christmas , " the South Korean newspaper said . ) This official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " any reasonable lengths " to get the men back . He said the United States was more interested in the safety of the men than in saving face . No Official Comment The negotiations are in a delicate stage , American officials said . Publicly , the White House and the state department would not comment on developments . This was a switch from the past when the administration quickly and publicly denied rumors and reports that release of the crew was imminent . When Robert J. McCloskey , state department press officer , was asked at a press conference whether there was now some hope that the crew would be released , instead of denying the possibility as previously , he replied that he would not want to express an opinion " one way or the other " and added , " I hope you will bear with us . " Hint Work on Wording The greatest fear of AmeriI can officials now appears to be that'some last minute hitch will rock the boat . McCloskey said that another meeting was expected to be held in Panmunjom soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said the 4 bout 50 minute meeting held yesterday by the negotiators was the longest yet . It followed on the heels of a 2 hour 40 minute meeting the day before . The length of the meetings , after 11 months of short sessions , was explained here as possibly meaning work on wording of an agreement . The 32 days left to President Johnson in office and the start of President-elect Nixon 's administration could be an ideal time for the United States to give in on its previous stand of not offering an apology for possible violation of North Korean territorial waters . When the Pueblo was seized Jan. 23 , the United States said it would not apologize for entering North Korean waters , as demanded by the North Korean government , unless an impartial investigation by third parties after the release of the crew , proved territorial violation . Last September there were reports that the United States had changed its stand and informed North Koren that it would be willing to sign a document of apology in return for the crewmen . Would n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the responsibility for the apology without jeopardizing Nixon 's flexibility and policy in foreign affairs . An apology by the Johnson administration would in no way be an embarrassment to an incoming Nixon administration that took no part in the proceedings . American sources indicated that the release Of the ship itself did not seem likely . The United States has Maintained that the Pueblo was in international waters when seized . Kill 10 More N. Koreans SEOUL , Korea , Dec. 20 Friday ( IND  --  South Korean troops killed 10 more North Korean commandos who landed on South Korea 's east coast Oct. 30 , military spokesmen said today . The announcement said the latest were killed yesterday and brought to 89 the number slain .                     