@@726448

txt A conference of leaders . of Arab nations got under way here today after King ? Hussein of Jordan arrived from Amman to join President Gamal Abdel Nasser and President Houari Boumediene of Algeria . Informants had considered it likely that President Abdel Rahman Arif of Iraq and President Nureddin el-Attassi of Syria would also arrive shortly for participation in the top-level talks . However , a few hours later the authoritative Cairo newspaper Al Ahram lessened chances for such a gathering with a report saying that Mr. Boumediene , after a telephone conversation with Mr. el-Attassi , had decided to fly to Damascus " within a few hours " for talks with the Syrian leader . The paper did not say whether Mr. Boumediene would return to Cairo for continuation of the conference with Mr. Nasser and Khig Hussein . A few hours before President Nasser met King Hussein at the Cairo airport , 12 Soviet naval vessels , including three guidedmissile carriers , dropped anchor at Alexandria and Port Said for a one-week " friendship " visit , , Port Said , on the northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Israeli air raid last Saturday . Thousands of people waving Jordanian and Egyptian flags lined Cairo International Airport as King Hussein emerged from the royal plane . President Nasser led the Egyptian welcoming party but President Boumediene was absent . Motorcade Draws Cheers After a brief welcoming ceremony the two heads of state drove in an open car to the Tahera guest house in the suburb of Heliopolis , where Hussein will stay during his visit . As the motorcade drove off , the crowds shouted " Long live Arab unity ! " and " All behind you , Gamal ! " With the three Arab leaders already in Cairo , diplomatic observers seemed to agree that the chances had become slim that the scheduled meeting of all Arab leaders would take place in Khartoum next Saturday as planned . The interpretation here is that President Nasser proposed the Cairo meeting in order to display as much Arab unity as he thinks he can at this point . King Hussein 's presence here is viewed as proof of his determination to do what he can to avoid having to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the war with the Arabs . Only yesterday the King said in Amman that he would seek no peace settlement alone " as long as there 's a ray of hope for a summit conference . " King Hussein 's appearance here pointed up his increasing popularity with the Egyptians because of his performance before , during and after the Arab- Israeli war . On May 30 , shortly before the war , he signed a mutual defense pact with President Nasser in Cairo , and after the war he reaped praise for his stanch appearance in Washington and at the United Nations and for his subsequent tour of European capitals . However , despite these good marks , the Egyptians have not yet forgotten what they consider the King 's " wavering " , attitude toward Israel before signing the pact with Mr. Nasser . Mr. Nasser , Colonel Boumediene and King Hussein met at Kubbeh Palace at 7:30 P.M. and conferred until 10:30 P.M. Before the meeting President Nasser called on the King at the latter 's residence in Heliopolis . The Arab leaders are expected to discuss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the cease-fire line between the United Arab Republic and Israel . Regarding the arrival of the Soviet warships , it is felt here that the presence of the vessels will serve as a temporary guarantee against new flare-ups along the Suez Canal , thus enabling Arab leaders to discuss in tranquility ways to dislodge Israeli forces from occupied parts of the United Arab Republic , Jordan and Syria . Boumediene Presses Policy Special to The New York Times ALGIERS , July 10 ? Informed sources said today that President Boumediene had gone to Cairo to reaffirm Algeria 's policy of waging a relentless campaign against imperialism and Zionism . The sources said the President wanted to coordinate plans for the execution of this policy with other Arab countries .                     