@@723561

txt Letters to The Times FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT Jr . Washington , Nov. 6 , 1963 . JACK J. BAME , Assistant Pr ... pg . 30 Letters to The Times Aid for Appalachian Area F. D. R. Jr . Says Commission Will Recommend Development Program To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Nov. 4 " Mountains of Misery " seemed to contain three viewpoints . First , that the Appalachian region needed a massive development effort . if it were to participate in the nation 's expanding economy . Second , the tentative and suggested plan of the President 's Appalachian Regional Commission , of which I am chairman , to establish a development corporation for the region was highly inadequate as a solution for the area 's problem . And third , the President had not demonstrated sufficient interest in the problems and the misery they created . No one familiar with the poverty of the region can disagree with your first point  --  or with your suggestion that the solution will require an effort comparable in scope and imagination to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own paper 's news report of my testimony before the Senate subcommittee on manpower , and not from my testimony itself . My statement to the subcommittee clearly demonstrated that the commission will recommend an action program to meet the priority needs of Appalachia . Federal-State Effort In response to a question from the chairman of the subcommittee , Senator Joseph S. Clark , I pointed out that one of the possible institutions which might be established to best guide such an action program would be a joint Federal-state development corporation . It was that response that your reporters chose to feature in their story . I must emphasize that the Appalachian development corporation is not a program , but is only the mechanical means through which the program will be translated into action . The great advantage of such a corporation is that it would be the coordinating agent of all present and future programs undertaken by the various Federal agencies , as well as all present and future programs undertaken by the states and their respective agencies . Therefore I must regret that your editorial confused a mechanical device @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my testimony , but which will be presented to the President about Feb. 15 . In this connection I would also like to point out that I am chairman of a commission consisting of the Governors of nine states , the Secretaries of , those Federal departments who have , present programs going in Appalachia , the Director of the Budget and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers . Therefore , although I am only the Under Secretary of Commerce , I do n't think it is appropriate for you , by implication , to downgrade the stature of the President 's commission by the mere fact that I am a sub-Cabinet official . President 's Concern I find your third point about lack of Presidential concern for Appalachia and unemployment In general the most difficult to understand . No area of the nation has received greater attention from the President than Appalachia . With those actions available to him , he has exercised his authority to the maximum extent in an effort to alleviate the poverty which permeates the mountain areas between Pennsylvania and Alabama . His proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stamp plan , Federal aid to education , a domestic peace corps , the Youth Opportunities bill , and other domestic programs have all been aimed at Appalachia as well as other poverty-ridden sections of the nation . I still believe that once the Congressional preoccupation with civil rights and tax reduction is ended many of his recommendations will be enacted . Finally , his appointment of the President 's Appalachian Regional Commission is conclusive evidence of his determination to provide Federal assistance to the people of the region in their efforts to restore a decent measure of prosperity to the area in cooperation with the states . I will close by citing a portion of his statement of April 9 when he established the Appalachian commission : " As its first job , I would expect this committee the President 's Appalachian Regional Commission to prepare for this year a comprehensive program for the economic development of the Appalachian Region . " I expect that program to consist of plans for improving facilities for all forms of passenger and freight transportation in the region , expansion of facilities for education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forest resources , and establishing expanded opportunities for the attraction of tourists and other visitors to the region . " FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT Jr . Washington , Nov. 6 , 1963 . Inflation Blamed in Brazil If Financial Policies Continue , Prospects Are Believed Poor Earl Warren One of Nine To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The " Impeach Earl Warren " agitation is an insult to the nation 's highest court . In view of the importance of its decisions , the United States Supreme Court may well be called the highest court in the Western world . The decision which provoked the agitation was unanimous , so why pick on the Chief Justice ? He has but one vote . How about the other eight justices ? HENRY WALDMAN . New York , Nov. 4 , 1963 , Farewell to Penn Station ' To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; Your editorial of Oct. 30 concerning the destruction of Penn Station was certainly among the great and thoughtful editorial statements of all time . WILLIAM HULL . Assistant Director , New York State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1963 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Although I 'm sure that M. J. Rossant 's facts speak for themselves , and very concise and clear-cut they are , I would like strongly to support his analysis of the Brazilian economic situation . In view of professorial letters criticizing Mr. Rossant , this one should at least demonstrate that the academic community  --  like the Federal Reserve Board ? is not a monolithic structure . Brazil 's economic prospects need not be dismal at all , with her richness of natural resources . But if present financial policies are continued , the outlook is rather sad . Restrictive actions on profit remittances of foreign companies , continued stretch-outs of external debt payments  --  including heavy commercial payment arrears  --  devaluation on top of devaluation , rises in banknote circulation far out of proportion to the production of goods and services and any legitimate needs , a cost of living rise estimated at at least 70 per cent for 1963 , and growing budgetary deficits used to pay for projects not exactly designed to better the lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic development . Practices Questioned Inefficient and often corrupt practices of many Government agencies , including the oil monopoly , have not helped either . Under-invojping by exporters , as well as over-invoicing by importers , have not been subject to very strict official controls , to put it politely . An unofficial exchange rate of 375 cruzeiros for a dollar at the beginning of 1962 , compared with nearly 1,100 today , is not a testimony to intelligent policy . While there are legitimate differences of opinion as to the desirability of " orthodox anti-inflationary prescriptions " ( I would certainly question the value of " absolute price-stability-over-all , " especially in a country in Brazil 's position ) , I think Mr. Rossant 's views on the adverse effects of inflation on Brazilian economic development are very much in line with the facts . JACK J. BAME , Assistant Professor of Economics and Finance , Rutgers , the State University . Newark , Nev. 6 , 1963 . No Multiple Use of Cascades To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Thins Reference is made to William Hulse Smith 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " multiple-use " concept in the Cascades . As a long-term resident of the Cascade region of Oregon I would like to point out that this terrain is not amenable to his suggestion for two reasons . Selective logging is impossible because of the inaccessibility of the mountains for the necessary equipment . Reforestation is severely hindered by the extraordinary erosion of the mountainsides , which can be ascended only with the greatest effort , Furthermore , I am unacquainted with any successful reforestation projects in mountainous regions of the Cascade type . In short , " multiple-use " areas could not be kept scenic , and therefore such areas should not be allowed to develop . GREGORY JOSEPH HOWE , New Haven , Oct. 22 , 1963.                     