@@723578

txt YOKOHAMA , Japan Nov. 10 Sunday U-Three trains , two of them jammed with week-end commuters , crashed in a tower of smoke and flame last night . Steel and human bodies were shredded . Police said the death toll Sunday morning stood at 155 , including one American . More than 60 persons were injured , many seriously , and officials feared the death toll would climb . Thru Rainy Night One passenger train speeding north thru the rainy night from Yokohama to Tokyo crashed into a derailed freight train . The passenger train then swerved across the tracks and knifed into another commuter train speeding south . Steel sliced thru steel , telescoping cars and mangling passengers in their seats . Power lines along the tracks tumbled in a flash of light and then darkness fell as screaming survivors tumbled out of the trains . Many victims were trapped in the twisted wreckage and . rescuers had to cut their way in with torches . Emergency searchlights cast an unearthly glow . Yank from Colorado The only known American victim was William Scott , 28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colorado Springs , Col. The younger Scott was a student of Japanese language and history at Tokyo International Christian university . United States navy medical corpsmen from the American base at nearby Yokosuka worked side by side with Japanese police , firemen , and soldiers in rescue operations . It appeared that another foreigner , probably an American , may have been injured . A Japanese brought to the hospital at about the same time said he believed another foreigner had been rescued from the wrecked train coaches at about the same time as Scott but . had been taken elsewhere . 100 to Hospitals About 100 injured persons were taken to 13 hospitals : One of the trains was headed for Yokosuka , site of the United States navy 's biggest base in the far east and the major base for the United States 7th fleet . Firemen cut into the telescoped cars with torches to remove the dead and injured . Screams of the injured rent the rain-soaked night as search lights were rolled in to aid the workers . Power lines tumbled onto the tracks when the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across the three tracks . The searchlights caught grotesque glimpses of bodies in the debris . The impact " shook like an earthquake , " said Nobuko Saijo , an office girl riding in the third coach of one of the trains . " I got out of the train and walked around amid arms and legs . " Happens at 9:40 p. m . Shoes , clothing , and scuffed brief cases littered the tracks at the Tsurumi crossing between Tokyo and Yokohama . The accident happened at 9:40 p. m . Masami Sugimoto , 46 , conductor of the freight train , said he was knocked to the floor when the cars jumped the track . " I ran along the Yokosuka line toward Tokyo , about 50 yards , and lit a smoke candle hoping to prevent the commuter train from crashing into the derailed train , " the conductor said . Collapse , Then Fire " It was all in vain . The commuter crashed into the freight . I could not see anything because of the mushrooming dust . " Kenzo Otani , whose house overlooks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit the derailed freight . " Then , immediately , t h e train from Yokosuka rammed into the derailed train and I watched telephone poles collapse in a big column of fire . " Shinji Wakabayashi , 37 , who was at the controls of the electric - powered commuter train racing south from Tokyo to Yokohama and bound for Yokosuka , said he did not see the smoke from the candle . " The moment we began to pass by the incoming train , there was a tremendous shock . I grabbed the emergency brake . " The moment my train stopped , I jumped down and found the fourth and fifth coach of my train had been smashed by the first powered coach on the incoming train . "                     