@@724617

txt What 's ahead ... President Johnson will shortly decide where ? or whether ? to deny federal aid when segregation persists . The 1964 Civil Rights Law requires that federally aided local programs and institutions desegregate or lose their aid . Questionnaires went out to determine the rapidity and degree of compliance . They now are pouring back in . The President has bent backward to produce voluntary compliance . He hopes to avoid penalizing other than flagrant , willful violators . Yet the pressure for strict enforcement is intensifying . Where President Johnson wo n't travel poses just as delicate a choice as where he will . He intends to go abroad this year . But exactly where is still secret and so is when . White House sources predict he will visit Latin America , probably first and possibly this spring . Brazil seems likely , plus Mexico and one other country . He may also visit Europe . If so , diplomacy dictates at least three days with President de Gaulle in Paris . Protocol calls for stops in London and Bonn . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go  --  at least not soon  --  to Africa . The problem there is what country to visit first without offending all the others . He wo n't go soon to Japan either . It 's too close to Vietnam . Pakistani President Ayub will lead the springtime chief-of-state traffic into Washington . He is coming April 26 for two days . Pakistan is showing favor to Peking . Even now President Ayub is visiting China . The United States has depended on Pakistan to be a sturdy cog in the anti-Communist machinery of Asia . But Pakistan began leaning toward Peking in 1962 . That year Communist China invaded India . The United States rushed military aid . Pakistan bitterly protested , fearing the arms would be used eventually against Pakistan . Then it veered left . Washington remembers President Ayub as a hard bargainer . It is wary of the outcome of his Washington visit . Trends .... The United States has indirectly but plainly warned Communist China that it is in Asia to stay  --  until the problem of aggression is resolved . ? The American message took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inform Hanoi of the determination of the United States in this respect . But the message for transmission to Hanoi also served to warn Peking itself . It was given to the Chinese Communist Government by United States Ambassador John Moors Cabot in Warsaw on Feb. 24 . Ambassador Cabot has the only direct American line to the Peking regime through periodic meetings with the Chinese . Communist Ambassador in Warsaw . ' The Cabot warning also foreshadowed the more intense United States air raids on North Vietnam that started this week . For Mr. Cabot also asked that Hanoi be told the United States would strike any further military build-up looking toward a larger invasion of South Vietnam . How and why ... Many university educators like President Johnson 's aid-to-education bill . But a lot of them like his natural-beauty program better . There 's something in it they have wanted for years  --  an extension program for cities . Fifty years ago , the federal government put up money to start an agrieltural extension , Intensive land-grant university research was unleashed on the nation 's rural problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation 's urgent urban problems ? smog , traffic snarls , racial strife , or poor housing . Out of such a focus the big cities may find a new way to help themselves . Criticism of President Johnson 's continued indirect control  --  through a trustee who is a close friend  --  of Texas TV and radio stations is again mounting . Mr. Johnson appoints members of the Federal Communications Commission . And the FCC makes decisions which affect the profits of the television industry . Two actions could cut the current criticism short . The President could place his assets in the hands of a trustee over whose actions he would have no control . ( Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey has lust done this with his relatively small holdings of stocks and bonds ) . Or Mr. Johnson could sell his television interests . But Mr. Johnson is unlikely to do either . : le believes in polls  --  and the polls show no significant public concern over his TV arrangement . Also , a new television station recently was licensed in Austin , thus breaking the Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignore the latest criticism .                     