@@725015

txt BY JAMES YIJENGER Frank Whiston , president of the board of education . said yesterday t h e school administration will prove tomorrow that there is no more money available for teacher pay raises . The 13.000-member Chicago Teachers union has voted to strike unless the board , at a special meeting tomorrow , adds 1.6 million doh- ; lars to the 3.6 million in raises it has approved for the rest ofj the year . The union has scheduled a vote Friday to set the strike date . " I would hope reasonable people would understand the problem and see that the board has done everything it can , " Whiston said . Records Are Open " Our records are open to scrutiny . We 're still trying to find additional money and we have n't found another cent . " John Fewkes , president of the CTU. contends that 5.2 million dollars is available for raises thru the rest of 1965 . He based this figure on a letter in April from Ray Page , state superintendent of public instruction , saying the money was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiency appropriations . The raises were part of a 17 - million - dollar annual wage package which Supt. Benjamin C. Willis proposed last month ' and the board approved in prin- I ciple . Willis has asserted that some of the 5.2 million dollars in new state money had been budgeted in January and has been spent or earmarked for other purposes . " He never showed this to us in dollars and cents to our sat- ' isfaction , " Fewkes said . Fewkes added that if Willis and his fiscal staff can prove that the extra money is not available , " we would " take the information back to our house of representatives on Friday and let them evaluate it and take appropriate action . " Ca n't Meet Demand School board members were generally hopeful that a strike could be averted . But they said it would be impossible for them to meet another union demand  --  a guarantee that Willis ' full package of raises will be established as of Jan. 1 . . Directors of a second teacher I organization , the Chicago Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call a special meeting of its 900 school representatives Friday to consider several plans , including a request for sane- I tions against Chicago from the National Education association , its parent group , and the Illinois Education association , its state organization , unless the school board agrees before January to grant Willis ' entire annual wage package retroactive to September . Meanwhile , James Coffey , board attorney , said a strike ' would be illegal because of an Illinois Supreme court ruling last May on a school janitors ' strike in Greenville , Bond county . The high court ordered the Bond county Circuit court to grant the Greenville school board an injunction against the strike . " If the Supreme court felt that a strike even by janitors interfered illegally with the process of education , " Coffey said , " the ruling would certainly apply to teachers . "                     