@@724840

txt Policemen arrested 472 Negro and white civil rights workers ' , this afternoon as they walked ' through the city to picket a special session of the State Leg-1 islature . Although no one appeared to have been injured during the arrests , hours later , three white , and two Negro demonstrators were taken from a stockade to a medical center for treatment of head and body injuries . They said they had been beaten by the police . A city police spokesman said the cause of the injuries to the three whites could not be determined . He speculated that they might have hit their heads on the top of one of the trashremoval trucks used to haul them to the chicken-wire stockade . The police refused to comment on the Negroes ' injuries . Voting Laws Pondered Today 's demonstration , organized by the Freedom Democratic party , was to protest the alleged illegality of the legisative session . It convened today to consider liberalization of the state 's voting and registration laws . The party takes the position that all officials and bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in office . Civil rights lawyers said that 14 of the party 's leaders had been separated in the stockade from the other prisoners and that a number of the leaders had suffered head wounds . According to one lawyer , officers of the State Highway Patrol , who are guarding the stockade , had covered the numbers of their badges with adhesive tape . Injured Identified Those treated at the University of Mississippi Medical Center were Emily Gordon of New York , Ronald Weiss of 624 Clinton Street , Brooklyn , and William Light of San Francisco , white workers for the Council of Federated Organizations in the state ; and Nay Arthur Hearn , 14 years old , and ' Willie Rollings , both Negroes . At the special session , Gov . Paul B. Johnson Jr . presented a package of 11 bills and amendments to three sections of the State Constitution . They would , he told the legislators , put the state " in the most advantageous , position possible . ' with respect to court decisions and " assaults upon our laws . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the rules are not rigged in , favor of some of the partici- , pants to the detriment of oth-1 ers , " the Governor said . " Unfortunately , the sense of fairness has not carried over into the voting rights bill of 1965 . " A careful examination of that bill will clearly reveal that it is discriminatory , harsh , punitive , and , in my opinion , unconstitutional . " The Governor 's package was introduced in the House of Representatives just before it adjourned . It has not been introduced in the Senate . Later in the afternoon , both bodies met in closed caucuses in downtown hotels to discuss the bills . The constitutional amendments would remove from the 1890 document the requirements that applicants for registration be of " good moral character " and be able to " read and write any section of the state Constitution and give a reasonable interpretation of it . " The proposed bills provide for simplified registration applications and procedures , repeal the requirement that prospective voters have their names published for two consecutive weeks in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrars to challenge the qualifications of applicants . 3 Sections Considered Three sections of the state law to be considered for repeal were passed by the 1962 Legislature in an attempt to reduce Negro registration . The purpose of the changes appears to be to bring Mississippi 's voting and registration requirements into line with those upheld by the courts so that the state can challenge the proposed Civil Rights Act of 1965 . The demonstrators began gathering at the Morning Star Baptist Church a mile from the State House about 9 A.M. For three hours they rocked the small white cinderblock building with singing and hand-clapping . Lawrence Guyot , chairman of the Freedom party 's executive committee , told the sweltering group that they had the " right and responsibility to make decisions about how demonstrations are going to be carried out . " But , the rotund ' 26-year-old former staff member of the Student : Nonviolent Coordinating Committee added , a committee met the night before and decided that the demonstration would be a silent one , and that they would walk , rather than march , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walking , two abreast-on the sidewalk , set out foilhe Capitol . " just- before noon . They . were mostly teen-agersAut there were also a number of children and old people and a few of the white Northern volunteers who had arrived to participate In the party 's summer project last Thursday . The temperature was 91 . Halfway there they were stopped by Deputy Police Chief J. L , Ray . He asked Mr. Guyot , who led the column , whether he had a parade permit . The party leader said he had none and had not applied for one . After asking the column to disperse , which was not done , Mr. Ray placed everyone under arrest . Except for a group of 20 who sat down on a dirt side street , the demonstrators filed into the paddywagons , police trucks and large white caged trash trucks standing ready for them . The small group who resisted were forced and thrown into a truck by city policemen and Negro trustys . None of the helmeted force of 30 used his nightstick . Once in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the - vehicles and poked holes in the canvas tops . Break Out Picket Signs In addition , 32 persons were arrested in front of the State Capitol when they broke out picket signs . They had gone from the meeting in cars . Sixteen others were arrested for distributing leaflets on city streets . The police gave the total arrested as 472 . The demonstrators were charged with parading without a permit . Some were also charged with resisting arrest , and there was one concealed weapon charge . The demonstrators were taken to the makeshift stockade on the state fairgrounds and housed in two barn-like buildings used for industrial and agricultural exhibits . The Freedom party leadership said there would be another march tomorrow . Governor Johnson issued this statement tonight on what he called " the attempted march . on the Capitol by members of the so-called Freedom Democratic party : " When the revolutionaries demonstrate against the courageous astronauts in Chicago and against us in Jackson the same day , we Mississippians , who are ready to serve this great nation in Vietnam , or anywhere else , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "                     