@@723415

txt Letters to The Times JEROME W. BLUM , ERNEST MINOTT.DANIEL DEYKIN , M.D. , VICTOR W. SIDEL , M.D. , DANL .. Letters to The Times How Betting Rose in Britain Speaker Carlino 's Estimate ? Called Conservative by Investigator To THE EDITOR OF THE NET YORK TIMES : Contrary to The Times ' assumption ( editorial - Auk . 31 ) , Speaker Carlino 's statement that betting ' has increased fourfold , since England licensed off-course cash bookmaking is a conservative estimate .. Our data point to that.as ' t v minimum expansion . How do we reach this , conclusion ? We interViewed . scores of officials and experts as well as people on both sides of the . bookmaker's. ? counter . We inspected the bookkeeping records of those , who have been in the business before and after the act Was passed . Since ' by licensing the British Government in effect wiped out all record of previous convictions and activities in the bookmaking field , the British turf accountants ( bookmakers ) had nothing to lose and were quite candid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vs to scrutinize their books , One of the largest betting-shop chain owners , whose records went back to World War II , traced his business growth by area within London . His shops cover the same neighborhoods where he previously employed " runners " to handle illegal cash wagers . In every one ' his business - had increased a minimum of fourfold since opening licensed shops . The average gain in volume was over 600 per cent , with better than a tenfold increase in the lowestincome neighborhoods . Trade With Bookmakers A more comprehensive estimate of the betting volume growth was provided by William Hill . Mr. Hill , who is exclusively a credit bookmaker ( a legal activity long before the act ) and who has a major share of the layoff business with the " trade " ( i.e. , other bookmakers ) , was explicit in telling us his " trade volume " had increased fourfold since street betting was legalized . The accuracy of Mr. Hill 's estimate is buttressed by a large staff of ac , countants soon to be joined by one lof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Hill 's " trade " volume is a conservative measure of what the increase has actually been because growth in business among betting shop proprietors has provided them with greater financial resources requiring their laying off less of their turnover . No valid study of the British experience can fail to yield the conclusion that much more money is being spent by many more people since gambling has been made generally available to the public . The fact that previously illegal operations are now legal , that they are largely in the hands of the same individuals , is why Great Britain affords us the most accurate comparison of what happens when government sanctions widespread availability of cash betting . Accounts Before and After Being able to review the accounts of the same bookmaking enterprises , before and after , is far more valid than speculating upon underground turnover theoretically transferred to a parimutuel " tote " monopoly . Rather than hastily contrived , Speaker Carlino 's research into the British experience started in 1960 , following passage of the Betting and Gaming Bill by Parliament . He assigned me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our trip to England correspondence was initiated with those who could provide us with pertinent fact . Interestingly , in Mr. Carlino 's " offtrack betting " folder were editorials from The New York Times urging our State Legislature to study the British experience at first hand . To ' quote from your editorial of Nov. 12 , 1959 : " . . . the legalization of offtrack gambling , with betting parlors scattered on street corners throughout the city , is so fraught with possible social consequences , and is so distasteful as a matter of morals to so many people , that ' a decision to open the gate further can not be taken lightly . , . . " We have not taken this responsibility lightly , HENRY D. PALEY , Information Director , New York State Assembly , Albany , Aug. 31 , 1963 . Cotton , Not Textiles , Subsidized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorial " New Favor for Textiles " creates an erroneous impression , particularly when you relate it to the " American cotton textile industry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit of the cotton growers or farmers who have been enjoying the benefits of parity subsidies for many years . It is they whose interests are primarily affected by the imports agreement and not the textile industry , which manufactures and converts fabric for particular ends uses. = In fact , the textile industry as defined is more often adversely affected than favored by such intergovernmental action . The distinction is clear . JEROME W. Brim President , Textile Distributors Assoelation , Inc . New York , Sept. 6 , 1963 . Educating Minority Groups Myths About Negroes , Puerto Ricans Blamed for Lowered Standards To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your Aug. 27 editorial " The Integration Blueprint , " dealing with the new plans for school integration in New York City , finds me in complete agreement with most of what you said . However , what you did not say is what disturbs me most . Being a Negro parent favoring integration , I can not support a boy-. cott of our schools in the name of integration . My pride as a Negro prevents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education in a class surrounded by other Negro children . However , what was not said was that in 1956 a commission on integration appointed by the Board of Education issued a comprehensive plan for integrating the schools and raising the standards in the Negro and Puerto Rican schools . With the exception of expanded open enrollment , you will find a striking similarity between Dr , Cal . yin Gross 's plan and the 1956 report . The 1956 report , though widely acclaimed in New York City , was never implemented to any degree . It is clearly evident that any plan , regardless of its merits , can never be educationally successful unless those responsible for its success are determined to make it workable , I am referring now to the attitudes of some members of the professional and teaching staff toward the Negro and Puerto Rican child . Too often these are attitudes created by prejudicial myths that Negro children are incapable of learning because of their social background and environment . Therefore the Negro and Puerto Rican are to be pitied rather than taught . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our children can not be changed over night . Nevertheless , as employes of the city of New York their behavior patterns concerning Negro and Puerto Rican children can be changed immediately . The Mayor , other elected city officials , the Board of Education and the Superintendent of Schools must demand of the professional and teaching staff its paid responsibility : to give- to the Negro and Puerto Rican child an education , not based on his color or social environment , but based on the simple fact that he is as much an American as a white child . Until this is done , any blueprint for integration will be just words said many times before . ERNEST MINOTT . New York , Aug , 28 , 1963 . To End Nuclear War Threat To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As physicians charged with the responsibility for maintaining the health of our patients , we have repeatedly expressed concern for the consequences of the testing of nuclear weapons . It has been demonstrated that any increment of background radiation , no matter how small , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his negotiation of a treaty which could lead to the elimination of further atmospheric contamination . We most earnestly recommend its ratification . We further recognize however that the primary threat to continuing public health faced by our population , and indeed by all mankind , ' lies not in fallout from atomic tests , but in the threat of thermonuclear warfare itself . We have accepted the conclusion , long familiar to physicians , that the only effective cure for this most grave challenge to our well being is prevention : there is no possible alleviation of the incalculable suffering and disruption of society that would follow the outbreak of a nuclear holocaust , Therefore we urge that the ratifi- ; cation of the current atomic test-ban treaty be recognized as only the first step toward the achievement of a more significant goal  --  the elimination of the threat of thermonuclear warfare . DANIEL DEYKIN , M.D. , VICTOR W. SIDEL , M.D. , DANIEL S. BERNSTEIN , M.D. , G. OCTO BARNETT , M.D. , BERNARD LowN , M.D. , Physicians for Social Responsibility . Boston , Sept. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              