@@724417

txt New York Democrats offered ' their own reapportionment pro-. posal last . night as an alternative to , the Republican plans ' lbw being drafted for next , week 's special legislative ses-1 sion in Albany . The key element in the Asia , ocratic plan calls for the erea-1 tion of a bipartisan commission that would assume the responsibility of redistricting the Legislature . This , the Democrats contended , would take politics out of reapportionment . The Democratic plan was announced here by the party 's state chairman , William H. , and the Democratic legislative leaders , Senate Minority Leader Joseph Zaretzki and Assembly Minority Leader Anthony J. Travia . Two Bills for Tuesday A spokesman for the state committee said the proposal would be introduced as two bills at the special session called for next Tuesday by Governor Rockefeller . One bill calls for a Senate of 60 members and an Assembly of 180 . The other provides for a 65-member Senate and a 195 - member Assembly . Both bills would give every Senator and Assemblyman one vote . The Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed by the Democrats . In announcing their plan , the Democrats charged : " The special lame-duck session summoned by Governor Rockefeller was conceived in // Democrats Urge a Commission For Reapportionment of State Confirmed From Page 1 , ' Col : 4 partisan disregard of the best ! interests of the people of ' this state . This partisan scheme is being carried ! forward in the ! face of outraged public opinion land editorial oppeSition . " " Our plan , " the Democrats ! said ; " is designed to bring - nonpartisan order and equity out of a scheme for partisan- gain . " The Democrats Would . Create what they called a Temporary State Commission . on tionment and Districting . It : membership would consist of two members appointed by the temporary president of the Senate and two by the minority leader of the Senate . The Assembly Speaker would appoint two commission members ? and so would the minority leader . Governor Rockefeller would appoint the remaining three members from a list of six nominees chosen by the presidents and chancellors of the six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rockefeller would not all belong to the same political party . Moreover , no more than five of the 11 commission members could be legislators . Blue-Ribbon Panel As envisioned by the Democrats , the commission could end up being dominated by Republicans . However , the nomination of members by the chancellors of the University of the State of New York , the University of the City of New York and Syracuse University along with the Presidents of Columbia , New York and Cornell Universities would apparently insure a blue ribbon panel . The commission , which would be created by a Republicancontrolled Legislature , would report by March 1 to a Democraticcontrolled Legislature that will come into power next month . The Democrats provided the following guideposts for the , commission : ! Each Senate district would ! contain three Assembly districts and each district would be as nearly equal in population as " practicable . " There would be no more than a 15 per cent spread between the state 's most populous and least populous Senate and Assembly districts and each would be as compact and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing political boundaries and no district would cross the New York City limits " wherever practicable . " Finally , the Democratic plan clashed with the Republican one when it said . that lines shall be drawn " without respect to the strength of any political parties as reflected by enrollment. votes for candidates . in any election or any similar criteria . " Powers of Subpoena The proposed commission would be empowered to hold public hearings , subpoena witnesses , books and records and have all the powers normally given a legislative committee . Its members would serve without pay , utilizing a $100,000 appropriation . It would expire April 1 unless extended by the Legislature . Basically , the Democratic plan is based on one drafted recently by Eugene H. Nickerson , the Democratic Nassau County Executive . It was approved at a meeting of top state Democrats on Wednesday at the party 's headquarters in the Statler Hilton Hotel . Representatives of Mayor Wagner and leading Democratic county leaders took part in developing the plan . Last night , Senator Zaretzki made it clear that no Democratic member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He complained bitterly that not one Democratic leader ? not even the Democratic members of the Joint Legislative Committee on Reapportionment , Assemblyman Moses Weinstein of Queens and Senator Harry Kraf ? of the Bronx ? had . been consulted or given a chance to see the Republican plan . ? Mr. Zaretzki said he : was sure that ' the courts would reject the Republican plan if it based its districts on the number of vOt ers rather than on total population . " A plan that would draw lines around voters rather than people , " he ' said " would obvi-isty leave thousands of minority members such . as Puerto Ricans and Negroes unrepreSeated in Albany . " Meanwhile , a Federal Court judge here denied a move to block Governor . Rockefeller from holding . next Week 's special legislative session . Judge Edmund L. Palmieri rejected a petition filed by . Samuel Weiss , a Democrat from Queens .                     