@@723255

txt Cambridge , Md . For 21/2 hours Tuesday a Negro committee seeking further rights in Cambridge , Md. , met with Justice Department officials in Washington and emerged to say that ' ' progress is being made . " A Negro demonstration scheduled for that night was called off . For clays the active elements of the white and Negro communities had not been able to get beyond short discussions . There was apparently " no give . " Disappointment Noted The racial atmosphere in Cambridge is hardly that of a Deep South town . For years there have been Negroes on the City Council , on the Board of Education . Cambridge 's churches have had combined Lenten services with the division in the congregations about half and half . In talking with the leaders of the white community there is no evidence of deep bitterness stemming from race hatred . But there is an almost acrid disappointment among the civic leaders that their admittedly slow-moving acts toward increased civil rights for the Negroes did not prevent the Negro rallies for action , Negro plans for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen are Philip Savage , a regional director of the National Association for Advancement of Colored People , Gloria Rich- ardson , a Cambridge worker , and Reginald Robinson , field secretary of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee of Atlanta . Both sides express deep-seated emotion . The Negroes want to bring a wholesale civil-rights change rapidly , storming the citadels of tradition . They threaten to bring in 10,000 Negroes to demonstrate , Action Demanded ? As one Negro leader said to this reporter : " I have a great sympathy for the white power structure , having to give up their customs . But we are dissatisfied with second-class citizenship any longer . We have waited a hundred years . We get externals . We get talk . Now is the time for action . " For many of the whites ? businessmen and professional men ? the sudden spurt of Negro uneasiness and impatience is hard to understand . Most of them feel the Negro leaders who came m from the outside brought to the surface the violence , the demands for more restaurant integration , quick school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Cambridge is not Tuscaloosa , and that their efforts under Mayor Calvin Mowbray to afford reforms were made in good faith . Last Friday the Mayor offered a public-accommodations law within 15 clays and to set up a biracial commission . Tit return he asked a year 's moratorium on demonstrations . Committee Formed The Negroes refused . They want action on integration of movie theaters and restaurants , especially . It can be asked why Salisbury , a town of about the same size south of Cambridge , has had no trouble . It put a civil-rights program into effect without very much stir . The answer may be that Salisbury began to industrialize earlier than Cambridge , The result was that a different . point of view toward reforms appeared ,                     