@@722348

txt President de Gaulle appealed to the French people tonight to support the peace accords reached today between French and Algerian negotiators . They will be presented to the Cabinet at a meeting tomorrow . The French leader hailed the accords on radio and television . He announced that he would soon ask the people to ratify the accords . This is expected to take place in a referendum in France , probably April 8 . France was reported extremely calm tonight as the country received the momentous news of the end of its last ( colonial war . Paris Under Guard Paris was heavily guarded against the possibility of trouble . This was particularly true of the Elysee Palace , from which General de Gaulle spoke . His message was recorded this afternoon , although it is believed to have been ready for days . The president directly and by implication made clear that the accords marked the start of a new and difficult phase of the Algerian problem . What is on everyone 's mind here ; including the President 's , is the violent opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the European population of Algeria to the application of the agreements . But the mechanism to apply the accords , which had waited so long to be put into action , began functioning despite the obstacles . Cabinet Will Meet Mohammed Ben Bella and four leaders of the Algerian rebellion , . held by the French since 1956 , were returning to Morocco tonight . They will be free to join the Algerian Provisional Government . . Tomorrow afternoon the French Cabinet will meet under General de Gaulle to draw up decrees and instructions to put the agreements into effect in Algeria . These include the naming of a French High Commissioner , the appointment of an executive body , formation of an CABINET TO MEET French Leader Says He Will Ask People to Ratify Accord Text of de Gaulle 's address is printed on Page 11 . Algerian peace force and disposition of the French Army . France will maintain sovereignty over Algeria during the transitional period extending from the cease-fire to the popular referendum in Algeria four to six months from now . The changes in administration now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to a candidate for the post of French High Commissiaoner . Former Maj. Gen. Pierre Billotte , who had been named to the post , withdrew yesterday on the ground that he had not been given sufficient authority . Parliament Called General de Gaulle called Parliament into session for Tuesday . He will send the National Assembly and the Senate a message that will be followed by a statement from Premier Michel Debrd . Debate will follow , but the ' Assembly will probably not be asked to approve the accords . A vote will come only if the Opposition introduces a motion of censure . Both houses will receive the text of the referendum to be submitted to the country . This will probably be drawn up at the Cabinet session . General de Gaulle appeared in civilian dress to speak of the acords . His voice and manner were strong as he addressed the various forces on both sides of the Mediterranean whose support is necessary to peace in the area . These forces are basically the Moslems and Europeans of Algeria , the French Army and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truths : France 's national interest , which required Algerian selfdetermination ; Algeria 's great needs , which required cooperation with France , and 132 years of links between the two countries . He said : " Who knows , even , if the struggle that is coming to an end and the sacrifice of those who have fallen on both sides will not , in the long run , nave helped the two peoples to understand better that they were made , not to . fight each other , but to walk along the road of civilization as brothers . " The President spoke of the Europeans who are important by their numbers and by the role they play today and which France will ask them to play tomorrow in local activity . This was all he had to say about the population whose opposition is the main complicating factor in the current situation . Funds Being Sent Home The President also mentioned the Algerians working and studying in France as one of the reasons for continued cooperation . Several hundred thousand Moslems working in France make what all economists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending home a large part of their earnings . General de Gaulle dwelt at more length on the French Army , whose attitude is one of the keys to the future . He cited the army as one of the elements responsible for the accords . He spoke of its " courageous action , at the cost of glorious , losses and many praiseworthy efforts " by which it gained " control over the land in each region and along the frontiers , which established with the population human and friendly contacts so long and so sadly neglected and which , in spite of the nostalgia experienced by many of its cadres , the attempts at subversion perpetrated by some of its leaders and the , solicitations of criminal adventures , has remained steadfast in its duty .. " This was as close as ' the Pres ident came to touching- on the Secret Army Organization , the Right-wing terror group led by former French Army officers , which is carrying on the main fight against Algerian independence . The President also credited the strength of his republican regime for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all " for " what is about to be accomplished to derive from a deplorable struggle the chances of a fruitful future . " It was here that he asked for popular backing for the course of action approved in Evianles-Bains.                     