@@726759

txt Thousands of subway users swamped Transit Authority switchboards with questions , others wandered underground in confusion and some made test runs yesterday as changes in services went into effect . The new system will get its ' first working-day test today . " I 'll muddle through , that ' : the advantage of being a New Yorker , " commented Frank Derwin , a 23-year-old law student , when he learned at the Times Square BMT station that the Brighton express no longer stops there . Several thousand extra employes will be on duty at the subway stations on their offhours today to give guidance to travelers , but many of the system 's four million passengers tried to get a jump on avoiding confusion . Two Million Maps Issued During much of yesterday , the 66 phone lines at the au- , thority headquarters , 370 Jay Street , Brooklyn , were backed up with calls coming in at an average of 500 an hour . From 9 A.M. to 7 P.M. , more than 8,500 calls were received from information-seekers , the authority said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pocket-sized maps outlining the eight:changed routes , but they seemed to confuse rather than help many passengers . The authority also has installed 934 maps In subway stations . The maps ? 5 feet high and 4 feet wide  --  depict in eight colors the routes of subway lines under the new plan . At the Times Square BMT station platform , travelers by the score studied the maps with furrowed brows , only to give up and approach a man in blue uniform , Conductor Ossie Bell , for assistance . In one hour , between 1 and 2 P.M. , he answered inquiries from 43 people . One couple , Abraham Rubin , a retired factory worker , and his wife , Anna , approached Mr. Bell for information on how to get to Brighton Beach . They were told they would have to go to the De Kalb Avenue station in Brooklyn to get their train . " We 'll get used to it , " Mr. Rubin said to his wife , patiently . " We 'll try . " The major subway changes merge stations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swiftly , more directly and to more distant terminals . Q ' Train Now a ' D ' One alteration involves the Brighton express , which used to go from Coney Island to Astoria , Queens , via Broadway in Manhattan . Now the express enters the newly opened Grand Street station at Chrystie Street and proceeds uptown on IND tracks to the Bronx . Formerly known as the " Q " train , the Brighton express is the " D " train under the change . - Under the new route plan , a resident of Flatbush will be able to go to the Herald Square shopping area several minutes faster on new direct service up the Avenue of the Americas . In addition to the route changes and new services , free transfers will be available for some riders . A free transfer point has been established at Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn between the Brighton line and the IRT . Under the old system , riders had to go into Manhattan to get such a free transfer between the Brighton BMT and the 111T . Initial Mixup Expected Harold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conceded yesterday that the authority expected problems with its passengers during the early days of the change-overs . " There will be confusion at first , but do n't judge it by the first day , " he remarked . " We do n't say our schedules are perfect . However , we are willing to make whatever changes are necessary as a result of our experiences . " Mr. said that , he realized the changes might inconvenience some riders but that they would help the vast majority . He estimated those who would suffer from the alterations at about 5 per cent ( 4 the users of the changed routes . Mr. and Joseph Kilkenny , chief schedule maker for the authority , appeared on the WNBC-TV " Direct Line ' deleted 4 lines program yesterday to explain the changes to phone callers . Virtually all of the calls were from people who wanted directional information . The questions and answers did not throw much light on the route changes in general . In addition to the eight changed routes , an entirely new rush-hour service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will carry the identification " NX " and will have five trains that will go around Coney Island and Bay Ridge to Manhattan in both- directions . The service changes are the most sweeping since the city took over the IRT and . BMT systems from private owners in 1940 . It had owned and operated the IND since its inception in 1932.                     