@@724404

txt In that beautiful and The fateful novel " Herzog " Interior Saul Bellow uses a litMonologue erary convention devised by the English author of the first ( and , naturally , also best-selling ) novel , " Pamela " ? the technique of telling the reader through letters what the author feels about life . In 1739 Richardson was asked to compile a volume of " Familiar Letters " to serve as models for the uneducated lower classes . He was reminded of the story of a servant girl in a nearby village who preferred marriage to seduction , and he put the sermon aside and wrote " Pamela " and then " Clarissa , " both stories unfolded through long letters . The letter-writing device is no longer the novelty it was in Richardson 's day , as Walter Allen has pointed out in " The English Novel . " For a correspondent in one of Richardsonts novels to have composed in three dayi the letters she is supposed to have written would have meant writing steadily for eight hours a day . Saul Bellow uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagination that Joyce showed when he made " Finnegans Wake " a world dream , and as Giinter Grass does by the device of the drum in the hands of a dwarf in " The Tin Drum . " The triumph is for the writer to speak without letting the reader hear his voice . Personal letters ( like Letters one 's diary ) are rarely Are convincing when changed Easier into fiction . Hazlitt 's notorious " Liber Amoris " could not disguise his elderly passion for a young girl , and " De Profundis " had to be locked away for 50 years before it could be published as it was written . It would simplify things for the novelist , of course , if he could write-his books as easily as he writes his letters . He needs no form , no plot , and the ending can always wait until the next postal delivery . But the reader of a novel is not as fond as a friend , and therefore the writer keeps letters and fiction separate , and hopes , like Walpole , that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are modestly aware of how entertaining their letters are must sigh at having to drop them into the mail box instead of into an editor 's hand . Pope , for instance , wanted his letters to be published but did not want anyone to know it . He hired someone to sell them to a publisher well known for his pirating ways , and then became indignant when they appeared in print . When he later wanted his correspondence with Swift published , he tricked him into handing them to a Dublin publisher , who proved , however , to be honest and would not publish the letters without Pope 's consent . James Joyce 's wife ( who never read her husband 's books ) tore up his letters . Richard Ellman describes the scene , with Joyce looking on as his wife tells a friend what she has done . When the dismayed friend asked why , Nora Joyce replied : " Oh , they were nobody 's business . There were n't many anyway  --  we 've never been separated . " Joyce was silent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to were never written , exEveryone cept in his thoughts . Alain Robbe-Grillet said that a writer was someone with nothing to say , admitting that he himself wrote to find out what he meant . The day of Richardson 's moralizing is past  --  the present dilemma is to find an audience for what we want desperately to say , only to discover that , after all , the desire to communicate is enough . Herzog 's temporary excitement of an " altered heart " ends when he realizes that " at this time he had no messages for anyone . Nothing . Not a single word . "                     