@@724134

txt London Sir Alec Douglas-Home has given a clear pointer to his followers to avoid getting the forthcoming British election campaign mixed up with the American presidential camDal gn . The Prime Minister has found this reminder necessary because his own election intention is to play hard on a Tory government 's determination to keep Britain 's independent nuclear weapons . The Labor Party platform in contrast favors allowing the British nuclear deterrent to " run down " with subsequent sole reliance on United States nuclear power . Doubts Raised Sen. Barry Goldwater 's nomination as Republican candidate for the American presidency has been a significant factor in ' confirming Sir Alec 's view that the nuclear deterrent should be a key plank in the Tory election platform . There were doubts at one time in political circles here as to whether Sir Alec would be right in making the nuclear deterrent a key election issue . It was argued that the average voter was not particularly interested in nuclear affairs . Domestic matters are usually more likely to decide elections . And it was suggested that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader Harold Wilson 's nuclear thesis . This is that Britain is wasting money and effort in keeping a nuclear deterrent force and would be better occupied supplying the alliance with conventional forces . Mr. Wil son has argued strongly in favor of relying on the American nuclear umbrella . Goldwater Imoaet But for some of three agreed with . Mr. Goldwater 's ideas and nomination have come as a sharp shock . The Senator has sowed doubts in some British minds about the certainty of continuing American internationalism and enthusiasm for leadership in the free world . Sir Alec has become keenly aware of this . He can turn it to his own electoral advantage . And why not , he argues , considering how strongly he feels that the time has not yet arrived for Britain to abandon its nuclear deterrent . But at the same time Sir Alec is most anxious not to embarrass the United States by using some of Senator Gold-water 's sayings in the British election campaign . Committee Advised So Sir Alec deftly advised his followers not to develop hyphotheses naming any other country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the coming election will put their main emphasis on the need for Britain to remain a nuclear power rather than speculate on what foreign-policy changes might take place in Washington after the November presidential election ,                     