@@724220

txt The board of education . without any discussion . voted to 1 yesterday to lake another head count of Chicago 's nearly 600,000 pupils ' by race and color . The motion was made by Raymond W. Pasnick , who moved that the count he taken Sept. 20 or as soon thereafter as feasible . The no vote was cast by Mrs. Wendell E. Green . She said she opposed it because of the psychological effects such a count could have on children . Will Poll Principals A head count was taken in October , 1963 , at which time pupils were classified under the headings " white , " " colored , " and " other . " - The results of the head count will be reported to the board at either the Oct. 14 or 28 meeting . The board also voted , 5 to 3 , to direct Dr. Robert .1 . Havighurst , director of the survey on quality of the city 's public Schools , to send a questionnaire to &l; school principals , asking their opinions of the school system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Havighurst sent a similar questionnaire to teachers last June . School Supt. Benjamin C. Willis objected to sending t h e principals a questionnaire . " I am unable to figure out in my own mind the purpose of such a questionnaire , " he said . He added that . questions which might be included already had been covered when survey consultants held personal interviews with principals during visits to the schools . Replies to Willis " The questionnaire would be one additional tool for producing the most accurate evaluation of the public school system , " said James W. Clement , a board member , in answer to Willis . Willis said that 58 of his 93 proposals to implement seven recommendations of the Hauser report on school integration are " impossible to finance " without state and federal aid . " When you get down to the realities of life , it takes a lot of money , " Willis said . He refused to suggest a specific price tag for putting the 53 proposals- into effect , but said he would do so later .. Willis had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ot her proposals that could be implemented with little or no added cost . Denies " Free Passes " Dr. James H. Smith , deputy school superintendent , denied that pupils are given " a free pass " to the next grade despite poor academic achievement . Smith responded to a ' query by Clement , who wanted an explanation of promotion standards after reading a story in Tim Tamura that teachers in a west side elementary school were told to consider promoting pupils whose arithmetic and reading scores were 2 to 3 1/2 years below average . " We have 15,000 youths in elementary schools who are 15 and 16 years old , " Smith said . " If we have fallen down any place , it has been in keeping youngsters in elementary school too long so they lose interest and become dropouts . " Smith said responsibility for promotion standards lies with the individual teachers . Programs Costing Too Much Among the programs Willis said could not be accomplished without extra state or federal money are : 1 cutting class size to 25 thruout the city and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4th grade and to 20 in 4th thru 8th grade ; 2 orientation programs for children new to the city ; 3 expanded after school reading , mathematics , ' and speech classes and library programs , and 4 pre-school programs for 3 and 4-year-old children in culturally disadvantaged areas . Also on the " impossible " list are expanded programs for pare them to teach in culturally deprived areas and in-service training in such areas , an extended school year to 12 months for teachers and principals at regular salary ; teacher aids ; expanded parent education programs ; and the hiring of 423 more counselors . He said the school board will be 2 1/2 million dollars short in 1965 for " just standing still with the school program . " He said that he hoped this would not mean increasing class size and that he would seek more state aid at the legislature 's next session .                     