@@727786

txt Many universities torn by student disorder " have brought much of it on themselves , " Robert H. Finch , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , said today . Mr. Finch defended academic freedom and independence before an approving House Education subcommittee , but he said an overhaul of university structures " is long overdue . " He called them possibly " the least responsive to massive changes " taking place in American society and characterized the faculty with tenure as one of the most privileged classes in the world . Some universities have failed to respond to a " clear need " for " constant self-examination and self-renewal , " // the secretary said . He contended that in the quest for more and better research grants they neglected their primary objective as teaching institutions . " In attempting to serve many masters ? government and industry among them  --  they have tended to serve none of them well , " Mr. Finch told the panel . The trouble now plaguing American campuses ? " violence , disruption , confrontation ? is a tragic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . He added that in many instances the conflict " is solidly based in legitimate grievances . " Mr. Finch said the Government " is not equipped to play cop " by withholding Federal money from students involved in disruption . His opinion was that such decisions should be made and enforced by university officials familiar with the campus . Backs More Lenient Law He thus recommitted the Administration to the more lenient of two laws on the subject passed by Congress last fall . The second law directs the Department of Health , Education and Welfare to cut off grants and loans without a hearing to students convicted of disorderly acts . A bill now being proposed in the House would cut off all Federal money to universities where there were disruptions . This would " penalize a great majority of students for the conduct of a few , " Mr. Finch told the subcommittee . , The subcommittee is conducting hearings to study possible changes in the two existing laws and to examine the new bill . Mr. Finch said evidence showed that the serious problems were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of them children of wealth . " Most aid recipients , on the other hand , are too busy maintaining grades and working to supplement their resources to spend much time on the barricades , " he said . Any legislation must thus focus on the " hard-core extremists , not the vast majority of hardworking students , " Mr. Finch said . " We want to solve the problem , not to wield an indiscriminate bludgeon . " He added that the law of which he approved was one of Ithe tools the . Federal Government had provided to universities " to supplement  --  but not undermine  --  their own procedures for handling campus disorders . " He called it a " sounder " and more preferable law because it provided guarantees of due process , allowed examination of student conduct in the context of the university 's needs and interests and could be applied flexibly . " The current student unrest has posed grave questions for our university administrators , " Mr. Finch said . " Having become accustomed to defending academic freedom against onslaughts from without , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as new as it is virulent . " He said he supported the universities ' request for time to adjust their procedures in response to these pressures . Mr. Finch received compliments for his statements from every member of the subcommittee , Democrat and Republican . John Brademas , Democrat of Indiana , termed the testimony " most thoughtful . " " A perceptive and compassionate statment , " said William A. Steiger , Republican of Wisconsin . " A splendid statement  --  a really splendid analysis , " said Frank Thompson , Democrat of New Jersey . " A strong and ringing endorsement of academic freedom and autonomy , " said Ogden R. Reid , Republican of Westchester . The subcommittee chairman . Edith Green , Democrat of Oregon , called the attitude of the department under Mr. Finch about enforcing the law " rather refreshing . "                     