@@725236

txt A " stop gap " program aimed at ending improper parking and traffic tie-ups at O'Hare airport was ' announced yesterday by James V. Fitzpatrick , commissioner of streets and sanitation . The program , including pas licing of the lot and towing away of improperly parked ears , will remain in effect pending a city study of operation of the lot by the contractor , Airport Parking Company of America . Brief Study ' of Lot The plan was worked out after a five-hour . studY at ' the lot Monday by Fitzpatrick ; William E. Downes , commissioner of aviation ; Louis Farina , city superintendent of parking ; and Michael Robinson , city traffic engineer . Fitzpatrick said two policemen on three-wheel Motorcycles will patrol the lot from 7 a. rn. to 2 p. m. , and another two will patrol it from 3 to 11 p. m . At other times , squad cars assigned to the airport will patrol the lot . Tow Truck Slated At first cars will be ticketed when found improperly parked , but only on complaints signed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be able to issue the tickets on their own until a city ordinance is enacted making city parking ' regulations applicable to the lot . A tow truck will be operated from 7 a. in. to 11 p. m. each day , moving improperly parked cars to a section of the lot far from the terminal buildings . The owners must par towing fees and also will be given traffic summonses . Since last Wednesday a tow truck , operating only part time , has hauled away 350 cars . The city will paint stripes marking parking areas , and will install signs designating where parking , standing , or stopping is banned . Temporary signs have been put in place pending completion of permanent metal signs . Fitzpatrick called upon the parking company to provide a complete report on its operations , including personnel and hours worked , for use in the city study of the lot . Asks Council Investigation Pending before the city council finance committee is a resolution by Ald. Jack I. Sperling 50th calling for a- full council investigation of the lot operation and readvertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present operator 's original contract expired in 1957 , and the company has operated the lot since without a contract . Pending before the same committee is a resolution by Ald. Edward T. Scholl 41st calling for elimination of parking spaces used by car rental agencies in front of the terminal , and use of this and some landscaped area to provide additional parking space .                     