@@723887

txt London Britain 's general election will not take place till the autumn of this year . A statement by the Prime Minister from 10 Downing Street announced this Thursday evening to an impatiently waiting nation . The statement gave no indication of the exact date . But it is considered almost certain the election will be in October . Deciding the date of Britain 's 1964 general or national election has been one of the hardest tasks faced by a prime minister in recent years . Sole responsibility for the decision rested with the prime minister . But Sir Alec Douglas-Home , who has held the leadership for less than six months , felt he needed the maximum or advice from his colleagues and party organizers . I Uncertainly Pondered H is advisers have been sharply divided . A group headed by Chancellor of the Exchequer ' Reginald Maudling favored May or June . on the grounds that . Britain may run into economic and currency difficulties during the summer or early autumn . Others in favor of an early election took special heed of what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They thought the Conservative Party would he harmed by an impression that it was afraid to appeal to the voters until the last possible moment . Queen Informed ? But against this powerful group was a no-less-influential body of Tory opinion which argued that the Tories would most likely lose an election in May or June to the Labor Party . Strong hopes were held by the advocates of an October election that the autumn date would give the Tories a better chance of winning back the lead which , according to public opinion polls , Labor currently holds . Sir Alec was understood to have told Queen Elizabeth of his own preference at an audience with her at Buckingham Palace Wednesday . The Labor Opposition , which has been calling for an early election , denounced the Prime Minister for his shilly-shallying over the date . According to Labor spokesmen , no government in modern times has risked hanging on to office until the very moment the clock strikes twelve and its term of office is constitutionally obliged to end . Labor critics also charged Sir Alec with making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election . A view in the Liberal Party is that former Prime Minister Harold Macmillan would never have made such a public display of his opinion-sounding prior to his decision on the election date . In advance of the announcement of the date , the three major parties had been mounting their election campaigns under the disadvantage of not knowing whether to cater for a short or a long haul . Parties have limited funds and they have to judge . in a situation like that . which has existed in Britain since Christmas , how to spread out their expenditure to meet either an early summer or an autumn election .                     