@@727367

txt The commission appointed by President Johnson to explore the causes of violence held its first hearings today and got sharply divergent views from the President 's two top law enforcement officers . Attorney General Ramsey Clark told the panel that police action " in excess of authority " is the most dangerous type of violence . This is so because , he said , " who will protect the public when the police violate the law ? " J. Edgar Hoover , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , said that the police in Chicago during the Democratic National Convention last month had been goaded into using force by demonstrators who wished to foment violence . ' Dangerous Objects ' " Demonstrators called them ' pigs ' and shouted obscenities at them , spit at them , and threw bags of excrement and urine and dangerous objects ? such as golf balls with protruding nails ? at them , " Mr. Hoover said . Milton S. Eisenhower , the chairman of the commission , commented after hearing the closed-door testimony from both officials that there had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police and demonstrators . " If a bag of urine were thrown in my face , " the 69-year-old former president of Johns Hopkins University said , " / think I would react . " 13-Member Panel The views of Mr. Clark and Mr. Hoover were given to the 13-member National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence In a closed session to permit free discussion of the Chicago incidents , which are still under investigation by the Justice Department . Copies of their formal written statements were released to the press . Mr. Eisenhower made his comments later to newsmen . The commission will hold a second day of hearings tomorrow , receiving testimony from a number of college professors . In their statements Attorney General Clark stressed the idea that the police could best control violence when they practiced nonviolence , while Mr. Hoover asserted that the Chicago police had had " no alternative but to use force . " Although Mr. Clark told news- men later that his remarks had not been directed at Chicago , some of them seemed relevant to the happenings there , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police clubbed bystanders and newsmen as well as protesters . Mr. Clark said today : " The clear offer of a fair and reasonable accomodation of requests to assemble and speak reduces the risk of violence . Careful distinction between nonviolent demonstrators acting within the law and those who commit violence , protecting one , arresting the other , is essential to avoid the involvement of the nonviolent in violence . Minimum Force ' " An express mandate to the entire police complement to use the minimum force necessary to execute lawful orders , to refrain from use of excessive force , must be understood by every officer . " It is the duty of leadership and law enforcement to control violence , not cause it . To seek ways of relieving tension , not to look for a fight . Mr. Hoover said that the authorities in Chicago had been forced to invoke tight security precautions because they knew of plots to assassinate Vice President Humphrey , Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota and some unidentified Negro leaders . " Unruly and menacing mobs gathered , intent on marching to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Under these circumstances , Mr. Hoover said he considered it a tribute to the authorities that " the convention was not disrupted , the city was not paralyzed , not one shot was fired by police at the demonstrators , and not one life was lost . " There was agreement between Mr. Clark and Mr. Hoover on one point  --  that the news media had exaggerated and distorted some of the news of violence in Chicago . Mr. Hoover said that agitators had learned to use the United Press International news media by goading the police into action and then causing the media , particularly television , to focus on the use of force by the police . He said the press , radio and television , were guilty of Mich distortions in Chicago . " There were damaging mis-t conceptions about what hap-1 pened in Chicago , " Mr. Clark I said in agreement , in his corn-I ments outside the hearing room . ' " There was exaggeration of policeconduct and of crowd con- i duct . The descriptions were overstated . " President Johnson appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert F. Kennedy last June . The written testimony of Mr. Clark and Mr. Hoover , heavily weighted with familiar F.B.I . crime statistics , did not appear to contain substantial new insights into either the cause or prevention of the problem .                     