@@721957

txt Premier Fidel Castro told a cheering audience tonight that Cuba would eventually have a single political party to construct a Socialist state . Speaking at the 26th of July celebration a the anniversary of the beginning of his fight against the regime of deposed President Fidgenelo Batista , the Premier also said he would not return the Eastern Air Lines plane that was stolen Monday during a Miami-Tampa flight until the United States returned planes being held by court orders to satisfy debt claims against Cuba . In discussing the single political organization , Dr. Castro did not say when - such a party would be proclaimed . It had been predicted that such a proclamation might be made today . However , Dr. Castro said that the process of unification was a gradual one , and that it was not necessary to look for a specific date . " When the moment come , it will explain itself and it will be explained to the people , ' he said . At another point , the Cuban leader said that Cubans would continue to be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other parts of his speech , he repeatedly assailed rumors that today 's celebration . would mark the start of a period of harsh internal measures . Dr , Castro began speaking at 5 o'clock this afternoon under a blazing sun and finished four hours later , in the glare of searchlights . His voice faltered occasionally , but each time regained its strength , as prolonged cheering by his audience gave him opportunities to rest . He repeatedly attacked the United States , at one point mocking it for prohibiting its citizens from visiting Cuba , at another , defying it to launch an invasion . Warns Against Rushing Dr. Castro told the audience , which jammed the large Plaza de la ** that the process of socialization would be fulfilled " in a few years . " He strongly warned against rushing the process , however , and he spent considerable time assuring the remains of the country 's middle class that no abrupt steps would be taken against them " It is necessary that the people know what socialism is , " the Cuban leader said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours , nor in one month nor in one year . " Saying that extreme measures simply strengthened the hands of the opponents of the revolution , Dr. Castro said that it was the duty of the revolution to use persuasion to win over " certain layers of society . " Special Treatment Seen He said that the revolution must " have a special treatment for those social groups . " He said that the abrupt appropriations which were justified in the case of United States investments and of large landowners , would work injustice on the small business men . " Capitalism was characterized by its cruelty , " he said , " Socialism is not an exclusivist society , socialism does n't want one group to live and another not to live . " He said that in the space " of several years , " the small business man would find that he could make more profit working for state enterprises and would thus go out of business without suffering . The 26th of July marks the date in 1953 of an unsuccessful attempt by a group led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santiago . The 26th of July Movement , the political body backing Dr. Castro 's revolt against General Batista , took its name from the date of the Moncado barracks assualt . Relaxed Tempo The whole tenor of Dr. Castro 's speech today , hinting as it did of the somewhat relaxed tempo in the process of socialization , seemed to some observers here to reflect the position taken privately by Soviet officials that the revolution was in danger of moving too fast for its own good . There was no indication whether Dr , Castro 's promise that all who wished would be be permitted to leave Cuba signified that the flow of immigration would be hastened . At present , the 20,000 Cubans here who have obtained visas to enter the United States are hampered by the restricted space available on flights outward . The United States recently offered to finance an airlift out of Cuba until all Cubans desiring to leave had been taken care of , The Cuban Government refused this but permitted Pan American Aainvays , the only American line serving Cuba , to increase its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cuban Premier , on the speaker 's stand , set on the hill above the jammed plaza , was the Soviet astronaut , Maj. Yuri A , Ga . garin . Major Gagarin has been the guest of honor at the celebrations leading up to the 26th of July , At the start of this afternoon 's ceremonies , Presi- , dent Osvaldo Dorticds Torrodo ' presented Major Gagarin with the Order of Playa Giron , a decoration just created by the Cuban Government for there performing " extraordinary feats on behalf of this revolution . " Major Gagarin is the first recipient . The major 's speech , which he read in ' Russian , was translated by a Russian in strongly accented Spanish . It praised " the heroic struggle of the Cuban people for liberty . " It went on to warn that the United States " will continue to attack Cuba . "                     