@@726301

txt Britain 's plan to substantially reduce its military force east of Suez poses giant problem 's for Australian defense . Prime Minister Harold E. Holt , due in London for talks with Prime Minister Wilson early in June , can be expected to argue that it is in Britain 's interest to retain a substantial military presence in Asia . But with the British Labor Party largely opposed to maintaining such a force the Australian leader 's task will not be easy . Prime Minister Holt seems to be pinning his government 's hopes on some kind of pooling arrangement east of Suez . The Australian Government has stressed time and again that the struggle with Communist imperialism can not be neatly " zoned . " Distinction made It is a global struggle . So every possible free-world alliance must be used or arranged . Australian foreign policy supports stability in Asia . But it does not oppose change . " We are not opposed to the social revolution which has been taking place and is continuing in Southeast Asia , " said Mr. Holt . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social betterment , and economic progress . We also seek these things ourselves . We are opposed to the perversion of the forms of social revolution in Asia to establish  --  through indirect pressures , through subversion , through insurgence , through terrorism and oppression  --  Communist regimes which neither are sought nor wanted by the majority of the people in the countries concerned , " said Mr. Holt . This statement explains why the Australian Government considers it in Britain 's interest to remain militarily present in Asia . In fairness to the British Government , it seems to be counting .. on its mobile air power to remain a force eastOf Stiez . ThiS . was indicated by visiting British Secretary for Commonwealth Affairs H. W. Bowden . He said that with rapidly improving air mobility , Britain could reinforce threatened areas quickly . " As techniques change we are trying to get the best value for money from our defense expenditure while meeting our need to reduce overseas expenditures as a whole , " he explained . " But we have no intention of doing this without paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ability to meeting our commitments , " states Mr. Bowden . " During the coming year we shall still be spending 6.5 percent of gross national product on defense , which is a higher pro- Britain 's planned reduction of forces in Asia is having repercussions in Australia , since it concerns the latter 's defense strategy . The Australian Government will try to convince Britain that it is in its own interest to retain a substantial military presence east of Suez . Also , it will try to set up pooling arrangements for mutual defense . * British pullback resisted // portion than any other major Western European power , " he said . In the first stages of a reduction of British forces there will be , as Mr. Bowden put it , " a withdrawal of the tail rather than the teeth of our forces . " But pruning the " tail " or any part of the established bases is just what the Australian Government does not want . Accordingly the Australian Government has proposed to Britain that a major naval base be jointly developed at Cockburn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said his government hoped that the United States as well as British and Australian naval forces would use this facility . Ideally Australia hopes that Britain would retain its Singapore base as well as using Cockburn Sound . But Cockburn would be the perfect terminal for the projected string of British air bases across the Indian Ocean . -* ThCSO-iiietijninn ' ' " already-has. - amilitary presence in The Indian Ocean and in the waters south Australia with its long-range submarines . This is one reason why Australia would like to see some pooling arrangement at Cockburn Sound . This type of arrangement is already in operation with the new United States naval communications base at North West Cape some 700 miles north of Cockburn Sound . It serves United States Polaris submarines as well as the Australian Navy .                     