@@725598

txt Hue , Vietnam The Saigon military junta is gradually boosting the pressure on rebellious elements in this old imperial capital . The military situation around here is reportedly deteriorating badly . At the same time , there are indications that the " struggle " forces are beginning to crumble . The Nguyen Cao Ky regime apparently hopes to avoid any precipitous action which might bring about another showdown such as the one between loyalists and pro-Buddhist troops in Da Nang . But obviously the time is approaching when dissident elements will be faced with a hard choice : Either fight , or yield control of the city entirely to the government . A battalion of riot police has already been flown to Hue from Saigon . And two developments Monday point up the Saigon government 's determination to reassert its authority in the two northern provinces . At a meeting in Da Nang , the Mayor of Hue , Lt. Col. Phan Van Khoa , was authorized to clear Hue 's streets of thousands of Buddhist altars . The altars were placed there as symbols of protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , Lt. Col. Nguyen Am , First Regiment commander , was appointed chief of Quang Tri Province , another center of political unrest . He replaces a province chief who supported the struggle forces . Among those at the Da Nang meeting were Maj. Gen. Hoang Xuan Lam , commander of the First Corps area ; Colonel Khoa ; Brig . Gen. Pham Xuan Nhuan , commander of the First Division ; and Col. Joffre Boston , senior American adviser for the South Vietnamese First Division . American pressure is said to have been exerted to clear Hue 's streets . There was reported to be serious concern about the effect of the altar-cluttered streets on military operations . Meanwhile , squabbling was reported among top men in the " struggle " forces . A rift was disclosed between Bui Tuong Huan , rector of Hue University and spokesman for the struggle forces , and two other members of the struggle group . They are Hoang Van Giau , a teacher of the Faculty of Letters at the university and adviser to the struggle movement , and Le Tuyen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader in the struggle forces . Split reported Another split is reported between Nguyen Huu Giao , chairman of the University of Hue struggle forces , and Buu Ton , another struggle-force leader . Perhaps the greatest obstacle to the government 's restoring its hold on Hue is the presence of large elements of the South Vietnamese First Division which still remain scattered about the city . But perhaps clearing the way for removal of the altars was a request from Thich Tam Chau , moderate leader of the Saigon Buddhists , that all altars be removed from the streets . Apparently cooperating with the government Tam Chau made the broadcast in Saigon . and it was rebroadcast by the government-controlled radio in Hue . Later , the Buddhist clandestine radio also alluded to it . The Saigon government considers a quick solution to the present crisis very important , particularly because the military picture is deteriorating in the two northern provinces . As a result of political unrest in recent months , the area 's pacification program has been set back sharply . At the same time , while government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased its strength , primarily through infiltration . In Saigon demonstrations were more violent Tuesday . An unruly crowd of 3,000 youths led by Buddhist monks burned three jeeps , including an American military one . Scores of demonstrators were arrested after tear-gas grenades were fired to quell the riotS.                     