@@727483

txt The controversial Hackensack River Meadowland Development Plan , amended to exclude nearly onethird of its original area in the northern New Jersey tidal marshes , cleared the Assembly tonight , 57 to 6 . The Senate , which had unanimously approved the original version of the development proposal last April , unanimously concurred with the amended bill tonight so the legislation could be sent to Gov . Richard J. Hughes . The Democratic Governor repeated today his promise to veto the section of the bill that ' lopped off 5,300 acres of the 18,000-acre development tract , which straddles the Hackensack River from the northern end of Newark Bay to the western part of Hudson County and the . southern reaches of Bergen County . Meadowland development proponents likened the exclusion to proposing the redevelopment of Manhattan and then excluding most of the midtown area and the entire West Side . At a meeting this morning with legislative leaders from both houses , the Governor declared that the Army Corps of Engineers would disapprove the ' plan in its amended version and that New Jersey , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal meadowland reclamation project unless the excluded sections were restored . The Governor said he would get a document from the Army to this effect and present it to the Legislature along with his conditional veto by next Monday or else call the Legislature back later this year in special session . The general feeling among several leaders from both parties in the Legislature was that the Governor had a chance of having his veto sustained , even , though the Republican major - ties in both houses have , enough votes to override his veto . In a parallel move , the Assembly also gave final legislative approval to a bill authorizing a referendum next November on whether meadowland property holders throughout the state should be guaranteed title to their property even if it was once covered by water at high tide . Last November the State Supreme Court upheld the state 's claim to nearly 400-square miles of New Jersey marsh and meadowland that is , or ever was , covered by sea water at high tide . Governor Hughes has vociferously attacked the proposed referendum , calling it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a resolution that does not require the Governor 's signature , he can not block it with a veto . Nevertheless , Democratic political leaders ere delighted with the development because they intend to use it as a campaign issue against the Republican candidate for Governor next year . Even leading Republicans do not give the referendum much of a chance of being , approved by the voters . Wiretapping Is Approved In other developments , the Senate gave initial approval to bills authorizing wiretapping under court supervision and the creation of statewide grand juries . The wiretapping measure , which was approved , 28 to 5 , would permit the State Attorney General , the county prosecutors or the chairman of the newly created Commission of Investigaton to apply to the court for authorization to eavesdrop electronically . The . statewide grand jury proposal authorizes the State Attorney General to convene a state grand jury and thus supersede the local geographic jurisdictions of traditional county grand jury ? nvestiga-lmeasure , ions . Sponsors of the I plan to use it in the state 's fight against organized crime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a , bill authorizing a state MediIcaid program . The bill , which ; passed 60 to 7 , just meets ' minimum requirements for ; Federal aid and would cost the ' state nearly $52-million in its first full year . The Hughes administration ; originally proposed a Medicaid ( plan would cover a million medically indigent persons , but its $115-million state cost was rejected by the legislative Republican majorities . As for the meadowland legislation , it would create a Hackensack Meadowland Development Commission that would control the orderly growth of the desolate and uninhabited mashland land into a modern urban complex within sight of the Manhattan skyline . Communities Are Divided The meadowland plan has been widely regarded as the most significant piece of legislation to come up here in years . Regional planners and urban specialists look back to spending years in fruitless efforts to get the individual meadowland communities to agree on a development plan . It was this division among the communities that led to the controversial amendment excluding a major portion of Secaucus in Hudson County from the plan and a large tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and large sections of Lyndhurst , Carlstadt and East Rutherford . Under the meadowlands commission plan , Paul L. Ylvisaker , the State Commissioner of Community Affairs , would be the commission chairman . He envisions the creation of schools , housing , modern industrial and transportation facilities , recreational areas and all of the other ingredients of a modern metropolitan area . Through a complex combination of zoning , taxing and bonding powers , the commission could determine the region 's development and composition . Each of the participating communities ( the exclusion amendment took away two , making it 12 communities ) would share in the area 's increased wealth and eacn one would De guaranteed its current tax income .                     