@@728196

txt A representative of the Nation 's ' Roman Catholic priests addressed the American bishops for the first time today and called on them to surrender virtually all of their collective powers to a new council of bishops , laymen , priests and members of religious orders . The Rev. Patrick O'Malley , the priest , told the assembled prelates that a " trust gap " existed between them and their priests and urged a " radical change in the decision-making nature of the church . " The alternative , he declared , is " revolution instead of evolution . " Specifically , the 37-year-old Chicago priest urged the bishops to do these things : ( lAdmit that they can not lead the church on their own and " begin to ask us for help . " qAgree to bring along priests selected by their peers as full voting members at the next meeting of the hierarchy in San Francisco next April . ClUse this as a " concrete first step " toward the formation of a national policy-making board that would " involve as much as is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semiannual meeting of the National Conference of Catholic , Bishops , which opened behind ; closed and guarded doors at the Statler-Hilton Hotel . Two ' hundred twenty-one of the . ' country 's 268 Catholic Bishops are attending the five-day meeting . Represents 35,000 Priests Father O'Malley made his ' presentation as president of the ' National Federation of Priests ' Councils , an organization of 127 official and unofficial priests ' groups in 11S dioceses . These bodies represent 35,000 of the country 's approximately 55,000 Catholic priests . Although laymen and priests have occasionally been invited to address the bishops on technical matters , such as the administration of Catholic University , Father O'Malley 's apo pearance was the first time that a priest had come to the prelates representing a con. , stituency that wanted to make its views known . Father O'Malley made his re-i marks as part of the report ofl Lawrence Cardinal Shehan of Baltimore , chairman of the liaison committee that is charged with relations with lay , clerical and other groups in the church . The bishops will discuss the report tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " nationa policymaking board " that he envisioned would take over ; virtually all of the decision-1 ' that he said he would shift to ' laymen and priests as well as bishops would he policy on social issues , spending priorities , methods of selecting bishops  --  and experiments in matters like . liturgy . Although he refrained from ! using the phrase , these councils would be roughly equivalent to the national " pastoral councils " of bishops , priests and laymen called for by the Second Vatican Council . Such a council exists in the ! Netherlands and is being , planned in Canada , hut the American bishops have thus far , shown an active interest in ! councils only at the parish and , diocesan levels . In his address Father O'Mal- , ley told the bishops that " many priests feel that they are only needed when it comes time to implement  --  never to plan or to make decisions . " Similarly , he said , laymen are tired of playing ecclesiastical " games " in which they are asked to serve on parish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharing their , authority and responsibility . " As the bishops met , two other groups of dissident priests and laymen issued statements to them . A coalition of ten organizations , including the National Association of Laymen , released a " peoples ' agenda " that included 41 " priorities " ranging from immediate withdrawal from Vietnam to " immediate end to the sexual caste system . " The Society of Priests for a Free Ministry , a 180-member , group of married priests and their supporters , also concluded a three-day meeting at the ! Sheraton-Carlton Hotel across the street and called on the ! bishops to " honor the human ( right of priests to choose to marry and continue their ministry . " The society 's leaders met here with the liaison committee last month after a brief dispute over whether they would be permitted to bring their wives into the meeting . They weren't.                     