@@727164

txt The sidewalks may be swinging with pop music . But now there 's a Beethoven beat beginning to intrigue a lot of youngsters . A new musical adventure is in the making for hundreds of thousands of children in this country . Concerts transported to the ghetto are not new . Ghetto children being transported to famous music halls are not new . But this is different . Young Audiences , Inc. , a nonprofit voluntary organization , has launched a movement to bring groups of professional musicians to schools usually in deprived areas through a " dialogue " technique . Instead of " listen and be quiet , " the word will be " listen and talk . " A few bars , maybe a page or two of classical or contemporary music , is played . The music stops . One of the musicians steps forward and in sort of a man-to-man way asks the pupils : " What did that music say to you ? How did it make you feel ? What did you think of while you listened ? Why did Beethoven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourth graders who had at with hands folded high above heads , or tapping fingers gently on their chairs , or just sitting and staring hard while they listened could hardly wait now to respond . " I thought of horses trotting " . . " I ' saw ' boys and girls jumping in the cornfields " . . . " It was like playing in the park . " This took place at PS 163 , the Alfred E. Smith School in a mixed neighborhood at 163 West 97th Street . About 44 percent of the children are Puerto Rican , 31 percent Negro , the rest whites . This is a " special services " school , which provides additional instructional aid for children many of whom are from low-income families . A quintet appeared , one of 30 ensembles from Young Audiences . It played classic and contemporary selections ? including works by Paul Hindemith , Carl Nielsen , and Jean Frangaix . Its instruments were : flute , oboe , French horn , bassoon , and clarinet . No one asked the boys and girls stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No one lectured . The immediate and sole object was to further communication between the composer and the young listener . Images conjured When clarinetist Aris Chavez asked the youngsters why Beethoven chose the bassoon and clarinet for a duet , gradually hands were raised and wriggled . One pupil murmured : " Because they sound good together . " What did the oboe 's haunting melody in a Hindemith composition remind them of ? " It 's like when you 're going home after the football game is over . " " Makes me think of things I want to do when I grow up . " Less sad and solemn were the replies when a lively quintet by Francaix was played . The gay notes scampered ecstatically upscale on the flute , varied by low-pitched grunts from the bassoon . Humor was the pitch . " It was like a record after it has slowed down , and then starts up to say ' I fooled you . ' " Conducting tried " It was Charlie Chaplin 's walk . " " It was like when a pupil plays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher on her lunch hour finds him there ! " When the children were asked what changes , if any , they would make in whatever they had heard , the answer came repeatedly , " Play it faster . " A chance to be conductor or " the man with the stick " was given to several young . sters . They discovered that one conductor does better than two leaders . Claudia Bell , in a bright pink dress , had been fortunate enough to have been one of the conductors . She " loved " it .                     