@@721979

txt An uprising of smaller Latin-American nations against the present draft of the United States Alliance for Progress agreement developed today in the Inter-American Economic and Social Conference . The small countries believe that they will not do as well as the big powers under the projected system of assigning funds from the ten-year , $20,000,000 , - 000 program for Latin-American development . United States officials said that this was a Latin - American dispute and that they would not take sides . Opposition developed to the draft agreement presented jointly by Argentina , Brazil , ' Mexico , Chile and Peru . This draft follows a United States proposal for the agreement circulated before the conference began . Aid Plan Is Target The target of the smaller countries , led by Uruguay , Bolivia and Ecuador , was the mechanism for drawing up national development programs and presenting them to international institutions and other governments for financing . Some of the countries are also demanding the immediate commitment of aid funds by the United States for emergency programs and stronger commit ments that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . In addition to these objections of the smaller countries among the twenty Latin-American members of the Organiza- ' tion of American States , there was also a dispute between the international agencies taking part in hemispheric economic affairs . This centered on Dr. Raul Prebisch , director of the United ' Nations Economic Commission for Latin America . Dr. Prebisch was encouraging smaller countries to push for the establishment of a ? permanent sevenmember Committee of Experts to help applicant countries develop national programs and generate adequate international financing . Simple Formula Urged This was opposed by Argentina and Brazil and was replaced in the draft by a simpler formula of a panel of program experts without any permanent secretariat . They would be assigned on a task force basis to help formulate programs . This fight developed in working groups that were closed to the press for the first time since the conference opened here Saturday . Maj. Ernesto Guevara , chief of the Cuban delegation , was taking active part in the deliberations . In an open session of the Committee on the Alliance for Progress Agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sabotage the conference " and asked if Cuba could form part of the ? alliance and " hope for credits . " The question went unanswered . In closed sessions Major Guevara put the question again , di- recting it to the United States , which was represented by John Leddy , an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury , in the absence of Douglas Dillon , Treasury Secretary and Ion head , who went to Buenos Aires today to visit with President Arturo Frondizi . Mr. Leddy again did not reply but Major Guevara remained in the session and took part in the discussions as if Cuba were interested in the final shape of the document . Major Guevara conferred privately with Dr. Juan E. Azzini , Uruguayan Minister of Finance and president of the conference . In another maneuver , the Cuban delegation proposed a resolution " prohibiting the capture , embargo or confiscation of ships and airplanes of any country by another country " as a measure " to guarantee the normal development of transport as a condition for LatinAmerican economic integration . " Problem for the U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than Cuba , were causing problems for the United States . President Eduardo Victor Haedo of the host country , Uruguay , has been making it known to delegates of larger countries that he is not satified wtih just an agreement for the Alliance for Progress program as the main result of this conference . He has pressed for short-term tunas by the United States for specific projects in Uruguay that could be announced at the conclusion cf the meeting . There is a national general election in Uruguay next year . The arrival here tonight of Manuel Tito Varom of the antiCastro Cuban Revolutionary . Movement brought a tightening lof security at the conferen where a disturbance was caused by four Cuban exiles after Major Guevara ad the assembly . The police authorities advised Senor Varona to stay away from the conference site . where Major Guevara was accompanied by at least six body-zunds.                     