@@726006

txt Republican leaders have decided not to press for greater party representation on the House Rules Committee . They will concentrate instead on . winning satisfactorily large increases in the Republican membership of all other House committees , trustworthy party sources said today . The decision to make an exception of the Rules Committee , described as tentative but unlikely to be reversed , removed the possibility of a partisan dispute with Democratic leaders over the Democrats ' plan to strengthen Administration control of the 15-member panel . For the last four years , Administration Democrats have held a tenuous 8-to-7 majority on the committee , through which most major bills are funneled after being approved by other committees . 2 Team With G.O.P. On nearly all issues , 8 of the 10 Democratic members have sided with the Administration while two conservative Democrats have teamed with the five Republican members in opposition . The conservative Democratic chairman , Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia , was defeated for renomination in the state 's 1966 party primary . The committee vacancy is expected to be filled by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Representative William M. Colmer of Mississippi . will become chairman under the seniority rule . A second vacancy , created by the defeat of an Administration supporter , Representative James W. Trimble of Arkansas , is expected to be filled by another Administration man . This would give Administration forces a more comfortable majority of 9 to 6 unless the present 2-to-1 party ratio were changed to reflect Republican gains in the November elections . Mr. Colmer , as chairman , would still be in a position to delay Administration bills and possibly to kill some of them , in the closing days of a session . However , Administration Democrats may seek to curtail such delay tactics by requiring regular weekly meetings of the committee . The committee 's power to obstruct legislation was all but destroyed two years ago , when the House approved procedure for bypassing the panel on bills that it bottles up for as long as 21 days . This 21-day rule , as the procedure is called , gives the chairmen of legislative committees authority to call up bills for House debate , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not acted within three weeks after the measures have been approved by the legislative committees . Representative Gerald R. Ford of Michigan ; minority leader of the House , served notice soon after last November 's elections that Republicans would seek revision of all committee ratios to reflect in full the party 's gain of 27 seats . This would require a new ratio on committees of about 4 to 3 in favor of the Democrats , or 57 per cent for the Democrats , and 43 per cent for the Republicans . The committee ratio is about 2-to-1 in the expiring Congress . The decision to favor continuation of the 2-to-1 ratio on the Rules Committee , Republican sources said , was based on a tradition of more than 20 years under which the majority party , whether Democratic or Republican , has always held a 2-to-1 edge in the Rules Committee . Except for the Appropriations and Ways and Means Committees , party ratios on all other committees have customarily been revised every two years to reflect election results . On those two committees , ratios of 3 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became 2 to 1 . Republicans have a practical reason for not trying to upset the tradition of a 2-to-1 edge for the majority In the Rules Committee . They want to assure themselves of firm control as the possible majority party in some future Congresss . Committee ratios are fixed at the start of each new Congress by agreement between leaders of the two parties . The leaders expect to begin negotiations a week or 10 days before the 90th Congress convenes Jan. 10 . In strategy conferences now under way , Republican leaders are looking for ways to strengthen their bargaining power for the negotiations . In that connection , they are encouraging speculation that they may propose substantial modification of the 21-day rule when House rules for the 90th Congres ? are considered on opening day . Representative Melvin It . Laird of Wisconsin and some other Republican strategists have suggested that the Speaker be required to recognize either the chairman or the ranking minority member of a legislative committee for a motion to call up a bill that the Rules Committee has held for 21 days . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of recognizing or refusing to recognize either the chairman or some other member designated by the legislative committee having jurisdiction over the bill . A Republican source conceded that depriving the Speaker of discretion under the 21-day rule might be regarded as a slap at the present Speaker , Representative John W. McCormack , Democrat of Massachussetts . The source hinted that the attempt would not be made if Republicans obtained satisfaction in the impending negotiations on committee ratios . Representative Ford contends that the Republicans are entitled to 43 per cent of the membership of each committee , since they will hold 43 per cent of the 435 House seats . The new ratio would thus be about 4 to 3 . However , a party source indicated , the Republicans may be willing to compromise on a 3-to-2 ratio . Either ratio would give Republicans , in combination with conservative Democrats , effective control on many issues in most House committees .                     