@@723004

txt About 1,500 demonstrators , including some Arab students attending Soviet schools , marched today before ? the Iraqi Embassy in protest against the Baghdad regime 's anti-Communist drive . The demonstrators carried placards with such slogans as " punish the traitors . " Windows were smashed and the embassy building pelted with ink bottles . The Soviet Government said that the demonstration was " spontaneous , " but Soviet policemen watched the marchers breaking windows and spattering the embassy walls with red , black and green ink for three hours before urging them to go home , United Press International reported . The demonstration fitted in with the adoption by the SovLet Union of a more militant 7evolutionary attitude , evidentLy in preparation for discus5ions with Communist China or ? : heir ideological differences . Diplomatic observers here aave noted this development in Soviet relations with foreign 2ountries  --  especially with the drab nations  --  and in domestic propaganda . Moscow apparently is attempting to counteract Peking 's Bfforts to attract adherents in the international Communist movement through advocacy of pore - militant tactics . China has accused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Communist revolutionary aims . In an exchange of letters between the central committees of the Soviet and Chinese Communist parties , made public yesterday , the two contenders for leadership of the international movement agreed to hold highLevel bilateral talks . Thus far , there is no indication whether Premier Kifrushchev himself will accept the Chinese Communist invitation to visit Peking at the head of the Soviet delegation to the talks . These discussions will be directed at composing differences and making preparations for a general meeting of all the Communist parties . The general meeting is expected to discuss the problems of assuring Communist unity and the strategy and tactics for pressing world revolution . The Chinese letter to Moscow insisted that all parties participate in the general meeting on the basis of full equality and that no restrictions be imposed on the ideological debate . ? The conditions laid down by the Chinese Communists were seen here as an effort by Peking to use the forum of any general meeting to rally parties to its policy views on leadership . Moscow apparently has been losing supporters among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Khrushchev 's strategy of peaceful coexistence . Demonstrations in Iraq The heightening of Soviet revolutionary militancy has been evident in a series of violent demonstrations of the campaign against the Communists in Iraq undertaken by the new Nationalist Government . The execution on March 7 of Hussein ar-Rady , first secretary of the Iraqi Communist party , has evoked a particularly strong propaganda reaction at organized protest demonstra- ? tions throughout the Soviet Union . The Soviet denunciation of the Baghdad Government is believed to have prejudiced Moscow 's relations with Iraq . These relations were painstakingly built up prior to revolution last rn on t h through an expensive program of military and economic aid and technical assistance . The repression of the Iraqi Communists under the ousted regime of Premier Abdel Kassim did not evoke Soviet protests on the present scale . State relations and economic assistance programs for the United Arab Republic , Algeria , India , Tunisia and Morocco also were not disturbed by Moscow when the governments of those countries cracked down on their domestic Communists . Spurred to Strong Steps Moscow apparently has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful coexistence , which seeks to attract nonaligned nations through propaganda and economic aid . The Soviet attacks on Iraq have been pressed even though the new government has close ties with the United Arab Republic , Syria , Yemen and Algeria . On Tuesday the Soviet Government declared a moratorium on scheduled shipments of coal to France as a gesture of solidarity with striking French coal minerrs . Observers here could not recall a previous instance in recent years when Moscow has interrupted its commercial trade arrangements out of sympathy with labor unrest in another country or because of difficulties experienced by a foreign Communist party . Internally , the Soviet Communist party has taken on an appearance of greater militancy through a reassertion of discipline over intellectuals and an insistence that they adhere in literature and art to socialist realism .                     