@@727596

txt Unless the Vietnam war abates , expect the present high draft calls to continue in the year beginning July 1 . The services plan to draft about 260,000 during the current fiscal year and perhaps 280,000 next year . However , the projections are very tentative . The eventual calls will be influenced greatly by losses , enlistments , and reenlistments , as well as the course of the war . The Army will continue to be the really big user of draftees . But the Marine Corps , which normally uses draftees only as a last resort , will need roughly 10,000 this fiscal year and the same number next year to meet its authorized manpower levels . e Look for a major Democratic effort to hoist the minimum wage to $2 an hour . It was during the 90th Congress that a Senate antipoverty report first urged that the wage basement be boosted from the present $1.60 hourly level . The Senate probers , led by former Sen. Joseph S. Clark ( D ) of Pennsylvania , concluded that many workingmen 's families lived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeated for reelection , the leading spokesman for a wage increase becomes Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ( D ) of Massachusetts , new chairman of the Senate employment and manpower subcommittee . Freshman Rep. William Clay ( D ) of Missouri , a young Negro unionist from St. Louis , probably will be the first congressman to drop a bill for the $2 minimum in the House hopper . But many Democrats are expected to join him now that George Meany , president of the AFL-CIO , has endorsed this highly partisan issue . Washington awaits yet another swearing-in ceremony . At noon on Monday the first popularly elected school board of the District of Columbia will be installed in office . Since 1906 new board members , appointed by the city 's District Court judges , have been simply sworn in by a notary public just prior to their first business meeting . But this year , being special , calls for a little pomp . So Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall of the Supreme Court will officiate in the marble-columned , red-velvet-draped Caucus Room of the Old Senate Office Building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch with the district 's schoolchildren ( 93 percent of whom are black ) and their parents . Recently six of the board 's incoming members listened quietly while 100 high-school students aired their grievances during a two-day conference . How and why ... A much-vaunted program to develop a common tank for use by West German and American forces in Europe has run into snags . The MBT-70 program now has been retrenched to the point that it is uncertain when and if any joint tank may be forthcoming . The Germans and Americans had hoped through a common effort to produce a new tank that would be good on a nuclear or conventional battlefield and would match or exceed in important characteristics the latest models of Soviet tanks . But cooperation has n't been all it might have been . There have been problems in developing a mutually acceptable engine . And one more thing  --  costs have soared .. It 's no secret that ghetto schools are desperate for money . How to get it is one possibility Congress may explore this session . Rep. Roman C. Pucinski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education subcommittee , has introduced a bill to increase federal payments to local school districts which enroll children who live in public housing . These payments would equalize per-pupil axpenditures between suburban schoolchiliren and youngsters from public housing . Under existing law , Washington pays ocal school districts just over $11 , in lieu ) f property taxes , for each child living in , ublic housing . In suburbs , payments averige out nationally to $243 per child . The dif:erence is a whopping $232 . With some 1.1 million schoolchildren livng in public housing , the Pucinski plan could cost about $255 million . But just equalizing per-pupil expenditures ; till wo n't guarantee inner-city children the ; ducational advantages generally enjoyed ) 3r suburban pupils , it is said . For an equal education , inner-city schools actually need to spend more money per pupil than suburban schools do .                     