@@727191

txt ? PARIS  --  The - United States is not an issue in the Trench na ... tonal elections and , with the . exception of the Communists , none of France 's politicians are ' showing active hostility to America . This is remarkable if for no other reason than the fact that when spring started Uncle Sam 's name was mud . One reason for the change in , atmosphere is that foreign policy  --  General de Gaulle 's favorite field  --  is not a major campaign , issue . Even the fa ' mous force de frappe , a pet Oppositional whipping boy , is n't . Often featured in debates . Campaign Issues 3. , - The contest is being fought on internal social problems and the ideological warning , - underscored by . Gaullists , that if the general 's party is n't ! returned to . power the Communists will - dominate : any , successor gov , ernment .. For the . first time in , years , .... den:Gaulle , .. himself has been talking an old-fashioned cold war line . Another , less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American " electoral issue is , however , directly attributable to President John'son 's personal French policy . Despite frequent , exhortations from , some of his . leading advisers from , ; the past four years ; when American anti-Gaullists Wanted the President to strike back at the general , Johnson refused to , listen . , In 1966 ; ' after de ' Gaulle had ordered the expulsion from France of various NATO headquarters , former Secretary of State Acheson , Secretary of State Rusk and Under Secretary Ball all urged some kind of retributive action . The President refused . When Ball made a speech criticizing French policy , Johnson commanded his top counselors to avoid such public criticism in the fixture . At various times , from 1965 on , the , President was urged to select an issue such as strategy or fiscal matters and , at a moment of his own choosing , to provoke a confrontation with France : - He spurned such advice . In this major decision he followed his own wise judgment and , furthermore , echoed the opinion of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the spring of 1965 the President was asked whether the United States was considering reclassifying France as no longer a " friend " and " ally . " He refused to contemplate such an attitude . He admitted certain things were being done by France that the U.S.A. would prefer were not done , but he acknowledged that this was clearly the privilege of Paris . The President has often received less credit than he deserves for his judgment of international ' affairs and his conduct of foreign policy . The case of France is an , outstand ing example . During the past three years , he ' has steadfastly adhered to the View that there was no point , feuding with de Gaulle , a proud and nationalistically minded man . He was grateful that France had recovered its pride and sense of nationalism . Despite any inconveniences , a stable France was a- more valuable asset to the Western community than a France in which governments changed every few months . Johnson made a point of reminding his advisers that de . Gaulle had stood fast beside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He would sometimes conclude discussions by telling anti-Gaullists around him that if the general 4 " threw his fast ball " ( a simile digienit tp , imagine ) , he ( Johnson ) would simply " step aside . " A Philosophic Approach , Even after the NATO crisis caused by de Gaulle 's expulsion order , the . President insisted that the United States loved France and looked upon developments with sorrow , not with anger . He philosophically hoped the French people would not always feel about the United States the way , , their Government'seemed to feel and that  --  the general would find there were some burning problems he could work out with Washington . As a matter of fact , this calm approach had already paid off prior to the current French crisis . Had it not been for Johnson 's unflappability it is unlikely that France could have been persuaded to help initiate Vietnamese peace negotiations or ' that talks would have started in this ' city . France 's Old Friend The United States seems to be resuming ' its ' familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stripes was ' cheered during recent pro-de Gaulle demonstrations . No non-Communist has , to my knowledge , attacked America in an otherwise uninhibited electoral , campaign . ' Obviously Johnson had nothing to do with the dramatic change in France 's internal situation that provoked this crisis , and which seemingly buried , at least for ' the nonce , previous official coolness . But , during the hard times , Johnson certainly preserved every possible vestige of cordiality . For this the President merits full credit for personal wisdom during a trying time .                     