@@722490

txt Air fines were advised yesterday to increase their use of Midway airport for their own good as well as the welfare of the Chicago area . The contentions were advanced in a 50-page report handed air line representatives by city officials in a one hour meeting behind closed doors in Mayor Daley 's office . Daley asked the **25;0;TOOLONG of II of the 18 air lines operating in Chicago to study the report and return July 11 with suggestions for reactivating Midway airport . Midway has become almost a " ghost terminal " because air lines have moved their operations to O'Hare International airport . Executive Lauds Report " The city has put a lot of work and study into the report , " said Curtis Barkes , vice president of United Air Lines and head of a committee of air line representatives . " It should he helpful to us in our analysis of the problem . " The report , prepared by Herbert H. Howell , chief of planning in the city department of aviation , said revitalization of Midway is essential to provide adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report stated that revitalization is necessary to prevent overdevelopment of traffic at O'Hare to the point where there are undue air traffic delays , to regenerate the depressed economy of the Midway airport area , and to guarantee the continued existence of Midway as a vital link in Chicago 's airport system . Discuss Traffic Problems O'Hare can not he expected to accommodate adequately all of Chicago 's air line traffic , and Midway is the logical " second airport " for Chicago , the report contended . The report noted New York City 's air line traffic is split among Idlewild , La Guardia , and Newark airports . Barkes said the " great majority " of traffic in Chicago is connecting business  --  transfers from one line to another . " This is the major problem we have to solve , " he added . The report stated that in the last three months of 1961 Midway , once the world 's busiest airport , had only 18 per cent of Chicago 's airline traffic . O'Hare handled 82 per cent . Since then , however , Midway operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use Midway . Suggest Use by Jets Federal aviation figures were cited to show that air lines are operating 319 jet transport planes and 1,535 propeller aircraft . All but the larger jets could use Midway , the report said . The dwindling air line business at Midway has brought protests from business men of the area , who point out that 100 million dollars have been spent developing Midway ? an invest . ment which should not be wasted . They also assert that a " second airport " is certain to be needed soon . Barkes                     