@@723312

txt Peking Communist China says the present situation with the Soviet Union " is very grave " and has asked if Moscow wants to push relations to the breaking point . But the Communist Party newspaper , the People 's Daily , stressed in a 2,500-word editorial , " We want unity , not a split . " The editorial , quoted by the official New China News Agency , said if the ideological differences now being discussed in Moscow " can not be resolved today , they can wait until tomorrow . If they can not be resolved this year , they can wait until next year . " Differences Admitted The party organ said only American imperialists and the " modern revisionists " of Yugoslavia were hoping for the failure of the Moscow talkg . " We must not fall into the sinister traps of the United States imperialists and their followers , " the editorial said . The newspaper said it was no secret that a number of important differences of principle exist between China and the Soviet Union ? " whether revolution is wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Marxism-Leninism are to be followed . . . . " There is no doubt that the task of overcoming them is an extremely difficult one , " the People 's Daily said . To the Brink ' " With a heavy heart it must be frankly pointed out that the present situation is very serious , " it said . The editorial blamed the Soviet Communist Party for failing to resolve differences between the two countries and said the Soviet Union " has not ceased its public attacks on the Chinese Communist Party . " " People are fully justified in worrying whether the Central Committee of the Soviet Party wants to push Sino-Soviet relations to the brink of rupture . " The basic difference between the " big two " Communist countries has been Communist China 's objections to Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's policy of peaceful coexistence . Communist China believes that nucelar war can not be eliminated as an instrument in the struggle against capitalism simply because of Mr. Khrushchev 's fears about the danger of such weapons . United Nations , N.Y . A long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world  --  Communist China 's . It . is obscuring the Soviet Union whose erosion in influence and popularity is on the increase . It gives a new twist to the revolutionary drive that so deeply impregnates the nationalism and emotions of the masses in the emerging countries . Its extent frankly has startled top officials here who read a confidential report prepared by a specialist with an intimate knowledge of the area . The report would indicate that among the intellectuals who have fallen under the " progressive " spell without being necessarily Communist Party members , plus those under the influence of the China line , now represent a large majority . Progress Presented The Chinese progress is presented as the counterpart to Moscow 's apparent failure . The Soviet Union has acted in Africa and the Middle East as a great power concerned primarily with the cold war , that is , the status of its rela- tions with the West , principally the United States . It is being increasingly accused of seeking in Africa and the Middle East an advantageous position in its contest with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserved to the Western countries only . While the Algerians were fighting a bitter war for independence , the informant was told , Moscow 's support for the Nationalists was contained by the desire not to break with France . As a matter of fact , the Soviets recognized the Algerian Government in exile on the eve of independence . In the Congo , the Soviets are being accused of letting the two principal leftist leaders ? Patrice Lumumba and Antoine Gizenga ? down so that one was murdered and the other exiled to an island . The SovietS , the report says , have bungled their programs of assistance and proved unable to understand the mentality of the new leaders . The Chinese Communist position , unconcerned with the cold war , that is , the repercussiert in the West of their policies and ideological positions , is precisely what attrActs the left-inclined. leaders of Africa and the Middle East most . Success Traced The latter reject the cold war as the most vital problem of our time and do not want . to be subjected to its necessities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the repbrt stated . China is considered primarily a promoter of revolutionary change and only secondarily a great power ; the opposite view is taken as concerns the Soviet Union . The Chinese , the report said . propose a certain line of action without being limited by considerations of foreign policy and this attitude , the informant believes , has the strongest impact on the more impatient young leaders . Most of them are attracted by the method more than the ideology . They want to take a shortcut. to effective independence . break the heavy economic ties with the West , acquire a power of decisionmaking that their countries , in their opinion , now lack ,                     