@@723346

txt Letters to The Times AMELITO R. MUTUC , HAROLD RIEGELMAN , ROSS J. DILORENZO , YAROSLAV BILINSKY , PAT POL ... Letters to The Times Philippines in Federation Ambassador Says Country Strives to Strengthen Democracy in Asia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK Times : Permit me to extend to you my congratulations on the comprehensive coverage in The New York Times of Aug. 6 of the Manila summit conference . It is typical of The Times 's continuing concern in world affairs that along with the story by Robert Trumbull on the Malaysia Federation , you ran an editorial on Maphilindo and Malaysia , notable for its consideration of the various factors involved in the formation of Maphilindo and Malaysia . The assumption made , however , that " the Philippines is taking part with a view to loosening its attachments to the United States and establishing an influential relationship with Indonesia " is erroneous and misleading because the Philippine motivation joining with this grouping is precisely to strengthen its ties with the free world . As President Macapagal has said about the Philippine role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithful , effective and successful leader of the Filipino people . In world affairs , our aspiration is not for the President to be a leader in Asia , much less in the world .. .. Among our many concerns in the domain of foreign affairs ? our relations with the United States of America will continue to occupy first rank for a long time to come . " President Quoted On May 30 ? U. S. Memorial Day ? President Macapagal reiterated the controlling idea I have referred to : It . . we must recognize that the changing patterns of power relationships in our part of the world impose upon us the unavoidable duty to be ever on the alert for opportunity to strengthen the position of the free world in our region . We must not allow any free and independent country in Asia to go over to or fall under Communist control by default , through excess of timidity or through a misguided desire for accommodation . " The proof of this is the emphasis placed by the present administration on the conduct of an economic diplomacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is reinforced by our desire to attract American investors to join us in ventures to accelerate our economic growth . " We covet , " as my President has said , " the encouragement and help of all our friends as we face the historic responsibility of ( giving substance to this confederation ) . " AMELITO R. MUTUC , Ambassador , Republic of the Philip . pines . Washington , Aug , 6 , 1963 . Center to Aid Alcoholics TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK TIMES : Your excellent July 31 editorial " Alcoholism Is Treatable " reminds many of us of the useful experiment of New York City at Hart Island in the East River . Operated by the Welfare Department as a nine-week rehabilitation program in close cooperation with the Magistrates ' Courts , Alcoholics Anonymous and the clergy , facilities were provided for the treatment of 630 alcoholics . Many of these were from skid row . Some were voluntary patients . Others elected Hart Island treatment as an alternative to jail . All of them during the period of treatment worked at training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the institutional grounds and buildings . An inspectional visit to this institution was a rewarding experience . It was an enlightened , progressive and humanely administered effort to arrest alcoholism return its victims to an independent , self-supporting status . Of a sudden It stopped . Pressured by the scarcity of custodial space on Rikers Island early in 1954 , Commissioner Anna M. Kross persuaded Mayor Wagner to turn Hart Island over to the Department of Correction . Efforts to compensate for this long step backward by providing equivalent facilities elsewhere have nrnved fruitless . HAROLD RIEGELM AN , Chairman , Committee on Public Health , New York State Bar Association . New York , Aug. 1 , 1963 . For Increased Immigration TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : It has long been this committee 's contention that the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952 is virtually a duplication of the " National Origins Law of 1928 which was based almost entirely on ignorance and fear . President Kennedy has submitted a bill to Congress which would provide for an eventual yearly immigration total from all nations of approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to country of origin . The quotas in effect for F9 years would be reduced by 20 per cent in each of the next five years until they disappeared . It is up to the Congress to move swiftly on legislation which would serve this country 's interests and reflect the principle of equality . Brooklyn 's Congressional delegation should lead the drive for passage of the President 's bill . ROSS J. DILORENZO , Secretary , American Committee on Italian Migration . Brooklyn , Aug. 5 , 1963 . Summit Meetings Opposed Past Conferences , It Is Charged , Did Not Further U.S. Interests To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YoRK TIDIES : I have read with great interest your admittedly qualified endorsement of a summit meeting in your July 31 editorial " To Meet or Not to Meet . " The summit conferences at Teheran ( November 1943 ) , Yalta ( February 1945 ) and Potsdam ( July 1945 ) , at which the Allies failed to agree on a mutually acceptable permanent settlement in Europe and the , Far East , were all held during World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charity than later meetings . The " spirit of Geneva " ( after the July 1955 conference of heads of state ) vanished in less than three months under the shock of the So  --  iet - Czechoslovak - Egyptian arms deal . The summit conference at Paris ( May 1960 ) was disastrous . President Kennedy 's encounter d deux with Khrushchev in Vienna ( June 1961 ) did not prevent the erection in August 1961 of the Berlin wall , which has diminished Western prestige in Central Europe , nor the stationing of Soviet troops in Cuba a year later , which has sapped United States power in Latin America . Historical Record In view of the historical record , Khrushchev 's advocacy of summit meetings is not illogical . Mr. Macmillan may have his own political reasons for going to the summit this autumn . But what is the attitude of the present United States Admin-istration ? It was none other than Dean Rusk who before becoming Secretary of State expressed his reasoned distaste for summit conferences in a brilliant article on the President in Foreign Affairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of normal diplomatic channels that are safer , more efficient and more productive than meetings of heads of state . Nor is it easy to understand why a paper of your stature and influence should  --  even with reservations ? lend its moral authority to the convening of a summit conference , that prime example of a worse than futile diplomacy Of moods , not realities . YAROSLAV BILINSKY , Assistant Professor of Political Science , University of Delaware . Newark , Del. , Aug. 4 , 1963 . Plight of the Pedestrian To THE EDITOR or THE NEw YoRK TIMES : As a pedestrian in New York City my resentment of the tyranny of the automobile over my life when trying to get across the street is rapidly boiling into first-class paranoia . Your columns do not have the space for me to enumerate the various times I , and other intended victims who have confided in me , have brushed with death just because we innocently believed the green light meant eze had the , ti%ttt-Qt-we.y . But the pedestrian has no rights at all 1 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change all " Walk " lights to read " Walk at your oirrn risk . " Commissioner Barnes had the solution when he suggested traffic lights to stop all cars every third lightchange , and let the pedestrians " scramble . " Should n't pedestrians be given a 3-to-1 chance to make it across ? It seems only fair . Why have n't the scramlile lights been installed all over the city ? PAT PCH.r.a New York , July 31 , 1963 . What ZIP Code Represents To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The real question of the " ZIP problem , " it seems to me , is not of the annoyance it causes to the public , but rather whether the code has added fresh impetus to the rising tide of many-digited numbers Nhich seeks to efface the uniqueness of eacn individual . GLENN RICHTER . Flushing , L. I. , Aug. 4 , 1963 . To Outlaw Featherbedding Bill Extending Some Provisions of Labor Laws Is Endorsed To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIDIES : The railway labor dispute seems to be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago . The problems involved in it have apparently discouraged those who have at one time or another set their hand to the task . Creative proposals to solve either the immediate questions or the basic long-term structural problems have not been too much in erls dente whether we look to management , labor , the regulatory agencies , the White House , the courts , the Secretary of Labor or the relevant Congressional committees . Therefore it should be a matter of deep interest that a legislative proposal was made on July 22 which would go far toward a general solution to the problem . The bill , S. 1925 , would extend to the railway* industry certain provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act and the Lea Act concerning so-called " featherbedding " or " make work . " The Lea Act , which concerns " featherbedding " in the communications industry , was passed in 1946 and signed into law by President Truman , and was upheld by the Supreme Court in U.S. v. Petrillo , Justice Hugo Black writing the majority opinion , Such a proposal is attractive because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but merely extends a validated principle to cover an area originally excluded on grounds neither legal nor economic . It is attractive because it avoids the questionable precedent of Federal coercion in the settlement of economic disputes that belong rightly to the collective bargaining table , It is attractive , finally , because it is politically possible . One would hope that this creative proposal will be judged on its merits , and neither ignored nor blindly ac ? cepted simply because it was introduced and sponsored by Senator Goldwater . WILLIAM F. RICKENBACKER , Chairman , the Committee on the Economy , The Conservative Party of New York State . New York , Aug. 1 , 1963 . Judge Jones 's Achievements To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The obituary of Judge Walter B , Jones of Montgomery , Ala. , appears ing in your Aug. 2 issue unfortunately failed to present a balanced picture , of his life . Judge Jones was certainly a gentleman of the Old South . revering the heritage of ens family and his region , and was unable willingly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest of the nation in the 20th cert . tury . But Judge Jones was algb man of incredible vitality , placing his energies unreservedly at the service of the civic good . The briefest selection among hi4 accomplishments certainly should include his editorship of The Alai bama Lawyer since 1939 , presidency of and active instructorship in the Jones Law School since 1928 , au. thorship of the six-volume " Alabama Practice and Forms " and several other works . Mention should be made of his editorship of the Alabama Bible Society Quarterly , presidencies of the Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts , the Montgomery County Public Library and the Montgomery Boys Club and the national presidency of his fraternity , Sigma Alpha Epsilon . Although modern demands of newsworthiness may have vitiated the maxim de mortuis nil nisi bouum , certainly one who had a full life is entitled to a reflection of RS completeness . This must be so par ? titularly since The Times saw fit ; to allude to the adverse judgment it had recently received from Judge Jones . DAVID R. HAW . Avg. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES I have been reading with interest and apprehension the proposal for using the top of the Pan-Am Building as a heliport . This section is now the most densely populated area in New York City . Despite all protestations of safety , the helicopter is still a complicated mechanical aircraft . News columns continually report incidents of emergency landings due to one defect or another . With the East River only a few blocks away , would n't it make more sense to build the heliport there ? In addition , despite our sophistica ? Lion , the sight of helicopters con. stantly landing and taking off from the top of a building is bound to cause tremendous distractions for aoth motorists and pedestrians . ALEX E. ALEXANDER . New York , Aug. 5. 1963.                     