@@721611

txt Premier ' Fidel Castro declared tonight that the United States Embassy here must reduce its staff within forty-eight hours to eleven , the number Cuba has in Washington . Speaking before a cheering crowd of more than 100,000 in the Plaza Civica following a great display of Soviet-bloc arms , the Premier accused the Embassy of being the center of ' counter-revolutionary activities against his regime . The speech marked the end Id celebrations of the second ' anniversary ? of Dr. Castro 's ; ouster of the Government of Gen. Fulgencio Batista . The Premier charged that the ; embassy had 300 officials , of 1whom80 per cent were spies of the Federal Bureau of InvestiI gation and the Pentagon . " It is the American Embassy which is paying the terrorists to put bombs in Cuba , " Dr. Castro shouted . Embassy Figure Lower A spokesman of the embassy said it had forty-two American ' officials . He said the total of American personnel was eighty ' seven , including secretaries . Other embassy employes are Cuban . In his speech , Dr. Castro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and counter-revolutionists in Cuba and all support of these criminals . " Dr. Castro added that " if all the American officials wish to I leave the country , then go . " The crowd responded with shouts of " Death to terrorists ! " and " Out with American of . ficials ! " After warning that " all the j peoples of the world " would be involved in war if the United States attacked Cuba , Dr. Cas  --  Itro said that the world had a right to expect that Presidentelect John F. Kennedy 's Admin. istration would " take the world to peace . " j He added that the world hoped the present United j States Administration would not " take the world to war . " Decree Against Terrorists Dr , Castro also said that the ; Cabinet would meet Wednesday ! to pass a decree providing the death penalty for terrorists . However , it was noted that present Cuban laws provide the ! death penalty for all types of counter - revolutionary activity against the regime . I During the last several weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sabotage has been carried out in the interior . While Dr. Castro spoke , a bomb exploded in the vicinity of the Plaza Civica . The crowd gathered in the Plaza Civica after the military parade to hear the Premier was far smaller than those at previous meetings . Estimates of the number ran between 100,000 and 150,000 , compared to 200 , - 000 to 250,000 at previous meetings . The Premier seemed cognizant of the small crowd and said that the members of the army and militia who had just marched in the parade had not remained , because they had to go back on alert against a surprise attack of the United States . While the ceremonies were being conducted here , the armed forces and hundreds of thousands of armed civilian militia were on the alert throughout the country , awaiting the attack by the United States that the Premier said early yesterday morning was " imminent . " The Premier , President Osvaldo Dorticos Torrado , members of the Cabinet , and high officials of the armed forces reviewed the parade . Also in the reviewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist China , other Communist countries and Latin-American countries . Soviet Weapons Displayed American members of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee also were in the stand . The parade was highlighted by weapons purchased during recent months from the Soviet Union and other Communistbloc nations . There were about fifty heavy Soviet J-3 and J-4 tanks , 55-mm. and 105-mm. cannon , truck-drawn field artillery , mortars , six-barrel rocket launchers , four-barrel antiaircraft guns and anti-tank guns . The parade , which started at 11:15 A. M. , was led by Maj. Juan Almeida , Chief of Staff of the Cuban Army . Following the tanks and other heavy equipment , thousands of men and women of the militia marched in close formation . The youthful work brigades , organized several months ago and given military training , were armed with bazookas . At least 1,000 of these youths not more than 17 years old marched , although many others are reported to be training throughout the island . A large unit of women " voluntary teachers " for schools in the interior marched in military formation . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Women combat units of the militia were armed with Similar weapons . Other units of the men 's militia carried automatic Belgian rifles , heavy machine guns , Czechoslovak automatic weapons , bazookas and mortars . 1 The parade was broadcast to the entire island by television and radio . Premier Castro did not dis- play his air force . Cuba is reported to have purchased a considerable number of MIG fighter planes from Czechoslovakia . The parade ended with the presentation of the " Yankee , racket , " fragments of which fell on the north coast . of Oriente Province Nov. 30 . The space rocket , which the announcer said had been " completely reconstructed by Cubans , " was displayed on a truck that was driven in front of the reviewing stand . When the truck halted , the crowd shrieked slogans against the United States and fought to get near the rocket . The ' rocket was fired from Cape Canaveral and destroyed just after launching when it proved defective . The ' request of the United States for the return of the fragments was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today that two children , their mother , father and grandmother were injured Saturday night by the explosion of a bomb in the Mariana() suburb of Havana . The bomb was placed under an automobile parked in front of their residence . The Government press also announced that twelve employes of La Epoca , the big department store that burned Saturday night , had been arrested . They were accused of setting fire to the store , which was nationalized by the Government several weeks ago .                     