@@721934

txt The Communists disclosed today that restive East German farmers had threatened to break up collective farms in protest over the critical situation in the regime 's agricultural system . In other moves the East Berlin authorities announced the tightening of butter rationing and indicated that they would step up controls to stop an al1eged flow of food to %Vest ' Berlin . At least eight persons were arrested and sentenced on charges of food smuggling , according to Eastern newspaper , accounts . Refugee officials in West Berlin said that almost 1.500 East Germans came to the ' West today , a daily record not reached since the 1953 anti- , Communist uprising . About 7.000 fugitives have been reg. ' istered here since the sudden start of a mass exodus last Sunday . Fear of Closure Seen Rankine Western Allied gfficials said the mass flight was a clear indication that East Germans feared they would he sealed off from the West if the Soviet Union carries out its threat to sign a separate peace treaty with East Germany . " People are getting cold feet because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to freedom in their faces , " one official said . The critical food situation , ; supply shortages , pressure on farmers and discriminations against East Berlin commuters with jobs in West Berlin were among the other reasons given for the Sudden upsurge . School holidays , which started Menday , were used by many East : Germans as a pretext for traveling to Berlin . Official Issues Warning Gerhard Grueneberg , agricullural expert in the Communist l'Politburo , revealed that farmers in some areas of the country , had started a movement to break up the Communist lectives and return to individual farming . The Communists last spring enforced total collectivization in East Germany in the face of widespread opposition and resistance . The official warned that East Germany would not tolerate the threatened break-up of collectivization " because this would represent a step back . " His statements were printed today in Neues Deutschland , the Communist party newspaper . East Berlin authorities said their new butter rationing system was to combat " food speculation . " Under the new regulation housewives will have to produce potato rationing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ butter . As every East German has only one potato ration ticket , this will exclude the possibility of anyone 's buying butter at more than one place . While rationing was tightened , the Communists in unofficial press comments rejected an offer by Chancellor Adenauer of West Germany of a gift of 5,000 tons of butter to alleviate supply , shortages . Communist newspapers called the Western offer a " propaganda move . " Western officials said that Dr. Kurt Leopold , West German trade representative , had been authorized to discuss the matter . officially with Eastern trade experts next week . - Meanwhile , Communist newspapers opened a campaign against alleged food smuggling to West Berlin . The Berliner Zeitung warned that so-called smugglers " will be beaten on their dirty fingers . " This was believed to indicate a tightening of border contols.                     