@@728113

txt The Nixon Administration was confronted today with a Democratic uprising against its Vietnam policy that threatened to make the war a divisive partisan issue at home . President Nixon pleaded today at a nationally televised news conference for patience and support of his Vietnam policy . But even as he spoke , a group of liberal and moderate Democrats was considering how to force a confrontation with the Administration that could lead to the'withdrawal ) of all American troops from Vietnam . The - secret caucus on Capitol Hill was called by Senator Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma , the Democratic National Chairman . About a dozen Senators and a dozen Representatives attended it . Back . Student Protest Out of the meeting came a decision by these Democrats to join cause with the nationwide student antiwar protest on Oct. 15 and to press in Congress for resolutions calling for an end to the war and a withdrawal of American troops . As a symbol of support for the student " Vietnam moratorium , " consideration was being given to preventing the Senate from meeting on Oct. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest group is small in numbers , its members are influential in the party 's policy - making circles . Among those present were Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine , the Vice-Presidential candidate last year ; Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator George S. of South Dakota . Out of the meeting , therefore , could grow a partisan divisidn on the Nixon Vietnam policy such as never confronted President Johnson . While Mr. Johnson had to contend with some bipartisan criticism , President Nixon could find himself having to defend himself against an organized attack by Democratic policymakers . " It 's time to take the gloves off on Vietnam , " Senator Harris declared after the luncheon meeting in the Vandenberg Room of the Capitol , named for a former Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee who was an archi-1 tect of the bipartisan foreign policy after World War II . The resolutions being drafted by the Democratic critics are expected to be along the lines of Senator Charles E. Goodell 's resolution calling for the wIthdrawal of all American troops from Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose the same terminal date as the Goodell resolution , the Democrats ' resolutions are similarly expected to call for a systematic withdrawal of the American troops by a certain time . It was apparent that the Goodell resolution , introduced yesterday by the New York Republican , had taken the lid off the Vietnam dissent that had been building up on both sides of the aisle in Congress . Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , delivered a scathing attack on Nixon Vietnam policy in an off-the-record speech last night at the Johns Hopkins School of International Studies . He is considering committee hearings on the Goodell resolution in early I October before the Oct. 15 student protest . Move Scheduled Oct. 8 Similarly , the Democratic critics plan to introduce their resolutions in the House and Senate on Oct. 8 , a week before the student " moratorium " in protest against continuation of the Vietnam war . The Goodell and Democratic resolutions , therefore , could provide the rallying point for the student demonstration , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signs of developing into a nationwide day of protest against the war . The Democrats ' objective , as one member put it , is to turn the Oct. 15 moratorium into " an important moral event , " comparable to the 1963 civil rights march in Washingto.i . The hope of the Democratic group , therefore , is that support of the moratorium can be broadened beyond its student organizers , most of whom were active in the Presidential candidacy of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy , to include members of Congress , church groups and business leaders . One decision at the meeting was to draft a letter supporting the student protest and outlining what individual members of Congress could do in their home states on Oct. 15 to participate in the moratorium . Would Prevent Quorum Just as the student protesters are proposing to shut down universities by boycotting classes on Oct. 15 , so there was discussion among the Democratic critics over how they might shut down the Senate that day . Their likely tactic would be to assure that there would be enough Senators absent so the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Should this tactic be employed , it would be almost certain to arose political emotions over Vietnam to a bitter level , for it would certainly run into charges from Administration supporters that the critics were preventing the Senate from coniducting official business at a tirne when American boys were fighting and dying in Vietnam . Senator Harris termed it " incredible " that the President should declare at his news conference that the moratorium protest would have no effect whatsoever on his views . The resolution to be presented in the Senate is being drafted by Senator and Senator Frank Church of Idaho , two prominent critics of the war . The resolutions for the House are being written by Representatives Morris K. Udall of Arizona and John Brademas of Indiana , two Democratic liberals . Church Voices Doubt Some consideration was given to endorsing the Goodell resolution , thus giving the attack a bipartisan flovor . But ' Senator Church has constitutional reservations about the Goodell approach of using Congress 's control of the purse strings to cut off funds for any troops in Vietnam after Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Church is a nonbinding sense-of-the Senate resolution calling for total withdrawal of all troops by a certain date . Among the others participating in the meeting were Senators Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota , Birch Bayh of Indiana , Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island and Mike Gravel of Alaska , and Representatives Allard K. Lowenstein of Nassau , Brock Adams of Washington , Edward P. Boland of Massachusetts , John Conyers Jr . of Michigan and Robert W. Kastenmeier of Wisconsin . The complete list of participants was kept secret by Senator Harris .                     