@@722988

txt Fez . Morocco Two conflicting forces are exerting a powerful pull on the North African countries : deeply felt socialistic Arabism , as exemplified in recent upheavals in Iraq and Syria , and the lure of Western culture , technology , and financial aid . In the past , socialistic Arab-ism was identified almost exclusively with United Arab Republic President Nasser . But since the recent revolutions in Baghdad and Damascus were largely engineered by the Baath ( or Arab Socialist Renaissance ) Party , that party now has moved center stage to share the limelight with him . He and the Baathists have common aims , but they have yet to work out a satisfactory relationship on methods . Premier Ahmed ben Bella 's Algeria is the only North African state where the Arab socialist and Western elements seem blended into a single national policy and where the doctrines of pro-Nasser or Baathist forces are not regarded as a threat to the established government . Algeria , though aided by the West , was the first country in this region to recognize both the Iraqi and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both cases with such enthusiasm that Baathists and supporters of Mr. Nasser throughout the Arab world now refer to it , together with Egypt , republican Yemen , Syria , and Iraq , as a " liberated brother state . " Colorful Ceremony Morocco 's King Hassan II , who leans heavily on United States and French economic aid , signed agreements here March 8 with visiting Italian President Segni which will add a stronger contribution by Rome to Morocco 's agriculture and petroleum industry . The King and Mr. Segni attended a colorful and dramatic ceremony here in which Fez and Florence , Italy , were declared twin cities , following a similar pageant in Florence on Sept. 7 , 1961 , which the King had also attended . kgreements Reached King Hassan is visiting Algeria for the first time March 13-15 before sailing for the United States March 20 . He is trying to work out the best of possible relationships with Algeria so that the new " Arab socialist " bloc , comprising the U.A.R. , Iraq , and Syria , does not become a serious threat to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who announced after a North African foreign-ministers meeting in Rabat last month that he would resume diplomatic ties he broke off with Algeria last Jan. 18 , is doing the same thing . A Moroccan delegation to Algiers headed by Prince Moulay Abdullah , the King 's younger brother , worked out agreements with Algeria on relatively routine issues such as exchange of consuls , border traffic , and coordination of educational and legal systems . The National Union , which groups left-wing political opponents of King Hassan here , makes no secret of its strong predilection for the Beath. or Arab Socialist Renaissance Party of Syrian revolutionary Premier Salah al-Bitar . Its press frequently reports Baath Party activities in detail and hints at links with the Baathists : National Union supporters , like the Baathists of the Middle East , arc chiefly younger , well-educated people who are dissatisfied with the old social order but who dislike communism of the Moscow or Peking varieties .                     