@@727761

txt War With . Gas arid Qerrri In his recent message to the Geneva arms control raonference , President Nixon lifted control of chemical and biological weapons as one of six possible objectives for international agreement . The President 's brief mention is one of the rare departures from the official policy of deep silence which the United States Government has maintained for many years with regard to these weapons . Since 1964 it has not even been possible to determine how much money the Government is spending an these weapons . Funds for research and development have been scattered through the Defense Department budget under uninformative descriptions . On the initiative of Representative Richard D. McCarthy of upstate New York , the Army recently held a briefing on chemical and biological warfare for members of Congress , but it was closed to the press and the public . Pentagon spokesmen regularly refuse to answer more than the most elementary questions concerning these weapons . When an experiment with lethal nerve gas went awry a year ago and killed over 6,000 sheep in Utah , the Army for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of silence and deliberate mystification is inexcusable in a free nation . As Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin has observed , there is no reason why the public can not know the facts and debate the issues of biological and chemical warfare just . as it has come to know and debate those of , nuclear warfare . In both cases the survival of mankind and the future of this planet are at stake . - In letters to Secretary of State Rogers and Secretary of Defense . Laird , Representative McCarthy has raised major questions of public policy which deserve answer . Is it national policy to respond in kind to a gas attack or a biological weapon attack ? Is it sound public policy to contemplate using weapons with which no country has had any operational experience ? If gas and biological warfare efforts are purely defensive in nature , why have the American people never been told what to do in case of a nerve gat attack or a hallucinatory gas attack ? What precautions are used in the testing and the transport of these weapons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? These are only a few of the questions which have never been properly discussed because of the official policy of silence and secrecy . Yet several hundred million dollars are spent each year by the United States on these weapons . The pressure to use them is rising . Already this country has employed chemical warfare to defoliate jungles and destroy crops in Vietnam and has used various kinds of incapacitating gases against Communist troops there . These actions violate the spirit if not the letter of the Geneva convention of 1925 . Last August , the British Government moved at the United Nations for a new international agreement to clarify and update the Geneva convention with regard to chemical and biological warfare . A U.N . staff study on this proposal is due by July 1 . But it is not necessary for the United States to wait before discharging its own responsibilities . The Nixon Administration can offer a straightforward exposition of its policies in this field . Congress can take down the " Please Do Not Disturb " sign from this program and begin to discharge its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  