@@726476

txt Drama societies of British universities are becoming more and more enterprising . Instead of sticking to established classics , they are branching out . Oxford began it . At many Edinburgh festivals in the past it has produced new plays that have not been presented elsewhere . Now other university groups are following its lead . At this year 's festival in August and September , Edinburgh University is offering new plays . So is Cambridge . And Keele has devised a program based by one of its students on the works of Samuel Beckett  --  approved by Mr. Beckett himself . But the Oxford players will remain the center of interest . Once again  --  in the middle of that Royal Mile that runs from the castle above to Holyrood Palace down below  --  they are putting on another new play . Oxford has notched out a high reputation at Scotland 's festival culminating last year in the presentation of Tom Stoppard 's " Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead . " It was so successful that it later was taken by the National Theater and today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Trends .. . The record industry is moving steadily to a stereo-only market . In some areas of the United States distributors are ordering 10 stereo discs to every one monaural . And in many instances the reorder pattern of monaural albums , following their initial release , has become insignificant . One straw in the groove : Beginning with its initial autumn release in August , Deutsche Grammophon will begin to phase out its monaural albums . Rolling art exhibits are catching on big . They are piling up more mileage every day . The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond was the innovator . It cranked up Artmobile I in 1953 . Last fall it sent Artmobile IV on its way . Other states are putting their own shows on the road . The Arkansas Art Center and the Detroit Institute of Art also have treasures traveling deeper into remoter territory . The Minneapolis Institute of Art 's " gallery on wheels " is the latest . It began roaming the state last spring . Fred Haseltine , assistant to the director of the Virginia Museum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 2,000-mile tour per season . Inside their narrow corridors , the four air-conditioned , humidity-controlled trailers haul all manner of works from Picassos to Indian artifacts . Minneapolis 's artmobile , the newest , has a different twist . On tour now , it highlights American art ranging from the paintings of John Singer Sargent and Thomas Eakins to the handiwork of craftsmen and furniture-makers ? all fitted snugly into a livingroomlike setting . Now the Museum of Modern Art in New York is shaping up the idea of a teaching artmobile . Tentatively titled , " Children 's Art Carnival , " the trailer is still in the project stage . But it is scheduled to have on board the tools that have made the museum 's own teaching projects such leaders in the art education field . During its first two years the National Endowment for the Arts has granted $6.5 million for programs and $2 million to state arts councils . For fiscal 1968 , the budget will be $4.5 million for programs and $2 million for states . Chairman Roger L. Stevens feels that congressional support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government deficit that affects the program . How and why ... In Rome young Tito Schipa Jr . is producing " beat " opera . He is the son of the Italian opera star of an earlier era . Coincidentally , " And Then a Road " ( the music is by Bob Dylan ) is the story of the day-to-day life of the son of a famous tenor ? and of many other youngsters . Young Schipa explains that " beat " opera is essentially musical entertainment , with no place for acting . Yet it is not , he says , " yeah-yeah " music based only on rhythm and therefore incapable of expressing a theatrical situation . On the contrary , he insists , the performance of folk songs , Bob Dylan style , requires great expressiveness.                     