@@728064

txt Anchorage , Alaska , Sept. 9 ( P ) - Alaska will waste no time cashing in on the one-billiondollar bonanza which state officials expect from an oil lease sale tomorrow . As representatives of the world 's major oil companies converged today on this onetime frontier town , a DC-8 jet chartered by the Bank of America was ready to fly their checks directly to banks in New York , Chicago , and San Francisco . The money will be invested in United States treasury securities , and the state , it was explained , does n't want to lose any time drawing interest on the money . 179 Tracts Available The oilmen will crowd into a municipal auditorium to bid on 10-year leases on the land , which has been broken up into 179 tracts . Successful bidders will get the right to explore , drill , and drain oil from deep beneath the frozen tundra . They 'll have to give the state 12 1/2 per cent of all oil production . The oilmen wilt be holding open telephone lines and will have millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to sit thru a bidding program that opens with 10 minutes of movie film on the wilds of Alaska with background music . An Alaska poet named Larry Beck will read his latest poem , entitled " Black Gold . ' ' ' State officials will make opening remarks . Face Long Delay The bids will be opened , and ' there will be a long delay while Thomas E. Kelley , state commissioner of natural resources , and his men sort them into tracts before the successful bidders are announced . Kelly estimates the whole process may take seven hours . Then an armored car with Alaska state troopers will take the checks to the waiting jet . When the plane lands in New York , the troopers will escort the checks to banks . The oil bonanza is expected to bring Alaska from its status of a frontier land into a per capita wealth known by few other states . The luminaries of the oil world were playing the game close to the vest as they prepared to plunk down checks . Lease Phone Lines Many oil companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other parts of the nation so their bidders could confer with top management . Most of the bigger companies brought bank representatives with them to approve outlays of money in the millions . But the oilmen were n't even telling their bankers today how much they planned to bid for given tracts . Oilmen were hard to find in this city of 125,000 . Most were closeted in sold-out hotels and motels . Some Bank of America officials had to sleep on their chartered plane , Others slept in the board room of a bank .                     