@@726258

txt A bold , new attempt to solve Latin America 's staggering economic problems is about to be made . As hemisphere presidents left Punta del Este for their homelands , the agreement they signed here to create a Latin-American common market sets the stage for a massive effort by New World nations to bring a better life to Latin America 's 250 million people . Ecuador has refused to sign the " Declaration of the Presidents of America , " according to a Reuters report . Ecuador 's President Otto Arosemena said the terms of the document were " not in keeping with the principal demands of countries in a similar stage of development as Ecuador . " President Arosemena has repeatedly demanded increased . United States aid to Latin America . The task will not be an easy one Indeed ,  --  the problems ahead are nothing short of enormous . But the steps taken here this week are broadly viewed as the first major step . Series of projects outlined The hemisphere presidents in the " Declaration of the Presidents of America " agreed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fledgling and limited footsteps already taken toward a Latin-American common market ( embracing all South American nations except Guyana but also including Mexico ) and the Central American Common Market ( embracing all the Central American nations ) . Moreover what follows in the months and years ahead , leading to 1985 when the new common market is to be fully in operation , has been substantially outlined by the hemisphere presidents at the Punta del Este meeting , in their declaration Friday . It provides for laying down the physical foundations of Latin America 's economic integration through a series of multinational projects and for the joining together in efforts to substantially increase Latin America 's foreign-trade earnings . Basically , the common-market idea is designed to become the key instrument in Latin-American economic development in the decades ahead . It aims at , correcting the problems which have stagnated Latin America 's economy and have produced the chaotic social conditions in which the majority of Latin Americans live . The United States pledged to support the effort in a variety of ways . If there was disappointment among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its pledge of support , there was , however , a sense of appreciation to the United States for the pledge . U.S. to help ease transition President Johnson in commenting on the new common-market plan said that he would " recommend a substantial contribution to a fund that will help ease the transition into an integrated regional economy . " But he warned Latin Americans that the present pace of change " is not fast enough . It will remain too slow  --  unless you join energies , your skills , and commitments in a mighty effort that extends into the farthest reaches , of this hemisphere . " Actually , this is what the summit session Was designed to inspire . With the exception of Ecuador the other 19 hemisphere nations assembled at Punta. del Este , approved the document without reservation . This in itself is a major achievement . For Latin America has not been as united as many a hemisphere visionary has proclaimed . Despite similar backgrounds , individual differences among Latin-American nations have been broad . Washington role assessed The role of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In part , at least , it was ambivalent . While it took a subdued role in talks here and in earlier conferences leading to the presidential meeting , the Johnson administration pushed hard for the common-market idea concurrent with the Latin-American lead from President Frei and others . Indeed , this push has sometimes nettled Latin Americans whoArgued that Washington was not fully cognizant of just how far Latin Americans were prepared to go on the project themselves . In the final analysis , however , the declaration of Punta . del Este is a joint effort  --  largely Latin American in concept but with a strong and vigorous assist from the United States . As the plan is implemented , the major responsibility will fall on the Latin Americans . But the United States is committed to major assistance for the plan . Latin Americans are counting on this sort of support .                     