@@725341

txt Dissatisfaction developed in the Legislature today over Governor Rockefeller 's plan to exempt New York City 's transit workers from certain penalties of the Condon-Wadlin Law , so that they can receive the raises they won in last month 's strike . Despite great stress by the Governor on the urgency of passing his exemption bill and despite his written message of necessity to waive the normal requirement that bills " age " three days before being considered , no action was taken by either legislative house . Nevertheless the likelihood was that the bill would be passed sometime later in the week , perhaps tomorrow , but not before several attempts are made to amend it . An Election Year The reason the Governor 's bill is expected to pass is that many legislators , in spite of their opposition to Mr. Rockefeller 's approach to the problem , do not want to appear to be taking an antilabor position in an election year . The muddle arose last week when State Supreme Court Justice Irving H. Saypol ruled that it would be illegal for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last month in violation of the Condon-Wadlin Law . The muchcriticized law forbids strikes by public employes and bars any raises to strikers for three years . The settlement of the crippling 12-day strike provided for 15 per cent wage increases over the next two years . The first 4 per cent was to have been retroactive to Jan. 13 , Two Questions Raised A citizen lawyer , George Weinstein of Bayside , Queens , sued to prevent the Transit Authority from paying the raises for three years . The misgivings about the Governor 's plan , which came from both Republicans and Democrats , were expressed in two questions being asked here today : ( 1 ) How can you exempt transit workers from the penalties when you do n't exempt the ferryboat captains and welfare workers ? ( Both groups struck in New York City last year . Several ferry captains were discharged , and the question of penalties for the welfare workers is still being argued in the courts. ) ( 2 ) Why should the Legisla- ture pass hastily drafted , stopgap legislation when there is general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed ? Earl W. Brydges , the Republican majority leader of the Senate , said his colleagues were concerned that " if we pass this bill gratuitously , Civil Service groups may feel that it 's better to get a special bill every time they strike rather than seek an intelligent overhaul of Condon-Wadlin . " A Manhattan Democrat expressed his annoyance this way : " If the Governor and Lindsay need this bill to save their heads , then we 've got them where we want them . This is the time to press for an intelligent change in the Condon-Wadlin Law . " The Democrats pushed through a bill last year to soften the law 's penalties , but the Governor vetoed it on the ground that it would have vitiated the law 's deterrent effect . Some legislators denounced the Governor for making a " special category " out of the transit workers , presumably because they are 34,000 strong and have a powerful lobby . The Senate 's Democratic minority leader , Joseph Zaretzki , said that his side would try to amend the Governor 's bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but that if the amendments were defeated , " we wo n't be happy about it , but we 'll go with the Rockefeller bill . " The Governor 's position is that because the court ruling has held up the transit workers ' pay increase , " there is imminent danger of a renewal of the transit strike , " and " enactment of the bill is necessary to prevent a recurrence of this tragedy . " In his message of necessity , Mr. Rockefeller stressed that later in the session , as he had previously promised , he would propose over-all revision of the Condon-Wadlin Law . A- delegation from one of the two welfare-worker unions in New York City ? the Social Service Employes Union  --  tried to see the Governor today to urge him to include them in his exemption bill . The three-member group was referred to one of the Governor 's aides , Dr. William H. Hambrecht , who told them the bill and message of necessity had already been printed and could not . be amended . The leaders of both welfare unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " discriminatory " and " extremely cynical . " Special Treatment Hit Mrs. Judith Mage , president of the Social Service Employes Union , said : ' The only way we can view the bill is that the government gives special treatment only to public employes who can put the city in a mess , but not to those whose strikes affect only a few people . " An official of the other welfare union , Local 371 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , said that if the transit workers were exempted and penalties were eventually imposed on the welfare employes who struck last year , " I promise you we will , go on strike . " The Governor 's bill also came under sharp attack from Victor Gotbaum , executive director of Local 371 's parent union , District Council 37 of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes , A.F.L.-C.I.O . He noted that welfare workers and their union leaders still faced penalties as a result of their strike last year . " If transit employes and their leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a strike , " he said , " Governor Rockefeller is virtually inviting welfare workers to take the same action in order to protect themselves . " Despite this opposition , Mr. Rockefeller 's bill drew sturdy support from other labor quarters  --  from the New York City Central Labor Council , from the State Chapter of the American Federation of LaborCongress of Industrial Organizations , and of course from Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union . The president of Local 100 , Daniel Gilmartin , who was in Albany to try to rally support for the bill , said he thought " it 's the only solution . " He said his members were " very restless " over the delay in getting pay increases . " They just want to get paid , " Mr. Gilmartin said " They do n't want to hear anything about technicalities . " While the legislators spent most of their time today privately discussing the transitpay bill and arguing over reapportionment , there was some action on routine legislation . The Senate , by a vote of 40 to 21 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drivers ' licenses of persons convicted of speeding 20 miles an hour above a posted speed limit of 50 miles or more . The Assembly passed the Governor 's deficiency budget of $59.1-million for the current fiscal year . This budget , embodied in two bills , covers expenses not anticipated when the budget was drafted last year . Mr. Rockefeller had asked for $64.8-million , but Assembly Democrats trimmed it by $5.7-million . The Senate approved one of these budget bills last week and is expected to pass the second this week .                     