@@723530

txt After talking politics several times with Dwight Eisenhower , Barry Goldwater is convinced the former President wo n't try to blockade his march toward the Republican Presidential nomination . " Eisenhower wo n't endorse anybody , " the Senator has reason to believe , " and after the convention he 'll support whtever the nominee may be . " Sen. Goldwater intends next to talk man-toman with Richard Nixon , whom he has n't seen since the 1960 campaign . He believes the former Vice President still hankers for a chance at the White House , and he wants to find out how Mr. Nixon intends to proceed . In other ways , too , the Goldwater troops and their leader are preparing for the day , probably in January , when the Arizona Senator will toss his sombrero irretrievably into the ring . His speeches are becoming tinged with antiKennedy election fervor and are carefully avoiding issues that divide the GOP . While the draft-Goldwater forces working independently of the Senator have been building an impressive organization , he himself has run almost a oneman show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outline of a campaign staff is beginning to emerge . Little things are revealing : Victor Johnson , director of the GOP Senatonal Campaign Committee and a former Taft stalwart who is the most knowledgeable political pro in the Goldwater ranks , has stepped up his scouting forays among Republicans around the country . A speech writer , ex-newspaperman William Flythe , has been hired to help hard-pressed press secretary Tony Smith and advance texts of speeches are being put out more often to help insure maximum coverage . The Senator 's politics-shy wife , Peggy , accompanies him on more speech-making expeditions . A news ticker has been installed in the Senator 's office to keep him abreast of national and international developments and permit prompt comments on them . And , Denison Kitchel , who is officially titled the Senator 's campaign manager for re-eleetrim to the Senate , has moved from Phoenix into an unmarked suite of offices in the Carroll Arms Hotel , a block from the Capitol . Organizing Aimdemicians Among other things , Mr. Kitchel will organize more regular solicitation of ideas and position papers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include Gottfried Haberler , a Harvard economist : Gerhart Niemeyer , a Notre Dame expert on Communist ideology ; Milton Friedman , a University of Chicago economist ; and Stephan T Possony , a political scientist at Stanford . Mr. Kitchel is taking other steps toward " getting the man prepared in case he makes the decision . " The campaign manager intends to compile a microfilm library of the Senator 's expressed views . Mr. Goldwater has written two books , 700 newspaper columns , innumerable statements and he 's given hundreds of interviews . But neither he nor his managers know precisely what stand he 's taken at different times on some of the numberless subjects on which he 's spoken . Recordak Corp. , a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Co. , will index the microfilm library on punch cards When complete , the information retrieval system will flash on a screen , at the push of a button , whatever the Senator has said , where and to whom , on any given subject " I want to be able to find out within seconds what he 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information system will cost roughly $10.000 . Name-Culling Project In a further step toward mechanization of the Goldwater campaign . Mr. Kitchel envisions getting a computer to compile lists of names and addresses of all the Americans who have written the Senator about a given subject or expressed interest in him ; the campaign manager views this as a handy help in building local Goldwater organizations when the time is ripe . The preparation for the Presidential race will entail a continued heavy round of speechmaking before Republican and other audiences On the heels of the swing that took him late last week to Hershey . Pa . San Antonio , Texas , and Eugene , Ore , Mr. Goldwater will invade Kennedy territory tomorrow night to address a state GOP finance committee gathering in Boston . Later this month he has speaking dates in California , Connecticut , New York and New Hampshire ; his latter appearance may . in effect , open a duel with New York Gov Rockefeller for votes in the Granite State 's Presidential primary next March , the nation 's first . In these and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions . will be watching his words to avoid offending liberal Republicans or other voting blocs It 's unlikely that he 'll again . as he did in Jackson , Miss. , in 1959 , call Chief Justice Warren a socialist He wo n't again . as he did in 1961 , label the Eisenhower program a " dime-store New Deal . " He won't. if his campaign aides can help it , volunteer the view that it 's immoral to tax a $100 000-a-vear e ? - ecutive at a higher rate than a $10 000-a ? vear office worker And he wo n't repeat a 140 assertion that where college fraternities axon t allowed . communism flourishes In recent political swings the Senator his been sounding less like a conservatn e pher and more like a hard-slugging party warrior He s thumping themes intended to appeal to moderate and eon.ervative Republican alike . Big Government spending swollen bureaucracy , inadequate economic growth the " hammerlock of boss rule " 1r corruptionstained . Democratic-ruled big cities The Senator also is trying to smooth over his party s ideological splits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pennsylvama 's moderate-liberal GOP Sen. Hugh Scott , he called lien Scott a bras e resister of executiN e env ! oachment ; yet Sen. Scott is a sponsor of the Kennedy plan to bar /mint Ms ( unination in stores , hotels and t estau ! ants , a proposal Sen. Goldwater thinks V10-latvg the Constitution The conservative leader also is trying to scotch the notion , to which lie once seemingly lent an ear , that Republican election strategy should ignore the urban masses of the North and East while mobilizing the South and the hamlets and towns of the Middle and Far West " Some of my supporters think we can win an election by avoiding suppotters , " he explains , a bit wryly . Some men around the Senator , in fact , detect hidden potential in the big cities . Catholic voters in particular , they argue . will defect from the Democratic banner not only because the Kennedy Administration emphasizes Negro rights too much but also because the President opposes Federal aid to church-related schools Assuming the President 's Catholicism Is n't an issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more militant anti-communism would woo substantial numbeis of Catholic votes . As for his stated beliefs , the Senator has swung somewhat toward the center of the political road , but more in tone than substance . Perhaps the most important shift is his current view that the 14th Amendment does give the Federal Government authority to deal with school segregation ; he no longer believes , as he once put it , that the Supreme Court 's 1954 desegregation ruling " is n't necessarily the law of the land , ? ' and he now supports Presidential enforcement of the court 's desegregation decrees with troops , if necessary . Mr Goldwater does n't rule out some further modification of his stated views , though he adds : " My basic conservative position remains the same . " He 'll probably clarify his intentions toward the progressive income tax , and some advisers want him to stop talking about summarily withdrawing diplomatic recognition from Russia and to talk instead about threatening to break off ties in oider to make the Kremlin abide by world law . It 's true the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open put stilt of the nomination . " I 'm not running , " he insists " I have n't quite made up my mind " To those who ask if lie really wants to tun , the Senator tephes ' ' To be honest with von , no " This does n't mean , of coin se , that he wo n't One reason for coyness , which the Senator candidly acknowledges , is the air of mv , tei v and heightened interest that unannounced candidates evoke . " From a straight political point of view , it 's not a bad position to occupy , " he notes ; an aide adds that " running while not running " gives the Senator added flexibility . Before publicly declaring he 's in the race , the Senator wants to test the depth and breadth of the demand for him . Once he suggested his popularity might be based on the simple fact he 's so well known to the party faithful . having traveled a million miles and delivered a thousand speeches as chairman of the Republican Senatorial Campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the lingering fear that a Goldwater defeat by liberal Democrat Kennedy could damage the conservative cause . A bad beating , some associates calculate , could crush conservative influence In the GOP and possibly in the country , permitting what they see as another four-year dose of heavy Government spending and another leap toward " statism " Most Goldwater backers seem confident their man would at least run respectably against Mr. Kennedy if the election were held now . But suppose the nuclear test ban treaty , wheat sales , and U S. and Russian pledges to refrain from military exploitation of outer space should lead to an era of good feeling reminiscent of the wartime Soviet-American alliance ? " These are among the factors that roust be considered , " says Mr. Kitchel . Another adviser declares : " If the Kennedys take the antiCommunist issue away from us , we could get clobbered " Some in Goldwater 's inner circle suspect the New Frontier is capable of tarring their man as a warmonger Democratic Sen Church of Idaho tipped off the possible line of attack last month at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : he said Sen Goldwater could n't be trusted to maintain peace and he sought to prove the Arizonan " is committed to the policy of initiating the use of force in the struggle against communism " Sen. Goldwater , meanwhile , is moving to outflank the Administration on the peace issue His thesis is that every understanding with Moscow flows from Administration weakness : for example , that the wheat sales were made possible by Mr. Kennedy 's failure to insist on a quid pro quo , such as withdrawal of Soviet troops from Cuba or dismantling the Berlin Wall . " How can any American be confident that the next concession or the one after that is statesmanship or just plain politii king , " he asks . " Do the Russians withdraw from Cuba now or a year from now , a few weeks before the election ? "                     