@@724505

txt Paris " We can never forget him . " The words were quietly spoken . But they conveyed profound intensity . They voiced a gratitude not often heard in France these days when the subject of discussion is Britain . The speaker was one of those Frenchmen , austere , gentlemanly , well-dressed , and with the inevitable cane hanging on his forearm . He was not the kind one usually addresses in the street without an introduction . But I did so . Hone and Courage ' " Pardon , Monsieur , " I said , " hut 1 am thinking of Churchill . " He did not wait for me to go on . " Ali , " he said , " he was a great man ? a very great man . have all his six volumes . I listened to all his radioed speeches during the war . They brought us hope and courage . No , we can never forget . " Then monsieur paraphrased the " blood , toil , tears , and sweat " passage from one of Churchill 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we parted he offered me his hand as if we were already acquaintances . So on a Paris street corner . beside a newspaper kiosk near Place Vendome , an American and a Frenchman together took note of the news that was coming in from London . In French home circles , where memories of the war years are still vivid , tears sprang to the eyes of fathers and mothers as they tried to express to their children the full meaning of the latest radio or television news from Churchill 's home in Hyde Park Gate . Colorful memories are stirring among French people and officials alike who were guiding French affairs 20 or more years ago . Officials , too , remember the constantly repeated radio messages from Churchill urging them not to give up the tight . They remember his shuttling back and forth across the channel in his famous siren suit , the costume he wore for air travel . Great Surprise They also remember the difficulties between him and General de Gaulle , and Churchill 's slighting reference to the French leader as " the constable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a French translator and his own insistence that he understood what was being said by Premier Paul Reynaud without the translator 's aid was followed by a serious misunderstanding about delivery of British planes to the French forces . They remember n terrible moment in 1940 at the Qual D'Orsay , the French Foreign Office . Churchill confronted French Gen. Maurice Gamelin with the question , " Where is the strategic reserve ? " General Gamelin told him in one word , ' " Aucune " ( that there was none ) . That experience Churchill ; later described as " one of the greatest surprises of my life . " 1 Hero 's Welcome But other , more sympathetic memories stretch back beyond World War II . Churchill , the French know , was a life-long friend of France . They can feel how the defeatism and wavering on the part of the French leadership in 1940 affected him . It affected many French patriots in the same way . Many Frenchmen remember seeing the hero 's welcome that France gave Churchill on the Avenue des Champs Elysees when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it as " one of the proudest and most moving occasions of my life . " The British wartime leader was made one of the foreign associates of the Institute of France . He was elected to the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences in 1944 . This is a small part of the , scroll of history , whereon , b e ' they the names of soldiers or statesmen , philosophers or kings , Winston Churchill 's has a special glow .                     