@@726810

txt Expect more labor political campaigning in American suburbs in 1968 . More than half of all union families are suburbanites now . The AFL-CIO is calling these bedroom towns " the new frontier of politics . " From a trade-union point of view , the political potential of many of these outlying communities still is untapped . In newer suburbs particularly , political lines have not yet hardened , according to the federation 's Committee on Political Education . COPE plans " well-organized " suburban committees to try to " harden " the lines ? for Democrats . American Motors is next on the United Auto Workers bargaining program . And the auto industry 's financially weak fourth domestic car producer is hoping for special consideration . AMC talks with the union will resume the first week in January . Recently Walter Reuther , UAW president , said the union recognizes that " economic realities " make it difficult for a company with less than 5 percent of the car market to stay in business . Mr. Reuther and other union officials also have said that UAW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employer out of business . But will AMC auto unionists stay on the job for less than the 6 percent a year that " big three " workers will get ? That 's a critical question . Recently AMC workers at Kenosha , Wis. , have taken UAW advice and stuck to jobs . Earlier this year they were restless and engaged in a number of wildcat strikes . Detroit guesses that the union will work out a settlement with American Motors that will put off part of the workers ' gains to the second and third years of the contract , or that will give them less at first but set up some form of profit sharing that will give them additional gains as AMC fares better . American Motors now expects to be out of the red by mid-1968. e Add Austria to the list of countries trying to hold down labor 's wage demands and strike threats . In warnings closely similar to those of President Johnson and others in the United States Government , Austrian Chancellor Josef Klaus has told labor that " wage demands which exceed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 percent for 1967 are no longer possible . " They could , he says , lead to " serious economic consequences . " Labor is being urged to put $1 billion of its pension fund reserves into slum housing . In making this suggestion , Robert C. Weaver , Secretary of Housing and Urban Development , says , " there is no better potential for enlightened self-interest and social service than investment in programs that generate construction . " The AFL-CIO 's building and construction trade department is studying the Weaver proposal . But the crafts ' investment policies are traditionally conservative . Most of the federation 's reserves go into government bonds . 0 Amalgamation of the nation 's transportation unions ? The idea was once advanced by James R. Hoffa of the Teamsters . Now it 's being suggested again in modified form by the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks ( AFL-CIO ) . Its president , C. L. Dennis , proposes a permanent conference of transportation unions ? instead of one big union for all transportation workers . He says other leaders " share my enthusiasm for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consider mutual problems in the sprawling , rolling transportation industry . Trends ... New increases in living costs have added to labor pressures for higher wages . The government 's Consumer Price Index rose in October ( the latest figure ) by 0.3 percent  --  or 3 cents on every $10 spent . It was the ninth straight month of price rises and carried the national index to 117.5 percent of 1957-59 average costs . Nearly half a million workers under " escalator " contracts , which link wage hikes to the price index , got automatic pay increases . Most of them received a 2-to-41 , - cents-an-hour boost . Further cost-of-living jumps are expected , continuing into the new year . This means that labor wage demands inevitably will be set higher . And " escalator " protection of new raises will be demanded more militantly.                     