@@724228

txt President Johnson carried his campaign into bedrock Republican ground in Pennsylvania tonight , and honed his bipartisan appeal for unity to a finer edge of partisanship . He used it to deliver a cutting attack on extremism . The President called on voters of every political stripe to form , around his standard , " a more perfect union " in opposition to " reckless factions " that he said were " abroad in this responsible land . " He did not name his Republican opponent , Senator Barry Goldwater . He warned against " extreme factionalism , " whose representatives , he said , " wear many names " and " espouse many causes . " " They demand , " the President said , " you choose a doe. : trine alien to America  --  a doctrine that would lead to a tragic convulsion in our foreign relations  --  a doctrine that flouts the unity of our society and searches for scapegoats among our people . " " It is a doctrine that invites extremism to take over our land , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destiny  --  and this generation of Americans will have no part of it . " The President spoke at a Democratic fund-raising dinner . Although he drafted his appeal to cut across " political persua sion or party membership , " his remarks nonetheless constituted a sharply partisan attack against those whom he cate gorized as : " Contemptuous toward the will of majorities , callous to ward the plight of minorities , arrogant toward allies , bellig erent toward adversaries , care less toward peace . " Mr. Johnson thus sought to appeal to moderate Republicans in an area that normally is overwhelmingly Republican . He even invoked the names and the " spirit " of two prom anent Pennsylvania Repub licans , former President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Gov , Wil ham W. Scranton . President Johnson 's brief for ay into these eastern Pennsylvania foothills of Appalachia brought him to a $100-a-plate dinner attended by some 4,200 persons . Mr. Johnson spoke in the steamy heat of a long steelgirdered and cement block building normally used for farm shows . His listeners , many of them in shirtsleeves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40 rows of tables at dinner . But they received the President With unrestrained enthusiasm . The President flew by helicopter from the White House directly to the site of the dinner , the Farm Show Arena Building by the weed-choked Pennsylvania Railroad tracks on the edge of the broad , shallow Susquehanna River . Choice and Echo Although Mr. Johnson did not name Senator Goldwater , there was no mistaking the target of his shots . He began in a muted key and with measured pacing . But then he warmed to his task as he tested and found the full responsiveness of the crowd . It was passionately partisan . The President delineated his own version of the Goldwater " choice , not an echo " theme , listing the choice of the majority as affirming such things as Social Security , the minimum wage , full employment , the United Nations and expanded trade . For each one , he said , " the fading echo of the few says no . " The crowd picked up the refrain and shouted in unison with him , " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign affairs , the President said , " it is a matter of no small significance that no one anywhere is boasting now of burying us . " He went on : " We intend to keep America prosperous , powerful and unafraid ? unafraid to stand against any enemy in defense of freedom  --  unafraid to sit at any table in pursuit of honorable peace . " He evoked a roar of approval when he detailed the kind of " free and undivided " nation he envisions , " where all people alike respect the law and the law respects people , " and then added : " We are a nation of lovers , and not a nation of haters . " Mr. Johnson reminded his listeners that 177 years ago next week , on Sept. 17 , " here in Pennsylvania the Constitution of our United States was born . " Thirty - nine delegates to the Constitutional Convention signed the Constitution on Sept. 17 , 1787 , in Philadelphia . World ' Swept by Change ' In the years since then , Mr. Johnson noted , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen . " " But , " he continued , " the oath I took last Nov. 22 as the 36th President was the same oath taken by the first President , George Washington . " Mr. Johnson said the United States system of government stood today " as the most stable and most successful in the history of man . " " This is not a victory of party or of politics , or even of Presidents , " he said , adding : " Whatever our allegiance politically , whatever our interests privately , whatever our concerns personally , we must not let our year of decision become our year of division . " It was then that the President denounced " the division of extreme factionalism . " From the first Presidential election until now , he declared , choosing a President has never raised the prospect of " changes in the broad purposes of the American people . " He said he had faith that the American people " are neither sick in spirit nor faint in moral courage . " " They will reject , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once said ' agitates the community with ill-founded jealousies and false alarms , or kindles the animosity of one party against another . ' " " Those are the words of the first President , " Mr. Johnson said , " but I believe that ( Washington 's spirit must be the spirit of the next President ? and every President who follows him . " " Yes , " said the President , " and I am proud to say it is the spirit of Bill Scranton and Dwight D. Eisenhower . "                     