@@726278

txt Paragraph Missing ised offensively against out fighter bombers , " he said . " It is true they could take sanctuary in Red China hitt they would be at a disadvantage . " Time Is Lengthened Westmoreland pointed out that in taking off from distant Chinese fields the " reaction time " of the soviet-built MIGs to the warning of approaching American planes would be considerably lengthened . The soviet interceptors are said to have a combat radius of only 350 miles . The general collided head-on with Sen. Percy R. , 111.1 who took an opposite view at an earlier Associated Press panel discussion . The senator said that only last week the state and defense departments had assured him the policy . was not to bomb MIG air fields . " This indicates to me that a United States senator simply ca n't get the information that he seeks from the executive department , " Percy stated . " This Os one stop nearer involving Red China in the conflict . " Warns of Losses In his speech before more than 1,000 newspaper executives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s along the home front would " inevitably cost lives " of American soldiers and their allies on the fighting front . He said he saw signs of enemy success on the propaganda front in the world arena . " He the enemy does not understand that American democracy is founded on debate , and he sees every protest as evidence of crumbling morale and diminishing resolve , " stated Westmoreland . " Thus , discouraged by repeated military defeats but encouraged by what he believes to be popular opposition to our effort in Viet Nam , he is determined to continue his aggression from the north . " Despite military progress , the commanding general foresaw " some of the bitterest fighting of the war " in the months ahead . During his appearance in the Grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria hotel , fewer than 100 pickets of Youth Against War and Fascism marched across the street from the hotel . Two men attempted to set fire to a kerosene-soaked dummy bearing a sign reacting " War Criminal Westmoreland . " Police seized the pair . Inside the ballroom it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choral group called " Up With People " sang patriotic songs . Resounding applause greeted the effort . Westmoreland asserted that this was no civil war , but an attempt at conquest of the south by the communist north . He asserted that it was " the cruelest kind of war  --  terrorism " in which civilians were shot , bombed a n d mutilated . He placed the toll during the last nine years at 53,000 Vietnamese killed . Calls Picture Favorable Altho he reported the military picture as " favorable , " the speaker saw no evidence to indicate the enemy was slowing up his invasion or breaking tip major units . T h e commanding general said he was encouraged by obvious improvement in the morale , proficiency , and quality of the South Viet Nam fighting f or c e s . He praised America 's stanch allies , the Koreans , Australians , New Zealanders , Thais , and Filipinos . Then he expressed his admiration for American soldiers , sailors , airmen , marines , and coast guardsmen . He said the American individual fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the next day , a sensitive , compassionate friend helping the Vietnamese people . Asked About Troops During the question and answer period , Westmoreland said the need for new troops was under constant review , but that numbers were not given out because of " military security . " Westmoreland said he was a soldier and had " no political intentions . " Sen. Percy was one of the first to stand and applaud when Gen. Westmoreland concluded . At a panel discussion in the morning , Sen. Percy said an all-Asian peace conference may be the best way to end the war . Says Ile 's Not Swayed In a brief press conference tonight , Percy said that he was not swayed from his views on an all-Asian peace conference despite Gen. Westmoreland 's speech , " It was a moderate talk , " Percy said , " and I agree with his appreciation of the valor of American troops . " Asked if he believed it would be possible to get Asian leaders as Chiang Kai-shek of Nationalist China , Mao Tse-tung of Red China , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ table to discuss the possibility of Viet Nam peace , Percy said that it was not a new idea . Ile remarked that President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines already has urged an all-Asian conference , and that Thanat Khoma , Thailand 's foreign minister , also indorsed the suggestion .                     