@@721638

txt A zero-zero fog descended on New York early yesterday , disrupted air transportation and caused a number of highway accidents and injuries . Beginning at about 1 A. M. , airports in the metropolitan area were progressively closed . Shortly after noon , New York International Airport at Idlewild , Queens , and Newark and Teterboro Airports reopened . But La Guardia was shut down until 10:26 P. M. , when the first plane took off . The first flight to land at the reopened airport arrived at 10:41 P. M. LaGuardia said shortly after that it expected operations to continue normally . The fog returned briefly in late afternoon , further delaying the already congested schedules and forcing the diversion of two jet liners . One of these , a Lufthansa craft with FranzJosef Strauss , the West German , Defense Minister , on board , was sent to Montreal . The other landed at Boston to refuel and ' then returned here . Driving Hazardous Driving was hazardous in many parts of the metropolitan area . Fifteen persons were injured in multiple-car pile-ups on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other roads . The New Jersey Turnpike cut its speed limit from sixty to , thirty-five miles an hour . Staten Island ferries ran fifteen minnteS behind schedule . The Atlantic Coast from southern New England to Virginia was cloaked in gray during the early morning . The fog lifted gradually , but erratically . For example , Idlewild reopened at 12:22 P. M. under haze but with a ceiling of 5,000 feet and ground visibility of two and a half miles . At La Guardia , however , a few miles to the north in Queens , the ceiling was at ground level and the visibility was nil , or zero-zero. 100 Shifts at Idlewild More than 100 flights were delayed , diverted or canceled at Idlewild and about the same at La Guardia . About forty - five flights were canceled at La Guardia and twenty at Idlewild . Incoming flights were diverted to Boston , Albany , Syracuse , Detroit , Washington and other cities where landing conditions were better . Transcontinental flights for New York were held in Chicago and Detroit . The last outbound flight from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. yester // day . The last inbound flight landed four minutes later . When service was resumed , forty-eight airliners were lined up at the ramp and on the runways waiting to take off . Later in the afternoon , planes were leaving from thirty to forty minutes late and arriving an hour late . At La Guardia , inbound service ended at 1:20 A. M. and outbound service at 1:55 A. M. Thereafter , no landings were allowed but a few planes left from time to time when the fog temporarily lifted . Newark Airport suspended - operations from 1:30 A. K to 1:30 P. - M. and Teterboro Airport from 3 A. K to 1 F. K Ten persons were injured in ; an early morning multiple-car collision in the southbound lane of the New Jersey Turnpike In East Brunswick Township just south of the Route 18 overpass . One car hit another , which spun around , and then four other cars ran into the first two . Five persons were taken to near-by hospitals , where they are reported in " good " or " fair " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York State Thruway a mile south of Harriman at about 7 A. K , and within a few minutes five other cars and two trucks had piled up on the wreckage . Five persons were hurt and two of them were taken to a Cornwall hospital with head injuries . They were Thomas F. H. Murray , 45 years old , and Thomas Peter Murray , 52 , his uncle , both of 81 Perry Street , Manhattan . Some rain and cooler temperatures , with the fog lifting during the morning , was the forecast for today . The , outiook for tomorrow and Tuesday was partly cloudy skies with seasonable temperatures .                     