@@726768

txt The Federal Trade Commission is preparing to police the advertising of real estate concerns that do not sell or rent to Negroes . Whether the commission 's plans for such a move against discrimination in housing will ' ever be put into effect depends , however , on a decision by the White House on filling an impending vacancy on the fiveman commission . Under its basic statutory authority to police false advertising , the commission voted this week to file suits against a number of real estate concerns in Washington . Suits Elsewhere Planned The suits charge that the ads ' of these concerns are false andl misleading because they do not state that the properties offered for sale or rent are available only to white persons . Suits in other areas of the country are also planned . The vote on filing the suits was 3 to 2 , however , and one member of the majority , Commissioner John R. Reilly , is about to leave the commission to return to private law practice . The commission 's chairman , Paul Rand Dixon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business getting into civil rights matters , is reported to be holding up the filing of the suits until President Johnson names a successor to Mr. Reilly . Mr. Dixon 's candidate for the job is , the agency 's general counsel , James . Henderson , ' a Texan , who also opposes the attack on real estate advertising . ? The:two other major candiThe commission 's majority ' also see its planned attack as an aid to the recent drive of the Department of Defense to force landlords near military bases to open their facilities to all . The department has issued orders covering military personnel of several bases in the Washington , D. C. area , stating that no base personnel may in the future rent from landlords who will not rent to all . The commission 's majority believes that its planned suits would help the Pentagon identify the offending landlords and also mobilize opinion against them . The commission has been considering action against false advertising of housing accommodations for at least two years , it was learned . However , there was never a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , persuaded Mr. Reilly to support it . Mr. Reilly is an old friend of the Kennedy family and was chosen for the commission by President Kennedy . The two other members of the commission who support the move against false real estate advertising are Philip Elman and Mary Gardiner Jones . In addition to Chairman Dixon , Commissioner A. Everette Maclntyre opposed it . // dates for the job are believed to side with the commission 's present majority . They are Neal P. Rutledge , a Washington lawyer and son of the late Supreme Court Justice Wiley B. Rutledge , and Willard F. Mueller , the commission 's chief economist A number of issues before the often-divided commission , other than the use of its powers to try to force open occupancy of housing , are also at stake in the naming of a succesor to Commissioner Reilly . Among these are the commission 's role in policing cigarette advertising and its policies with respect to corporate mergers . Mr. Henderson tends to believe that the commission should play a very limited role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on real estate advertising , though it would begin with cases in Washington , is seen by the commission 's present majority as just the beginning of an attempt to use its powers to force open occupancy in many other parts of the country . Officials explained that there were several possible outcomes in event the commission won its suits requiring real estate concerns to state that their properties were available to whites only , where that was the case . Where there are state or local laws forbidding discrimination in housing , the real estate concerns would be forced either to change their policies or to stop advertising . Where no such laws exist , the commission 's majority believes , appearance of ads stat                     