@@721400

txt Washington , Aug. 19 ? President Eisenhower won three major foreign aid victories in the Senate Friday , two on the Senate floor and a third in the Senate appropriations committee . The Senate provided the money , or authorized the administration to make new foreign commitments for which it would be given the money la t e r , aggregating more than 4 billion 681 million dollars . In separate ac-tions : 1 . The Senate voted 54 to 19 to authorize the President to promise . the representatives of the American republics when they meet next month 500 million dollars for a Latin American " social development " program , and 100 million dollars for Chilean ! earthquake relief . Adds to Contingency Fund 2 : The Senate voted 59 to 14 to authorize the appropria tion of 100 million dollars to replenish the President 's contingency fund from which he can draw money to spend on aid in international emergencies , . such as the Congo crisis in Africa , without getting specific authorization from Congress . 3 . The Senate appropriations committee approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and June 30 , 1961 , of $3,981 , - 350,000 , having restored almost all the money for foreign aid cut out of the bill by the House . Runs Into Opposition The President 's 600 million dollar Latin American aid and relief program ran into some sharp opposition as Sen. Russell Long ID .. La. led the attack on it as a giveaway with no specific program in mind . " Why ca n't they wait until January on this , and meantime develop some kind of a program ? " Sen. John McClel- - Ian D , Ark. asked of Long and the Senate . " Does this make sense , with our fiscal situation what it is ? " I 'm willing to vote them some aid when this foreign spending program is put on a practical basi s , " McClellan said . Start , Ca n't Stop " We all know that this is the beginning of a multibillion dollar program , It 's just like mutual aid  --  once you get into it , they say you ca n't quit . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government . I 'm not going to be a party to it . " Sen. Henry Dworshak R. , Idaho said he could not understand why the administration will not find the 700 mil , lion dollars development loan fund ample to take care of Latin American " social de ' velopment " needs . Long attacked the adminis-. tration assertion that thecrisis in the Congo had . depleted the President 's contingency fund . He said the ' President " has n't spent five cents " of the contingency fund in the Congo . Called Sales Talk " That 's just - its Madison avenue sales talk , " Long said . Long charged that France , in granting independence to two of its African colonies , cut them off without a cent of the money which had been coming out of the French treasury and had been keeping them going . " But we were standing by , " Long said , " ready to pick up where France left off . That 's where the money from the President 's contingency fund was spent . " In sending the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor for a vote next week , the Senate appropriations committee restored all of the money cut by the House except its 200 million dollar reduction in the President 's proposed 2 billion dollar military assistance program . The committee held that the 1.8 billions in military aid voted by the House , which was 500 million dollars more than was appropriated last year , should be adequate . In addition to restoring the $296,850,000 the House had cut from the aid appropriation measure , the Senate committee voted an appropriation of the extra 100 million dot-. lars for the President 's contingency fund in anticipation of the favorable Senate action later Friday approving the authorization.                     