@@724071

txt Allen W. Dulles recommended to President Johnson today that more agents of the Federal ' Bureau of Investigation be sent to Mississippi to help " control and prosecute terroristic activities . " Back from a quick survey of the tense racial situation in that state , Mr. Dulles spent nearly two hours briefing the President . Mr. Dulles , former Director of Central Intelligence , was sent to Mississippi Wednesday as the President 's special representative . Tonight the Justice Department announced the first concrete result of intensified F.B.I . activity in Mississippi . It was the arrest of three white men on charges of threatening civil rights workers . The case did not relate directly to the three young men missing since Sunday from Philadelphia , Miss . Instead it involved civil rights activities in Itta Bens , which is about 85 miles northwest of Philadelphia . In Jackson , Miss. , Gov . Paul B. Johnson Jr . indicated that he had agreed to further Federal assistance in policing Mississippi against terrorists . Leaves It Up to Hoover Mr. Dulles , talking to reporters after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many more F.B.I . agents he thought should be assigned to Mississippi . He said that would be up to J. Edgar Hoover , director of the bureau . Spokesmen for the bureau declined to say how many , if any , additional agents would be smt to Mississippi . They also declined to say how many agents were already stationed there . The stepped-up F.B.I . activity was the principal recommendation made to the President by Mr. Dulles , who also made two other suggestions . He proposed that dontact be maintained between President Johnson and Governor Johnson " to facilitate local , state and , as appropriate , Federal action to endeavor to control and prosecute terroristic activities , " He recommended that various organizations sponsoring and financing voter registration and other projects in Mississippi alert their recruits that " very , very grave danger " awaited them in that state . Mr. Dulles was sent to Mississippi after three young men working in such a project disappeared near Philadelphia , Miss . Mr. Dulles said that the President had appeared to favor his recommendations and had indicated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , President Johnson and Mr. Dulles telephoned Governor Johnson in Jackson and outlined the proposals to him . Governor Johnson seemed to favor the suggestions , Mr. Dulles said , " but I 'll let him speak for himself . " The Dulles suggestions were generally viewed as " fairly low key , " an obvious attempt not to jam the channels of communication between Federal and state authorities . Asked if he thought other kinds of Federal forces would be needed , Mr. Dulles replied , " I do n't think that will be necessary . " He specifically said he did not think more Federal marshals were now needed in Mississippi . Mr. Dulles emphasized that state and local authorities " have the main burden in suppressing these terroristic activities . " Such activities are suspected , but not definitely established , he said , in the disappearance of Michael Schwerner , 24 years old , and Andrew Goodman , 21 , two white men from New York . and James Chaney , 22 , of Meridian , Miss. , a Negro . Search Is On for Three They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outskirts of Philadelphia . Released from jail that night , they were last seen driving south toward Meridian . Their burned station wagon was found Tuesday , 17 miles north of Philadelphia . A wide search is under way for the men . Mr. Dulles 's assignment in MisSissippi was to evaluate the law-enforcement situation there . He singled out two groups ? the Ku Klux Klan and the Americans for the Preservation of the White Race ? as typical of the " clandestine groups " that he said must be carefully watched . While suggesting that civil Amoclate4PremVilmalloto Allen W. Dulles at a news conference in Washington . rights groups should alert their workers to the danger involved in carrying out voter registration and education projects in Mississippi , Mr. Dulles said he was not recommending that such groups withdraw . " Americans have the freedom to travel around , " he said . The first contingent of specially trained volunteers , most of them college students from the North , arrived in Mississippi Sunday to work in hardcore segregationist areas . Others are scheduled to arrive there this weekend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the precaution of notifying the state or local police of their whereabouts at all times to be certain of maximum protection . While in Mississippi , Mr. Dulles said , he conferred with numerous state and local officials , including Governor Johnson and his top aides , and with Negro leaders and church and business groups . He said that he had received " full cooperation " from everyone .                     