@@721230

txt The Kremlin told the United States today that it would bring to trial an American pilot shot down over the Soviet Union on May 1 while on a reconnaissance mission . In an official note of " emphatic protest " the Soviet Union threatened that it would take " retaliatory measures " against any repetition of American intelligence flights over its territory . At the same time the United States Embassy in Moscow delivered a brief note to Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko requesting an interview with the pilot , Francis Gary Powers . Premier Khrushchev has declared that Mr. Powers was captured after his single-engine U-2 plane was shot down by a rocket near the Urals industrial center of Sverdlovsk . Plane Exhibit Prepared Meanwhile , the Soviet Union was setting the stage for a public display of some of the wreckage of the plane it described as the downed American aircraft . It was expected that the exhibition would Its preceded by a news conference . Pieces of a plane , including part of an unmarked wing and other pieces of twisted metal , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gorky Park . Other objects purported to be equipment from the wreckage were set on pedestals . Today 's Soviet protest note did not give any more detail about the incident than had been disclosed by Mr. Khrushchev . It said an investigation by Soviet experts of available data had " incontrovertibly established " that Mr. Powers , a civilian pilot from Pound , Va. , was flying a plane based in Turkey and sent through Pakistan into the Soviet Union " with hostile purposes . " No Trial Date Given " ' Pilot Powers , about whose fate the Embassy of the United States of America inquired in its note of May 6 , is alive and , as indicated in the aforementioned speech of Chairman of the U. S. S. R. Council of Ministers , N. S. Khrushchev , will be brought to account under the laws of the Soviet state , " the note asserted . It did not indicate when the trial would take place or on what precise charges Mr. Powers would be tried . The Soviet note said that in light of the plane incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American-Soviet relations to the worst times of cold war and to poison the international situation before the summit meeting . " Nevertheless it coneluded with an expression of hope that the United States Government would halt such " dangerous provocations " and " search through joint efforts with the Soviet Union and with other interested states for a solution of unsettled international problems on a mutually acceptable basis . " At a Czechoslovak Embassy reception last night Mr. Khrushchev warned that the Soviet Union would strike at the base of any nation that permitted United States planes to take off for reconnaisance flights over the Soviet Union . Mr. Khrushchev also talked privately with Ambassador Llewellyn E. Thompson Jr . on the eve of the envoy 's departure for Paris to get ready for the summit conference , which starts next Monday . It was reported that when Mr. Thompson asked the Premier informally whether it would be possible to see the imprisoned pilot soon Mr. Khrushchev replied that Soviet authorities " probably will let you see the pilot in due course . " A 1933 agreement between the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consular officials of the ' arrest of a national within three days in large centers and seven days in remote areas . It also provides for the right of " immediate consular access . " During Mr. Thompson 's talk with Mr. Khrushchev the Premier was described as having been " amicable and affable . " This gave the impression that attempts would continue to keep relations cordial despite the explosive revelations concerning the plane incident . Open Skies ' Idea Scored The Soviet note had scathing comment about recent State Department statements that United States aerial reconnaissance emphasized the need for adopting President Eisenhoi.ver 's " open skies " proposal of 1955 . " Does n't all this mean that with the refusal of a number of states to accept this proposal for open skies the . United States is attempting arbitrarily to take upon itself the right ' to open ' a foreign sky ? " the note said . It added that by conducting reconnaissance flights just before the summit meeting the United States had demonstrated that the " two Governments view *differently the necessity for improving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable basis for the success of the forthcoming summit meeting . " " The . Government of the Soviet Union makes an emphatic protest to the Government of the United States , " the note concluded , " in connection with the aggressive acts of American aviation and warns that if similar provocations are repeated it will be obliged to take retaliatory measures , responsibility for the consequences of which will rest on the governments of states committing aggression against other countries . " This seemed to be a repetition of Mr. Khrushchexes threats last night to the Ambassadors of Pakistan and Norway . To the Pakistani charg ? d'affaires Premier Khrushchev was said to have declared that Peshawar , where Mr. Powers reportedly took off for his mission , " has been marked on our map and a ring has been put around it by Soviet defense forces . " . " In future , if any American plane- is allowed to use Peshawar as a base of operation against the Soviet Union , we will take immediate retaliatory measures , " Mr. Khrushchev added . His words to Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the same line . Mr. Powers was reported by Mr. Khrushchev to have planned to land at the Norwegian base of Bodo on the flight from Peshawar across the Soviet Union .                     