@@722685

txt A senate-House conference committee , in an upset for the Administration , voted today to impose stiff new trading sanctions against Yugosla iia and Poland . Their action came as the conferczs reached agreement on the final version of a foreign trade bill that in all other major respects followed President Kennedy 's recommendations for " a bold new instrument " to expand world commerce . The disputed provision would require the President to withdraw " as soon as practicable " tariff concessions extended to Yugoslavia and Poland under the most-favored-nation trading policy . The traditional mostfavored-nation principle extends to all countries tariff concessions granted by the United States to one or more countries in bilateral or multilateral negotiations . Backed in House The ban was written into the trade , bill by the House Ways , and Means Committee , but was , deleted by the Senate Finance Committee . In the conference committee , the House conferees , headed by Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas , adamantly insisted upon retention of the ban incorporated in the House bill . Administration spokesmen contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote Polish and Yugoslav independence from the Soviet Union . Conferees , in reconciling differences between the House and Senate versions of the trade bill , spent much of the day arguing over the disputed proviso . Finally , the Senate delegation gave in and accepted it . Most-favored-nation benefits for countries " dominated by international Communism " are prohibited under other provisions of the bill , as they had been under the now-expired Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 . Concern Over Impact The Administration 's interpretation has been that the ban applied to the Soviet Union , Communist China and Cuba , but not to Poland and Yugoslavia . The new proviso , designed specifically to include those two nations in the prohibition , refers to " any country or area dominated or controlled by Communism . " One immediate effect , according to Congressional staff experts , would be to require a sharp rise in the tariff on zinc sheet that Yugoslavia has been shipping to the United States . The Administration apparently is more concerned , however , over the possible psychological impact of driving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CoL ' 4 nomic and political alliance With the Soviet Union . The same consideration motites the Administration 's opsition to a proviso in the pending foreign aid appropriation bill . This would bar United States aid to Poland and Yugoslavia except for shipments of surplus farm products . While the conference agreement on the trade bill will not go to the Senate and House floors for final action until next tveeic , it appeared unlikely that the conferees would meet again to reconsider their action on the Poland-Yugoslavia issue . Since bills adopted by conference committees can not be revised on the floor , the Senile and House can not defeat the Proviso without rejecting the Whole measure . This was regarded as even less likely . The conferees compromised all other Senate-House differences in a manner satisfactory to the Administration . They approved in substance a iieries of Senate amendments designed to give the President Preventive and retaliatory weapons against discriminatory Import curbs by the European ' Economic Community , or Common Market : The amendments are aimed Mainly at existing and proposed Common Market restrictions On imports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President to withdraW or withhold tariff concesSiotik to Common Market countriOt ? on their products . The irreSident would have wide discretion in determining whether to use the authority . Both the House and Senate bills provided the broad new tariff cutting powers sought by President Kennedy as a bargaining lever for the mutual reduction of trade barriers in tnegotiation with the European 4Common Market and other nonommunist countries . Those provisions consequently were not at issue in the conference committee . They include authority to reduce any tariff 50 per cent beOw the present rate and to , ' remove duties - " entirely from commodities that the United States and the Common Market account for 80 per cent of world trade . The conferees eliminated a , Senate amendment that would have allowed the President to include exports of Great Britain and six other Prospective members of the Common Market in applying the 80-per cent rule . Present members of the trading bloc are Fiance , West Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg . ' As the bill stands , exports of Britain and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had ' joined the Common Market . The final bill , as approved by  --  the conferees , also carries out the President 's request for a , new program of " trade adjustment assistance " to industries and workers hurt by increased imports of competitive products . The measure includes a Senate amendment under which the Federal Government would finance the entire cost of ' unemployment and retraining benefits to workers . Under the House version , part of the cost would have been paid from state unemployment compensation funds .                     