@@722519

txt Saskatchewan 's Doctors Problems Confronting Striping M.D. 's and Government Examined To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Those who condemn the doctors on strike in Saskatchewan in no uncertain style , meanwhile citing the Hippocratic oath , should realize that essentially social problems like this must be considered within the present-day frame of reference , which is a bit different than in the days of the Isle of Kos , millennia ago . Those who say the doctors have every right to strike may not realize the importance of the medical profession in rendering an essential service which must be kept going at whatever cost . It has been said many times that the doctor must realize his responsibility to the public to give services , wherever needed , and to the best of his ability . On the other hand , the public  --  that is the state which makes the rules  --  should realize that the doctdrs have an inalienable right to question these rules . Inflexible Rules In Saskatchewan the rules were questioned chiefly because they were inflexible . They allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his patients under the state 's rules and at the state 's wage scale , without any possibility of other practice , or else ! Not getting anywhere , the doctorg struck ; whether wisely or unwisely is hard to say . Certainly they used a weapon which is quite characteristic of modern society . I myself think they might well have continued negotiating , while simultaneously living by the state 's rules on a temporary basis . State or " socialized " medicine has now becofne a well-ordered way of life in many countries . I have seen it in operation in such diverse places as Britain , the Scandinavian countries , the Communist bloc countries , New Zealand , and in South America . Each country seems to have set up its own ground rules which , although they vary , are generally well liked by the consumer public and tolerated or even liked by the practicing physician . In those places ( for example , the Soviet Union , Czechoslovakia ) where state medicine is total and compulsory , private practice is bootlegged , as it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " professor " and obtain an objective opinion . Following the abortive revolutions in Poland and in Hungary , where the same rules formerly applied , about 40 per cent of the physicians set up some degree of private practice which the consumer public enthusiastically supported . New Zealand 's System New Zealand seems to have evolved a sensible system in which the patient has free hospitalization and free choice of physician , with the state picking up the tab , the physician meanwhile having freedom to practice according to the state 's rules or individually , as he and the patient see fit . For a government to make hard , stringent " take-it-or-leave-it " rules is no way to treat an honorable profession or the public ; for the doctors to strike in all-out fashion is against all the honorable rules of the profession ; for the public to judge the situation in an all black or all white fashion is surely not advisable . The public , as I have seen it in the countries cited above , likes both state medicine and the chance to utilize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation in Saskatchewan should not be judged too hastily nor too harshly . It requires flexibility and tolerance from all concerned . WILLIAM DAMESHEK , M. D. , Director , Pratt Clinic , New England Center Hospital . Boston , July 5 , 1962 . For Phonetic English Reform Advocated as Aid Both in Schools and Internationally To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In his letter to The Times of June 25 Watson Washburn , president of the Reading Reform Foundation , asserts that if the phonetic method of learning to read were substituted for the picture-reading method , at least two years would be gained by the average pupil in our elementary schools . If our language were really phonetic that might be true , but it is far . from phonetic , as many a logically minded adult " poor speller " will testify . We are getting reports from all ' over the world of the eagerness of people in every country to learn English . As never before there , is a demand for a universal language , and English , because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical choice . The stumbling block is its chaotic phonetics . If we will seize this opportunity to simplify English phonetically , we will not only release a large amount of time in our elementary schools for teaching other important subjects but we will provide one of the most effective possible instruments for international understanding . To be sure , it will mean a chaotic period in the publishing world and for us " oldsters " the inconvenience of strange new spelling of many words . This will offend the sentimental and those who cherish the historical implications of our present spelling , but are not these two important objectives worth the sacrifice ? George Bernard Shaw and Melvil Dewey , author of the Dewey library cataloguing system , preached the need Of this reform for many years . Has not the time come when the objectives to be gained should force us to listen to them ? CONSTANCE WARREN , President Emeritus of Sarah Law ? rence College . North Waterford , Me. , July 2 , 1962 . Non-Communist but Not Free TOTHEEDITOROFTHENew York Trmics : In his lucid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has shown convincingly , that the " black-and-white " method of teaching the subject is wrong . It can not explain its successes and its , appeal to the poor , the ignorant and the uncommitted of the world . That is , pupils should not be taught that everything is black in Communist countries . This is one side of the picture . It is equally important to emphasize that the schools must not convey to pupils a distorted picture of the other side , as if the evils attributed to Communist countries do not exist in the non-Communist countries . Dictatorships , one-party states , countries without a parliamentary regime or with false parliamentarianism , police terror , concentration camps , unfree and biased courts , judicial murders , even slavery can be found in the non-Communist countries . In dealing with the subject it is a sweeping and misleading generalization to call them " free . " ROBERT MAJOR . New York , July 5 , 1962 . Senator Javits Praised To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a lifetime Democrat who often voted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party 's decision that it will not endorse Senator Javits for re-election , a decision made even before the Democratic nominee is known . The reason given is that Senator Javits , a Republican , has been critical of President Kennedy and his program . What an unfortunate victory of form over substance . I worked in the United States Senate as Senator Wayne Morse 's assistant and as counsel to several Senate subcommittees , and I can testify that Senator Javits is a working , effective liberal . He has been an indispensable leader in the bipartisan group working for civil rights legislation . He is a liberal , and a stanch one , in the area of civil liberties . He is a liberal on economic questions , foreign and domestic . What more could the Liberal , party want ? Perhaps most important is his function as a leader of the small group of liberals among the Republicans in the Senate . Theirs is a difficult role , to be both liberal and Republican . They need all the encouragement they can get , especially the less doughty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jersey . Here Senator Javits plays a key role of leader and pace setter along with Senator Cooper of Kentucky . They are worth their weight in votes and moral force for liberal , progressive government . ' MERTON C. BERNSTEIN . Bethany , Conn. , July 1 , 1962 . Manners for Cyclists To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If young cyclists seem oblivious to the rules of the road , it may be because they follow the example of some adults . I have in mind delivery-boys , messengers and particularly those week-end wheelers who rent machines and wobble off in the hope ' of recapturing a long-forgotten skill . One-way streets are ridden the other way ; traffic lights are for cars ( and even pedestrians ) not cyclists ; sidewalks are just another right-of-way , with the cry of " Behind you " meant to be fair warning . Prohibition will not do . Cyclists of all ages should be encouraged to follow the rule of the road , and to watch their manners . ROBERT MAITLAND . New York , July 1 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            