@@721163

txt WASHINGTON , April 6 ? The colloquial meaning of " to badger " is to worry everybody in range , and that describes the results of Tuesday 's Presidential preference primary in the geographical subdivision commonly referred to as the " Badger State . " In this instance three built-in factors are responsible for the worry the Wisconsin primary has spread among the politicians of both major political parties in this Presidential year . These factors are : The free participation of Republicans in Democratic primaries . The surfacing of the underground issue over religious affiliation , inevitable , alas , when Senator Kennedy , a Roman Catholic , decided to seek the Presidency . The handicap ( Vice President Nixon 's ) of an unopposed candidate of one party when there is an emotional and widely publicized contest among members of the other . Some Interpretations If these three factors had been absent last Tuesday , the national politicjans , the primary entrants and the analysts of voting meanings , now hopelessly entangled in Wisconsin returns in which every claimed asset can also be rated a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these long-range interpretations : 1 . By attracting a popular majority of 100,000 plus over his rival , Senator Hubert H. Humphrey , from the neighboring state of Minnesota , and carrying six of ten Congressional Districts ( one agricultural ) , Kennedy , from the far-off and Yankee Commonwealth of Massachusetts , showed an ability to get votes in highly diversified communities that helped establish the priority of his claim as the strongest candidate for President the Democrats could choose . 4 2 . By his superior show of strength in three of . four agricultural districts , and by poling a much higher percentage ( 44 ) of the 1 total Democratic primary vote than the " experts " calculated , Humphrey registered popular support which makes him a real contender for the party Presidential nomination and , failing this , a front-runner for second place . 3 . In view of the facts that he was alone on . the Republican ticket , had made no campaign appearance in Wisconsin , and issues in the Democratic contest induced certain Republican ? groups to take ' the . advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percentage of the total cast in the primary . This total of something under 30 per cent offers no substantial encouragement to a stop-Nixon movement in the party convention . Same Figures , Opposite Deductions But the three complications cited above promoted not only all these claims and analyses , but their opposites . Hence in today 's published and broadcast examinations , and private political interpretations , of what the Wisconsin primary means to the ultimate convention and electoral decisions of 1960 , these contentions were to be noted : 1 . The concentration of votes for Kennedy in strongly Catholic areas of Wisconsin presages , if he is nominated at Los Angeles , a Catholic versus Protestant division in this country that will tend to solidify the Protestant voting majority in this country against him . Since such a division will be deeply injurious to the next Administration , which will be required to exercise even heavier world responsibilities with the support of a unified people , the Democratic convention will not assume responsibility for the risk . The Farm Vote 2 . If Humphrey could n't win , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dairy state next-door to his own , where also his party is committed to his brand of " liberalism , " he can not be counted on to keep the farm vote away from the Republicans in November . And that is essential to a Democratic victory . 3 . Nixon 's low vote in a Republican state , and as contrasted with previous turnouts for uncontested Presidential candidates of the party , demonstrates his nomination will lead to certain defeat . The Repub. licans now have reason to know in advance from the Wisconsin primary that he can not get the Democratic , independent or even Repub. lican votes he will require to be elected . The obvious inconsistencies in both these sets of interpretation : demonstrate that Wisconsin is aptly known as the " Badger State . " Show of Strength                     