@@727868

txt Mayor Lindsay added his support today to those in President Nixon 's inner circle of advisers who believe that the present welfare system must be revised radically . Appearing before the President 's Urban Affairs Council , he urged that the present system be " scrapped " and presented Mr. Nixon with " general criteria " for welfare reform . Aclcording to informed sources the criteria were as follows : 14The Federal Government should carry a far heavier share of the welfare burden to " take some of the tax load of welfare off the backs of middle- and lower-income taxpayers in the cities . " gin any new system , there should be national minimum standards established at a " minimally decent level . " gNo recipient should receive less under a new system than he receives under the existing system . CCities and areas that contribute a proportionally greater amount of their total budgets to welfare should be treated as equitably as areas that contribute smaller shares . There should be , in any new system , some form of income maintenance for the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels . People should not be penalized for working . CGreater incentive must be provided for families to remain together . Mayor Lindsay was on hand // also far the swearing in of Donald Rumsfeld , former Illinois Congressman , as director of the Office of Economic Opportunity . President Nixon described the job being assumed by Mr. Rumsfeld  --  that of leading the drive on poverty ? as " of very great importance " in his Administration . Mr. Rumsfeld took the oath of office from Judge Austin L. Fickling of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia . Mr. Lindsay 's appearance here came as Mr. Nixon was in the process of choosing between two major welfare proposals devised by his staff and Cabinet advisers . Both would require major changes in the present system , but one is considerably more innovative than the other . One proposal would establish  --  for the first time in this country  --  a form of income maintenance for families with employed fathers . Known in White House circles as the Family Security Plan , it would be financed entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with no incomes , to payments of $1,500 to $1,800 annually . This proposal has the support of Robert H. Finch , the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and of Daniel Patrick Moynihan , the President 's chief adviser on urban affairs . The alternative program would establish a minimum national welfare standard , probably at a level of about $40 a month a person , with additional Federal aid provided to bring payments up to that level in the poorer states . At present , payments vary widely from state to state : Mississippi , for example , pays an average of $8.50 a month to dependent children ; New York pays $71.50 . The alternative plan , however , would leave the present categories of welfare assistance largely unchanged . The controversial Aid to Dependent Children program would remain intact ? despite the higher payments it would provide in the poorer states ? as would the categorical aid programs to the aged , the blind , the physically disabled and so on . The chief sponsor of the second plan is Dr. Arthur F. Burns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income maintenance on principle . At the White House , the Burns package is known as the " conservative " plan and the Finch-Moynihan package as the " liberal " plan . Even though Dr. Burns 's proposal for minimum standards is regarded as a progressive move toward a more equitable system , Mr. Moynihan 's proposal for some form of income maintenance is regarded as far more radical . Mr. Lindsay 's proposals , as he presented them to the Urban Affairs Council and as they were described by informed sources later , appeared to contain elements of both of the White House staff plans . For example , he supported the concept of income maintenance for employed but poor fathers , which is the key to the Moynihan-Finch proposal . At the same time Mr. Lindsay said that he wanted higher Federal payments to the states , work-incentive programs and changes in the present system that would provide payments to families with unemployed fathers . All three are elements of Dr. Burns 's proposal . In Mr. Lindsay 's view , however , neither White House plan as presently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural areas , which have a smaller welfare burden . The Mayor calculated that about 33 states , even under the Finch-Moynihan Family Security System , would have to continue to maintain payments so that benefits would not drop below present levels . The states that would particularly suffer , he told Mr. Nixon , are California , Illinois , Massachusetts , Michigan , Minnes'ota Maryland , New York , New Jersey , Connecticut and Wisconsin . The Mayor reportedly proposed a number of additional ideas to correct that inequity and to increase Federal aid to the major urban states . One mechanism , he suggested , Would be for the Federal Government to establish a minimum welfare standard and then devise a Federal-state formula . Under this formula , states would receive Federal funds in relation to their effort ( the amount a state is willing to contribute ) and to their needs ( the number of poor they have ) . Authoritative sources said that the various White House proposals would cost the Treasury about $2-billion annually  --  with Dr. Burns 's proposal costing somewhat less than the Finch-Moynihan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depending on what formula was adopted and how many states chose to participate . In a related development , Mr. Moynihan announced the . goals of the Administration 's summer youth program . He said that $643.8-million would be spent to provide 891 , - 000 jobs and other services for largely disadvantaged youths between June 1 and Sept. 1 A significant proportion of the jobs , he said , will be provided by private businesses under a retraining effort funded partly by the Federal Government . The goal of the jobs program is 179,000 jobs this summer . Mr. Moynihan said that as of May 21 business concerns had pledged to hire 79,000 youths . Other major components of the summer job program are the Neighborhood Youth Corps and the summer Head Start program .                     