@@723378

txt Premier Khrushchev will visit Yugoslavia Aug. 20 , it , was announced tonight by Tass , the Soviet press agency . He will be accompanied to Belgrade by his wife and Soviet leaders , including Yuri V. Andropov , a secretary of the Communist party 's Central Committee . The visit was described as a vacation . President Tito invited Mr. and Mrs. Khrushchev to visit Yugoslavia during Marshal Tito 's stay in the Soviet Union last December . Western observers said Premier Khrushchev 's decision to visit President Tito , the bitterest ideological enemy of the Chinese Communists , was a further indication of his determination to maintain the present Soviet line of " peaceful coexistence " and anti-Stalinism . Premier 's Third Visit This will be Mr. Khrushchev 's third visit to Yugoslavia . He first . went to Belgrade in May . 1955 . At that time he apologized for past Soviet treatment of Yugoslavia and her expulsion in 1948 from the Cominform , the former organization of European Communist parties .. The Soviet Premier 's apology led to a reconciliation between Yugoslavia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private visit in September , 1956 , for talks with Marshal Tito when differences again began to appear . The two leaders went to the Soviet Union to continue their discussions . The ideological dispute between them broke ( rut anew the next month with the outbreak of the Hungarian revolt , but the , differences ultimately subsided . Yugoslav officials have been hinting that Mr. Khrushchev may spend only two or three days in Belgrade and then go to relax with Marshal Tito on Brioni Island , the Yugoslav leader 's northern . Adriatic residence . He may also visit some other towns on the way . Although officially on vacation , Mr. Khrushchev is considered certain to have discussions with Marshal Tito . Observers expect the two leaders to review the effect of the ' Chinese-Soviet split on the . world Communist movement and to consider what should be done about it . The Yugoslays , reinstated as respectable Communists by Premier Khrushchev and his East European supporters last year after long periods when they were regarded as " revisionist " heretics , have their own ideas about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments . Marshal Tito is expected to expand on these views to Pre- ' mier Khrushchev . The visit comes as Yugoslavia is strengthening her econothic links with the Soviet Union and other East European countries through talks aimed at working out arrangements for industrial cooperation and economic co.1 ordination . Soviet experts will come to Yugoslavia to help install and put into operation a plant and equipment being supplied ? by Moscow under a , long-term agreement providing for an estimated total of more than a billion dollars worth of SovietYugoslav trade between 1961 and 1965 . One possible topic of discussion may be Yugoslavia 's interest in acquiring observer status with the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance , or some similar link with this economic coordinating organization of the Soviet bloc . The subject , of postponed Soviet and East German credits worth $285 million may also be discussed . These credits were promised to Yugoslavia in 1956 , but were shelved for five years in 1958 at the height of a bitter ideological and political dispute . Policy Talks Held Likely BELGRADE , Aug. 10 ( Reumier Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the future of lee divided world Communist movement . Yugoslav and Soviet officials here expect Mr. Khrushchev to stay about two weeks . Some Jugoslays think that the Soviet leader 's stay will be largely private and that he will spend much ot his time with Marshal Tito out of the public eye . This would contrast with earlier expectations of a Khrushchev tour with , the usual round of factory visits , speeches and banter , and an address to the Yugoslav Parliament . Many observers here had anticipated a demonstrative display of Russian friendship and goodwill for Yugoslavia . Such a display would have amounted to a calculated rebuff to China for its condemnation of a recent reconciliation between Moscow and those whom Peking calls the " renegades and traitors " of Belgrade . These observers , however , recognize that such a gesture would lose some of its significance now that Chinese-Soviet policy differences no longer are camouflaged but have erupted into a bitter public quarrel .                     