@@724227

txt Dr. Calvin E. Gross , the City Superintendent of Schools , made a strongly worded television and radio appeal last night for public support of the school system 's integration program . He condemned the school boycott called tor next Monday and Tuesday by opponents of the program and declared : " A boycott which uses chilren as pawns in a. power playl is reprehensible and destructive . It is the worst possible example to set for children because all of us want them to become responsible citizens . " After hearing Dr. Gross , Mrs. Rosemary Gunning , chairman of the Parents and Taxpayers Coordinating Council , one of the group planning the boycott , said : " We have always stuck to the facts and we are indignant at Dr. Gross 's personal attack on those who hold a different view titan his . He had the temerity to practically call us liars , but he did not refute any statement we have made . " Mrs. Gunning said Dr. Gross might possibly sway some parents who did not have strong convictions , adding , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you do n't . " The 45-year-old Superintendent spoke at a slow and determined pace of 125 words a minute  --  about 50 words a minute under the normal pace of radio and television . He urged parents to make up their own minds about whether to send their children to school next week and to base their decisions on fact , not " inflammatory and irresponsible statements that simply are not true , " " This is New York City in the world of 1964 , " he said near the close of his 14-minute address . " We are educating children to live in a democracy and we do n't believe in master races . We live in a multiracial , multicultural city and world . And we believe that children should grow up in the company of other races and other cultures . " Dr. Gross later declined to amplify his remark about the master races . The television and radio address , which was taped in the afternoon , was carried first over WABC-TV and WINS and 1WNYC radio . It was later repeated over other stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the eve of the new school term and the scheduled boycott . Transfers Opposed The boycott has been called by the Parents and Taxpayers Coordinating Council and the Joint Council for Better Education to protest features of the Board of Education 's integration plan . The groups are opposed to the involuntary transfer of children to schools outside their neighborhood to improve racial balance . Some of the transfers will result from the pairing of four largely Negro elementary schools with four predominantly white schools and from the rezoning of eight junior high schools . Other transfers , which have met with no major opposition , will stem from changes in the grade structure of some elementary and junior high schools in Ne- , gro and Puerto Rican sections . ' In another development , the United Federation of Teachers urged the city 's 44,000 teachers to oppose actively the scheduled boycott . In an open letter sent to the faculties of all city schools , Al Shanker , the union 's president , charged that the boycott sought to delay integration and " exploits fear and magnifies out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The federation , which twice has staged one-day teacher strikes , has 28,000 members and is the elected bargaining agent for all the city 's public schoolteachers . The direct public appeal by Dr. Gross was the second he has made since becoming Superintendent a year and a half ago . The first was last September , when the teachers were threatening a third strike . Appearing against a studio background of book shelves and wood paneling and reading from a loose-leaf notebook  --  the kind pupils carry  --  Dr. Gross spoke in an even voice , occasionally pausing briefly or gesturing to underscore a point . He started his address with an accusation that " a small group of willful people has been grabbing headlines and attempting to frighten parents with all sorts of wild spec-'I ulation about what the Board of Education might do in the future . " In door-to-door leaflets , " he continued , " they are distributing false and misleading statements , in spite of our repeated efforts to keep them informed . And the predictions they make are just plain silly and fantastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures and asserted that these were being accompanied by other steps intended to improve school programs and services . The pairing of the eight schools , he said , was only one part of the over-all program , and not , as " some people mistakenly " think , the " backbone of our entire integration program . " Dr. Gross said that the school system had no plans for additional pairings in the future . " We have no master plan for racially balancing schools and we have not set any schedules for the future  --  as some people would have you believe , " he declared . " Nor do we nave any plans for busing children from one end of the city to the other , " he continued . " All this furor about ' compulsory long-disJance busing ' is pure nonsense . It 's a bugaboo that no one in his right mind even considered . " Acknowledging that " there is plenty of room for honest differences of opinion " about the system 's integration measures , the Superintendent concluded by saying : " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But boycotting is not one of them . If you feel you must dissent , then that is your privilege . But do n't do it at the expense of the children . " Earlier in the day , the Lutheran Human Relations Association of Greater New York and the Queens Federation of Churches , Inc. , issued separate statements condemning the scheduled boycott . The West Side Association of Commerce also urged that the boycott be called off but , at the same time , the group asked the school board to rescind the forced transfer of pupils . Meanwhile , two prominent figures in the parents and taxpayers movement confirmed that they had resigned their citywide positions but refused to say why . Mrs. Joan Addabo resigned as recording secretary and Bernard Kessler resigned as chairman of the policy committee and front membership in the boycott committee . Both , however , said they were still members of their local P.A.T . groups and would keep their children out of school during the boycott . There have been reports of strong differences of opinion over P.A.T . tactics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . The P.A.T . coordinating council is a loosely knit federation of local groups .                     