@@721758

txt The Senate Foreign Relations Committee will start work-this week on a bill to expand one of this country 's most . successful postwar programs for the creation of international understanding and good will . The object is a complete rewriting of the so-called Fulbright Act providing for international , Government-sponsored exchanges of students and scholars . The new and much broader program is sponsored by the author of the original , Senator W. ? Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , who is chair : . man of the Foreign Relations Committee . Unlike the original Fulbright program , which was restricted to educational exchanges , the new bill would consolidate into a single coordinated program several activities now operated , Under a variety of laws. - The new program embraces educational , cultural and ' lead ; ership exchanges ; United States participation- in foreign festivals ; exhibitions and fairs ; book and paper exchanges ; operation of international culttiral-technical exchange centers ; " foreign tours by cultural , sports and arts groups , and various activities dedicated to the cross4ertilization of ideas , skills and talents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the new program are now carried out piecemeal , by scattered agencies Operating under a variety of laws . The new Fulbright bill envisions a unified program , probably under a single authority , and embraces considerable innovation . It also , provides , : important changes , in financing methods to correct faults in the old system that have often worked against the program 's progress . One major change would- provide for pore . exPensemoneyand fcii , revisions , in the ; tix and immigration laws ? Ao ... make it financially easier for foreign scholars and students to : . pay their way in this ; country . As it Mr*. stands , the bill would give -. the Whole aZea of international eirellaiigei a new primacy in Governmentaffairs by granting the ' President authority to , operate it under a new Under Secretary . of State , or , possibly , - under. a hew Federal agency . The original . Fulbright Act was passed ' in ' 1946 . It wag built on the idea that nonconvertible foreign currencies earned abroad from sale of surplus property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced . scholarship . by Americans in institutions ' abroad . In exchange , foreign scholars were granted maintenance , tuition , incidental ' expenses and travel for studyparticipating institutions outside , , their own countries . However , .. since only foreign currencies : . were available , they ' received ' only travel expenses if . they : . wanted to study in the ' United States . Haringslo Start When explaining his new bill to the Striate , Mr. Fulbright said recently that it was built on the assumption that " the approach to the international scene appropriate to the . ' Nineteen Forties is not good ? enough for the Nineteen Sixties . " Hearings on the bill will start on Tuesday or ' Wednesday in the Foreign Relations ' Committee . The measure is - ? Mr. Fulbright 's offspring , and the Administration has not yet announced its poSition . Under the - Pulbright proposal , discretion Its to .. how . the program ' should . be handled would rest with the President . The type of exchanges covered by the bill are chiefly cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operated under the International Cooperation Agency would not be disturbed . Among programs authorized would be educational exchanges and visits , as under the old Fulbright Act , and exchanges of leaders in specialized fields , as authorized under the SmithMundt Act of 1948 . In addition , the program Would take in some activities authorized in the International Cultural Exchange and Trade Fair Participation Act of 1956 . These ' would include sponsorship of tours abroad by cultural , sports and arts groups , and participation in foreign festivals , exhibits , fairs and competitions . A new provision would empower the President to finance foreign - participation in similar activities in this ? country when they were deemed of sufficient value . Other innovations would include Federal aid to help language teachers , and potential teachers , to study abroad , and to support cultural-technical exchange centers such as the one authorized last year for Hawaii : , Help would also . be- given to foster American studies abroad , through professorships , lectureships , seminars and courses in fields related to the American scene . - One major goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their financial problems while on exchange programs in this country . This would be done in a variety of ways . For example , present restrictions on allowances would be eased . The bill would authorize grants for tuition , incidental expenses and travel and for bringing scholar 's wives and minor children with them to this country . Present tight restrictions on purchase of foreign currencies to support , the program would be modified . Financing practices that kept the Fulbright program on ' a year-by-year footling would be changed to permit longer-term planning and operations . In addition , the immigration law would be amended to permit foreign scholars and their wives to enter this country under a visa permitting them to work at such self-sustaining jobs as teaching and translating . The present flat 30 per cent tax rate levied on their income in cases where their own countries do not have ' tax treaties with the United States , would be abandoned .                     