@@726977

txt Washington , March 9 - What made it so unbelievable was that it took place in the office of a member of the United States cabinet . A dozen youths , some smoking cigars , lounged around for an hour . They rifled the desk and briefcases . They broke ashtrays and glasses . They scattered pipe tobacco all over and strewed stationery and official documents on the floor . When they were finally persuaded to leave , they stole several personal items , including pens that President Johnson had used to sign bills into law . And to top it all off , they refused to apologize . It happened Thursday afternoon in the office of Labor Secretary Willard Wirtz . " What went on made me plain mad , " said the labor secretary , an amiable man who is slow to show anger , at a press conference yesterday . The youths were part of a 150-member delegation protesting the termination of their local anti-poverty agency , the neighborhood youth development program . Not in Right Place Their program would need $750,000 to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident is that when they went to Wirtz 's office to demand that the program be continued , they were n't even in the right place  --  the program comes under the departments of justice and of health , . education , and welfare . Wirtz was away at the time , sitting in on White House-ordered negotiations to end the national copper strike . The band of youths descended on labor department headquarters about 1 p. m . Most of them straggled out 90 minutes later , but about a dozen forced their way into Wirtz 's third-floor office . They took their own good-natured time , lounging in the leather sofa and chairs in the s m a 1 I , wood-paneled room . After doing . their damage , they finally responded to the entreaties of a series of Wirtz 's aids and left an hour later . When Wirtz returned to his office , he immediately gave orders to have the youths sent to see him Friday morning . Youths " Express Regret " , " I 've said to them that those things that were taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press conference , held after the meeting . . The youths said they would try to get the stolen articles returned . But when With was asked if any of the youths had apologized , he said : " They expressed regret . I would n't say they apologized . " Wirtz also said he had promised the youths he would dheck with various federal ' depart ; meats handling anti - poverty programs to see if they can " - Cake charge of the operation the youths are in . He is holding another meeting with the youths on Monday .                     