@@721583

txt Michael H. Prendergast will fight to retain his position as Democratic state chairman . As a first step , he announced yesterday through an intermediary that he was summoning the sixty-two county chairmen to a meeting this week . Presumably his purpose is to put before the county leaders the question of his remaining as state leader and to obtain an expression of confidence . At the same time it was announced that Mr. Prendergast " expects " to serve out his term , which does not expire until after the 1962 primary . The question of easing Mr. Prenfle*.wast nut of his political post was discussed last Thursday at a meeting in Washington between two top New York Democrats and President - elet John F. Kennedy and his brother and campaign manager , Robert F. Kennedy . Sharkey Angered The suggestion aroused the anger of Joseph T. Sharkey , Brooklyn leader , who strongly criticized the President-elect 's political advisers . As to the state chairmanship , the Brooklyn leader said , " rm for Mike . " " I 'm annoyed , " he declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure , and we 're still talking about a state chairman . It seems ridiculous to me . We ought to be talking about , who from New York is going to be in the Cabinet . " The Brooklyn leader asserted , " It was our , votes that put him ( Senator Kennedy over  --  both ' at the convention and in the 1 : /ection , " and added : " The parade is going by and we 're sitting on the sidelines , talking about the state chairman . You 'd think we had lost the election when it was this state that put it over . " Mr. Sharkey said there were , , many persons in the state of ' sufficient stature for the Cabinet , " yet not one New Yorker is being mentioned . " " I 'm not being critical of Senator Kennedy , " he said , " but of some around him  --  the fellows who are playing the politics . I think he is going to be the greatest President we ever had . " In answer to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become vacant , he would consider Peter J. Crotty , Erie county chairman , as the one who " rates it . " Mr. Prendergast , who has refused to answer ? questions since the issue of his leadership was taken up at the Washington meeting , announced the forthcoming meeting of county chairmen through a close friend , William J. McCabe of Haverstraw , publisher of The Rockland County Times . Mr. McCabe said he was authorized to say that Mr. Prendergast expected to serve out the two-year term as state chairman to which he was elected last June . He did not disclose the date or place of the county chairmen 's meeting . The Rockland publisher reported also that the 300-member Democratic State Committee would meet in Albany on Dep , 19 , the day the Presidential electors meet at the State Capitol to cast . their votes for Senator Kennedy and the Vice President-elect , Lyndon B. Johnson . The New Yorkers attending the meeting Thursday with the President-elect and his brother were Representatives Charles A. Buckley , Bronx County leader , and Eugene P. Keogh of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest supporters in- the state of Senator Kennedy 's candidacy for the nomination . Mr. Prendergast announced a week ago that the state committee would be assembled shortly to consider the party 's position on matters coming before the legislative session that convenes Jan. 4 . The occasion , however , would afford the committee the oftportunity to elect a successor should Mr. Prendergast 's post become vacant . The possibility was seen that the incoming National Administration would try to persuade him to , resign by offering him a Federal position . Such a post would be covered by the Hatch Act , which bars certain Federal employes from actively participating in politics . Mr , Prendergast was slow in coming into the Kennedy camp during the pre-convention period and did not announce his support for the Massachusetts Senator until after the ? West Virginia primary victory , which made Mr. Kennedy 's nomination almost certain . But what is reported to have been the main factor in , the decline of Mr. Prendergast 's prestige with the President-elect was the failure - to permit former Senator Herbert H. Lehman to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Saturday night before Election Day . Mr. Kennedy had understood that both Mr. Lehman and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , who are leaders in the Democratic reform faction , would speak at " the rally . The candidate had personally asked Mr. Lehman to talk and he ? had come prepared with 6 , script . Mr. Lehman was embarraSSed and so was Senator Kennedy when Mr. Lehman ' was not called , Mr. Lehman and Mrs. Roosevelt have been prime movers in the drive to oust Carmine G. De Sapio , leader of Tammany Hall , and Mr. Prendergast from their party roles .                     