@@727437

txt Although The Times comments on Congressional races in New York and the metropolitan area , it is naturally impossible to make recommendations on all the candidacies for the House of Representatives throughout the rest of the nation . However , there are incumbents in both parties who have earned national respect because of the generally high quality of their work or their conspicuous courage or independence on specific issues . We do not always agree with the following Representatives on every issue , but we believe they merit recognition : Upstate New York  --  Representatives Daniel E. Button ( Rep. ) in the Albany-Schenectady district and Frank Horton ( Rep. ) in Rochester have been responsible and progressive on most issues , even though we regret that both followed the G.O.P. House leadership in voting to cut foreign aid . In Erie County Richard D. McCarthy ( Dem. ) has provided outstanding leadership in the effort to clean up pollution in Lake Erie , to protect the nation 's highways from the trucking and billboard lobbies and to achieve effective crime and gun control legislation . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-election . Arizona  --  Morris K. Udall ( Dem. ) has been an ardent battler for car safety , conservation and a change of Administration policy on Vietnam . California  --  John Moss ( Dem. ) has been untiring and unafraid in his determination to combat Government secrecy and bureaucratic timidity . Augustus F. Hawkins ( Dem. ) is one of the most promising of the Negro members , whose number and influence are growing in the House . James C. Corman ( Dem. ) , a skillful pilot of civil rights legislation , served constructively on the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders . Jeffery Coheian ( Dem. ) is a thoughtful liberal who has been articulately effective on conservation . Connecticut  --  William St. Onge ( Dem. ) has provided increasingly effective service on the House Judiciary Committee . Illinois  --  Sidney Yates ( Dem. ) , who returned to the House four years ago after making an unsuccessful Senate race against Everett Dirksen , is easily one of the ablest and most valuable members of that body . If the leadership were chosen on the basis of merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee . Donald Rumsfeld ( Rep. ) hag done some worthwhile crusading for Congressional reform . Indiana  --  John Brademas and Andrew Jacobs , both Democrats , have been among the most hard-working , constructive younger members of the House and give promise of still greater leadership in the years to come . Iowa  --  Fred Schwengel ( Rep. ) is an independentminded legislator who was not afraid to go against the " club spirit " of the House and call attention to the large contributions which certain of his colleagues have received from the trucking interests . Massachusetts  --  Silvlo Conte and Bradford Morse , both Republicans , have been leavening influences among their G.O.P. colleagues . Michigan  --  John Conyers ( Dem. ) is beginning to offer the spirited yet responsible leadership which might have come from Adam Clayton Powell if the latter had not thrown away his career by reckless self-indulgence . James O'Hara ( Dem. ) , a key leader among House liberals , has distinguished himself in the fight for a massive job-training program . Minnesota  --  John Blatnik ( Dem. ) deserves praise for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fraser ( Dem. ) has been one of the most consistent and intelligent voices for liberalism in a state that has moved into the front rank as the home of political talent . Missouri  --  Richard Bolling ( Dem. ) has shown courage and independence in his persistent effort to modernize and democratize the House establishment . Mrs. Leonor K. Sullivan ( Dem. ) has been a leader on consumer issues and for an improved food stamp plan . Ohio  --  William McCulloch ( Rep. ) is a constructive conservative who has helped improve civil rights bills and other measures coming out of the House Judiciary Committee . Pennsylvania  --  John Saylor ( Rep. ) is a noted ? conservationist who has done immensely valuable work in protecting the nation 's scenery and natural resources . Texas  --  Jack Brooks ( Dem. ) has been vigorous in pushing useful legislation on a broad range of issues . Wisconsin  --  Robert Kastenmeler ( Dem. ) has courage in standing up for his beliefs on foreign policy and civil liberties . Henry S. Reuss ( Dem. ) has been a notably beneficial member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanity in the House .                     