@@724109

txt ANZUS COUNTRIES STRESS CONCERN OVER REDS IN ASIA Ministers of U.S. , Australia and New Zealand Also Note Malaysia Dispute ACTION LEFT TO FUTURE Federation 's Defense Called Commonwealth Issue , but Aid Will Be Discussed By MAX FRANKEL Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , July 18 ? The United States , Australia and New Zealand ended their annual meeting here today with a strong expression of concern about aggression in Southeast Asia . As expected , no major differences or decisions developed at the two-day conference of Anzus security - pact countries . The talks were extremely friendly , officials said . A final communiqu ? reiterated the countries ' " grave concern " about Communist attacks and threats against South Vietnam and Laos . Its most carefully worded paragraph reaffirmed support for Malaysia against Indonesia . The cautious wording on Malaysia resulted not from any disagreement , but from a wish to defer decisions about how and when the United States would respond if that situation de-1 teriorated . A United States official , speaking in the presence of spokesmen for Australia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized as a responsibility " in the first instance " of the British Commonwealth . S. Obligation He also noted , however , that the Anzus treaty placed an obligation on the United States to help its allies " at some point . " Further discussion is planned to define that point in relation to events , he said . Australia and New Zealand already provide military assistance to Malaysia . The Anzus pact states that an . attack on the forces or territory of any one member would oblige the others to " act to meet the common danger " in accordance with their constitutional processes . Indonesia has threatened to " crush " Malaysia , a federation of former British colonies . The Indonesians contend they are Menaced by the federation , which they describe as an effort by Britain to maintain her influence in the region . The communiqu ? said " force must not be employed in. violation of the territorial integrity " of Malaysia and expressed hope that Malaysia 's independence would be respected by its neighbors . It did not specifically mention Indonesia . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferferees heard a United States opinion that the Soviet Union had not promised any new mill-I tary assistance to Indonesia against Malaysia . There is some hope here that the Soviet influence in Jakarta will also be used to promote a political solution . The Americans said they welcomed the discussion to prepare them for meetings here next week with Malaysia 's Prime Minister , Prince Abdul Rahman . He will arrive on Tuesday . The Anzus ministers ' council " gave particular attention to the aggression against South Vietnam which the Communist regime in Hanoi organized and is directing , supplying and supporting in flagrant violation of the Geneva Accords of 1954 and 1962 , " the communiqu ? said . " It agreed that the defeat of this aggression is necessary not only to the security of South. : east Asia and the Southwest Pacific but as a demonstration that Communist expansion bY such tactics will not be allowed to succeed , " the statement continued . In ? commenting in Vietnam , the three countries borrowed largely from the b languaa-e of last April 's communiqu ? of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are members . They said they were prepared to " take further concrete steps " to assure the defeat of Communist aggression . Officials said no further steps were planned at this time . The conference was briefed on Vietnam by Michael V. Forrestal , the head of the interdepartmental committee that is coordinating support for the war effort there . United States officials expressed special appreciation for recent contributions to the war effort by their Anzus partners . Australia has doubled the size of her military advisory mission in South Vietnam from 30 men to 60 and assigned them a ) forward field positions . The Australian Government plans further economic assistance and has contributed six transport planes with crews . New Zealand was said to be giving commodity and technical assistance and has assigned a 25-man military engineering detachment to South Vietnam . The three countries ' statement on Laos was somewhat stronger than that of the April meeting of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization . The Anzus statement took account of advances by pro-Communist forces in May . It expressed " grave concern " about the intervention in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full support of Laos 's neutralist Premier , Prince Souvanna Phouma , and of his " demand that the Communist forces withdraw " from the area seized in recent weeks . The conference , which began yesterday , also discussed the conflict between the Soviet Union and Communist China and Japan 's closer political and commercial ties with Australia and New Zealand . All three Anzus countries reaffirmed their decision not to establish diplomatic relations with Peking and to resist Communist China 's admission to the United Nations . The delegations here were led by Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Prime Minister Keith J. Holyoake of New Zealand , who is also Minister for External Affairs , and Paul M. C. Hasluck , Australian Minister of External Affairs . They plan to meet again next year .                     