@@728003

txt The French Government today ordered a freeze on prices to accompany the devaluation of the franc , which became formal at 10 o'clock tonight ( 5 P.M. New York time ) . It decreed that virtually all industrial prices and nearly all markups by wholesalers and retailers be blocked at the levels of last Friday , before the surprise announcement of devaluation . The freeze was made effective until Sept. 15 . The devaluation was matched tonight by the 14 African countries of the franc zone . Their decision , announced after a meeting of their representatives with Finance Minister Valery Giscard d'Estaing , had been regarded as inevitable . Left-Wing Complaints Widespread price increases had . been expected today in a classic reaction of businessmen to the prospect that the cost of imports was automatically going up 12.5 per cent , and that nearly all other costs would be affected sooner or later . Jewelers in resort towns were reported to have raised prices yesterday . An abrupt increase in living costs would have confirmed complaints of labor- unions and left-wing elements generally ? including some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled at the expense of the poor , while the wealthy would make windfall profits . By Sept. 15 the Government plans to have a package of economic and relief measures ready for administrative action and for a special session of Parliament . Wage Increase Expected The franc was devalued to 18.004 United States cents from 20.225 cents . The devaluation is 12.5 per cent for the Frenchman who wants to buy foreign currency , but amounts to 11.1 per cent in terms of gold or the dollar . Premier Jacques Chaban-Delmas made clear in a radio interview tonight that the Government was sensitive to the // situation of people of low income . It is expected that the minimum wage , now about 62 cents an hour , will be raised 3 to 5 per cent , along with family allowances and other benefits . The price freeze may postpone the threat of an early strike movement , especially since much of the country will be vacationing until the end of August . It is , however , only temporary , and there was at least one important exception in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of farm prices , except that trade markups are frozen on 10 ' fruits and vegetables now in season . No decision could be made on major farm products pending the emergency meeting tomorrow in Brussels of finance and agricultural ministers of the European Economic Community , Diplomatic sources here said that the Common Market faced severe tests as a result of the devaluation . Some sources expressed the view that the Market 's common farm policy might itself be in jeopardy . Under existing regulations in the Common Market on wheat and other staples , prices are pegged to a unit of account ? .88876 milligrams of gold , equivalent to the dollar . Unless the six countries agree to a change , this would mean that French producers would get the same gold or dollar value for their crops as they got before ? in other words , 12.5 per cent more in francs . It is expected that the French Government , possibly with foreign help , will act to recapture at least part of this loss , and prevent its being passed along in toto to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bread is a potent social symbol in France . As is traditional , the French system of price restraint is complex . Trade associations have been encouraged to set price ranges under the euphemism " Contracture ! Freedom of Prices . " Enforced by the Government , these accords were frozen tonight at last week 's levels . Businessmen who have declined to participate in such agreements became subject to another decree that froze their price markups individually . French businessmen are , however , adept at working around such regulations . A restaurant keeper can , for example , change the name of a dish or the size of a portion . But in limiting the freeze until Sept. 15 the Government tacitly acknowledged that other measures would be needed to keep inflation from catching up with devaluation . During the first half of this year the cost of living was estimated to have risen at an annual rate of a bit more than 6 per cent . First forecasts following devaluation have been that the rate would rise to 10 per cent or more . Mr. Giscard d'Estaing said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unanimously approved the principle of the maintenance of parity between their currencies and the French franc . " They could hardly have done otherwise . Their currencies are pegged to the franc , their reserves deposited with the Bank of France and their economies closely tied to France as chief market and chief source of imports and aid . The 14 are Mauritania , Senegal , Ivory Coast , Dahomey , Togo , Niger , Mali and Upper Volta , grouped in the West African Monetary Union ; the former French Congo , the Central African Republic , Chad , Gabon and Cameroon , grouped in the Central Bank of Equatorial Africa , and Madagascar . Among other former colonies more or less affected by the French devaluation are Algeria , Tunisia and Morocco . The Algerians , however , have much reduced their franc reserves . All may expect higher prices in francs for goods they sell to France and possibly lower prices for goods they import .                     