@@724136

txt Two Chicago Bear players ? Willie Galimore and John Farrington  --  were killed tonight when their car crashed on a Jasper County road about 21 : miles west of here . Coach George Halas announced at the Jasper County Hospital that the the two players had been killed . No other details of the accident were disclosed immediately . Galimore , a graduate of Florida A. and M. University , joined the Bears in 1957 and had been a starting offensive halfback through most of his seven years with the National Football League champions . However , an offseason operation to repair knee injuries kept him on the bench much of last season . Galimore 's best season . with the Bears was in 1961 when he gained 707 yards in rushing . The 29-year-old Galimore , rated one of the fastest running backs in professional football , gained 2,985 yards in 670 carries during his career with the Bears , a total exceeded only by Rick Casares among the active Chicago backs . Last season the fleet 187-pounder carried the ball 85 times for 321 yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halfback in 1959 . He was named the winner of the Eisenhower Trophy as the most valuable player in the 1958 Armed Forces Game . He shares the team record of four touchdowns in one game . Farrington , 28 , an offensive end from Prairie View ( Tex . ) College joined the Bears in 1961 . Playing In all 14 regular-season games last year , the 217-pound 6-foot-3-inch end caught 21 passes for 335 yards and two touchdowns . Farrington set a team record for the longest pass play-98 yards  --  with Bill Wade . The play was made against the Detroit Lions in 1961 and is only one yard under the league mark . Farrington lived in Houston . The tragedy recalled other recent accidental deaths of pro football players . Only a few months ago Terry Dillon , halfback for the Minnesota Vikings , drowned in Montana . Don Fleming , a back for the Cleveland Browns , was electrocuted during the offseason while working in Florida a year ago . Tom Bloom , a former Purdue back who had bbeen signed by the Browns , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played a game . Phil Handler , Bears ' assistant coach , said Galimore , a halfback , had recovered from his knee injuries and was " doing wonderful " in practice this summer at St. Joseph 's College here . " Willie was looking better than ever before since he 's been with us , " Handler said . Galimore is survived by his wife and three children . State Trooper Ivan Finch said the accident occurred about 10:25 P.M. on Bunkum Road . Finch said the auto missed a curve and went off the road , throwing both players from the vehicle , The car was not equipped with seat belts , Finch said . The trooper believed if belts had been installed they might have saved the pair from death . The state police said the two players were returning to the Willie Galimore Bear training camp after a round of golf . The accident occurred at about 10:30 P.M. when Galimore 's Volkswagen hit the shoulder of the road and the rear wheel collapsed . No other persons were involved in the accident . Dan Desmond , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were trying to make it back to camp for an 11 P.M. curfew . A farming couple was the first to reach the scene of the accident . The police quoted them as having said Galimore and Farrington had been killed instantly . The Jasper County coroner , E. R. Beaver , said both men had suffered multiple skull fractures and internal injuries . He said the men had been thrown out from the top of the auto and the car had rolled over on them . Deputy Yayne Calloway said the car , driven by Galimore , had been traveling about 55 miles an hour . Had the men been familiar with the country road , Calloway said , they could have made the curve at an even higher speed .                     