@@725294

txt A group of Democratic Senators was trying today to organize colleagues in both parties who oppose a resumption of bombing of North Vietnam . The Senators hope that if they can demonstrate to President Johnson their growing opposition , he may be persuaded to continue the lull in bombing until all possibilities of negotiation are exhausted . But after the President 's meeting with Congressional leaders last night , it was generally assumed on Capitol Hill that a renewal of the bombing was a foregone conclusion , and that the only undecided question was when the President would issue the order . Johnson ' Weighing Factors ' Such a conviction persisted although Bill D. Moyers , the White House press secretary , said the President was " weighing all the factors involved in our position in Southeast Asia " and had made no decision yet on a resumption of the bombing . In fact , Representative Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the House majority leader , said he regarded a resumption as " inevitable . " Meanwhile , in an appearance before the House Foreign Affairs Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into any discussion of a resumption of bombings . ' From A to Z ' He said that since the lull began the United States ' peace efforts had extended " from A to Z , and almost through Z. " Mr. Rusk complained bitterly about " this curious double standard " In the matter of bombing . There has been no letup of Vietcong terrorist bombing and assassination during the United States bombing pause , he said . " A bomb carried by a boy on a bicycle or mortar shells fired at the Danang base just three days ago are just as much bombs as those carried by planes to the North , " he said . The Senators who are exploring ways of organizing the op- position are Vance Hartke of Indiana , Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota , Frank E. Moss of Utah , Quentin N. Burdick of North Dakota , Lee Metcalf of Montana and George of South Dakota . All but Senators Metcalf and called yesterday afternoon on Senator J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , to discuss their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of North Vietnam . They told Mr. Fulbright that they agreed with the statements made on Monday by him and by the majority leader , Mike Mansfied of Montana . Mr. Fulbright said the bombing should be suspended for " the foreseeable future " ; Mr. Mansfield said he would like the lull to continue " indefinitely . " According to an informed source , the Senators expressed the view that the President was being unduly influenced by advisers " already deeply committed to a course of action ' which has been unsuccessful in achieving its objectives in the past and threatens disaster in the future . " Opposition Put at 33 In considering how to bring to Mr. Johnson 's attention the size and intensity of the opposition . the Senators considered a statement that would be acceptable to various shades of opinion . A draft of such a statement was prepared today . But it has not yet been circulated for signatures . According to one Senator 's estimate , 33 of the 100 Senators  - -  26 Democrats and 7 Republicans  --  either oppose outright a resumption of the bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet made a convincing case for renewal . A poll by The Associated Press on the issue found that , of 50 Senators willing to take a position , 25 ? favored resumption and 25 opposed it . On the Senator 's list and that of The , Associated Press , those opposed included some of the most influential men in bch parties . Besides Mr. Mansfield and Mr. ' Fulbright , they included George D. Aiken of Vermont and John Sherman Cooper and Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , all Republicans , and Robert F. Kennedy , Democrat of New York . Many of the Democrats who oppose a resumption are from the party 's liberal wing , where the President 's influence has been weakest . On the other hand , advocates of further bombing include such distinguished Democratic Senators ' as Richard B. Russell of Georgia , chairman of the Armed Services Committee , and Henry M. Jackson of Washington and John Stennis of Mississippi , members of the committee . The situation on the House side is different . Representative Albert said today that none of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombing . In fact , Mr. Albert said , he knew of no opposition of any importance . In the two-and-a-half-hour meeting at the White House last night , the President and Secretary Rusk and . Secretary of Defense Robert S. ' briefed Senate and House leaders of both parties . The meeting was also attended by the chairmen and ranking Republicans of the Armed Services and Appropriations Committees of both Houses and by the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees . According to two participants who asked to remain anonymous , the Congressional group was given detailed intelligence information , including aerial photographs , snowing that North Vietnam had used the 34-day bombing pause to build up its military position in South Vietnam . Today Senator Cooper joined Senators Fulbright , Aiken and in urging that " the President state specifically that negotiations could include the Vietcong . " " Although it Is distasteful to do so , " Mr. Cooper said , " the reality must be faced , for it is obvious that negotiations or settlement are impossible without their inclusion . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Affairs , displayed one of his rare moments of impatience when asked to comment on this proposal . " I wish that all the people with their own ideas for ending the war would get in touch with Hanoi , " he said , " and ask them if peace can be achieved in that fashion . " He continued : " This is a difficult question that Is directly re1lated to what the fighting is all about . The National Liberation Front , or Vietcong , was organ ' ized in Hanoi in 1960 , specifically for the purpose of taking over South Vietnam by force . Now , if the Vietcong come to the conference table as full partners , they will in a sense have been victorious in the very aims that South Vietnam and the United States are pledged to prevent . "                     