@@721573

txt Republicans predicted yesterday that more than 10,000 invalid paper ballot votes will be thrown out in Chicago in a court contest of the Nov. 8 election , possibly reversing the Democratic victory in Illinois . At the same time G. 0 . P. watchers at a recheck by 50 teams of 863 Chicago paper ballot precincts , being conducted in City hall , reported finding at least 100 straight Republican tickets which had been " spoiled " by the marking of an additional " X " in the Socialist-Labor candidates ' column . Fifteen Found in Row In one instance , 15 ballots in a row had been so altered . This was in the 20th precinct of the 27th ward , an old time Democratic stronghold . This was the latest disclosure of apparent fraud and tampering with paper ballots which the Republican leaders charged occurred either while the ballots were being counted at the precinct polling places or after they were stored in warehouses by the city board of election commissioners . The 10,000 " questionable " Chicago ballots , according to G.O.P. aids , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , initials on the face of the ballots by election judges , and other faults . Cites Broken Seals State 's Atty . Benjamin S. Adamowski , the G. 0 . P. incumbent who lost to Delocrat Daniel P. Ward by about 26,000 votes , said he is confident ? that a court else will rule invalid the boxes of paper ballots in many precincts on which seals required by law were either missing or broken . Ralph Berkowitz , an attorney for the G. 0 . P. county committee , estimated that this might involve a minimum of nnnnn vnIne nininrilv a them cast for Ward and Sen. John F. Kennedy , whose Illinois margin of victory was just over 8,000 votes . Many of the ballot boxes with broken seals came from precincts in so-called transient wards , long controled by the county Democratic machine , Berkowitz said . Many Broken , Missing In yesterday 's recount of 127 ballot boxes , it was found that 59 had no seals , and the seals had been broken on 23 others . Many other seals did not bear the signatures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. Holzman , chairman of the board of election commissioners , continued to blame " . human prrnr " for the irregularly sealed boxes . He said the boxes had to he handled four times to get them from the election booth io the commissioners office and that rough treatment might account for the broken seals . County Judge Thaddeus Adesko , head of the county election machinery , disclosed official election board tallies for 151 precincts . These showed that Vice President Nixon gained 85 vacs while Kennedy picked up 42 . In the state 's attorney 's race , Adamowski gained 560 votes and Ward lost 248 . Adamowski told Dm TRIB ? UNE that he will file a petition for a court contest of the election in Circuit or Superior court , probably some tirie this week , even before the recheck of 906 paper ballot precincts , 863 of them under jurisdiction of the election commissioners , is completed next Thursday . The continued discovery of obviously " spoiled " ballots by the 50 teams of G. 0 . P. watchers , working with their counterparts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bolstered G. 0 . P. hopes of overturning Kennedy 's victory and winning the state 's 27 electoral votes . Elroy C. Sandquist , an assistant state 's attorney who is representing Adamowski at the recheck , said the Republicans expect to pick up at least 1,000 more votes from the county 's voting machine precincts when . comparison of machine figures with election board tallies is com-pleted , G. 0 . P. Pays for Checks The recheck of the voting machine counts was conduct ed several weeks ago , The cost of the two recounts ? vote machines and paper ballots  --  is being paid for by the Republicans at a rate of $2 a voting machine and $5 for each paper ballot precinct . The Republican watchers at the election board offices in City hall continued finding evidence that G. 0 . P. votes had been erased on paper ballots and the votes transferred to the Democratic candidates . This practice was first discovered Saturday . Sandquist reported that " apparent . erasures " had been found on sonic ballots iii about 20 per cent of the precincts counted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Friday , 82 on Saturday , and 100 yesterday . The count yesterday was of precincts in 47 Chicago wards , plus precincts in Lyons , Harvey , Cicero , and Chicago Heights , four of the six ' suburbs under the city election board . Wiring Raises Doubts Another example of apparent fraud and tampering with paper ballots was disclosed yesterday when Berkowitz reported his watchers h a d found ballots in boxes from at least five precincts which apparently had been wired together as required by law , but from which the win : , had been removed later . " The punctures af the wire are in the ballots , " Berkowitz said . " It certa:nly raises grave doubts as to the legitimacy of the ballots and the manner in which they were counted . It is obvious they were tampered with . Were Republican ballots re-moved ? " Vice President Nixon continued his average net gain of 8.06 votes per precinct as the recheck prcgrvssed . Adamowski 's average net gain per precinct was about 14 votes . One Find " Incredible " Republican leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 8th precinct of the 31st ward , whore Kennedy was found to have been credited with 33 votes too many and Ward with 62 too many . In addition , Nixon and Adamowski were credited with too few votes election night , resulting in a gain of 32 votes for Nixon and 55 for Adamowski . Where Kennedy had been credited with 335 votes election night by polling judges , his revised count stood at 302 votes in that precinct . Nixon 's count rose from 97 to 129 . Ward was credited with 276 votes , compared with 338 previously given him . Adamowski 's count in the precinct rose to 149 from 94 . Adamowski will meet today at at G. 0 . P. county head ' quarters , 188 W. Randolph st. , to plan the contest podDon with Sandquist , Berkowitz , and Georges poppies , an attorney for the Nixon Recount committee , 80 E. Jackson blvd.                     