@@721554

txt The family of Chester Weger , confessed slayer of three Riverside women in Starved Rock State park , told THE TRIBUNE yesterday they believe he is shielding an ac , complice . At the same time , Weger 's court appointed lawyer disclosed that Weger had re ? pudiated his confession made early last Thursday , and said , " I was n't even there . I do n't know anything about the murders . " His father , Wayne Weger , 52 , said he intends to appeal to Chester to submit to a truth serum test . Buttressing his plea will be Chester 's mother , Juanita , 50 , and wife , Jo Ann , 19 . They said Chester implied , in a talk with them Friday in the La Salle county jail , that he was shielding someone . Tells of Confession They said that when he was asked if he murdered the women he said , " I done it , dad . " But when his father asked if anyone else was involved , Chester replied , " We 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who it is , " said Chester 's father . " There 's no other way , " the killer replied . His sister , Rosie , 22 , asked Weger if his wife or children , Rebecca , 3 , and John , 1 , had been threatened , and he said they had not . " Did they threaten mom and dad ? " she asked , The entire family said they heard his reply , " Yes . " Told to Report It They said a deputy sheriff who was the jailer stepped in and told Wayne Weger he should report this information immediately to State 's Atty . Harland Warren . At the state 's attorney 's office , the father said , he talked to Wayne Hess and William Dummitt , deputy sheriffs who acted as investigators for the prosecutor in the murder inquiry . They accompanied him back to the jail to talk to Weger , who I then denied he had told the family that his parents had been threatened . Blames It on Ordeal His court appointed lawyer , Joseph D. Carr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Weger , a 21. year old former dishwasher at the Starved Rock park lodge , was not alone in the murders . " I do n't think one man alone could have committed this triple murder , " Carr said . " Someone else must be involved . " Carr said that Chester 's repudiation of the confession came yesterday in a 40 min , ute conference in the jail , as Garr started to question him about the- possibility of an accomplice . Carr said that Chester told him he made the confession because of the ordeal of questioning in the state 's attor ' ney 's office . He was picked up at 6 p. m . Wednesday and questioned until he confessed seven hours and 45 minutes later . The lawyer said that tomorr , Ow he will go before Judge Leonard Hoffmar. in the La Salle county Circuit court and notify the judge that he intends to enter a plea of not guilty in behalf of Chester . Hire More Legal Help Weger 's famliy said they believed so strongly that another person was involved that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in defending Weger against murder charges . His father enlisted the aid of his minister , whom he asked to talk to Weger and encourage him to " tell all the truth about this horrible case . " He said he did not feel the need for police protection at the Weger home in Coon hollow at the foot of Red Ash hill in Deer Park , a subdivision just outside Oglesby , only three miles from the park . Carr said that no plea for Weger will be made when he appears next Friday before Judge Hoffman . Weger , a former marine , was named in six indictments , three of them for the murders of Mrs. Lillian Oetting , 50 , Mrs. Mildred Lindquist , 50 , and Mrs. Frances Murphy , 47 , last March 14 in a lonely canyon in the park , a few hours after the women arrived there for a brief vacation . Carr said he would ask Judge Hoffman to order a psychiatric examination of Weger as a preliminary to the trial . Carr said it is unlikely the trial will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeated in his bid for reelection as state 's attorney in the Nov. 8 election , leaves Office . Few in Criminal Field It is expected that Warren may be named a special prosicutor to try the murder indictments against Weger . Carr is one of the few La Salle county attorneys who handles criminal cases . He has been the county 's public defender , a part time job which was created six years ago , for four years , during which he has not defended any ' one charged with murder . As lawyer for two men tried for murder , Carr got one off with 20 years in a trial in 1927 . In 1947 he defended a man accused of murdering his girl friend , for which the man got life imprisonment .                     