@@725961

txt The end of the city 's air pollution alert yesterday marked the beginning of an emergency for the Sanitation Department . Vast quantities of garbage lay in city dumps because incineration had been stopped for almost three days to prevent added air pollution . After the alert was lifted , the furnaces of the 11 city incinerators went into full action yesterday afternoon throwing billows of fresh smoke into the air . Operating under emergency plans , Samuel J. Kearing , Sanitation Commissioner , added almost 600 extra men to the weekend detail to help collection in the city 's streets and to get rid of the garbage that has accumulated in the dumping grounds surrounding the incinerators . Situation Termed Serious The 36-year-old Commissioner , who assumed his new job less than a week ago , described the situation as " serious . " But he voiced confidence that operations would be back to normal by tomorrow . Anticipating the air pollution alert by 24 hours , Mr. Kearing ordered the incinerators shut Thursday morning . Instead , he directed his employes to dump the garbage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the furnaces to enable them to resume functioning to full capacity as soon as the alert ended . The Sanitation Department 's incinerators are con ' sidered to be among the worst contributors of the city 's air pollution problem . For Mr. Kearing , the emergency provided an urgent argument in favor of long-range urban planning . " This crisis has underscored more dramatically than anything we might have said the urgency of adjusting not only city policies but also habits of the public to the problems facing modern cities , " he said in an interview yesterday . Not enough planning has been done , he contended , to enable the city administration to deal effectively with the mounting problem of waste and pollution . Nor have adequate measures ' been taken to anticipate emergencies such as the once caused by the dust-carrying haze over New York , he added . Thus he wants a team of experts in urban development to begin drafting plans now how to modernize the city 's garbage disposal system , which will be obsolete " within 8 or 12 years , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streamlining its street-cleaning operations . " If we ever want to cope with the massive problem of ridding waste from our incredibly wasteful culture , we must begin work now , " he declared . " Surely if our rapidly evolving technology keeps feeding more and more plastic containers , detergents and glass bottles into the garbage disposals , it must also devise better ways of absorbing waste and turning it into fertilizer or other useful purposes . " ' Environmental Approach ' A grauuate or sale and k , urnell Law School , the new Commissioner brings to the department what he calls the " environmental approach " to the problem of city sanitation and cleanliness . Citing recent statements by Mayor Lindsay urging children and grownups to join in an antilitter campaign , Mr. Kearing asserted : " All bad habits are formed early in life and if unchecked get the better of us . It is time for parents , schools , civic organizations and even political clubs to emphasize the importance of improving cleanliness as essential to the survival of the city. ! ' But littering is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removal and disposal , the Commissioner noted . Large-scale renewal and modernization of street-cleaning equipment and a tightening of enforcement of regulations such as alternate parking to help sanitation men have clear access to do their work top his list of priorities . " Littering is indeed a problem , " he added , " but we can not begin to solve it until some of the basic problems are out of the way . People must have an incentive to feel their efforts are really worthwhile . There is no point in hitting the litterbug over the head when the gutters are loaded with accumulated garbage . " Vacuum-Truck Studied As one step toward improving the department 's equipment , Mr. Kearing said he was studying the performance of a new vacuum-truck that can drag refuse from gutters , even under parked cars . Other tasks he hopes to tackle are the improvement of morale in the Sanitation Department and a change of public attitude toward department employes . Mr. Kearing deplored what he called " a general tendency " to make the garbage collector target of jokes . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garbage collecting is performing an " essential ' ole " for the survival of urban society . " People should remember that mless they cooperate in the ! ommon effort to clean the : ity , the day may come when ve will suffocate in the waste woduced by the industrial soqety , " he said .                     