@@725299

txt . etters to the Editor of The Times g. 22 Letters to the Editor of The Times Poverty-Level Standard for Medicare To the Editor : The news article " Medicare Revolution " in your Feb. 7 issue was important in bringing to public attention the little-recognized potential of Title 19 of the Medicare Act . This was the second attempt by Congress to make medical care readily available to selfsupporting but low - income groups , following the total failure of the 1960 Kerr-Mills Act to accomplish this . However , among the many implementation issues the most crucial is how the individual states set the income level for eligibility . The article did not mention the controversy about the nearpoverty income levels which our wealthy state intends to adopt . This is particularly serious for the elderly , a fiercely proud group who preferred health neglect to the demeaning features of applying for state medical assistance to the aged under Kerr-Mills . For the single person aged 65 years or older , New York plans to set an annual income of $1,900 as the cutoff point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is $2,750 . Costs to Community Such a poverty-level standard raises questions about underlying assumptions . Is it assumed that old people stay at home and require little clothing , carfare , goods and services which other age groups enjoy in ever-increasing abundance ? If so , this is diametrically contradicted by expert medical opinion about the importance of keeping older people physically and mentally active . If it is intended as an economy measure to limit the numbers who can and will avail themselves of health care , particularly preventive services , it ignores overwhelming research evidence of the high cost the community pays for needless physical and mental deterioration . Older people are among the most socially , culturally and psychologically deprived in today 's urban society . In addition , they have experienced comparatively lower purchasing power with each successive advance in the nation 's economy since World War II . In a society now committed to raising people out of poverty , it is astonishing that as wealthy a state as New York would fail to adopt a middle-income level to encourage the elderly to obtain health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive Secretary Citizens ' Committee on Aging Community Council of Greater New York New York , Feb. 8 , 1966 Plight of Civil Workers at Air Bases To the Editor : I wish to advise your readers of a questionable statement by the Secretary of Defense relative to the closure of Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve bases . Mr. stated that any civilian employe whose position is eliminated as a result of his decision will have the opportunity of the benefits of the Federal Civil Service system . The National Guard Bu'eau , a branch of ' the Department of Defense , has indicated that these benefits will be denied the Air National Guard civilian employe . However , these same benefits will be available to the Air Force Reserve civilian employes . Included in Mr. 's ill-advised decision to cut back our Air Reserve forces are three Air National Guard units in New York , Pennsylvania and California . These units employ approximately 600 civilian employes . These 600 people , comprising 1.5 per cent of the total National Guard Technician force of about 40,000 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency . Since the advent in 1917 of this civilian technician program within the National Guard , the technicians ' employer identity has been denied , even in the courts . It is inconceivable thatMr. is not aware of this . Numerous inquiries regarding future employment of these long-time employes have been directed to the Secretary of Defense , with no reply . On Oct. 1 , 1966 , these pseudo-military-civilian employes will be arbitrarily discharged from their jobs . This prejudicial attitude toward the National Guard civilian employe must stop . We demand that we be recognized for what we are : civilian employes throughout the month and military men on one week-end each month . We are paid by the Federal Government ; our annual and sick leave benefits parallel Federal employes . We maintain that we are just that ? Federal employes . We ask that our plight no longer be ignored by the Department of Defense , by the Department of the Air Force and by the National Guard Bureau . We want to know what will happen on Oct. 2 . THOMAS M. O'Toolx Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Purchase , N. Y. , Jan. 26 , 1966 ? Parking Fines To the Editor : Your Feb. 2 editorial criticizing the proposed increase of fines for certain midtown parking violations from $15 to $50 misses one important point . Parking lot charges have gone so high that illegal parking may be a good sporting proposition . If it costs $4 to park your car legally , unless there is more than one chance in four that your car will be tagged , the possibility of a fine of only $15 scarcely serves as a deterrent . ALBERT J. ROSENTHAL New York , Feb. 2 , 1966 ? New Haven 's Riders To the Editor : At this crucial point in the Interstate Commerce Commission 's deliberations on the future of the New Haven Railroad may a long-distance passenger add a single voice to the chorus of group interests who so rightly advocate the maintenance of this essential service ? Every day thousands of people make their way to the New Haven 's long-distance services , enduring the most refined obstacles that contemporary America 's public transportation provides . As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group , well illustrated on the stormy night of Jan. 30 by the composure with which several hundred people endured four hours on an unheated train , deprived even of the refreshment of water , frozen solid in the tap . There was not a whisper of dissatisfaction ; there was even laughter at odd moments . Such determination on the part of so ' many to use the New Haven services despite every obstacle except downright prohibition to board the trains should prompt the I.C.C . to point out to the reluctant would-be successors of the railroad the great potential of even the most elementary encouragement of passengers . The sufferings of the current faithful deserve to be seen some day as merely the necessary pains to be endured by all who take it upon themselves to be in the vanguard . PETER H. JUDO New York , Feb. 7 , 1966 ? Clergy 's Competence to Speak Out on War To the Editor : I should like to write to expose what many clergymen and theologians would judge to be certain false assumptions implicit in Prof. Paul Ramsey 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clergy 's Statement on Vietnam Withdrawal . These assumptions deplorably distort the function which ministers of religion must discharge at such a fateful time as this , and which , if unchecked , would do a profound disservice to the public debate we sorely need on what may well he a life-and-death decision . Pope Paul doubtless had his own good reason for refraining from " giving advice to the statesmen of the world , " to quote Professor Ramsey , and for noting that " ' judgment of political questions and temporal interests ' are - outside his competence . " But the fact that the American clergy did not hesitate to " give advice " and recommend concrete policy does not necessarily mean that the Pope is right and that the American clergy are automatically wrong . Their purpose and posture in speaking are not the same , nor should they be . Wisdom Not Restricted Moreover , Professor Ramsey embraces too readily the common illusion that wisdom on such pregnant decisions as our policy in Vietnam is beyond the " competence " of the clergy , and by implication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be confined to our political and military leaders . There are many different ON THE HEAD BY GAUDENS AT CITY COLLEGE Cut huge from mountain granite at the crest , He scans the eagle distances of sky Impervious to seasons that have cursed This elemental land with weird decay . Or wrought of marble white as desert bone , Secular god or Sophoclean king , He sits and broods over this mild lagoon Where shadows play the tragedies of change . Gaudens , more modest , carved in common stone His life-size head against the gothic grays And gargoyle greens of chapel walls -- a man Of daylight moods and simple dignities Time 's patina has proved in every line : Nobody 's master and a slave to Slone . IRWIN STARK kinds of wisdom and competence , and we need them all . Admittedly , the clergy are ignorant of many facts . But the ironical truth is that the presumably " competent " people , the military and the statesmen , do not seem to have been doing too well ; and one suspects that their failure derives in part from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clergy can bring . Clergy and theologians today are not nearly the political innocents abroad which Professor Ramsey would imply them to be . I for one , for example , would be quite prepared to put Pro- ? fessor Ramsey 's famed casuistical mind up alongside Secretary 's famed computer mind any day , in arriving a t political decisions . Moral sensitivity , historical perspective , psychological and social awareness  --  these are the areas in which clergy and theologians rightfully claim competence , and these are exactly the dimensions of the Vietnam question which simply do not seem to be taken sufficiently into account by our political leaders . Political Decisions It is said of the Jews in Biblical times that " they knew which direction history was going , " and we do well to consul ! the Biblical vision of human history and destiny in taking ' political decisions , as much as pragmatic and political con -- siderations . Professor Ramsey to the contrary , it will be a tragic day when the clergy remains content to speak out on grave military and political issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers of the faiths . . . to which they adhere . " Public debate on American policy in Vietnam in particular and toward Asia in general must he " exacerbated " by precisely the kind of " competence " the clergy bring . PAUL WAITMAN HOON Henry Sloane Coffin Professor of Pastoral Theology Union Theological Seminary New York , Feb. 6 , 1966 ? Library Discards To the Editor : Jean 0 . Godfrey in a letter published Feb. 3 discusses the public library 's policy for disposing of discarded library books . In the first place , since the library is not authorized to sell books but only to dispose of them , why have they consulted . experts to check their possible sale ? In the second place , Miss Godfrey is not answering the main issue  --  that is , if the books ' may not be sold ( since it is not worth the effort ) , why can they not be given to the Seaman 's Institute or any other organization that may be willing ' to take them ? Or is it just , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the certificate of permission for disposing of the discards , stipulates specifically that such disposals must be done through the use of Sanitation Department trucks ? Is the Sanitation Department , not busy enough trying to collect the already extravagant wastes of New York ? YANNI POSNAKoFp New York , Feb. 7 , 1.966                     