@@722714

txt ROME , Oct. ** John XXIII will inaugurate the 21st Ecumenical , or universal , Council of the Roman Catholic Church tomorrow morning with the pomp and splendor ' worthy of a great occasion . History will remember it by its official designation , Ecumenical Council Vatican II , so named because it is the second to be held in St. Peter 's Basilica , which is part of the Vatican . The first was in 1869-70 . Two thousand six hundred " fathers of the Council " from 55 countries and six continents are expected at the opening ceremony . The fathers are ecclesi astics of the rank of bishop or , higher who are to participate ' in the Council . With them will , sit 200 theological experts with-1 out voting rights . The United States will be ' represented by 240 ecclesiastics ' headed by the five American , princes of ? the church : Cardinal Spellman , Archbishop of New York ; James Francis Car ' dinal , Archbishop of1 Los Angeles ; Richard James Cardinal Cushing , Archbishop of Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Joseph Elmer Cardinal Ritter , Archbishop of St. 1Louis . U. S. Delegation Second Largest Cardinal Spellman and his entourage arrived in Rome this morning by air from New York . The United States delegation , in point of numbers , will be the largest after the Italian . The Council fathers are to discuss and vote on 69 schemata , or draft constitutions and decrees , designed to bring up to date the organization , institutions and procedures of the church at the start of the atomic age . Constitutions are solemn papal ordinances dealing with important points of doctrine and discipline . Decrees are less solemn ordinances , often of an administrative character . How long the Council will last depends largely on how controversial the schemata will prove to be . Many Councils have lasted for years , some suffering repeated interruptions during periods as long as 18 years . According to present plans , the Council should sit until Dec. // 8 , when the fathers will be free to go home for Christmas . They will probably return to Rome after next Easter . Vatican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete its work before summer . An Ecumenical Council is the supreme deliberative body of the church , subject to the primacy of the pope . No Council can be convoked except by a pope and its decrees become binding on all the faithful only after they have been approved and promulgated by him . The suggestion has repeat- , edly been made through the centuries that Ecumenical Councils be held at regular intervals . This plan has never been : adopted because of the fear , that it might challenge the ; primacy of the papacy . Troops Entered Rome This Council of 1869-70 was adjourned when Italian troops entered Rome through a breach in the ancient walls and deprived the popes of temporal power . Though Vatican Council I was not formally closed , the one about to be inaugurated is not a resumption of it . Before adjourning , the previous Council approved the dogma of papal infallibility , which proclaims that when a pope is speaking from the Chair of St. Peter and rendering a formal de-1 cision on matters of faith or morals , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed this ; dogma . In the final vote it was approved by 533 votes to 2 . Guests ' to Be Present The dogma of infallibility has never been accepted by the churches separated from Rome . It is a principal obstacle to reunion with the Eastern Orthodox churches , which hold that the infallible church speaks through its bishops . The Council opening tomorrow will bp attended by delegate observers from the World Council of Churches , a Protestant body , and from several nonCatholic Christian churches . It will be the first time that Protestants will be present at a Council since the one held at Trent from 1545 to 1563 . This Council introduced deep church reforms and brought about the Counter-Reformation in opposition to the Protestant Reformation . Present at the Council will be a number of " guests , " including Eastern Orthodox churchmen . Their churches broke away from Rome in 1054 . The latst time they were present at a Council was in 1439 , at Florence , where an Act of Union was negotiated . The union was short-lived because the decree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years later by the Patriarchs of Alexandria , Antioch and Jerusalem . The attempt to achieve union with the Eastern Orthodox churches is now to be renewed in Rome as a long-range project . No one believes that anything sensational or sudden will be achieved while the Council is sitting . It is thought only that the Council may remove some obstacles and establish an atmosphere of confidence and goodwill . Hopeful Signed Discerned The mere presence of Eastern Orthodox churchmen is regarded as a hopeful sign by Vatican officials . They point out that non-Catholic Christian churches had been invited to Vatican Council I but all refused in a curt manner . The Council will hold its meetings in the nave of St. Peter 's , which has begm sealeJ off from the rest of the massive basilica . Pope John XXIII , who is 81 years old , will preside from a ; high throne betwen two of the twisted columns supporting , Bernini 's bronze canopy over the main altar . He will face the main door of St. Peter 's and will have the Council fathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a kind of grandstand lenghtwise along both sides of the nave . Latin , the language of the Roman Catholic Church , will be used in the plenary sittings . Other languages may be used in committee meetings . A corps of shorthand experts has been trained to record Latin speeches in the variety of pronunciations that prevail . Electronic equipment has been in- , stalled to count votes quickly . I With the exception of a few , public meetings to which the , press will be admitted , all proceedings will be held behind closed doors and the participants will be sworn to secrecy . Information on the proceedings will appear in press releases that the Council 's secretariat ' will issue in many languages every afternoon . Press briefings will hold at noon .                     