@@724882

txt Washington , July 9 ? President Johnson said today that the war in Viet Nam will get worse before it gets better and that " understanding , endurance , and patriotism " will he reauired to survive the crisis . Johnson said American manpower needs in South Viet Nam are growing and will continue to do so . Requirements will go beyond the previously announced goal of 75,000 American military men , he said . " We do n't plan to let up , " he said . Johnson made his assessment of the southeast Asia war at a hurriedly called press conference before flying to Texas for a week-end at his ranch near Austin . He plans to return to the capital Monday . Attacks on Increase Asked what news the American people can expect from Viet Nam in the near future , Johnson said he had " neither a rosy nor a gloomy report to make . " Attacks by the communist Viet Cong guerrillas are increasing in number , the President said , and casualties on both sides also are on the increase . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 , the South Vietnamese lost 1,900 men and the Americans 40 , while the Viet Cong lost 4,556 dead , counted on the field of battle . But , the President said , the Viet Cong are " swinging wildly " and suffering " substantial " losses in their sneak attacks on military and civilian targets Expects Complete Report Before the press conference , Johnson conferred for an hour with Secretary of Defense Robert S. and reviewed the latest reports from Viet Nam . Johnson said he expects to have a more complete report on the return from Viet Nam of and Henry Cabot Lodge , reappointed last night to be ambassador to Saigon to replace Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , who resigned yesterday after a year in the post . Questioned about Taylor 's resignation , Johnson said reports that the general 's action was the result of policy differences with the administration are " irresponsible , inaccurate , and untrue . " He said Taylor took the job a year ago with the understanding he would serve for only a year . Commenting on his selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preceding Taylor 's appointment , Johnson said the Massachusetts Republican was the " best man available " for the job . He said Lodge 's knowledge of the southeastern Asia situation was greater than that of any other American . Johnson spoke glowingly of Lodge 's experience as a United States senator , an army officer in World War II , American ambassador to the United Nations , ambassador to Saigon , and his service on government missions to foreign capitals to explain American policy and to gather the views of foreign leaders . Asked Last March The President disclosed he had asked Lodge as long ago as March 23 to succeed Taylor in Saigon this summer and that Lodge had agreed to do so . A sidelight on the continuing discussion in Washington of the Vietnamese war was a speech by Sen. Robert F. Kennedy , brother of the late President , at the International Police academy . Kennedy said that in socalled wars of national liberation  --  the communist definition of the Viet Nam struggle  --  the fighting must be political rather than military . Kennedy had deleted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war is not won by escalation , but by deescalation " and that air attacks by a government on its own villages can be " dangerous and costly . " Even the sanitized version of the Kennedy speech was interpreted in some quarters as a slap at Johnson policies in Viet Nam , but Bill D. Moyers , Johnson 's new press secretary , said the speech followed the administration policy line and was " helpful . " Sees Dominican Progress Moyer s reminded reporters that in a Baltimore speech last spring , Johnson said it was not possible to build a peaceful world with bullets and bombs . Johnson was asked at his I press conference about another world trouble spot , the Dominican Republic , where United States and Latin A m eric an troops are trying to maintain a shaky peace after the April revolution . The President said " remarkable progress " was being made to restore stability in the country . Disorder and economic dislocation have been kept to a minimum , he said . He praised the work of the Organization of American States mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Described as " wholly ? naccurate " reports that the American deficit in the international balance of payments has been wiped out . Tells of Parleys Said he was busy from 6:39 o'clock last night until 1:30 this morning conferring with foreign policy advisers on the international situation and with special task force members on next year 's administration program . Said he planned to hold a televised press conference next week . There was a new wrinkle in today 's press conference : Johnson did not , as usual , open it by reading a sheaf of statements . As reporters trooped ink his oval office , the President immediately invited questions .                     