@@726828

txt The United States is using diplomatic channels to try to determine Hanoi 's intentions in issuing a statement promising peace talks once American bombing raids and other acts of war against North Vietnam were unconditionally halted . A statement to this effect by the North Vietnamese Foreign Minister , Nguyen Duy Trinh , broadcast in English yesterday by the Hanoi radio , has stirred considerable interest here and at the Texas White House . For the first time , it appeared , the North Vietnamese Government has stated explicitly that it " will " hold talks with the United States on relevant , but unspecified , questions once American bombing and all other acts of war against North Vietnam have ended . Previously , Hanoi 's position was more vague ? that there " could " be talks if the acts of war ceased . Gap Said to Narrow The White House and State Department avoided any official reaction to the statement , enunciated at a Hanoi reception for a delegation from Mongolia . Privately , both Administration sources and sympathetic Western diplomats voiced the view that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . They said that it narrowed the gap between Washington and Hanoi on terms for holding peace talks but that there still were important differences . United States officials noted that the statement , in addition to reiterating that " the basis for settlement " was the hitherto unacceptable formulas of North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam , left a number of questions unanswered . How soon , for example , would talks start after the bombing halted ? What assur // ances are there that the talks , would be productive and not ' stalled indefinitely ? What would be discussed ? And what about President Johnson 's implied requirement for reciprocal military de-escalation by Hanoi in return for the bombing halt ? In a related development , the State Department disclosed that the United States was urging Poland , Canada and India , as members of the International Control Commission to take steps to improve super-1 vision of Cambodia 's frontiers and thereby reduce the danger of military clashes in Cambodia . The questions raised by the North Vietnamese statement are apparently being explored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department press officer , said that the Government was seeking clarification of the North Vietnamese statement and that it was Administration policy to " explore every possible lead . " He declined to go into details . A number of the questions , other officials said , were implicit in President Johnson 's remarks on Sept. 29 at San Antonio , Tex . He said then that the United States ' is willing to stop all aerial and naval bombardment of North Vietnam when this will lead promptly to productive discussion . " Statement Was Mild The President , in a mild statement of American requirements , added : " We , . of course , assume that while discussions proceed , North Vietnam would not take advantage of the bombing cessation or limitation . " This phrasing was used , it was explained , to make it easier for Hanoi to enter into talks without having to promise publikly to step down its war effort , as the Administration has demanded . With regard to the International Control Commission , Washington would like to see it , made more effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sanctuary . Activities Are Limited The commission , established in 1954 by the Geneva agreements that ended the first Indochina war , has confined its activities in Cambodia to investigating complaints by the Government that allied forces have intruded into or attacked Cambodian territory . Recently , Prince Norodom Sihanouk has indicated willingness to have the commission check into charges that Communist forces have set up base camps in Cambodia . Meanwhile , Gen. Earle G. Wheeler , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , issued a statement warning against " unilateral cessations " of allied military operations . lie noted that the Third Brigade of the United States 25th Infantry Division was " subjected to a sustained ground attack and deliberate mortar bombardment " in violation of the New Year 's holiday cease-fire last night and early this morning . " That our troops beat off this attack with heavy and disproportionate losses Ito the enemy should never disguise two harsh facts , " General Wheeler asserted . " The enemy cynically disregarded his own cease-fire announcement . " The enemy flagrantly violated the 12-hour truce extension put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    