@@721693

txt Republican legislative leaders decided today at a breakfast conference ' with Governor Rockefeller to have this year 's primary elections on Sept. 7 , a Thursday . Later today a bill legally fixing that date for the primary was introduced in the Legislature by Assemblyman Eugene J. Goddard , Republican of Rochester , who is chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on the Election Law . The choice of the date represented a political judgment on how best to advance Republican interests in New York City and upstate . Four of the five Republican county chairmen in New York City had favored holding the primary in June , but most of the other Republican county chairmen in the state favored a September date . Two theories on how the September date could improve Republican prospects in New York City were advanced at today 's conference of Republican leaders . The first is based on the assumption that Democrats in New York City will be even more deeply divided in September than they are now . In such a case , it is argued , the later the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats , to heal their differences between the primary and the election . The second line of reasoning is that a later date will improve the possibility of getting outstanding candidates to head a Republican-Fusion ticket . The assumption in this case is that more top-level men can be interested in running if the prospects for winning improve because of the bickering among Democrats . Among the possible Republican candidates for Mayor of New York now under consideration are Senator Jacob K. Javits , Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , Representatives John V. Lindsay and Paul A. Fino , and State Commerce Commissioner Keith , former president of the New York Telephone Company . Bernard Newman , New York County Republican chairman , has called a meeting of the recently appointed Committee of 100 to plan for the Republican campaign , it was disclosed here . The meeting is scheduled for Thursday at New York County headquarters , 54 West Fortieth Street . Many Republicans dispute the reasoning on which the September primary date was chosen . Their view is that the longer , the Democrats have to choose candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to heal the present splits within their ranks . This was a minority view today . Usually primary elections , like general elections , are held on a Tuesday , but it is not unprecedented to have them on other days . The last time a primary was held on a day other than Tuesday was in 1937 , when it was held on Thursday , Sept. 16 . It was decided today to have the primary on Thursday instead of Tuesday this year to meet objections that holding the primary on Sept. 5 , the , day after Labor Day , would ) keep many people from voting . The second and third Tuesdays in September this year were ruled out because they are Jewish holidays . Only yesterday Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt , a leader of the anti-Tammany faction in the Democratic party in New York , wrote to Governor Rockefeller protesting the possible choice of Sept. 5 , the date Republican leaders had tentatively picked . Mrs. Roosevelt urged that the primary be held in June . By fixing Sept. 7 , the Republicans are forcing a choice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first day for circulating petitions to enter candidates in the primary will be June 22 . The last day for filing the petitions with the Board of Elections will be Aug. 3 . Had June 6 , the first Tuesday in that month , been set for the primary , decisions on candidates would have had to be made by the latter part of March , and the last day for filing the petitions would have been May 2.                     