@@726889

txt The most conservative , hard-headed program in the history . of the American economy for putting the hard-core unemployed to work now is being attempted . Business is not asked to help the government this time . It will be the other way around . Business will be in charge . The government will assist . " This is in industry 's own self-interest , " said ' Henry Ford III , head of the new National Alliance of Businessmen , formed for the purpose . It was clear from this statement that he meant more than jobs for companies . Industry will benefit from cleaning up one of the worst human sinkholes in the communities where it does business . The " hard-core unemployed " will not include the worst cases of people who would not exert themselves to earn a living , even if all their deficiencies were corrected and they were given an opportunity . But these are not expected to be a large proportion . Executives join Various test and experimental programs have shown , to the satisfaction of groups of specialists from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed are people with special disadvantages that can , with help , be corrected , and that they will want to live , not on the dregs of welfare , but earning and able to buy the benefits of the American standard of living . On this assumption , a group of the very top executives of many of the most successful corporations has agreed to join Mr. Ford on the National Alliance of Businessmen . As President Johnson sent his message to Congress on this program , his first in the new session , heavy emphasis was placed at the White House on the changed character of job training under the new concept . It will not be a " make-work " program like those of the 1930 's . It will not be government job-training programs , like those attempted more recently . It will be on-the-job training , entirely controlled by the individual company . Workers will not be given generalized training for a certain type of job . They will be trained directly for a specific job , by the men doing the job and supervisors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutoff point , where the individual then has to stand on his own , having received training and special help . He will hold his job only on competitive merit , in a profitmaking enterprise , from then on . Government subsidy will stop . But until that point , the government will pay the extra costs beyond the normal training cost of the employer . And the government will identify and screen the available pool of " hard-core unemployed " and bring them to the attention of the employers . It was the experience with test programs that led the President , his advisers , and a group of business leaders to conclude that on-the-job training was by far the best method . Other government programs for job training will continue for the present . The President is asking Congress for $350 million over two years for the new effort , whose target is to put 100,000 of the hard-core group into jobs by June , 1969 . The remainder of the estimated half million in this group would then be tackled , if the new program succeeds . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on " how to cut government red tape . " The alliance will be organized on the national and regional levels , and right down to businessmen committees in each city and locality . By Joan Forbes , staff artist Imbalance in jobs Trends in unemployment , shown in several age categories , show Negroes fare less well than whites . A new federally supported program run by businessmen is aimed at hard-core unemployed ' of both groups .                     