@@727228

txt Raymond T. Evans is a legislator in Delaware who set out in May to " dramatize the needs " of the state 's poor people . " I wanted my people to know that here 's one legislator who 's willing to give of himself , " he says . He did give of himself . Fourteen pounds of himself . Mr. Evans fasted to draw attention to his cause . For 10 days , he took nothing but water and orange juice . He says he suffered no ill effects except for some mild headaches . " The worst part was watching my four kids eat , " he says . But he says it was worth it . " The legislature passed a number of social welfare bills , and I believe my fast had something to do with it " Mr. Evans ' fast was n't really surprising . What was surprising was that anyone even noticed that the legislator was n't eating . For fasting has become a common way to protest , and nearly everyone with a cause seems to be fasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veteran faster Dick Gregory is fasting in Washington state in protest against a state fishing law that he believes violates the rights of a local Indian tribe . Civil rights leader Ralph Abernathy is fasting on fruit juices and vitamins in a jail in Washington , D.C. , protesting his arrest on charges stemming from the Poor People 's Campaign . And recently New Yorker Jack Agueros fasted to gain better treatment for the city 's Puerto Ricans and to protest his recent firing from a $25,000-a-year job in the city 's antipoverty program . In March , 1,200 Smith College girls fasted for three days to show their desire for peace . And in April , more than a million persons took part in a nationwide five-day fast for peace , according to a group called Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam . The Medical View All this might be good for the cause , as Delaware 's Mr. Evans says , but doctors say it 's not good for the fasters . " All this fasting makes me shudder , " says Dr. Garfield G. Duncan of Philadelphia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that when a man who is n't fat fasts he " sacrifices muscle and protein-containing lean tissue . " Other doctors say that fasters can quickly develop a form of gouty arthritis , low blood pressure or anemia . These warnings do little to deter those who fast . Mr. Gregory is on his third fast in three years . Last year he abstained from eating between Thanksgiving and New Year 's to protest the Vietnam war ; his weight dropped from 158 pounds to 103 . During that fast , he remarked : " I 've lost so much weight that nonviolence is no longer a tactic ? it 's a necessity . " The entertainer and civil rights activist wat back up to his normal weight when he began fasting again on June 7 after he was jailed in Olympia , Wash. , for breaking a new law against fishing with nets . He is taking distilled water only and has lost about 50 pounds . He was transferred bills hospital last week because his doctors feared he was catching pneumonia , but he still refuses to eat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days of his 90-day prison sentence . But he may not live that long , some doctors say . " A few non-obese people can stand 70 to 80 days , but it 's very risky , " says Dr. Duncan . " Sooner or later they starve to death . " It is n't known whether anyone in the U.S. has died of fasting , but two agitators for Irish independence died in an English prison in 1920 after fasting about 75 days . Doctors say that one bad thing about fasting is that the body quickly adjusts to it , so that hunger pangs  --  the body 's plea against starvation  --  rarely last more than two days . Thus , says the American Medical Association , " The individual on a fast may be tempted to extend it too long for safety . " Mahatma Gandhi &; Radcliffe Girls Fasting , which has religious origins , became popular as a vehicle of social protest in the early years of this century . Mahatma Gandhi , the leader of India , staged 14 fasts between 1918 and his death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-publicized fasters . Most current fasts in the U.S. involve civil rights causes and antiwar demonstrations , but sometimes fasts are undertaken for less important matters : Last year , for example , 19 Radcliffe College girls began a fast demanding that seniors have the option to live off campus . That fast lasted only a week , however , and it was unsuccessful . An official of the Cambridge , Mass. , girls ' college says many other girls sympathized with the 19 fasters but refused to support the cause by fasting . Cynics say the reason was because the girls did n't want to look scrawny for the nearby Harvard men , but the Radcliffe official says it was because " they thought that fasting over such a silly issue demeaned what they consider a very serious tactic . "                     