@@724989

txt New Orleans . Sept. 10 Friday 111 ' 11 ? Killer hurricane Betsy ripped thru New Orleans with 115 mile-an-hour winds early today and left wide areas of the city shattered and without power in a nightmare blackout . Charity hospital . largest in the state . went on emergency power and treated many minor injuries . mostly cuts and bruises . as the storm smashed across the low-lying Louisiana shore and menaced not only New Orleans but a wide area of the gulf coast from the Texas border east to Pensacola . Fla . Police reported gusts up to 125 miles an hour . Highest winds in the storm were 150 m. p. h . Reports of Looting " We have had reports of looting , " police said . The hurricane claimed seven lives in Florida in its sweep thru the Gulf of Mexico . and forewarned coastal residents fled by the tens of thousands before Betsy 's howling winds and 6-to-12-foot tides . An estimated 250,000 persons had fled , 100,000 of them alone in the Lake Pontchartrain area of New Orleans where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the powerful winds . Guard Called Out National guardsmen were called out in Louisiana and Mississippi and alerted in Alabama for storm duty . Early today the center of the storm was speeding northwesterly at a 20 miles an hour , with the 80-mile-wide eye in the dead center extending almost to the capital at Baton Rouge . Thibodeaux , La. , reported winds of 120 miles an hour . The winds smashed a measuring gauge at a riverboat pilots ' haven near Pilot Town . near the mouth of the Mississippi . " Numerous areas of the city are flooded , and are too numerous to mention , " a police department spokesman in New Orleans said . Police feared a 190-foot tower used to transmit police radio messages had toppled . Glass , lumber , paper , and other debris whipped thru the streets of the famed French quarter . Water rose to the level of car windows near a bridge at Lake Pontchartrain . Flock to Public Buildings Residents of the lake area streamed by the thousands to public buildings that seemed strong enough to withstand the winds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safe from flooding . The fire department reported numerous small fires from falling power lines . A thunderous rain was whipped horizontally thru the Crescent city by the wild winds . The scream of the hurricane is unbelievable . " a civil defense headquarters spokesman said at midnight . " New Orleans is in bad shape right now . The situation is critical . " Police Guard Stores The spokesman reported police guarding Canal street stores against looters . The shop windows had been broken by the storm . Civil defense headquarters itself funneled emergency messages from a room four stories underground , about 250 f eet from the edge of Lake Pontchartrain . Few persons except police ventured into the streets during the height of the storm . The hurricane , which roared into the southeast Florida coast Tuesday night after battering Nassau in the Bahamas , claimed its seventh victim last night  --  a man killed at Panama City , Fla. , in the collapse of a seawall . Betsy was hammering the gulf coast with its winds from Louisiana thru Mississippi , Alabama , and into Florida . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roof of the Tulane room , a popular New Orleans nightspot , was ripped off . The club 's ballroom , which can hold 1.000 people , was empty when the vicious winds lifted the roof . Betsy. a highly erratic howler , pushed a 6 to 12 foot wall of water ahead of her and packed killer winds of up to 150 miles an hour . Hurricane force winds slammed into New Orleans last midnight , shortly after city officials ordered 100,000 residents from their homes along a 40 mile stretch of the south shore of Lake Pontchartrain . The area included one of New Orleans ' most exclusive residential sections . The first blast from the hurricane left 50 per cent of New Orleans without power , and two radio stations were knocked off the air . Bureau Issues Warning The weather bureau had issued a hurricane warning which covered the coastlines of Louisiana , Mississippi , A 1 abama. and eastward to Pensacola , Fla . Howling winds raked the small Mississippi river towns of Venice , Boothville , and Buras , about 70 miles south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the residents having fled earlier In Plaquemines parish county where winds were clocked at 80 to 90 m. p. h. , Safety Director Luke Petrovich said , " We are just trying to preserve life . " A Mississippi river pilot , trapped in a building with a dozen other persons near the mouth of the Mississippi river , reported that his instruments for measuring wind velocity broke at 120 m.p.h. when Betsy passed overhead . In addition to the 100,000 who left their homes in New Orleans and the 85,000 who were evacuated along the Louisiana coast , 10,000 ran for cover along the Mississippi coast ? the biggest evacuation in the state 's history and thousands of others fled the Alabama and northwest Florida coasts . One of the Louisiana parishes evacuated was tiny Cameron , where Hurricane Audrey claimed 500 lives in 1957 . Water Rises in City As Betsy whipped thru New Orleans , police said water in one section of the city near Lake Pontchartrain rose to window levels of stranded automobiles . They said they feared a levee had broken . Towering waves whipped up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tall seawall ringing the lake . Floods are a major threat to New Orleans . The city , located between the Mississippi river and Lake Ponchartrain , is below sea level , and is protected by seawalls and levees . New Orleans police appealed to residents to stay off the streets . Both bridges across the Mississippi river at New Orleans and the Lake Pontchartrain 24-mile causeway , the world 's longest bridge , were closed to traffic . All Louisiana national guard units were on stand-by alert and Mississippi Gov . Paul Johnson also ordered his national guard units to active duty . In Alabama , a special force of 40 state troopers was sent to the Mobile area to render all assistance possible . A small tornado spawned by Betsy slammed into a small boat basin near Fort Walton Beach , Fla. , east of Pensacola , Fla . Twelve boats were damaged , but there were no injuries . The highway patrol reported waves of up to 14 feet were pounding Fort Morgan peninsula , which stretches more than halfway across the mouth of Mobile bay . Lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pensacola to Spanish Port , Ala. , was reported blocked by fallen power lines and other debris . Several other routes along the Alabama coast including state highways 182 and 180 at Gulf Shores were closed by flooding . By midnight towering waves were breaking over the seawall at Pascagoula , Miss. , where an additional 5,000 took shelter . Water also began creeping up the 6-foot seawall along the 26-mile strip of coast stretching from Pass Christian to Biloxi , Miss. , the longest man-made beach in the world . About 3,000 persons were evacuated from Santa Rosa Island , off the Florida coast , and 200 feet of the island 's fishing pier was destroyed by floodtides . Ships Take on Ballast State parks in Mississippi were opened to refugees . Workers battened down ports at Mobile , Pascagoula , Gulfport , and Biloxi . Twenty ships in port at Mobile took on water ballast and tied up more securely . Twenty-five ships anchored at the mouth of the Mississippi south of New Orleans to ride out the storm . Five hundred convicts at the Louisiana state prison in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up refugee shelters as far inland as Alexandria , 125 miles from the coast .                     