@@721318

txt Top-ranking Democrats clashed tonight in a political donnybrook over their party 's Presidential nomination . The main issue was ' whether Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the Senate majority leader , had attempted to use Congressional influence to delay or prevent an early endorsement of his rival , Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts , by Michigan Democratic leaders . Gov . G. Mennen Williams of Michigan said he had been given to understand that unless he withheld or delayed endorsement of Senator Kennedy , then Senator Johnson felt he would have difficulty in scheduling through Congress legislation to provide Federal medical care for the aged , The Michigan Governor endorsed Senator Kennedy June 2 . Notified Reuther Governor Williams said he had been informed that Senator Johnson had notified Walter P. Reuther , politically powerful leader of the United Automobile Workers of America , that enactment of the aged medical care bill would be endangered if Michigan 's Democratic delegation gave early endorsement to Senator KennedPs candidacy . Mr. Williams did not volunteer the story . It developed entirely as a result of questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , declared that Mr. Williams ' story was " totally untrue . " He* termed the report " pure political convention nonsense . " Gov . Price . Daniel of Texas said the report was " pure political fabrication . " Mr. Daniel said he was certain that Mr. Johnson would not use his office to promote his own candidacy and would not determine his position on legislation on the basis of whether persons were for or against him for the Presidency . Governor Daniel said he had not asked Senator Johnson directly about the incident , beContinued cause he knew it could not have happened and " it would be an insult even to ask hint " - Prom other pro-Johnson sources , however , it was established that , through a New York intermediary , Senator Johnson had approached Mr. Reuther in the hope that he could at least persuade Governor Williams to delay an announcement for Senator Kennedy . The New Yorker said that on instructions from Senator Johnson he had told Mr. Reuther that an early Kennedy endorsement might- make it more difficult to pass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , the New Yorker made it clear. : for Senator . Johnson that the auto union would have to compromise for something less than the ' Forand bill because- Senator Johnson had said he - " would not take on the doctors . " Medical groups oppose- the Forand hill as strongly ' as ' organized labor supports it. - Bill field In Committee At that time , the medicalcare bill was locked up- in the House Ways and Means Committee . Senator - Johnson was reported to have said he might not be able to count on Southern Democratic votes needed to report the measure to the House if Michigan started a bandwagon rolling for Senator Kennedy . The Daniel-Williams clash highlighted preliminary festivities for the fifty-second Governors ' Conference , which will start formally tomorrow morning and continue through Wednesday . Not surprisingly , Governors Williams and - Daniel differed widely on the prospects of their Presidential favorites . Mr. Williams forecast that Senator Kennedy would reach the required 761-vote majority for nomination before the end of the first ballot at the Los Angeles convention . Governor Daniel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or fourth ballot , predicted that Senator Kennedy 's first-ballot strength would be his peak , and  --  that he would lose votes on succeeding roll-calls . The Texas Governor predicted that Senator Johnson would have 502 votes on the first ballot and climb to 664 on the second . He said he assumed that Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri would withdraw after the first ballot , and that most of his strength would flow to , Mr. Johnson . In answering questions at his news conference , Governor Williams reported that the indirect effort by Senator Johnson to delay his pro-Kennedy ' endorsement was made , orr June 2. - That was the day the Governor met with Senator Kennedy at Mackinac Island and issued his announcement . Mr. Williams Said the Johnson warning had been given to Mr. Reuther but had been relayed to him by Mrs. Mildred Jeffrey , a U. A. W. staff member and a Democratic party official . Asked if he had checked Senator Johnson to establish the facts of the incident , Governor Williams said he had not done so , but'that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reuther . As Governor Williams told it , 1 the Johnson message said that , he would  --  support the Forand bill it the Michigan announcement were delayed , but oppose the bill if - Michigan came out for Kennedy . Viewed as ' Blackmail ' When a reporter suggested that this represented an accusation of political " blackmail " against Senator Johnson , Mr.I Williams repeated that he had not brought up the issue , that he simply was answering press inquiries , and , that he had not characterized - " the nature of Senator Johnson 's effort . He said he assumed that the Texan , in seeking the Presiden- , tial nomination , was employing all the means of persuasion at his command . Governor Dan iei 's suggestion that Senator Johnson would gain on the second ballot because Senator Symington would withdraw after the first ballot , was the first time that such a statement had been made . Conceivably , Mr. Daniel 's suggestion could cause trouble between the Johnson and Symington forces because the Missourian 's friends , including former President Harry S. Truman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so early .                     