@@727509

txt College students with little or no experience in investigative matters were employed by the National Commission on Violence to gather information on disorders in Chicago during convention week , a TRIBUNE investigation disclosed yesterday . In one instance , a secretary with the commission for one month was called upon to interview five persons on the University of California campus in Berkeley . Other interviewers at the campus included a thirdyear law student and an undergraduate student . Seek to Be Anonymous In all , 33 universities were contacted by the commission to collect data from persons who said they were in Chicago and witnessed or participated in the demonstrations in August . Many of the statements received were from persons who did not wish to give their names . At Columbia university in New York City . the scene of violent disturbances led by student activists for several months , statements of students were not included in the commission 's findings . A delay resulted because the students at first declined to give statements unless they remained anonymous . Agree to Talk Dr. Allen H. Barton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said when the anonymous statements were agreed to , several students granted the interviews . " However , they were too late to be included in the report and we never did send the statements to the Chicago study team to the commission , " he said . In Chicago , one member of the study team , Michael Youdoyin , 24 , a law student at Northwestern university , has been linked as an associate of Clark Kissinger , an anti-war organizer who has been observed by police at many " peace " demonstrations thruout the country . Kissinger was recently turned down by the army because of a kidney ailment . He had said that if drafted , he would organize an anti-war underground army . It was learned that a recent term paper submitted by Youdovin and another student carried the title , " Police Infiltration and Surveillance of Dissident Groups . " " An Internal Problem " Victor Di Grazia , assistant director of the Chicago study team to the commission , refused to disclose the guidelines followed by the team in conducting its investigation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chicago team , Di Grazia said : " We 've got a problem . It 's an internal problem and we ca n't make public how we conducted the investigation . " DiGrazia said that many senior law students conducted the interviews on campuses , but these were under the supervision of faculty members at the universities . " We also gave thoro instructions to the interviewers on how to seek the proper information , " he said . According to DiGrazia , the Chicago study team did not solicit anonymous statements . Ads in Newspapers However , THE TRIBUNE learned that ads soliciting anonymous statements were placed in student newspapers by commission members at the University of California , the University of Wisconsin , and Columbia . DiGrazia contends that about 200 statements were received from college campuses and that " cooperating " attorneys in New York , Denver , Washington , and San Francisco also took statements . Walker has said that his staff reviewed more than 2,400 statements compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation from witnesses to the disorders . In addition , his staff conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               