@@723895

txt An overseas business corps modeled on the Peace Corps is being formed by industry at the suggestion of the Johnson Administration . The Executive Service Corps expects to be in operation by late summer . Its central office wilt probably be in New York . ? The . corps will draw mostly on newly retired executives who are not ready to be put out to hammock . They will go overseas on special tasks for periods ranging from three months to two years , or longer . Volunteers will be assigned to semideveloped countries to assist in the expansion of industries owned there . The countries will include most of those in South America and the industrially awakening regions of Africa and Asia . The program will not include European or other fully devel- loped economies , nor will it take in primitive areas . An organizing committee has been named , headed by David Rockefeller , president of the Chase Manhattan Bank , and /Sol Linowitz , chairman of the Xerox Corporation . The purpose of the Executive Service Corps will be to serve the broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privateenterprise lines , which the Administration believes will be the quickest and best for them as well as for the United States . At the same time , it will provide a challenging outlet for useful service to men who have been put on the retirement lists of American industry . Many men are being retired at the age of 62 or even 60 , although they consider themselves at the height of their powers . Mr. Linowitz said that management and technical men would be made available to overseas industries as advisers , supervisors or on-the-job managers , according to local need . Pay will not be on the scale to which retired businessmen have been accustomed , but most volunteers will presumably have savings and pension incomes . They will be paid an adequate cost-of-living wage by the concerns for which they work overseas , in addition to travel and Insurance cost . The corps may provide a small additional stipend . The corps will be a private nongovernmental corporation . To get it off the ground , the government stands ready to provide initial funds until , hopefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his foreign-aid message to Congress on March 19 , President Johnson declared : " We must do more to utilize private initiative in the United States  --  and in the developing countries  --  to promote economic development abroad . " He said then that the Administration was " encouraging the establishment of an Executive Service Corps . " The primary responsibility for getting the organization going has rested with the Agency for International Development ( AID ) , the semiautonomous unit headed by David E. Bell that runs the foreign-aid program within the State Department . 1,000 To Be Sent Abroad The agency put the organizing committee together . Besides Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Linowits , its members are : C. D. Jackson , vice president of Time , Inc. ; William S. Paley , chair man of the Columbia Broadcasting System ; Daniel A. Kimball , president of Aerojet-Gencral and former Secretary of the Navy ; John H. Johnson , president of ? the Johnson Publishing Company of Chicago , and Ray Eppert , president of the Burroughs Corporation . An official of the development agency said : " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the private community to take over , they very quickly did and we 're now standing in the wings , ready with a little money when they ask for it . " No budget has been drawn . . The aim is to get about 1,000 men overseas in the first 30 months , probably at a cost of several million dollars , of which the government will provide the greater part . The Development Agency has assigned Thomas 0 . Thomas , a 37-year-old member of the corps ' planning staff , to New York to act as liaison between the Government and the organizing committee . Mr. Thomas said the idea for the corps " has so many parents it is hard to pin its origins down , " but he , and others in the project , credited Senator Vance Hartke , Democrat of Indiana , with having urged the initial study that showed the concept to be potentially workable . Other fathers of the plan are Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York ; Mr. Rockefeller and David Fulton of the Stanford Research Institute of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporate the corps . The organizing committee is looking for a full-time corps director , preferably a man with immense prestige in the corporation community who could sell the idea to business . The Administration wants the corps to divorce itself speedily from the Government and become a straight business-tobusiness assistance program . It anticipates extending financial aid for at most three years . Mr. Linowitz said the Administration had challenged the American business community to cooperate with the nation 's foreign policy by serving the developing areas . He said he was " confident it will respond with enthusiasm . " If so , the organizers hope that corporations will broaden the manpower pool by releasing younger men on middle management levels for a year or two or for " sabbatical " service overseas , preferably at full pay . For that and other reasons no one connected with the project likes a shorthand term that has been going around , referring to it as the " paunch corps. "                     