@@722193

txt The Reserve forces will not again be mobilized for " cold war " crises , Deputy Defense Secretary Roswell L. Gilpatric indicated today . He discussed , at a news conference , the " revised " thinking of the Defense Department since more than 150,000 reservists were called to active duty in the Berlin crisis . Indicating that future Reserve call-ups will be ordered only in a large-scale mobilization for hostilities , Mr. Gilpatric said : " I myself was under the belief earlier that we could successfully mobilize and demobilize reservists to meet crises in this cold war period . I may have been wrong in that . It may be that we might have to have more Regular // force to deal with that type of recurrent crisis and use the Re- ' , serve for larger-scale crisis . " Sometime after the news conference Mr. Gilpatric issued a statement in which he insisted that he did not mean to criticize the present call-up , He said he regarded it as the only possible course of action . He contended that , at the news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when presumably the Regular forces would have been strengthened . Mr. Gilpatric held his news conference at the Pentagon . At the White House , meanwhile . Gen. James A. Van Fleet , retired , reported to President Kennedy on his studies of Reserve training and morale . He was accompanied by Secretary of the Army Elvis J. Stahr Jr . General Van Fleet , who was retained by the Administration as a special adviser on Army training , told newsmen after his forty-five minute meeting with the President that the morale of Army National Guardsmen and Reservists was " magnificent . " Complaints Are ' Magnified ' The 69-year-old former commander in the Korean conflict dismissed reports on complaints among the mobilized Reserves . These had been magnified by " rabble rousers , " he said . " If there is n't some  --  pardon me -- -bitching , it is n't a good unit , " the general said . He said that he had visited the Reserves at Fort Bragg , N. C. ; Fort Knox , Ky. ; Fort Lewis , Wash. ; Camp Polk , La. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. He underscored his investigation of the situation at Fort Lewis where , he said , some of the members of the Thirty-second National Guard Infantry Division of Wisconsin " resented the comments by one of their Congressmen . " General Van Fleet confirmed that he alluded to Representative Alvin J. O'Konski , a Republican , whose charges of poor morale and inadequate facilities at Fort Lewis had received wide publicity . The general said that he found no shortages of equipment that affect present training . A few moments later , however , following a whispered consultation with Mr. Stahr , he said before television cameras : " Of course there are some shortages , but that takes money . " 9 Divisions to Be Ready The two activated National Guard divisions , the Thirtysecond and the Forty-ninth Armored Division of Texas , in training at Camp Polk , are expected to be ready in February . General Van Fleet said . " The spirit of the citizen soldiers in all the units and camps visited by me was magnificent , " General Van Fleet said . He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were " mature , welltrained individuals , " who displayed qualities " far above men of any previous mobilization for World War II and Korea . " Pierre Salinger , President Kennedy 's press secretary , said that Mr. Kennedy had been " happy to hear General Van Fleet 's report . " The President had said in his news conference on Nov. 29 that he realized some of the Reservists were " bound to be unhappy " over their situation . At the Pentagon , in contrast with General Van Fleet 's glowing remarks , Mr. Gilpatric discussed the Defense Department 's second thoughts about the role of the Reservist in military planning . The Deputy Secretary reaffirmed the possibility , cited earlier by Mr. Kennedy , that many of the Reserves would be released in advance of their twelve-month active duty obligation . The decision , Mr. Gilpatric said , would be made by the President " next spring " in the role of the Reserves in millsituation . He confirmed also that some thought was being given to possible cuts in the total number of Army National Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are twenty-seven National Guard and ten regular Army Reserve divisions . Congress has fixed the total number of " ready Reservists " on paid drill status as 400,000 in the National Guard and 300,000 in the Reserves , Recalling the " traditional " role of the Reserves in " slow , large-scale mobilization , " Mr. Gilpatric said : " I just do n't think our Reservists have oriented themselves to the thought that they are called up to prevent a fight ' rather than to fight . "                     