@@726980

txt Oregon 's " hawks " and " doves " are vying for roosts in labor 's shed . Both Sen. Wayne Morse and former Rep. Robert B. Duncan  --  contesting for the Democratic Senate nomination in the May 28 primary  --  are pecking hard for union support . Mr. Morse is a Vietnam " dove . " Mr. Duncan is decidedly a " hawk . " But their differences over the war are almost overshadowed by their mutual fluttering for labor 's favor . The incumbent Senator is busily wooing national unions into his , nest  --  those of the teamsters , longshoremen , and building trades . Mr. Duncan , by contrast , has concentrated on local union endorsements  --  with some success . Observers say organized labor may decide the Democratic primary . And the winner  --  whether dovish Senator Morse or hawkish Mr. Duncan ? will have little trouble in the general election defending their Senate seat from first-time Republican candidate , Robert Packwood . A nameless and faceless fledgling political movement is trying to get a start in the California GOP . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention in Miami next August . Its shapers insist it is n't an anti-Reagan delegation ( though it would , challenge Gov . Ronald Reagan 's favorite-son aggregation in the primary ) . It is , rather , a pro-anybody , anti-nobody delegation . Stephen Hay , an associate professor of history at the University of California at Santa Barbara , is one of its big pushers . He says the group is taking nominations now for its unpledged delegation . It hopes to put a delegation together by March 25 and follow with the necessary qualifying petitions by April 5 . Then its backers will campaign on the merits of its individual delegates . The movement is a throwback to the days before political parties . Few politicians here give it a whisper of a chance . - Hawaiian fishermen plan to share their net knowhow with men who fish in Asian ' coastal waters . Honolulu 's East-West Center will host a major conference next year on the economic and logistic problems of the Pacific aitd Southeast Asian fishing industries . Fishery and oceanographic experts from India , Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small developing nations will drop anchor at the meeting . Like Hawaii , these countries at present come nowhere near realizing their potential to find food in the sea . Outmoded equipment , poor shore facilities , old-fashioned methods , and lack of bait hold down their annual catches . Trends ... Western water is losing none of its saltiness . But  --  for the time being at least  --  farmers wo n't be penalized for it . Reversing a previous stand , the United States Department of Interior will not hold farmers responsible for adding to the salinity of the water that runs off their land . Irrigation water picks up salt from plants . This decision applies to seven states in the Colorado River basin  --  Wyoming , Colorado , Utah , New Mexico , Nevada , California , and Arizona . Pending a complete investigation by federal officials , salinity will be omitted from water standards soon to be adopted by the United States Water Pollution and Control Administration . Originally that office insisted that no water be allowed to flow back into any stream if it contained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farmers said the ruling would impose too much of a hardship on them . Antipollution rulings in the Pacific Northwest may soon drive atomic power plants to the sea . Strict water standards have been adopted for the Columbia River by the Oregon State Sanitary Authority and Washington 's State Pollution Control Commission . These bar discharge of hot-water waste from nuclear generators into inland streams . Experts say to heat a river is to pollute it . These restrictions now are being challenged by public and private developers of nuclear power sites . But if the han holds up anyhow , it may halt the building of a dozen new atomic-fired thermal power plants along the Columbia . The only economic alternative may be to construct the thermal generators near enough to the Pacific to use salt water as a coolant , then discharge the waste directly into the sea .                     