@@724249

txt Fargo , N. D. , Sept. 19 ? Sen. Barry Goldwater today said the American public is faced with the clear choice in this election between war thru weakness or peace thru preparedness . " The best , the only way to avoid the use of force , " the Republican Presidential candidate said , " is to have force to use . " " Strength deeply held and wisely displayed will seldom need to be put to use . " In a speech at the National Plowing contest here , Goldwater said the historical record and the facts of communism in two world conflicts and two undeclared wars Korea and Viet Nam left the matter beyond doubt . Crowd Grows to 70,000 By the time Goldwater started to speak at the fair grounds , about 30 miles from Fargo , the crowd had grown to about 70 , - 000 persons , according to fair officials . Altho there was a sprinkling of Humphrey signs in the audience , the Goldwater supporters were out in force , and showed their support with lusty cheers thruout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Hubert Humphrey , the Democratic party Vice Presidential candidate , who spoke at the plowing contest this morning , was in a plane waiting to take off . " I have just been presented with an electric branding iron , " Goldwater told the airport crowd , " and the fellow I would like to use it on is just taking off . " Later , Goldwater said he did n't know what he was going to use for a plow in the plowing contest . Faced with Clear Choice " Hubert would have made a good one , but I think he 's a better spreader than a plower . " " To confront the enemy with weakness is to invite attack , " he said . " To confront him with strength is to keep , the peace . " " Americans , " the candidate said , " are faced with . a clear choice in this election . Will you choose war thru weakness ? Or will you choose peace thru preparedness ? " Goldwater said it would not be easy for him as President " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ? bungling that has brought this country to war . " " Our country , " he said , " has lost the peace  --  the peace left to it by the Eisenhower administration . Today we are at war as certainly as the sun sets in the west . " Weakness Brought Cuba Threat He said the nation was in this war because " of a policy of weakness , a , policy of indecision , a policy of indirection . We had peace with honor under Dwight Eisenhower for one reason and one reason alone  --  because he pursued a policy of purpose , decision , and pre-1 paredness . " It was weakness , Goldwater said , that allowed the missile threat to be implanted in Cuba . Peace ; he asserted , is the overriding problem of all people , and especially the chief executive officer of the nation . " And Bill Miller and I solemnly swear that we will keep faith with that responsibility , " he said . Handouts or Markets Goldwater also attacked Orville Freeman , the secretary of agriculture , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out 2.1 billion dollars of federal money for support with the other . Farm income should be improved , the candidate said , but the question was whether it should be done with arbitrary handouts " subject to the whim and caprice of an arbitrary farm boss "  --  or by the " healthy and fair forces of flourishing and expanding markets . " " We know in our hearts that you are plagued with . your special problems . And we know they are serious problems . We will work with you toward solutions , not schemes . " The text of Goldwater 's speech was prepared before news of the Gulf of Tonkin " incident " became public yesterday . Goldwater said his opponents " have neglected the lessons of history . They tell us everything is going our way , that there are good communist leaders in the enemy camp , and that communism itself is mellowing . " Ignored G. 0 . P. Warnings He noted that Republicans made repeated warnings in 1962 that the Russians werb introducing missiles and troops into Cuba , only to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges were labeled as irresponsible , as harmful to peace , " Goldwater said . " Then , suddenly , in October of that year , when the threat became plain even to those who would not see , the administration acted . When it did Republicans supported the action . In every moment of national crisis , all good Americans rally to the support of their government . " Goldwater 's western appearance today followed four days of campaigning in the south , marked by big , enthusiastic crowds . Tonight he spoke at a rally in St. Louis , then returned to Washington to rest thru Sunday . On Monday , the senator will I go to Gettysburg to tape a television appearance with former President Eisenhower . Later that day he will fly to Charlotte , N. C. , to make his third appearance in that state since the campaign opened .                     