@@724061

txt WASHINGTON , June ** decisions of the Supreme Court today , before recessing until the October term , were not as revolutionary of the political and social structure of the United States as those of last Monday . But one ruling made certified Communists , dedicated to the overthrow of the American governing system , as free to travel abroad as citizens who are dedicated to its maintenance . Another laid heavier burdens on the enforcement of the laws against ' crime . And , while the Court majority refrained from totally striking down the old AngloSaxon law against trespass where sit-in demonstrations for desegregation of places of public accommodation are involved , it vacated the invocation in two instances which could serve as a precedent for invalidating thousands of such arrests . Hence though today 's decisions were also what lawyers call " landmarks , " they were not comparable to last Monday 's . In these the Supreme Court majority twice amended the Constitution ? by holding that the election districts for membership of both branches of the state legislatures - must be substantially equal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifth Amendment extends to state as well as Federal courts . Notwithstanding , the halt of the majority well short of the point of nullifying the law against trespass ( illegal entry by one person on the land or premises of another ) in the area of segregated public accommodations was a far less consequential show of judicial restraint than it would have been a week ago , for in this period the Senate approved the equal rights bill . Growing Judicial Supremacy By limiting its purview to the immediate circumstances in which sitin demonstrators were arrested in Maryland and South Carolina , the Supreme Court met two of the principal objections to the recent rapid growth of its exercise of judicial supremacy over the- other two Federal branches and the states . The first is that the Court has come more and more to usurp the constitutional roles of Congress and the Executive by amending the Constitution . The other is that the Court has done this on the concept that it is " a general haven for reform movements " ( the words of Justice Harlan ) which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and which conform to the political and social ideology of the Court majority . In last Monday 's two landmark decisions the dissenting justices effectively arraigned the majority as culpable on both counts . Today , however , the arrests of the Maryland sit-ins were nullified on the narrow factual ground that the state law authorizing them had meanwhile been changed to abolish the offense . And in the South Carolina cases , the Supreme Court based its exculpation of the demonstrators on the sole , well-established legal precept that the defendants were not given " fair notice " in advance that they were violating the state law . The claim of the other two major decisions today to rating as " landmarks " is established in the comment of the dissenters . The ruling that hereafter no delay by the police is " reasonable " before giving a chief suspect arrested on a criminal charge an opportunity to consult a , lawyer , was , said the dissenters , " most ill-conceived . . . and seriously and unjustifiably fetters proper legal methods of criminal law enforcement . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by passport is enjoyed by certified Communists as well as all other American citizens , the dissenters projected the issue of national security with the rhetorical question : " Who can trust a Communist " pledge not to promote subversion through espionage , etc. , by his activities abroad ? There are touches of irony and of surprise nearly always on a day of major decision in the Supreme Court , and today 's principal contributors were Justices Goldberg and Black . The irony was inherent in the following bland comment by Justice Goldberg , who is an enthusiastic supporter of compulsory limitations of the right of free association as prescribed in the equal rights bill : " Since freedom of association is guaranteed in the Fifth Amendment . . . " The surprise was the dramatic rejection by Justice Black , Court hero of the " liberals , " of their fundamental contention that the Constitution itself forbids announced and practiced customer discrimination by private business. ,                     