@@725329

txt A long step along the road to church unity was taken today when the World Council of Churches announced that it was collaborating with the Vatican in the interests of aiding the victims of famine in India and in parts of Africa . These two most influential religious bodies in the world will synchronize an appeal and coordinate their actions , with the express approval of the World 1Council 's policy-making Corninittee of 100 and Pope Paul VI . The Committee of 100 is meeting at , the Council 's Ecumenical Center here . There have been isolated ex'amples of Roman CatholicWorld Council joint appeals . In West , Germany , for example , the Catholic agency Caritas united with a World Council agency in an appeal for the victims of the war in Vietnam . Similar collaboration has taken place in the Netherlands . ? But the plan announced here today is the first on a worldwide scale involving the leading authorities of both organizations . The decision grew out of , meetings between a group of , 14 churchmen , eight appointed by the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussing the possibilities of practical cooperation between the World Council and the . Roman Catholic Church . The action is intended to be a // gesture of united Christian concern for humanity . Spokesmen for the World Council , which groups Protestant and Orthodox churches , said it was hoped that the two church bodies , representing most of the world 's Christians , would jointly plan their major programs of giving in the future and avoid any semblance of rivalry . It was pointed out that the World Council and the Roman Catholic relief agencies in South Vietnam at the present time shared office space , though each worked independently . An appeal for aid to the famine victims was scheduled to be launched by the United Nations and its Food and Agriculture Organization earlier , but as an acknowledgment of the significance of the united Christian appeal , it was delayed for a day . The Central Committee of the World Council urged the agencies of the Roman Catholic Church and its own relief agencies " to act in partnership " in their collaboration with governmental and intergovernmental agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dialogues With Reds Urged Earlier in the day , a leading Church of Scotland member of the Central Committee suggested that the Council extend its ecumenical reach to scientific humanists and Communists . The Very Rev. Nevile Davidson of the Glasgow Cathedral said that Christians could profit from such dialogues with such unbelievers . " Some of the greatest thinkors of our time are in the grip of secular humanism and others are committed to Communism , and we can learn from them , " he declared . " They can help us understand our own times . Here is the next frontier of dialogue . " The delegates also heard a report on a Council-sponsored meeting between Christian and Jewish representatives that was held last summer . It was announced that the conversations had not dealt with anti-Semitism , the state of Israel or Christian conversion efforts but with the common ground of alienation and human loneliness in the present age . The Faith and Order Secretariat of the World Council is in the process of preparing a theological statement on the relationship between the church and the Jewish people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last November , although the tone may be markedly different . A. draft of the proposed document is being submitted for criticism to groups all over the world . A report of the Council 's division of world missions acknowledged that the division is torn between a choice of phases in its work  --  the one a product of the past and the other a contemporary notion of the Christian missionary effort . Should the division expend its efforts spurring mission groups to greater cooperation , or should it get the churches to speak with one voice in experimenting with " new forms of involvement across the sociological , intellectual and political frontiers on six continents of a changing world ? " the Central Committee was asked . The mission report dealt with such matters as the role of poor and underequipped church related hospitals alongside spanking new state-run ( though not always professionally well-staffed ) hospitals furnished with the latest equipment , which are found in some of the emerging nations of Africa . The mood of the entire report was summed up in a statement attributed to Dr. D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Christian missionary , is a person who in the name of Christ crosses a secular frontier to join the other side , " he said . There was widespread agreement with a speaker who added to this that it made no difference whether the frontier was geographical , sociological or political .                     