@@724451

txt Liberal Democrats had lined up enough solid votes yesterday to wrest the majority leadership of the State Senate from Senator Julian R. Erway of Albany , who was designated for the high post at a party caucus early last Wednesday . The jubilant rebels added two more anti-Erway votes to the eight they had , apparently ending the 67-year-old conservative 's hopes of assuming the Senate 's most powerful office . " Erway is dead , " said one of his original backers , William F. Luddy , the Westchester Democratic leader , in confirming that the two Westchester Senatorselect had withdrawn their support from Mr. Erway . Feud Delays Agreement As their leaders cast about for a replacement , the Democrats were confronted with these troubling facts : iThey will become the majority in both houses as of Jan. 1 , but their feud over leadership in the two houses has prevented them from agreeing on committee chairmanships , technical assistants and a host of patronage jobs that the Republicans will vacate on Thursday . gThey have been unable to draft a comprehensive legislative program . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiative in presenting his own programs for , education , highway safety , so-I cial welfare and other areas of action for the 1965 Legislature . The continuing turmoil over the leadership has placed the Democrats in the embarrassing ' position of being unprepared to take over the reins of a Legislature they will control for the first time in more than a guar- , ter of a century . Party Position Deteriorates " We 've got to parcel out jobs from committee chairmanships and technical assistants all the way down to cleaning women , " one Manhattan Senator complained yesterday . " And we 're in worse shape to do it now than we were two weeks ago . " As of next Thursday , about 500 Republican jobholders will lose their positions in the Assembly and Senate . These jobs are not under Civil Service , and are regarded by the two parties as the spoils of victory . It costs about $10 million a year to run the Legislature , and estimates are that up to $3 million of this is for the pay of clerks , secretaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assure the smooth functioning of the regular three-month session . Without knowing for sure who the leaders of the two houses will be , county . leaders and legislators can not make recommendations for the jobs that are to be filled . Some Democratic legislators were of the opinion yesterday that they would have to retain some of the Republican jobholders to prevent the two houses from becoming what one described as a " sea of chaos . " But William H. , the Democratic state leader whc directed the unofficial selection of Mr. Erway at the Senate caucus last week , has said he wants Democrats to fill all jobs vacated by Republicans . Mr. Erway faces these apparently insurmountable roadblocks ' to the majority leader , ship when the Senate opens its 188th session : he needs a minimum of 30 votes , or a ; majority of the 58 Senate Democrats and Republicans . With 110 defections from the 33 Democrats , he was down to 23 , far below the number needed . The rules of the Senate require that the majority leader be officially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upper house convenes at noon of Jan. 6 . The Republicans will be counted as members , of course , but they will not take part in the voting for the Democratic leader . Opposition to Mr. Erway 's designation at the party conference last week snowballed , and virtually no one yesterday gave him a chance of election . The Democrats who have deserted Mr. Erway have done so because of what they call his " antiliberal " record . Mr. Erway , a product of the O'Connell political machine in Albany , is regarded by them as something of a " Goldwater Democrat . " They charge that he has voted against bills to end discrimination in private housing , and against welfare measures , and for measures that would make it easier for policemen to stop and search citizens . One of the new Westchester Senators , Royden Letsen of Yonkers , who voted for Mr. Erway last week , explained why he was changing his stand : " Since learning of his record , I can not in true conscience support for majority leader one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on civil rights , civil liberties and other such measures which I deem essential for the future growth of New York State . ' The other Westchester man now opposing Mr. Erway is/ Max Berking of Rye . In a spot check yesterday , some Democrats tended to blame Mr. and his supporters for a " colossal blunder " in having settled on Mr. Erway . Others Considered But defenders of Mr. said he had tried to work out the leadership problem in the Senate with Mayor Wagner last Tuesday morning , but iia.d come to no agreement . With Mr , Erway 's chances now regarded by the Democratic leaders as dead , efforts were being made by Mr. , the Nassau County leader , John F. English , the Erie County leader , Peter J. Crotty , and other supporters to settle on someone else . Back in the running was the current minority leader of the Senate , Joseph Zaretzki of Manhattan , a liberal Democrat who was brushed aside by the pro-Erway. forces last Tuesday in a close vote . Also prominently mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While Mr. Erway was being counted out by some of his own former supporters , Stanley Steingut , whose designation as Assembly Speaker was also a blow to forces committed to Mayor Wagner , appeared to be holding most of his strength . However , some Democratic liberals yesterday were privately charging that he had helped Mr. engineer the Erway designation to insure his own selection as speaker . For the most part , legislators supporting Mr. Erway also supported Mr. Steingut , who defeated the current minority leader , Anthony J. Travia , a fellow Brooklynite who was backed by the Mayor .                     