@@725570

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Lindsay Tax Program Praised To the Editor : New York City needs additional tax revenue in large amounts , quickly . Mayor Lindsay 's tax program is soundly conceived and should be enacted without further delay . If the city does not obtain power to impose the broadly based personal income tax , it will have to put too much fiscal pressure on a particular type of income , by taxing payrolls , or on a particular use of income , by a real estate tax rate even higher than that called for by the Mayor 's program . No one wants to contemplate the only other major tax alternative , an increase of several points in the retail sales tax . That tax , incidentally , is a barrier to industrial modernization and growth in New York City , for it strikes not only consumer goods but also the purchase by business firms of machinery and certain other producer goods . Sooner or later the large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gain more freedom of action for solving their fiscal problems . But the impasse that has developed in Albany is a heavy price to pay for hastening that day . CARL S. SHOUP New York , June 8 , 1966 The writer is Professor of Political Economy at Columbia University and was codirector , with Prof. Robert Murray Haig , of the New York City Finance Project , 1952 . ? No Haven in Suburbs To the Editor : Your June 6 editorial " Straight Talk on City Taxes " charges that families with an income of $10,000 a year or more would flock to the suburbs if the taxes levied did not apply to commuters or applied only partially . Where , in the suburbs , would all these city people live ? Nassau County has very few apartments and Suffolk County has still less . Most suburbanites own their own homes and pay taxes far in excess of a city income tax . Their other increases in the cost of living ( transportation , shopping , etc. ) would also be considerable . The suburbs are no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save money . WENDY B. HINDIN Deer Park , N. Y. , June 6 , 1966 sponsibilities under conditions where the opposition abroad seems to have shown no serious willingness to compromise , and academic critics at home seem to have devised no serious alternative except unilateral withdrawal . Better-Informed Public At the same time , I hope that the genuinely growing concern about Vietnam can be converted into a better-informed public discussion of international affairs that moves far beyond Vietnam ; and to tough-minded , fresh criticism of specific policies directed through channels that can help frame real alternatives without risking to mislead the opposition as to our basic determination not simply to run away . As a starter , I would hope for an expanding dialogue be-tween : A government which communicates far more fully and candidly with its own people , and does not regard intellectuals either as court astrologers to be summoned in for instant answers , or as servile plumbers to be called on to patch up bits and pieces of a machine which they had no real hand in designing , and Concerned intellectuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listened to in a society of relative freedom and opportunity by filling the muchneeded role of responsible citizen-critics rather than that of some kind of a professionally alienated intelligentsia . JAMES H. BILLINGTON Princeton , N. J. , June 8 , 1966 ? Basic Rights of Public Workers To the Editor : Your June 9 editorial " Default at Albany " shows once again that in the area of public employe labor relations The New York Times seems more interested in stringent sanctions than in assuring workers the right to organize and bargain collectively with their employers . We of the New York State A.F.L. - C.I.O. have sponsored legislation and closely cooperated with others to formulate a bill to assure basic rights of organization and collective bargaining to public workers and at the same time protect the public interest . However , the administration bill passed by the Senate violates every basic principle that should govern in the field of public labor relations and it is only because of this that the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. opposes it . It is misleading for you to assert this is a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No such equity is possible since the bill leaves it to the sole discretion of the public employer whether he should bargain with employe representatives or not ; whether he should sign a contract or not if an agreement is reached , and leaves solely to him the procedures to determine employe representation questions . These things should be in the law . From a publication like The New York Times it is expected that it will cut through the propaganda that every public strike constitutes an emergency . The New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. has never advocated the right to strike for all public employes indiscriminately . We have always contended that those directly involved in essential protection of life and property  --  police and firemen ? should in this respect be treated differently . But it would be senseless to give equal weight to other public employment where a strike does not and can not endanger life or property . It is regretted that you refuse to make this distinction . Stress on Punishment You also ignore the fact that the bill perpetuates the emphasis on punishment that proved a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatening decertification and loss of dues-checkoff rights . To describe as " softening " the proposed amendment limiting the penalty to a fine representing one year 's income of a union is a gross misuse of the word . A bill in this form in effect circumscribes and dilutes basic employe rights , makes it possible for a public employer to thwart bargaining entirely . This could only lead to instability and frustration in public employment , contrary not only to the lofty objectives its preamble contains , but also the basic policy of the state to foster and promote peaceful labor-management relations . Enactment of a substitute to replace Condon-Wadlin at this session of the Legislature can be accomplished . But it can not be done if any of those directly involved in formulating such a law either close their minds to essential elements it must contain or seek by subterfuge to exempt any area of public employment from its operation . RAYMOND R. CORBETT President New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O . New York , June 9 , 1966 ? Envoy to Vatican Opposed To the Editor : John Crider 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vatican calls for prompt rejoinder . I fear Mr. Crider is a little wrong in his facts . President Truman did not oppose such a relationship because it violated the principle of the separation of church and state . On the contrary , he specifically nominated General Mark Clark to the Senate for confirmation as ambassador to replace the private status of Myron C. Taylor , who had resigned as a personal representative originally appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1939 . Mr. Truman later withdrew the nomination because of the intense opposition to it . Senator Tom Connally as chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations acknowledged that his committee had received about 100 letters approving the appointment and more than 50.000 letters in opposition . There are two other aspects of this issue of representation at the Vatican which Mr. Crider has apparently overlooked . There is today a new climate of amity , fraternity and cooperation between Protestants and Roman Catholics as a result of the recent Vatican Council . One significant evidence of this is the creation of a joint fourteen-member committee on dialogue between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has already had two constructive meetings . On this committee , with the approval of the Pope , the World Council has a majority of eight members and the Roman Catholic Church a minority of six members , when the reverse was normally to have been expected . This wholesome , much-to-be ? welcomed new climate would instantly be jeopardized by the appointment of an American ambassador to the Pope . Issue Dead The other aspect is President Johnson 's waning popularity among the American people , as reported in recent polls , and due largely to the mess in which the American people find themselves in Vietnam . The curve of this precarious popularity would quickly take a nose dive among millions of Protestants if President Johnson were now to send to the Senate his nomination for an ambassador to the Pope . I am sure Mr. Johnson is too astute and experienced a politician to do anything quite so foolish . The issue of an American ambassador to the Pope is dead . Under no circumstances ought it to be reopened . WILLIAM B. LIPPHARD Editor Emeritus Past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , June 2 , 1966 ? Quebec Election To the Editor : The statement made in your June 7 editorial that two separatists were elected in the Quebec elections of June 5 is wrong . In fact , two independent , nonparty candidates won office . Despite their failure to elect anyone , the Liberals do credit the separatists with having played an important part in their defeat . IRA FYBISH New York , June 8 , 1966 ? Intellectuals ' Stand on Vietnam To the Editor : I doubt that complex problems involving many dangers in Vietnam can be profitably discussed through placards , petitions and ideological advertising ; or answers found through chain-letter polls and other random probes into selected segments of a shifting , semiinformed public opinion . I reject , moreover , as irrelevant and demeaning the growing doctrine of **28;463;TOOLONG with university professors whether invoked by some Government official patronizingly arguing that a particular policy is right because he has X number of academic degrees in his general entourage , or by anguished critics who seek sanction for their oversimplifications by amassing X number of academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Princeton history department feel they can already say how " future historians will judge the President and his chief advisers . " Speaking only as another , largely ignorant individual I dissent from their prejudgment of " self-deceived willful. "                     