@@726126

txt Ten midwest liberal arts colleges announced a new plan yesterday to allow youths to apply for admission to two or more member colleges by sending in only one application . The plan of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest is an attempt to reduce the multiple app1ications burden that plagues colleges thruout the nation . Tens of thousands of high school seniors apply to several colleges as protection in case their first choice rejects them . Under the plan beginning next January , an applicant who wants to be considered by two or more of the colleges may use a uniform application . Colleges participating are Knox and Monmouth in Illinois ; Beloit , Lawrence , and Ripon in Wisconsin : Carleton and St. Olaf in Minnesota ; and Coe , Cornell , and Grinnell in Iowa . Files One Application " The student makes only one application and pays one application fee , and the high school sends only one transcript , " explained Blair Stewart , president of the college group . Stewart hopes the plan will eliminate many " Ghost applications . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more colleges . When their first choice accepts them , they simply ignore the others , he added . Meanwhile , the other colleges have been putting the application thr u the admissions process which costs *100 , explained Charles Gavin , admissions director at Carleton colege . " We get letters from references , make a dossier , and discuss the applicant in an admissions committee , " he added . Lists Order of Preference Stewart and Gavin estimated that half the applications are from students who have no serious interest in enrolling in the college , using it only as insurance if turned down elsewhere . They added that mid-west liberal arts colleges send letters of acceptance to twice as many students as they want to enroll . By using the single application method , a candidate will list the colleges in order of his preference and is assured of consideration by as many of the 10 colleges as he wants . A candidate must file his application with his first choice college by Jan. 15 , 1968 . He will be notified by the first week in February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted , his application will be referred to the college of his second preference , which has three weeks to decide whether to accept him . The same process will continue for as many member colleges as the candidate lists . Stewart said that 10 per cent of the students applying to the 10 colleges send applications to two or more of the member schools . " The scheme will be more effective when more colleges are in it , " he added . The plan was announced at the midwest regional meeting-of the College Entrance Examination board , which ends a three-day meeting today in the Sheraton-Chicago hotel on admissions procedures and tests .                     