@@721116

txt President Eisenhower today asked for and got the resignItion of John C. Doerfer as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission . In an unusually curt letter , the President termed Mr. Doerfer 's decision to resign " a wise one . " The resignation came after the disclosure that Mr. Doerfer had accepted favors from a radio and TV executive during a Florida vacation last month . The President immediately designated Frederick W. Ford . a West Virginia Republican who has been a member of the F. C. C. since 1957 , as chairman . He will take office on Monday , when Mr. Doerfer 's resignation becomes effective . Mack Also Quit F. C. C. Mr. Doerfer is the third major figure to resign under pressure as a result of investigations by the House Special Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight . The group is looking into improper influence on the Federal ! regulatory agencies and examining whether the agencies have been carrying out their functions as Congress intended . He is the second member to be forced off the F. C. C. by the House investigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago this month . He is under Federal indictment on charges of conspiring to influence the award of a television channel . Mr. Mack was followed by Sherman Adams , The Assistant to the President , who resigned under political fire from his own party as well as from Democrats . He acknowledged that he had received favors and gifts from Bernard Goldfine , Boston textile manufacturer and real estate man , who was having troubles with two regulatory agencies . Democratic members of the subcommittee expressed no surprise at Mr. Doerfer 's resigna- tion , Which came within twentyfour hours after lie bad conferred with President Eisenhccker in the White House . There was no comment from Republican members , but it s was understood that . they . shared the Democratic feelings ? The subcommittee 's chairman , Representative ** Harris , Democrat of Arkansas , said : " I 'm not surprised . I think it was a wise decision . " Earlier , Representative John E. Moss , Democrat of California , described Mr , Doerfer as a 7 " reluctant regulator of ? the broadcasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harris declined to say whether the subcommittee would recall Mr. Doerfer for further questioning . The F. C. C. chairman had been scheduled to appear early : next week as . the first witness in legislative hearings on bills to set up a code of ethics for the members and staffs of.regulatory commissions . It also was not known whether the subcommittee planned to call George B. Storer , president of the Storer Broadcasting Company of MiamiBeach . Mr. Storer entertained Mr. Doerfer for six days and nights ; aboard his yacht and flew him , to Florida and back . Choice Causes Surprise The choice of gr .. Ford to head the agency , which is under fire from the House investigators , caused some'kurprise . Some well-placed Administration officials and some within the F. C. C. felt that President Eisenhower should have brought in a " top-flight outside man " to help reinstate public and Congressional confidence in the agency . He had . come into the Government in 1939 during the Roosevelt Administration to work for the Federal Security Agency . Subsequently he was with the Office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the F. C. C. as an attorney adviser . He was named chief of the commission 's broadcast bureau hearing division in 1951 . Two years later , he moved to the Justice Department as an attorney adviser and later was named as first assistant to Attorney General William P. Rogers , who was then Deputy Attorney General . To the end , Mr. Doerfer defended his conduct and his right to choose his friends and social activities , as he had done before the subcommittee in an emotional statement last Friday . He told President Eisenhower , however , in his letter dated today , that he wanted " to avoid possible embarrassment to you and your Administration . " Irt reply , the President addressed a " Dear ? Mr. Doerfer " letter , saying he regretted the " circumstances which- have led you to ' your conclusion . " But ; the President went on , " they do , in my opinion indicate your decision to be a wise one . " The President concluded his four-paragraph letter by commending Mr. Doerfer for sewing " tirelessly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr .. Doerfer 's letter to the President was almost a repetition of what he had told the subcommittee . It was his testimony on his right to choose , friends that disturbed many Republieans and Cabinet officials , as well as White House staff members who were understood to have pressed for his resigna-1 tion . G. 0 . P. Wary on Issue White House staff members , it was learned , wanted the resignation yesterday , as soon as Mr. Doerfer had conferred with the President for nearly half an hour . They and other Administration officials were particularly concerned over the possible use by the Democrats in the election year of Mr. Doerfer 's acceptance - of hospitality from a broadcaster whom he was supposed to regulate . They wanted to avoid a repetition of the Sherman Adams episode on the eve of the 1958 Congressional election campaign . Officials said that Mr. DQerfer had offered his resignation at the meeting and that the President and Mr. Doerfer had parted with the clear understanding that the letter of resignation would be forthcoming within twenty-four hours . Mr. Doerter was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He had originally been brought to Washington by the Administration to serve on the Federal Power Commission . He had been chairman of the Wisconsin Public Service Commission . A conflict developed within the Administration over the power commission post and he was named to the communications body instead . He was named commission chairman in June , 1957 , to succeed George C. McConnaughey , an Ohio Republican , who also had been under the fire of the House subcommittee in connection with allegations of influence in the award of TV chan nels . Before the House subcommittee , he had asserted that a commissioner should not be a " second-class citizen , " and be " cloistered " from social activities of his own choosing . He clearly implied he intended to go right on accepting hospitality from broadcasters so long as they had no contested cases before the commission , a position condemned by the House panel 's Democratic members . It was this testimony that troubled Republicans and directly led to the White House summons . The Florida episode of last month was disclosed by The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was extensive . Two years ago he also had defended a similar flying trip to Florida with Mr. Storer before the House investigators . Since then , he had clashed frequently with the House investigators over the powers of the F. C. C. to deal with rigged quiz shows , payola and other deceptive practices and whether corruption and deception we. : widespread on the airwaves .                     