@@722946

txt Washington , Feb. ** Soviet Union has notified the United States it intends to withdraw " several thousand " of the Russian military personnel now stationed in Cuba by March 15 , authoritative sources disclosed today . Russia 's plans to ship home military forces from Communist Cuba were stated in a communication from Moscow received by the state department yesterday thru the Russian ambassador to the United States , Anatoly F. Dobrynin . Question of How Many When informed by Secretary of State Dean Rusk of the Russian note , President Kennedy immediately called 17 Democratic and Republican congressional leaders to a meeting at the White House last night to inform them of the promised military personnel pullout from Cuba . The Kennedy administration has been under persistent criticism and pressure from members of Congress  --  Democratic and Republican alike  --  to do something about the three t posed by the presence of an estimated 17,000 Russian troops and military technicians in Cuba . Just What Troops ? Diplomatic sources said today Russia gave no indication of how many of its military personnel it meant by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whether the personnel to be sent back to the Soviet Union will include the estimated 6,000 Russian troops in Cuba who are organized into combat units ; the 11,000 Russian military technicians and advisers the Soviet Union has said are in Cuba to train the armed forces of the Fidel Castro government in the use of modern weapons , or personnel from both groups . The promise to withdraw at least part of the Russian military manpower stationed in Cuba was not stated in a personal message from Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev . President Kennedy and Khrushchev have exchanged several letters ? some of them still secret ? in the last four months since the October crisis broke over the buildup of Russian-supplied offensive missiles and bombers in Cuba . Diplomatic Communication The message received in Washington yesterday was a communication from Russia 's foreign ministry sent to the state department via regular diplomatic channels . Officially , the White House and state department had only a " no comment " today in response to the disclosure of Russia 's promise to pull out military personnel from Cuba by mid-March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be seeking to trade withdrawal of military manpower from Cuba on the doorstep of the United States for a similar pullout of American military forces from overseas bases near the Soviet Union . One informant said there was " no hint " of any kind of a deal in Russia 's communication . Calls It a Briefing President Kennedy 's hastilycalled meeting with the Senate and House leaders last night produced speculation the chief executive might have an important Cuba development to report  --  particularly in connection with the question of Rus- sian military personnel on the communist island which has been plaguing the administration for several weeks . After last night 's 40-minute White House meeting , Senate Democratic Leader Mike Mansfield Mont. reported the session was primarily a briefing on Cuba to bring Congress up to date . Mansfield said the congressional leader s were briefed by President Kennedy , Secretary of State Rusk , Secretary of Defense Robert S. and John A. McCone , director of the central intelligence agency . Vice President Johnson was present . Some of the Republicans attending the White House meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba briefing and appeared o write off the conference as an administration attempt to quiet congressional criticism of President Kennedy 's Cuba policies . Kennedy Asks Secrecy Several of those present at the White House last night said today the President had asked them not to disclose his announcement of Russia 's promise to withdraw military personnel from Cuba . When the disclosure came from other sources , however , they confirmed that this was one of the major subjects discussed last night . Senate Republican Leader Dirksen Ill. , who attended last night 's meeting , said today there was no indication in Russia 's message as to how many troops or other military personnel are to be withdrawn , what kind of personnel will be sent home , or when  --  other than by the middle of next month . Want Complete Withdrawal " What earliest pos. sible date , " Dirksen c o mmented . Sen. John C. Stennis D. , Miss. , who also was called to the White House meeting , said today Russia 's promise " is a good start . . . highly significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wanted to know what kinds of Russian military personnel are being withdrawn and asserted that ' this is not the complete job being done . " Stennis is chairman of the Senate armed services committee 's preparedness subcommittee which is currently investigating the Russian military threat based In Cuba . Ships En Route to Cuba Rep. Thomas E. Morgan D. , Pa. , chairman of the House foreign affairs committee , said today he had been informed by CIA Director John A. McCone that several empty Russian merchant ships are en route to Cuba  --  a development which could be related to the promised withdrawal of military personnel . Sen. Leverett Saltonstall Mass. , ranking Republican member of the armed services committee , said the withdrawal would give the American people " a good deal of relief " and he hoped this move by Russia is the first step toward complete withdrawal . Keating Wary of Promise Stennis and Sen. Kenneth B. Keating R. , N. Y. , one of the most persistent and outspoken critics of President Kennedy 's Cuba policies , joined in calling for continuing United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eliminate the menace to this country 's security . " We have had Khrushchev 's promises before , " Keating asserted . " The only way to be sure that this pledge ? if it is one ? is to be kept , is by continuing , not relaxing , pressure on the soviets . . There is still no indication at all that the export of subversion and terrorist tactics to other countries is diminishing , or that the weapons arsenal still in Cuba is being reduced . "                     