@@726136

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 18 ? A wide spectrum of youth , student , academic , research , journalist , business , legal and labor organizations here and abroad have been receiving millions of dollars since the nineteen fifties from foundations identified as conduits of Central Intelligence Agency funds or with agency-connected sources of in-comeMore names of such organizations were added today to the total that has come to light since Monday , Some were obtained from Government sources . Some details came from public and private statements by officers of groups involved and from individuals and organizations . Other names were obtained from a persusal of financial and tax information furnished to a House subcommittee that conducted hearings on foundations in 1964 . It could not be ascertained whether all the organizations were still receiving assistance or how many organizations or agency fund conduits might still be active . Groups Linked to Agency Organizations linked to the intelligence agency include the following : The National Student Association , which has publicly admitted having received money . The International Student Conference in Leyden , the Nether-. lands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Foreign Policy Research Institute of the University of . Pennsylvania . The National Education Assoelation . The Institute of Public Administration of New York . The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Brussels . The American Newspaper Guild . The Retail Clerks International Association of Washington . Guild Denies Charge The Newspaper Guild , however , denied that it had knowingly accepted $1,004,000 ' In grants from conduits for the agency . The list also included the Operations and Policy Research , Inc. , of Washington , whose vice president , Max M. Kampelman , is a former aide and close friend of Vice President Humphrey . The organization 's president is Dr. Evron M. Kirkpatrick , executive director of the American Political Science Association , who was once Mr. Humphrey 's teacher at the University of Minnesota and then a key aide during the Humphrey campaign for Mayor of Minneapolis . Mr. Kampelman , when asked if his organization had any relationship with the ' C.I.A. , said , " I do n't know . " Vice President Humphrey was not available for comment . His press spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no comment whatever . " The widening controversy over private organizations and foundations linked with the intelligence agency erupted last Monday with an admission by the National Student Associa // tion that it had received agency funds since early in 1950 . The admission was made in response to an article in the forthcoming issue of Ramparts magazine detailing the relationship between the agency and the association . Since President Johnson 's appointment earlier this week of a three-member committee to conduct a closed study of the situation , the White Houle has refused further comment . The committee is made up of Under Secretary ' of State Nicholas deB . Katzenbach , who is its head and John W. Gardner , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and Richard Helms , Director of Central Intelligence . Exactly how much money has been contributed by the agencylinked foundations could not be learned . But it was clear that the grants have run into the millions . Sonic foundations , including the Foundation for , Youth and Student Affairs , a principal contributor , do not disclose full details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what portion of the money consisted ' of ; agency funds and what ? ; portion was given by private sources either independently or at the request of the agency . The extent to Which prominent businessmen , educators and former Government officials have been involved with the foundations also remained unclear . But it was apparent that some have at least lent their names to foundations cooperating with the intelligence agency . The president of the Foundation for Youth and Student Affairs , Arthur A. Houghton Jr. , who is president of Steuben Glass , conceded in a statement last week that he had " cooperated " with the Government but refused to discuss the extent . Besides Mr. Houghton , the foundation lists the following as members of its board of ? di-rectors : Gilbert W. Chapman , president of the New York Public Library . Robert E. Blum , management board of Abraham and Straus . David M. Davis , American Center for Students and Artists . Buell Gallagher , president of the City College of New York . Frederick W. Mlles , professor emeritus of Yale University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corning ( N. Y. ) Glass Works , in which the Houghton family has a major financial interest . Francis I. P. Plimpton , a former deputy United States representative to the United Nations , a friend of the late Adlai E. Stevenson and now a member of a New York law firm . A fellow member of Mr. Plimpton 's law firm , Eli Whitney Debevoise , acting Deputy High Commissioner to West Germany between 1951 and 1953 , is an Officer of the American Fund for Free Jurists , Inc. , of New York , also known as the American Council for the International Commission of Jurists in Geneva . The American Fund , which raises money for the International Commission , has obtained hundreds of thousands of dollars . from agency conduit fotiridations since 1958 . A prominent Boston business-. man , Sidney Rabb , chairman of the board of ' the Stop and Shop Supermarkets , has also lent his name to agency fund operations . His foundation , the Sidney and Esther Rabb Foundation of Boston , was a source of funds for the National Student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the executive secretary of the Foundation for Youth and Student Affairs , has been identified by officers of the National Student Association ' as a principal contact with the . intelligence agency . Since it was founded in 1952 , the foundation has contributed millions , according to its brochure , to 25 youth , student and labor organizations in the United States , Asia , Europe and Africa . These organizations include the Asian Student . Press Bureau , the Gambia National Youth Council , the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Brussels , the National Student Press Council of India , the North American Secretariat of Pax Romana , the International Union of Socialist Youth and the Young Women 's Christian Association , The Newspaper Guild has received about $1-million since 1960 for its overseas work from five foundations , two of which are receiving income from agency connected funds and three others that refuse to disclose their sources of income or contributions to other organizations . The two foundations that rereive money from agency connected sources are the Granary Fund of Boston and the Andrew Hamilton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during Congressional hearings in 1964 as a source of funds for the J. M. Kaplan Fund of New York , which has been identified as an intelligency agency fund operation . The Granary Fund receives Money from another agencyconnected source and , in turn , makes contributions to organizations such as ? the American Friends of the Middle . East , which has ' been receiving money from other funds that act as intelligence agency conduits . The Granary Fund provided $200,000 to the Newspaper Guild between , 1960 and 1963 , and the Andrew Hamilton Fund provided $90,000 in 1964 . The three foundations that refused to disclose to reporters their sources of income or other contributions are the Warden Trust of Cleveland , the BroadHigh Foundation of Columbus , Ohio , and the Chesapeake Foundation of Baltimore . These three funds have provided $704,000 to the guild since sometime in 1965 for its international activities , according to guild officials . The bulk of the money was used for newspaper union organization seminars and journalism conferences in Latin America , where it was channeled through the Inter-American Federation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national treasurer of the guild , is a cochairman of the Inter-American organization . The funds for similar work in Asia , Africa and Europe are channeled through the International Federation of Journalists in Brussels , which competes with the Communist-controlled International Organization of Journalists . The federation 's exclusive source of United States income is the American Newspaper Guild . Another known agency conduit , the J. M. Kaplan Fund of New York , provided more than $900,000 to the Institute of International Labor Research , Inc. , of New York between 1961 and 1963 . The institute says it concentrates on conducting " re search and studies " in Latin America . The Granary Fund , according to records in the Massachusetts Attorney General 's office , has also been making contributions for an unspecified purpose to the Retail Clerks International Association of Washington . In 1965 the Granary Fund contributed $38,000 to the Retail Clerks , whose president is James . A. Suffridge , a labor leader . The American Fund for Free Jurists in New York received , among contributions from other agency conduits , $25,000 from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $50 , - 000 the same year from the Granary Fund of Boston . Besides raising funds for the international commission , an association of 31 law scholars and lawyers from 29 non-Communist nations that publishes studies on Communist and non-Communist legal systems , the American Fund for Free Jurists participates in international meetings of lawyera'and jurists . Operations and Policy . Research , Inc. , of Washington , which , according to Mr. Kampelman , conducts political study . work here and abroad , received $29,000 in 1964 from the , Granary Fund and $68,000 in 1965 . The Foreign Policy ? Research Institute of the University of Pennsylvania , which is headed by Prof. Robert Strausz-Hupe , received $5,000 from the J. Frederick Brown Foundation in 1964 . The Institute of Public Administration of New York , headed by Lyle C. Fitch , received grants in 1963 of $10,125 and $8,125 from the Brown Foundation for Studies of Legal Theories and Practice in East and West Africa . The institute is described in a reference work as a " private research agency consisting solely of research staff and Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing countries . " Y.W.C.A. Aide Comments Mrs. Ida Snyder , news director of the National Y.W.C.A. , said yesterday that the World Y.W.C.A. with headquarters in Geneva had received a small contribution to send some students to world conferences . The Y.W.C.A. of the United ' States has not received any contributions , - she said . Other organizations reported to have received agency contributions could not be reached for comment . Denial by Hamilton Fund PHILADELPHIA , Feb. 18 ( AP ) ? Frank Rogers Donahue Jr. , a lawyer , said today the Andrew Hamilton Fund had never had any connection with the C. I. A , He said the fund was established seven or eight years ago for some clients he declined to name and that it had been defunct for the last four years .                     