@@724879

txt Bonn Experts here foresee a barrage of pinpricking harassments from the East German Government in the months that he ahead . But they believe such harassments will stop short of blowing up into a major East-West crisis . " There is little we can do , " one source put it , " to stop the Communists from nibbling away at the fringes of Western rights in Berlin . But so far the Soviets have not allowed the East Germans to go too far . There is no evidence they intend to do so now. , , This is the conclusion reached by Bonn officials , after weighing a current spate of anti-Western maneuvers by East Germany . They concede the campaign may succeed in etching a sharper image of East German sovereignty . But they doubt that any vital Western rights will be subjugated in the process . Basic rights defined Fundamental Western rights in Berlin have been defined as three  --  Western access to the city , Western presence in Berlin , and the economic viability of West Berlin . Within this framework officials here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin waterways dispute . East German barge owners , after some delay , accepted Western allied permits as the price of continuing to do business on West German canals and rivers . Following World War II water traffic be- tween East and West Germany had been licensed by the allied powers ? at : irst by all four , then , - by the United States , Britain , . and France . Last month East Germany declared that , effective July 1 , Western licenses , issued under an " outmoded " occupation regime , would be invalid . Your East German barge captains , arriving at a West German water checkpoint after July 1 . refused to accept the usual Western permits . After a three-day test of strength the captains capitulated. signed the permits , and sailed into West German waters . Status modified It was this outcome that West German officials regarded with " satisfaction . " But this was only part of the story . East Germany also had decreed that West German barges entering East German waters must buy a permit , valid for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free allied permits . Since July 1 West German barges have gone along with the new East German requirements . though " under protest , " according to Bonn . This illustrates a West German dilemma . By forcing East German captains to accept Western permits , Bonn had merely restored the status quo . By causing West German captains to buy East German permits , the East Germans had undermined Western authority and had carved out a new niche ( however limited ) , of East German responsibility . This is what a West German source had meant by " nibbling . " Western access to Berlin  --  a basic right  --  had remained intact . But a minor right had been lost .                     