@@722446

txt The Supreme Court affirmed today the criminal convictions of two prominent labor union lead-1 ers  --  Maurice A. Hutcheson and ' : Dave Beck . Hutcheson , president of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters , was convicted of contempt . of Congress for refusing to answer questions of the Senate rackets committee . He faces a $500 fine and a six-month jail sentence . Beck , former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , was convicted of embezzlement in a Washington State court . He drew a fifteenyear prison sentence . Four Form Majority The Supreme Court upheld the convictions by votes of 4 to 2 in Hutcheson 's case and 4 to 3 in Beck 's . In the majority in both cases were Justices Torn C. Clark , John Marshall Harlan , William J. Brennan Jr . and Potter Stewart . Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justice William 0 . Douglas dissented in both cases . They were joined in the Beck case by Justice Hugo L. Black , who took no part in the Hutcheson decision for reasons he did not disclose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Byron R. White , who joined the court last month , took no part in either decision . In addition to the carpenters ' presidency ? in which he succeeded his late father , William L. Hutcheson , in 1953 ? Hutcheson is a vice president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . Neither the carpenters nor the A.F.L. - C.I.U. would comment immediately on today 's decision . Beck gave way to James R. Hoffa in 1957 as teamsters president and no longer holds any union office . He is believed , however , to be receiving a teamsters ' pension and to be living in a house bought for him by the , union . Both men still have the right to petition the Supreme Court for a rehearing of their cases . But ordinarily petitions for rehearing have virtually no chance of being granted . The two decisions today were in a sense victories for the Senate rackets committee -- formally the Special Committee to Investigate Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . It had intensively investigated both Hutcheson and ' Beck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee recommended labor reform legislation that became law as the Landrum-Griffin Act of 1959 . The committee 's counsel was Robert F. Kennedy , now Attorney General . But aside from the commit- , tee 's involvement in the events leading to both convictions , the two cases decided today presented different legal issues . Hutcheson appeared before the committee on June 27 , 1958 . He refused eighteen questions , including several on his relationship with Mr. Hoffa.1 A number of the committee 's questions concerned Hutcheson 's conne " tion with a highway scandal in Indiana . He had been charged there with buying some land after getting a tip that , it would be on a new highway route , and reselling it at a large profit . One Indiana county grand jury had returned no indictment in the matter . But later , in February , 1958 , Hutcheson was indicted in an adjoining county . ' Fixing ' of Jury Implied The committee questions did not deal directly with the land , ! transaction . They suggested , instead , that some pressure had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they had ' been designed to find out whether union funds or influence had , been used . In refusing to answer , Hutch- , eson specifically excluded reliance on the provision of the Fifth Amendment that no person may be forced to incriminate himself . Instead he said that answers might help the pending state prosecution " and ' thus be in denial of due process , ' of law . " The Fifth Amendment also auarantees d The principal Hutcheson contention before the Supreme Court was that Congressional ! inquiry into the alleged attempt to fix the Indiana case was an unfair " pretrail " of the state iprosecution . Justice Harlan , announcing the judgment of the court , re ' jected the idea that existence of a pending court case deniived a Congressional committee of all power to ask questions approaching the same subject . If the committee hearings made the later state trial unfair , he said , the time to correct that . would be when the state case is heard on appeal . Hutcheson was convicted in the Indiana highway case and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two to fourteen years . His appeal is before the state Supreme Court . If he loses there he can seek review in the United States Supreme Court . Another argument made to the court was thatthe Senate committee hearings had been designed solely to " expose " Hutcheson and had no legitimate legislative purposes . Justice Harlan , noting the legislation that the rackets committee had successfully recommended to Congress , rejected this argument . He wrote : " It is appropriate to observe that just as the Constitution forbids the Congress to err:er fields reserved to the executive and the judiciary , it imposes on the judiciary the reciprocal duty of not lightly interfering with Congress ' exercise of its legitimate powers . " Justices Clark and Stewart joined the Harlan opinion . A separate concurring opinion by Justice Brennan made the fourth and decisive vote . Justice Brennan 's opinion was significant particularly because it was the first time he had voted to affirm a contempt of Congress conviction . Favors Curb on Power He , too , emphasized the legislative work of the rackets committee . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the process of factgathering to establish the necessity for and the nature of remedial legislation . " Chief Justice Warren wrote a broad dissent , joined by Justice Douglas . It said that Congress must be held to the " least possible power " needed to legislate when it compelled testimony that could injure individuals . " It is incomprehensible to ' ' me , " the Chief Justice said , " how it can be urged that Congress needed the details of how Hutcheson committed this alleged crime in order to pass general legislation about union . funds . " In a separate dissent Justice ' Douglas said the questioning of Hutcheson when the state , prosecution pended was fundamentally unfair . The Soleitor General , Archibald Cox , argued the Hutcheson case for the Government , and Frederick Bernays Wiener of Washington represented Hutcheson . Beck appeared before the Senate committee several times in the spring of 1957 . He refused to answer scores of questions , pleading the privilege against seld-incrimination . No contempt action was brought . On May 20 , 1957 , a special grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigate him . On July 12 it charged him with taking $1,900 realized from the sale of a Teamster 's Union Cadillac . He was tried and convicted in December . All during 1957 there was massive national publicity about Beck , especially intensive in Seattle . His main argument in the Supreme Court was that this publicity had produced a biased grand jury and then a biased petit jury at his trial . Justice Clark , writing the opinion Of the court , noted that Washington could have started the prosecution against Beck by information , without calling a grand jury . The state rarely iuses grand juries . Justice Clark said he would assume without deciding that ; once a grand jury was employed Lit had to be unbiased . But he said there was no ii showing to the contrary . For the judge to warn the grand jurors specifically against newspaper publicity , , as was requested , he said , " might well have added fuel to the flames which some see here . " The Washington State Supreme Court divided 4 to 4 in affirming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's lawyers should have been allowed to challenge the grand jurors for bias . But Justice Clark said that the question was not properly before the United States Supreme Court . Justice Black , in a dissent joined by Chief Justice Warren , said the ' Washington courts had failed to take adequate action to protect Beck from bias on the grand jury , and so had denied him the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment . Suggests the Issue He said the question was not whether bias on the part of any individual grand juror could be proved but whether the judge who impaneled the jury had properly guarded against prejudice . Justice Douglas , in a separate dissent , said the failure of the judge to screen grand jurors for , bias against Beck had denied ! him due process of law , also assured by the Fourteenth Amendment . In a separate Federal case Beck has been convicted of filing false income tax returns and sentenced to five years in prison and a $20,000 fine . The conviction was affirmed by the Ninth Circuit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Supreme Court . Beck Declines Comment SEATTLE , Wash. , May 14 ( AP )  - -  Beck declined comment on the Supreme Court decision today " under any conditions until I read the actual opinion . " Beck , a millionaire , has been active in real estate and other lines of business since he retired as head of the teamsters.                     