@@721930

txt West Germany 's Defense Minister , Franz Josef Strauss , and Secretary of Defense Robert S. affirmed in a brief statement today their support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and " the need for Western solidarity in the face of the growing Soviet threat to Berlin . " Earlier , Herr Strauss said at a news conference that he was in the United States to purchase $165,000,000 worth of arms , most which would be for Pershing missiles . The Pershing , the development of which is being accelerated , has a range of more than 400 miles and can be armed with atomic warheads . Herr Strauss said the Berlin situation was being discussed in his meetings with Secretary , Secretary of State Dean Rusk , Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon , and other high of ficials . The West has a " broad spectrum of counter-measures " for dealing with the Soviet threat to Berlin but it would be wrong to reveal these , Herr Strauss added . McCloy Going to Moscow In another area of East-West relations , John J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to Frankfurt , Germany , and thence to Moscow to resume an effort to arrange general disarmament negotiations in the Soviet capital on Monday . Mr. McCloy and Valerian A. Zorin , the Soviet representative at the United Nations , were unable in their talks here to agree on the procedural form for a disarmament meeting that is tentatively scheduled to begin Aug. 1 . United States officials believe the Soviet Union has lost inter- est in a disarmament agreement , just as it appears to have lost interest in a nuclear weapons test ban . The statement was in character with a mounting effort here to stress Western defense measures since Premier Khrushchev threatened to turn over control access routes to West Berlin to the East German regime . It was disclosed today that the Budget Bureau and Administration economists are studying the possible economic impact of various proposed defense moves , including a partial mobilization in which reserves would be ordered to regular military duty , leaving their jobs and families for an indefinite period . Senator A. Willis Robertson , Democrat of Virginia , and acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he expected the Administration to send new appropriations requests to Congress at the end of next week . Review Ordered The appropriations requests presumably would be based on the results of a review , ordered by President Kennedy , to assess whether existing military forces and other resources are adequate to meet possible Berlin developments , or whether amendments are required for the ** defense appropriations bill now before the Senate . Pierre Salinger . White House press secretary , said that there was a " good chance " that President Kennedy would send a Civil defense measure to Congress next week . The President said last month that he would seek funds for a fall-out shelter program and a reorganization of the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization . The proposed shelter program would cost about 5300,000,000 and would be carried out by the Pentagon , Administration sources said . However , a dispute has arisen over whether aspects of civil defense should also go to the Pentagon or be retained by the existing office , Mr. Salinger said that President Kennedy , who left today for his resort home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next Wednesday instead of upon his return to Washington on Monday as originally indicated . The President thus would be in a position to make public statements dealing with the Berlin situation , following the scheduled delivery of Western . notes to Moscow on this subject ' early in the week . The United ! States note will include the reisponse to the memorandum on Germany that Premier Khrushchey handed the President in Vienna last June 4 , which pre ? Tipitated the latest crisis . Air Reports Studied In the meantime , the Pentagon went over a report of Col. ' Melvin J. Nielson , air attach at the United States Embassy in Moscow , who returned here ' yesterday with information on the impressive Soviet air show last week-end . At the Capitol , the Senate Preparedness Subcommittee arranged for closed hearings on relative United States and Soviet progress in the field of missiles and bombers . Herr Strauss , who arrived here last night for a two-day round of discussions and will also tour United States military , installations and plants , empha ' sized that he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union 's immediate threat is not military but political , he said . McCloy Leaves for Europe John J. McCloy , President Kennedy 's disarmament adviser , left New York International Airport last night for Moscow by way of Frankfurt , Germany . Mr. McCloy said he would stop a day or two in Frankfurt and expected to be in the Soviet Union about two weeks .                     