@@727935

txt Israeli pilots downed four Egyptian MIG-21 's today in a 20-minute dogfight over Egyptian territory west of the Suez Canal , defense officials reported . The battle , at 30,000 feet , raised reported Egyptian air losses to seven in the last eight days . Israeli pilots said that two Egyptian pilots were seen bailing out in today 's action . The Israeli officials said that the Egyptian planes were hit by aerial cannon and air-to-air missiles , and that all the Israeli planes returned safely . Military Action Picks Up The action followed the third Israeli commando raid in three days and maintained the intensified military activity by Israel against the United Arab Republic . In Cairo , a Government spokesman said that Israeli commando raids only strengthened Egyptian psychological preparation for " the battle of liberation . " In the air battle , the Egyptians said they had shot down two Israeli Mirage fighters . The increased military activity underscored statements by Israeli leaders in recent weeks indicating that they intended to carry the war to the enemy if there was no cease-fire along the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cairo , deep penetrations into the Nile River Valley and attacks against coastal installations are understood to be intended as a warning to Cairo of the ramifications of continued hostility or full-scale war . The message , as outlined on several occasions by Defense Minister Moshe Dayan , is that Israeli forces will not consider themselves limited to the Suez Canal frontier if such a war breaks out . Last night , addressing Zionist leaders meeting in Jerusalem , Mr. Dayan again spoke of how the situation might develop . " Israel will not be able to continue to react with brief reprisal actions which stem from a defensive situation , " he said . " It is to be assumed that // in the future Israeli operations , will be of a different nature . " ; A few hours after he spoke , ' an Israeli commando unit left its base for a series of attacks on three Egyptian coastal posts 20 miles apart on the Red Sea ' coast . They went ashore between , Ras Asron and Ras Abu Bakir , killing 13 Egyptian soldiers and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was understood to have been taken in order to refute Egyptian denials that such a raid had taken place . Only yesterday Israeli aircraft ! returned to the site of a Nile River raid to produce photographic evidence of their work. ; Arab-affairs experts reported that the Cairo radio said that the Israeli amphibious assault had been repulsed , but that after the Israelis said they had ' taken a prisoner , the radio reports from Cairo spoke only , of a brief battle . The scene of the latest commando action was said by the Israelis to be about 75 miles south of Port Suez , or at a point southwest of Ras Sudr on the Israeli-held Sinai coast . This would place the action in the vicinity of the Egyptian oilfields , now a vital source of income after the loss of the Sinai fields . Shelling at Canal Goes on Israeli officials reported , meanwhile , that the shelling along the Suez Canal continued . The Israelis reported two soldiers wounded , bringing their own casualty figures to eight soldiers and one civilian worker wounded in the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waterway during the night were said to have been particularly heavy in the Qantara and Port Suez areas . The Israelis said they saw major fires in Suez . Another change in Israeli policy was noted during the day , with the announcement that three " instigators " of rebellion , violence and terrorism in the Gaza Strip were being exiled to the Sinai Desert . In the first such act of its kind under Israeli administration , the three were sent to ' live with a Bedouin tribe " in ! the center of thhe Sinai . " Twoi of the exiled men are lawyers . and the other is a doctor .                     