@@721117

txt Premier David Ben-Gurion of Israel conferred with President Eisenhower today on the prospects for an East-West agreement on the Middle East at the summit conference . In a two-hour talk at the White House he told the President about his fear that the Soviet Union was building up the United Arab Republic 's armament to a dangerous level and about his hope that an arrangement at the summit might put an end to this build-up . The Israeli Premier made it clear , however , that he could see dangers of Soviet violations in any arrangement that led to an international embargo on arms shipments to the Middle East . Tells of Arms Burden He described the economic burden Israel carries in keeping up with the Arabs militarily , but made no request for economic aid or United States arms . Israel gets most of her arms from France and other West European countries . The purpose of Mr. BenGurion 's unofficial visit to the United States , it became clear during the day , was to register Israel 's views on Middle Eastern and global security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Gurion received an honorary Doctor of Law degree at Brandeis University , Waltham , Mass. , yesterday . Following up his talk with President Eisenhower , he will see Chancellor Adenauer of West Germany in New York next week and will then fly to London to see Prime Minister Macmillan . In reply to questions as to whether he would see President de Gaulle in Paris , Mr. BenGurion remarked cryptically that his plane would pass through Paris . Aides said that if he did not see the French President now , he would fly to Paris in the next two months . Asked if he wo:dd also like : o see Premier Khrushchev before the summit conference , Mr. 3en-Gurion remarked that he lid not know whether there would be time , since Mr. Khrushchev had been very busy in Asia and . " I have some things to do in my own little country . " Smiling and joking , the 73-year-old Israeli leader seemed to be enjoying his visit to the United States . In spite of snowy weather here he moved about hatless between the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luncheon , and the State Department , where he met Under Secretary of State Douglas Dillon this afternoon . Asked if he was encouraged after talking with President Eisenhower , he declared : " One is always encouraged after meeting a man like the President of the United States . " Israelis accompanying him said that , having observed that the President , in his television appearance after his return from Latin America , seemed weary , the Premier was " pleasantly surprised " to find General Eisenhower " peppy and full of ideas . " Length of Talk Noted The unusual two-hour length of the conversation was viewed by Israelis as something of a personal triumph for Mr. BenGurion . Sec : ' terry of State Christian A. Herter , who was to have taken part in the talk with President Eisenhower , was absent . The State Department said he was at home with a digesti-e disorder . Mr. Dillon replaced Mr. Herter . As is usual with the Israeli Premier , he approached his discussion with the President philosophically and globally . He talked about Soviet penetration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economically and to trade with Africa , Asia and Europe . This led to discussion of the United Arab Republic 's refusal to allow Israeli ships and cargoes to pass through the Suez Canal and of Israel 's interest in cooperating with the Organization for European Economic Cooperation as it is reorganized to include the United States . Similar ground , with emphasis on economics , was covered at a one-and-a-half-hour State Department meeting . In addition to Mr. Dillon the United States was represented by Livingston T. Merchant , Under Secretary for Political Affairs ; G. Lewis Jones , Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs , and Francis 0 . Wilcox , Assistant Secretary for United Nations Affairs . The Israeli Premier saw Arab student pickets both near the White House and near his hotel . They carried signs bearing such legends as " Zionist propaganda is deceiving the American people . " Mr. Ben-Gurion was accompanied by Ambassador Avraham Harman , Yaacov Herzog , Minister Plenipotentiary and Aryeh Manor , Economic Minister . Tomorrow morning Mr. BenGurion will appear before an informal meeting of the Middle ' East subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  