@@723073

txt Los Angeles If a bill just introduced in the state legislature passes , California will go into the business of recruiting migrant domestic farm labor . Assembly Bill 2227 constitutes the latest maneuver in the long running struggle of farm reform groups to stabilize and upgrade employment for migrant workers . Equality Sought The bill , introduced by Assemblyman Alfred H. Song , if successfully implemented , would eventually supplant the bracer program in California , under which Mexican stoop labor is imported each year to harvest California crops . " This measure , " says Mr. Song , " provides for devoting equal efforts and resources for recruitment of American farm workers to that which the gov ernment and growers now expend. for recruitment of Mexican nationals . " Last year under Public Law 78 ( the United States-Mexican bracero agreement ) California growers recruited and imported 143,000 Mexican nationals to their harvest fields . Public Law 78 exists because growers insist that not enough domestic farm labor is available to harvest their crops . But the United States-Mexican agreement is under constant and heavy fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetuate the lowly plight of domestic workers . They insist that if the growers would provide adequate pay and stable work conditions in the first place , more than enough domestic farm labor would come to work in the fields . Public Law 78 , which applies to all states , is now up in Congress for renewal and is expected to pass handily . Because they despair of seeing the bracero agreement abolished , farm labor reform groups such as the California-based Emergency Committee to Aid Farm Workers are moving to undercut the need for it . Efforts Pushed The Emergency Committee is behind the current bill in Sacramento . Assembly Bill 2227 is designed to do for domestic farm labor what Public Law 78 does now for bracero labor . It provides for housing , free transportation to the area of employment , and minimum work periods . The State Department of Labor would administer the law , recruiting domestic labor statewide and transporting it to the fields . The growers , in return , would pay the state $15 for each worker , just what they now pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill would also establish a minimum wage for farm labor . ! hi mbl ngs Heard Growers have long insisted that enough domestic labor to harvest their crops has never been available and ca n't be supplied . The new bill would directly test that view . Initial rumblings from growers indicate they will vigorously oppose the bill on grounds that the minimum wage it establishes would put California on an unfair competitive footing with other states , which have no minimum . They insist the housing costs would be extravagant and that the plan , though voluntary . would regiment workers and growers alike . Advocates of the bill believe it will pass the Assembly , where it enjoys the support of such powerful figures as Democratic Speaker Jesse Unruh and Majority Floor Leader Jerome R. Waldie . They are not certain . however , if it . can pass the Senate .                     