@@725762

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The ' Times Constitutionality of Civil Rights . Bill The writer , Williston Professor of Law at Harvard , was Solicitor General of the United ? States , 1961-65 . To the Editor : Six months . ago there was a plausible legal foundation for the argument that Congress lacks constitutional authority to prohibit ? racial discrimination in the sale or leasing of private housing . Today the objection is untenable . ' Editorial Sept. 8 " Again the Filibuster " Three Supreme Court decisions rendered last spring now show that its enactment would be a valid exercise ' of the power of Congress to enforce the Fourteenth ' Amendment . Senator Dirksen therefore has a sound basis for revising his position without shifting ground with respect to the commerce clause . In South Carolina v. Katzenbach and again in Katzenbach v. Morgan the Supreme Court held that Congress may use any rational means to effectuate constitutional prohibitions in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments , even though the immediate subject matter of the legislation ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reserved . powers of the states . The Fourteenth Amendment undeniably prohibits racial discrimination by a state in furnishing public services , such as fire and police protection , education and public welfare : Negro children who are confined to black ' ghettos are denied the cultural and economic environment which Congress could well find essential to ' the state's. satisfying : its constitutional duty to provide them with-equal educational opportunity , even though de  --  facto school segregation is not ' unconstitutional per se. - Equality Lacking Negroes in areas like Harlem and Watts do not enjoy eqUality of fire and police protection , or equal access to the ! courts and sundry other state services . Prohibiting private . diserimina , tion in the . Sale- and leasing of private housing would facilitate the breakup of the - ghettos . It is : therefore a rational means of eliminating unconstitutional Criniination in the state 's provision of public servicesKatzeitbach v. Morgan ** precedent for ; ' The Court ' held that Congress may authorize Puerto Ricans literate in Spanish to vote in state elections , even though the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amendment , because enabling them to vote was a rational means of bringing about the provision of equal public services . The open housing bill would likewise be a rational means of bringing about state provision of equal public services . The . bill would regulate private persons rather than state voting requirements , but that distinction is immaterial under United States v. Guest , where six justices indicated that Congress has power to deal with private action which interferes with the enforcement of Fourteenth Amendment rights . , The Guest case supplies another ground for sustaining the bill . The Thirteenth and Four , teenth Amendments guarantee Negroes. the legal capacity to own , buy and sell property equally with whites . The practical enjoyment of the constitutional right is defeated by any communitywide custom of refusing to sell or lease to Negroes , even though the legal right survives conceptually , especially when the custom is effectuated by an understanding among real estate brokers . Right to Own Property The Guest opinions hold there is Congressional power to deal with private conspiracies to interfere with enjoyment of constitutional rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of state facilities , such as schools , parks and golf courses , there is no basis for drawing a constitutional distinction between preventing interference With the equal enjoyment of such facilities and removing obstacles to the equal enjoyment of the legal right to own property . Nor ' can it be supposed that a conspiracy is constitutionally required . When it decided these cases the Court can not have been unmindful of the debate over the constitutionality of the proposed fair housing legislation . The opinions show that the legislation is constitutional without regard to the far more debatable power of Congress to . enact the measure as a. regulation of interstate commerce . ARCHIBALD Cox Cambridge , Mass. , Sept. 9 , 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? ? O'Connor Comment on Bellevue 's Plight To the Editor : It staggers the imagination to read in the New York Times ( Sept. 9 ) Frank O'Connor 's statement as to the lack of creative and determined action on the part of the Lindsay administration in dealing with Bellevue Hospital 's plight . Surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for many years under Democratic regimes . To be astonished at this late date by Bellevue 's enormous overcrowding , lack of facilities and personnel and deplorable physical plant indicates a lack of interest which was aroused by the approaching political campaign . ALVn1 C. WESELEY , M.D. Director of Obstetrical and Gynecologic Clinics Bellevue Hospital New York , Sept. ' 9 , 1966 ? Staten Island Parkway To the Editor : In reply to the Sept. 9 letter from Richard B. Irwin of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce we are concerned about Mr. Irwin 's reference to the alternate route ' of Section I of the Richmond Parkway . Actually , . there are several proposed alternate . routes , one of which goes well to the west , thereby avoiding Camp Kauf mann and the Green Belt as well as the destruction of homes . We are distressed that the general public has not been informed about ? the various alternatives so that they can judge for themselves what is in the public Interest . We would like to point out , as a citywide group that supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Olmsted Trailway as well as the preservation of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds , that the trailWay as a bicycle , hiking , and bridle path ' in no way duplicates the resources of the High Rock Nature Conservation Center . We need ' all these resources and believe this is feasible . But let the public have ' all the facts .. ELEANOR F. FRANcKE Chairman . Subcommittee on Open Land Community Council ofGreater New York New York , Sept. 9 , 1966 ? To Tax Cost of Loans To the Editor : Perhaps the most effective way to reduce . the demand for bank loans , and thereby lower interest rates , would be to examine the tax angle of loans . Interest on business loans is tax deductible as a business ' cost . Borrowers might think twice about making loans at ' rates over , for example , 5 per cent as a ceiling . Tax laws could be immediately changed to limit the percentage at which loans were tax deductible . The cost over that limit would not be ( . allowed as a ' business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of demand for money . WILLIAM J. HUDSON Jr . New York , . Sept. 10 , 1966                     