@@726626

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 44 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . District Guidelines in New Constitution To the Editor : The League of Women Voters recently announced its opposition to the new State Constitution . The League gave several reasons for this opposition , many of which I agree with even though I support the Constitution . But with one of its reasons I must take issue . The League says that " the failure to provide any specific guidelines for the districting of the State Legislature is another major defect of the proposed Constitution . " I fail to find a defect . In essence the important standards today are equality of population and no gerrymanA dering for any purpose  --  economic , social , racial , religious or political . The proposed Constitution calls for districts " as equal as practicable in total population " and states that " gerrymandering for any purpose is prohibited . " In short , the proposed Constitution goes to the heart of the matter . For example , one could have a guideline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the largest and the smallest district . A plan could easily meet that specific standard but not satisfy the standard of the proposed Constitution . Preventing Gerrymandering Other specific guidelines are essentially designed to inhibit gerrymandering . Presumably , the League is as aware as the rest of us that who districts is as important as the guidelines designed to control him . Presumably , the League believes that if the guidelines are made specific enough he can be prevented from engaging in gerrymandering . I would argue that our only protection against purposive gerrymandering is through judicial review . I would argue further that no matter how specific the guidelines , gerrymandering is always possible . If the judicial function is to see whether the guidelines have been followed , courts will probably uphold a districting plan that adheres to specific guidelines even though the plan is in fact unfair . But if the guidelines are general yet ultimate , then it is possible , perhaps likely , that a court will upset a plan that is demonstrably the result of gerrymandering . In the end this matter of guidelines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of districting plans and the reviewing judges , and generality which gives the drafter latitude to err but gives the court complete freedom to redress the error . The drafting of a districting plan is crucial . A decade of political power may depend on the plan . With so much at stake maximum ingenuity will be used to produce a plan that will withstand judicial review . The more latitude the judiciary has in measuring the plan against ultimate standards of fairness , the more likely it is that the plan will be fairly drafted . GEORGE D. BRADEN New York , Oct. 9 , 1967 The writer was executive director , Committee on the Legislature , New York State Constitutional Convention . Iran 's Monarchy To the Editor : While The Times news article of Sept. 25 " Oil Boom Aiding Shah of Iran 's Reform Programs " brilliantly manifests the incredible economic and social achievements of the country , it falls short of its objectiveness on two counts . The statement of one or two individuals of dubious background-in a city of nearly three million , expressing doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicative of political freedom and expression in a country whose 27 million people will , a few years from now , celebrate 2,500 years of continuous monarchy in Iran . In a transitional period in any given country there are always a few vociferous individuals of negative character who , due to ignorance , personal or subjective reasons , try to undermine or at least minimize the positive efforts formulated and practiced by the incumbent leadership . The test of the political potency of an administrative setting is a consensus on norms and on the effects attached to them by a mass public , not by a few , formerly privileged , who have lost their identity in the prevailing sociopolitical structure of that given nation . Clarification must also be entered on the alleged West German press reports asserting that the ultra left-wing confederation of the Iranian students claimed that 10,000 Iranians in West Germany participated in anti-regime demonstrations . The truth of the matter is that there are only about 5,000 Iranians currently studying in West Germany . Only a handful of them , no more than 100 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactionary groups . But if mention is to be made of this so-called " opposition , " one should not refrain , in all sense of fairness , from bringing to the attention of the readers that a tumultuous welcome was accorded to His Majesty in Cologne and Hamburg by thousands of Iranian students residiiag there . KAMBIZ YAZDAN-P4kNAH Press Counselor Iranian Embassy Washington , Oct. 4 , 1967 ? Vanishing New York To the Editor : Your editorial of Oct. 4 " Low Rise on Brooklyn Heights " ends with the statement that " cooperative concern on the part of landowners is as important as laws in preserving , the quality of any neighborhood . " True , but the emphasis misleads . What saves neighborhoods is official designation under law , not goodwill . Without official and binding designation as a historic district under the New York City Landmarks Preservation Law of 1965 , neither concern of landowners nor even the Federal citation could save Brooklyn Heights . The continued destruction of New York sadly illustrates that without legal designation cooperative concern on the part of landowners is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oldest and historically richest section of Manhattan , Greenwich Village , although the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission " tentatively " designated a Greenwich Village Historic District on March 16 , 1967 . Community organizations have steadfastly supported designation ' through four public hearings , beginning in December 1965 . Until that essential legal foundation is established , no amount of goodwill can stemthe steady deterioration of the Village 's historic architectural quality . RUTH WITTENBERG VRRNA SMALL Co-Chairmen Greenwich Village Historic District Council ' New York , Oct. 4 , 1967 ? Post Office Citation To the Editor : I find it ironic that the Bronx Post Office was cited as being the " best in the nation " ( Times , Oct. 8 ) . The daily mail delivery to our building has been distributed at 3:30 P.M. on the average for the past half year and has rarely been distributed earlier than noon during the three years we have been living here . No attempt is made to deliver packages or oversized mail to the door . It is left in the package room as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Publishers Association issued this award . Our weekly magazines , which are delivered on Thursday in Manhattan , often reach us after the weekend . Inquiries produce only apolo- , gies and explanations of too . few men and too much mail . In light of this , it is discourag- .. ing to read that Postmaster ' Frank Viola was praised for . " reduced work hours and over-. time despite an increased volume of mail . " LINDA FORTNOW ' Riverdale , N. Y. , Oct. 9 , 1967                     