@@724585

txt Washington . Feb. 19-A proposed constitutional amen dment providing for the Vice President to become acting President if the President is unable to perform his duties was started on its way to probable ratification tonight by a Senate vote of 72 to 0 . The overwhelming support for the constitutional change came after hours of sometimes heated and emotional debate . Only one change was made in the resoultion. which was indorsed by President Johnson , Atty . Gen. Nicholas D. Katzenbach , and the house of delegates of the American Bar association . Prodded by President The President sent a special message to Congress Jan. 28 urging prompt action . At that time he said it is astonishing that since adoption of the Constitution " we have neither perfected the provisions for orderly continuity in the executive direction of our system nor as yet , pain the price our continuing inaction so clearly invites and so recklessly risksThe bill now goes to the House . where a judiciary sub : committee already has corn ' pleted hearings and where equally prompt action is ex ' pected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in session will ratify the amendment this year . Three Fourths Needed Ratification by three-fourths of the states is required to make the amendment effective . Sen. Birch Bayh ID. , Ind. . chief sponsor of the amendment , told the Senate that his proposal would assure that " there will always be a President or acting President , physically and mentally alert , " and that there can be no question about the legality of his actions . He spoke of the crises in government that occurred when President Garfield was incapacitated for 80 days , and when President Wilson was incapacitated for 16 months " and his wife and his physician ran the government . " He also referred to the three serious illnesses of President Eisenhower . The amendment also provides for the selection of a Vice President if a vacancy occurs in that office . The President would make the nomination , subject to confirmation by a majority of both Houses . He said the nation has been without a Vice President 16 times for a total of 37 years . The amendment states that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the I Vice President shall become the President . This would settle an old legal controversy that has come to life every time a Vice President has succeeded to the Presidency . Arguments have been made that the Vice President became the acting President . not the President . Disabling Procedure The amendment sets up the procedure under which a President could be declared disabled by a declaration of the Vice President and a majority of the cabinet . If the President declared his recovery from his disability he would regain his office unless the Vice President ; and a majority of the cabinet disputed his recovery . The Senate and the House would then " immediately proceed to decide the issue " and unless each House upheld the Vice President by a two-thirds vote the President would resume his duties . The President also could voluntarily declare his inability and go thru the same procedure to recapture ' his powers of office when he declared he was recovered . Defeat Dirksen Change The resolution gave the Vice President 48 hours in which to challenge the recovery of the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time to seven days was accepted . A substitute amendment by Sen. Dirksen R. , I11.1 which would have given to the Congress the authority to provide by law the details for determining when inability commenced and when it was terminated , was defeated , 60 to 12 . Dirksen asserted that " you do not legislate in the Constitution , " but leave some latitude for statutory action . Sen. Sam J. Ervin I D. , N. C.1 asserted there were fatal flaws in the Dirksen substitute and that its broad language could a 11 o w " power hungry men " to take over the Presidency . Sen. John P. Pastore ID. , R. 1. tried to amend the measure to insure that the House and Senate shall transact no other business until they decide the issue when confronted with a conflict between the President and the Vice President over the President 's inabilit y . The amendment was voted down on a voice vote .                     