@@727834

txt Washington , May 19 ? White House officials pictured President Nixon 's nation-wide television talk on Viet Nam tonight as part of a well planned , ordeny , administration process for eventually bringing the unpopular conflict to an end . They said the timing of the speech was decided upon last March as part of a pre-determined schedule that the administration will follow . Outlines Juggling Attempt In the talk . Nixon outlined three balls he is now juggling in the air in an attempt to maintain an image of strength before Hanoi while at the same time trying to still impatience with the war that is again beginning to break out at home . The latter move was clear in his brief remark that Gen. Creighton Abrams told him on Monday that apart from the negotiations , " the time is approaching when South Vietnamese forces will be able to take over some of the fighting fronts now beinn manned by Americans . " In addition to this ball being tossed into the air , Nixon also has mutual withdrawals proposed . He and his key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wee talks lag . These were not outlined . Noncombat Troops First For some time now , the administration has talked about unilateral withdrawals . One high official told a group of newsmen Monday that the bulk of any troops withdrawn unilaterally would initially be noncombat troops . Deputy Defense Secretary David Packard told newsmen covering the business council at Hot Springs . Va .. last Friday that the Pentagon is preparing contingency plans for ' the withdrawal of troops from Viet Nam . The President tonight formed a definite package of proposals that Secretary of State William Rogers hinted at in testimony before the Senate foreign relations committee last March 28 . At that time , Rogers said the administration " favored " mutual withdrawal of American and North Vietnamese troops from South Viet Nam over a short period of time . The President tonight specifically mentioned 12 months . The White House said that the President 's speech , since it had been planned for some time , was not an answer to the 10-point peace plan proposed six days ago by Tran Buu Kiem , chief delegate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Move They described the NFL proposal , however , as the first substantive move by the Communists since Nixon took office . Nixon aids said there was no movement in Paris between the stopping of the bombing of North Viet Nam and Nixon 's inauguration . The aids indicated that nothing has happened to date in reported secret talks taking place in addition to the regular sessions in Paris . Presidential advisers said that the administration will remain flexible in the search for peace . They said the President is not rigid and is willing to consider counter-proposals to points in his talk tonight . They said his aim still is to settle the war honorably , however .                     