@@726158

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Toward Integrating Negro Pupils To the Editor : Your Feb. 21 editorial on the report of . the United States Commission on ' Civil Rights ? which concludes that Negro children can not secure equal educational opportunities in isolation from white children  --  is surprising and disappointing . You ? characterize as alarming " the commission 's pessimistic view , of compensatory schooling " because it " retards the essential battle to raise the quality of education for disadvantaged children . " On the contrary , let me suggest that your reaction is more likely to retard that battle than the commission 's report . The commission has completed the only nationwide study of compensatory programs . It has found that all of these have made little impact on raising the quality of education in schools of preponderant Negro concentration . Funds Not Available . Recently your newspaper carried an evaluation of the Higher Horizons program in New York City which accords with the commission 's findings . Therefore , the conclusion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a surprise . If it is at all possible to provide equality through any form of segregation  --  a dubious premise at best  --  the fact must be faced that the country is not prepared to underwrite compensatory education with sufficient funds , manpower and expertise to make such programs work , The experience of the New York City public school system in failing to obtain sufficient funds from local , state and Federal sources to keep from losing more ground is typical of all big-city school districts . . Therefore , to consider the public willing to spend far greater sums on compensatory education is an unwarranted and dangerous fantasy , and far more of a " utopia " ( to borrow another term from your editorial ) than anything suggested by the commission , School integration is , of course , difficult in a large urban complex with huge concentrations of Negroes . However , far more can be done even in these difficult situations . An example is the Brooklyn controversy over the Board of Education 's intention to construct several segregated schools instead of utilizing available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result of litigation , the board has seen forced to abandon its original plan . Moreover , sufficient effort is not being made to accomplish integration in communities where population dispersal and geography are favorable . Unhappily , the American white population is unwilling to accept integration as the solution . Since the objections to this goal are so deep-rooted , the tendency has been to turn to compensatory education as the way out . But this must be , by its very nature , what you describe as a " sweetened version of the separate-but-equal doctrine . " Unfortunately , with all the attention focused on unproductive compensatory projects , a loud cry of defeatism will arise a few years hence based upon the fallacious conclusion that since these experiments have failed , Negrc slum children must be uneducable . What the commission 's report has done is to focus attention on the fact that school integration and bringing Negro children into the mainstream of education should be the country 's major objective and given first priority . It makes clear that we are deluding the public , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mainstream education , ROBERT L. CARTER General Counsel National Association for the Advancement of Colored People New York , March 3 , 1967 Kennedy Proposals To the Editor : It is gratifying to read your March 3 editorial backing Robert Kennedy 's proposals for peace conferences . It is my opinion that the large public stands behind him and his ideas and not behind the Johnson policies . Secretary Rusk has given out the same response for months . It becomes apparent that his mind is closed to any change of approach . The military demands complete capitulation , the people and Kennedy want peace with the possibility of compromise . MARGARET MOWER New York , March 3 , 1967 Lillian D. Wald To the Editor : Lillian D. Wald , one of the great Americans of our time was born one hundred year : ago , on Maroh 10 , 1867 . The undersigned organizations  --  two of which , Visiting Nurse Service of New York and the Henry Street Settlement , she founded and headed for forty consecutive and illustrious years , and the third of which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  desire to pay tribute to her memory on this centennial occasion . In organizing the first independent public health nursing service  --  the Visiting Nurse Service of New York  --  she started a worldwide movement of immense significance . Settlement Work In founding the Henry Street Settlement , Miss Wald pioneered in enlarging the settlement concept of neighborhood service . This , work not only enriched the lives of her immediate neighbons  --  it helped educate the entire country as to needed programs of social action . And as early as 1906 at the Settlement , she , aided by Mrs. Rita Wallach Morgenthau , pioneered in setting up a unique facility for testing and aiding young people to find their proper vocation . This later be.came established as a separate entity under Mrs. Morgenthau , and is now the Vocational Advisory Service . Miss Wald also originated the idea of the school nurse , also the idea , of the school lunch program , also the idea of ungraded classes and special instruction for the handicapped . She also opened one of the.earliest playgrounds in America '  - -  the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to , be known . She initiated the idea of playstreets , persuaded the city to set aside land for parks , and , with Florence Kelley , persuaded the U.S. Government to set - up the Federal Children 's Bureau : On this 100th anniversaty , of the birth of this great nursecrusader , the undersigned ; /14i to honor the memory and the name of our founder , whose living monuments are still contributing to the well-being of out New York community and Of communities everywhere . ; EUGENE S. NORTHROP President Visiting Nurse Service of New York A. FAIRFIELD DANA President Henry Street Settlement MARY S. BRYANT President Vocational Advisory Service New York , March 8. 1967 Litter in Park To the Editor : Following a recent matinee at the Metropolitan Opera House taxis were unprocurable , and my wife and I tried to go home via the public transportation ? recommended , by Lincoln Center . But no crosstown bus was in sight , and we walked , home through the Central Park 65th Street transverse . What a mistake ! Have the sidewalks along the transverse never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with hard-packed. dirt and autumn leaves , and , they are littered with garbage and metal junk . Something has , not been Happening in this . much-used part of the park . FRANCIS STEEGMULLER New York , March 5 , 1967 Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     