@@726269

txt ? The Common Market 's finance ministers glossed over some of their differences to reach a patchy agreement today on the stand they will take in the debate over expansion of the world 's financial resources . The ministers later offered varying interpretations as to what exactly had been accomplished . But there was almost complete agreement that the l , major result would be to delay basic changes in the world monetary system . This would represent a setback for the United States , which had hoped for a broad international agreement on basic changes by the September meeting of the International Monetary Fund , and a tactical victory for France , which has been fighting the American proposals tooth and nail . ' Accord of Solidarity ' The French have spurred the European Economic Community , or Common , Market , toward a common monetary stand in an effort to give Europe greater influence and a potential veto in the world 's monetary decisions . To French Economics and Finance Minister Michel Debre , today 's meeting represented ' an accord of solidarity " despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added at a news conference after the session : " We are strong if we are united . " The French let it be known that there were so many conditions tied to the solution for additional world liquidity proposed by the Community that there would be no basic changes here . West Germans Yield Emilio Colombo , Italian Finance Minister , who with Dr. H. J. Witteveen , Finance Minister of the Netherlands , took a liberal position at the meeting more in line with the American stand , insisted that the conditions had not been nailed down . Asserting that progress toward a Community monetary stand should not be exaggerated , Mr. Colombo pointed out that each of the countries had reserved the right to re-examine its position later . Mr. Colombo was pessimistic over the chances for achieving monetary reform this year . The key to the French tactical victory was Mr. Debre 'S success in winning over the West Germans , represented at // the meeting by Franz Joseph Strauss , Finance Minister , and Prof. Karl Schiller , Economics Minister . An eight-point paper prepared by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Debr ? was the working document used by the meeting . For the United States , the stakes are enormous . The feeling of urgency in Washington about monetary reform is at least partly explained by prospects this year of another large payments deficit brought on by the war in Vietnam . Any new forms of liquidity would help the United States finance the deficit without losing more gold . The United States would also be helped if the Europeans held dollars instead of coverting them into gold or used the dollars to buy American Government bonds . Recently the idea was floated by some prominent American bankers that the United States might altogether halt the conversion of dollars into gold . The Europeans , particularly the French , want no part of the Vietnam war'and see no reasons why they should help finance it . Nor are they keen to finance the continued flow of American investment into Europe . It is the . Germans who will have the big dollar surplus in Europe this year , and the United States has been bringing pressure on the Germans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went along with the French because of resentment over this pressure . At any rate , it is the view of the Community , as expressed recently by its monetary committee , that the United States will be forced to borrow this year from the International Monetary Fund to finance the deficit . The Europeans believe that because of their growing financial strength , they should have a bigger say in the Monetary Fund . The six Common Market countries have 16.84 per cent of the vote . The United States has 22 per cent . The Community wants its voting rights increased to more than 20 per cent , which under the Fund 's rules would be the equivalent to veto power . On the question of new liquidity , the Community view is that this should take the form of new borrowing rights from the Fund that are both conditional on following certain internal economic policies and unconditional . This is in contrast to the American position that financial resources should be increased through a newly created reserve currency or " paper gold , " as the French derisively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I.M.F . could serve the same purpose if there were not too many strings attached to their use . The communiqu ? issued after today 's meeting showed that the French were successful in winning Community acceptance on certain general conditions . In the first place , the new borrowing rights could not be used without general agreement that there was a shortage of financial resources in the world . The communiqu ? said this condition did not now exist . The communiqu ? went on to say that " they the new drawing rights , or borrowing rights must not be based on the balance-of-payments needs of certain countries . " Furthermore , the communigird said there would have to be a predetermined lapse of time before a debtor country , having repaid a credit , could reuse it . U.S. Hopes Set Back Spec , : to The New York nines WASHINGTON , April 18 ? The Treasury had no comment today on the . results of the Common Market negotiations in Munich , mainly on the ground that no copy of the communiqu ? was yet available . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany had swung over to the French position . despite a private plea ' last week from Secretary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler to Karl Schiller , the German . Economics Minister . Such a development would deal a grave blow to United States hopes for agreement this year on a liberal monetary reform proposal .                     