@@727282

txt Miami Beach , Aug. 4 ? Gov . Ronald Reagan of California today left the door open to accepting the Republican Vice Presidential nomination with the statement that " once the decision has been made as to the head of the ticket , it would be very difficult for any man " to refuse the offer of running mate . Altho Reagan , on a Columbia Broadcasting system television interview , had insisted a few moments before that he " would not take second place on anyone 's ticket , " it was indicated he might alter that stand once the convention delegates have chosen someone other than himself as the standard bearer . Trails Nixon , Rocky He is considered a serious contender for the top spot , but his present delegate strength is far less than that of Richard M. Nixon or Gov . Nelson Rockefeller of New York . Reagan is the head of the 86-vote California delegation , which is pledged to hit favorite-son candidacy . Reagan also said there was a . possibility he might take the floor at the convention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary to bring about ' an . honorable peace in Viet Nam . Cross-Section , He Says Reagan told the television panelists there undoubtedly are some among his delegation who are for Nixon .. He stressed that the delegation Tepr esent s a cross =section of - California . Nixon formerly lived in California and still has a considerable ' f011owing ? there . " Would any of those delegates break away.and vote for Nixon before the second ballot ? " he was asked . " If they did so , they would be very foolish , " Reagan replied . " We put together this delegation for party unity in California , and any breakaway would endanger that unity . " When queried as to whether he considered himself qualified to be President , Reagan answered : " I was asked that same question when I ran for governor . That is a matter for the delegates to decide . We are not here to choose a dictator . Has Faith in People " If we base a choice for the Presidency entirely on experience , why would we be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that kind of experience is what is wrong with the country . I have great faith in the people and who they pick . All depends on the people , and I was able to get the best in California to help in putting over my programs . " " Who would be more effective as President , Nixon or Rockefeller ? " w a s another question . " i ca n't answer that , " Rea- , gan said . " But if the delegates should turn to me as their nominee , I would campaign to the best of my ability because we must end the present policies in Washington . " Difficult to Refuse Concerning the Vice Presidency , Reagan said : " Once the decision has been made as to the head of the ticket , it would be very difficult for any man to refuse . It would be very hard to say no with all that pressure on , altho I do say I would turn down the offer from anyone . " I believe I could be more effective as governor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Viet Nam war , Reagan said : " A sudden thrust against the enemy would have been best . The escalation should have taken place two years ago , instead of allowing the enemy to take advantage of only a gradual buildup on our part . Against Withdrawal " When our chief negotiator at the Paris talks Averell Harriman talks about looking for a house to lease for a year , what are we doing ? We should make the enemy think he has to get on with negotiations fast like yesterday . " I am for an honorable peace but not such kind of withdrawal as the doves want , which would leave the South Vietnamese to their fate . We'ca n't write off a sacrifice in Viet Nam . " When asked if he might go on the convention floor to give his Viet Nam views , Reagan answered : " It is highly doubtful but anything is possible . "                     