@@727256

txt The Czechs are facing the toughest ordeal of their six-month-old revolution . Government officials have tried to make a reasoned , resolute , and stand-up party reply to the criticisms of the Soviet Union and its hard-line satellites and a television appearance by Czechoslovak party leader Alexander Dubcek brought new heart to this nation . Late overnight reports Thursday , though unconfirmed officially , indicated that Mr. Dubcek and Soviet party leader Leonid 1 . Brezhnev would meet at Kosice , in eastarn Slovakia , over the weekend . However , doubt developed later about the site of this meeting , on the basis of a Mos201Ar report that the Soviet Communist Party Mn Friday had sent a letter to the Czecho ; lovak party suggesting a high-level bilateral neeting in the Soviet Union early next week . the Russians proposed that this meeting be told in Moscow , Kiev , or Lwow . There are strong rumors , furthermore , that two of Czechoslovakia 's strongest supporters , President Tito of Yugoslavia and Ro- mania 's party chief Nicolae Ceausescu , are due in Prague . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformation . They have reminded the Russians of each Communist country 's right  --  acknowledged by Moscow 's own independence and equality declaration of October , 1956 ? to tread its own path to socialism according to its own needs and conditions . Mr. Ceausescu and President Tito will be coming here to make their gestures as leaders of Communist states which , although affiliated with the Communist world , have already staked out and upheld their independence . And , in effect , to tell the Russians that Czechoslovakia should be left alone to do the same . Meanwhile , in Moscow , Pravda reported that Prague 's " journalistic circles " had learned that Czechoslovak security police had found a secret cache of American-made weapons . The report was similar to charges made by the Soviet Union before it moved to crush the Hungarian revolt in 1956 . In Washington , the State Department called the Pravda report " utterly false . " Robert McCloskey , the State Department spokesman , said the United States was not involved in any way in the Czech affair . Marshal Andrei A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit to Algeria Friday and flew back to Moscow , according to an Associated Press report . In Czechoslovakia 's formal answer to the five-party letter , which called on them to halt the democratization process , the party Presidium soberly rebutted the charges of counterrevolution and disloyalty to the Communist alliance . In his television talk , Mr. Dubcek ? viewed by an all-time peak audience at home and throughout Western Europe  --  declared that , precisely because of its fidelity to socialism , Czechoslovakia would not yield an inch of the path it has taken since January . That was when the Stalinist regime was ousted and the reformers , led by him , took over . The Presidium 's reply to its critics was inevitably couched in the terminology of Communist politics . Mr. Dubcek 's talk to the nation was not . For a man who has been under intense pressure these hot July days , he appeared almost completely relaxed . There were warming passages in which * Please turn to.Page 3 *Czechs parry Soviet thrusts // he looked , earnest and friendly , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floodtide of goodwill telegrams and messages . They were received not only from party branches and govern . ment or public offices but from factories and firms throughout the country . Six hundred statements of support came in the first few hours after the national broadcast . The television switchboard was clogged with telephone calls of heartfelt thanks . Listeners in a hotel manager 's office where this reporter viewed the performance clucked with approval as he smilingly observed : Since people were dissatisfied with old leadership , we had to realize that we can not change people , we had to change the leadership . The Czech reply to the Warsaw letter related how the Presidium had decided it would prefer bilateral talks with other parties prior to any group meeting as proposed by the Russians . Meeting announced But before they had a chance to say so , the meeting of the five had already been convened . The Czechs first heard about it through a news agency message when the Russians and the others were already en route to the Polish capital . Subsequently , Prague repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bloc-scale meeting and invited Mr. Brezhnev to Kosice . The Russiins countered with a proposal to meet in Moscow . The Czechs replied : Kosice . Kiev ; said the Russians , then Lwow . Each time came the same steady reply from Prague . Prague appears to have begun to come through its second great crisis since the Novotny regime was overthrown . The first was in late March when the former party leader was finally prevailed upon to quit his office as President of the republic and , while the Czechs and Slovaks were still rejoicing , their leaders were summoned to the Dresden summit to explain and defend themselves . The second crisis has been a frightening fortnight in which the Russians made crude and cynical use of the presence of Soviet troops brought to this country ostensibly for , the Warsaw Pact 's June maneuvers . Instead they have been used to bring intense psychological pressure on the Czechs . Troops on way out The latter have stood up to it gamely , though all the troops still have not gone home. , The end is scarcely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Czechs ? doing everything ( as the Presidium said they would ) to avoid any worsening of relations  --  are putting the best face on it they can . But it will be next week at the earliest  --  unless something else untoward happens  --  before the last Russians will have crossed the borders . Yet the tension has undoubtedly lifted , though the situation is still a complicated one and a last-hour desperate throw by the Russians can not yet be totally excluded . In a statement to the Central Committee July 19 party leader Alexander Dubcek vowed that his regime never will return to Stalinist rule and rejected Soviet charges he damaged Communist unity by following a liberal course . This session was called to endorse the stand taken by the leadership in its duel of wills with the Russians . Sixty of the delegates just recently chosen for the extraordinary party congress at present scheduled for September have been invited to join the 140-member committee for the occasion . Conservatives ' last chance ? It could be the conservatives ' last chance . There are between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many floating centrists who might be swung to their side if they presented a good case . Should they do so , Mr. Dubcek is said to be ready to call the party congress immediately because , throughout the country , liberal delegates have done well enough at the primaries to ensure election of a new Central Committee with a strong reform majority . From Moscow , the Czech news agency reported that the Czechoslovak Ambassador had a cordial meeting with the head of the Soviet party 's international department Thursday when he handed over the Prague reply . There was a meeting also between Soviet Premier Alexci N. Kosygin and the CzeeI Deputy Premier Frantisek Hamouz , who is in the Soviet capital for an executive ses ? sion of Comecon , the East bloc 's economic organization . Mr. Kosygin is reported to have said Rus ? sia is sincerely interested in expanding eco . nomic cooperation between the two countries and that he is aware of no obstacles in the way . Russia , he said , would meet all its obligations . It might be a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line hitherto ascribed to Mr. Kosygin or a sign that the Russians are in fact pulling back . The next few days should give the answer . Meanwhile Czechoslovak nerves are remarkably steady . There is hope in the air .                     