@@722341

txt Edward M. Kennedy officially.began today his campaign for the Senate seat once held by his brother . the President . The youngest of the three Kennedy brothers said he had made his decision to run " in full knowledge of the obstacle I will face , the charges that 's will be made . " Mr , Kennedy 's announcement started a campaign that will first pit him against Edward J. McCormack Jr. , Massachu-1 setts Attorney General , who is a nephew of House Speaker John W. McCormack . Mr. McCormack , also a Democrat , announced his candidacy March 5 . He said then he was prepared " to go all the way " to win . But he retreated from a firm commitment to enter the primary in September if he failed to be endorsed at a pre- , primary party convention in June . He said that he did not expect to " lose " at the convention , and that the question of entering the primary would be considered later . However , Mr. Kennedy said he believed there was no alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kennedy served as a campaign manager for his brother in the 1960 Presidential race . He is now an assistant Crnfinued on Page 27 , Column 1 EDWARD KENNEDY IS IN SENATE RACE // district attorney for Suffolk County ( Boston ) at a $1-a-year salary . In Springfield Mr. McCormack commented , " Competition is healthy . " He said he would be nominated on his record , experience and ability . He has served five years on the Boston City Council and four as Attorney General . He declared he would hammer on the theme of " experience . " If the President and Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy campaign for their brother , he said , " it might lend credence to what some people say  --  that the family relationship is his only qualification for office . " Carried Out Missions Mr. Kennedy reached the age of 30 , the minimum for a Senator , last month . Mr. McCormack is 38 . The new candidate has traveled considerably on fact-finding missions for the President and on ? his own . The Campaign is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of strength for control of the Democratic State Committee , President Kennedy , then a Senator , defeated Representative McCormack , then majority leader of tte national House . If Edward Kennedy is successful in the primary tests , his Republican challenger in November may be George Cabot Lodge , whose father and grandfather also were Senators from Massachusetts . In 1952 George Cabot Lodge 's father , Senator Henry Cabot Lodge , was unseated by President Kennedy , then Representative from the Eleventh Massachusetts District . Also seeking the Republican nomination for Senate is Representative Laurence Curtis , whose Tenth District seat is to be erased by reapportionment . Mr. Kennedy 's home is in Mr. Curtis ' district . It is part of Ward 5 , long known as a Republican ' " silk-stocking " territory . Mr. Kennedy announced his candidacy at his home . His wife Joan stood smilingly at his side . Reporters and photographers jammed the room . After having canvassed the Commonwealth , he said , he is convinced that the Senate is where he can " best serve the people of my home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitality , a new image and a new vigor . " In referring to charges he said he . would face , he explained that ' he meant those arising from the fact that ? his eldest brother was President and his elder brother Attorney General . He repeatedly said " the people of Massachusetts will make the determination . " He does not expect his brothers to campaign here for him , Mr. Kennedy declared , but his sisters " may be visiting in the state , and we certainly wo n't keept them in a closet . " Senator Benjamin A. Smith 2d , who holds the seat vacated by President Kennedy , a week ago made known . his decision not to seek election .                     