@@723458

txt Aberdeen , S.D. , Sept. 14 Special-Chances of survival increased hour by hour for five quintuplet babies born here prematurely early today and placed in individual incubators where they were apparently thriving with no indications of life-threatening complications . Hospital officials late last night said . the quints remained in a strong condition . " There 's no reason they should n't survive , barring some unforeseen circumstance , " a spokesman said . Their condition appeared unchanged since birth . If they live , they will be the first quintuplets ever born in the United States to survive the critical hours after birth in which prematurity is confronted with the exacting demands of life . The quintuplets - four girls and a boy  --  were born to the wife of a $76-a-week shipping clerk and promptly described by the attending physician as " fine babies " with an excellent chance of survival . The babies were born about six to eight weeks prematurely . Rushed to Incubators Altho they were rushed to incubator without weighing or measurement it was reported the boy may have weighed 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were said to be about 18 inches long . The first 48 hours were said to be the most critical and survival for 72 hours an indication of adjustment to the odds against survival . The babies were placed in chambers called isolettes , where oxygen , temperature , and humidity are controled . The big threat to their lives was acknowledged to be hyaline membrane disease which is possible in all premature babies and which took the life last month of the soh of President and Mrs. Kennedy . It , is caused by heart strain resulting from underdeveloped lungs . There was said to be no sign of the appearance of this malady . Daughter of Farmer About 12 hours after birth the infants were- baptized in the Roman Catholic faith by ' the Most Rev. Lamber Hoch , bishop of the Sioux Falls , S. D. , Roman Catholic diocese . The bishop flew here from Sioux Falls . The mother is Mrs. Andrew Fischer , 30 , . the former Mary Ann Brady , daughter of a farmer living near Ueda , S. D. She reportedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her babies a moment after birth , and is looking forward to a wheel chair trip to the nursery to see them again . The births took place in St. Luke 's hospital here , only hospital in Aberdeen , a city of 23,000 in northeastern South Dakota , with the family doctor , Dr. James Berbos , a general practitioner , in charge and aided by two other physicians . Warned by X-rays taken Wednesday that quintuplets were coming , Dr. Berbos had arranged for the hospital to obtain needed extra equipment . Mrs. Fischer , a 5-foot , 6-inch red head , was already the mother of five healthy children , the eldest 7 and the youngest , 3 . Knew in Advance Her husband , 38 , known in the community as ArdY , had reportedly been told well in advance that quintuplet births could be expected but the news had been kept from Mrs. Fischer until yesterday to minrnize the period of added anxiety physicians feared such knowledge would cause . She had been led to expect that she might have twins . The bishop wore a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgical gown for the baptism . Mothers and nurses in the maternity ward watched thru glass as the bishop entered the nursery , accompanied by the father , who wore a surgical cap and gown . The bishop confirmed the infants as well as baptized them . He reached into their isolettes to dab each one twice with holy water , the second dab for confirmation . He explained later that it is a bishop 's privilege to confirm them at an early age . Four Named Mary Under directions of the father , Bishop Hoch gave the name " James Andrew " to the boy and the name " Mary " to each of the four . girls . He said the parents will give each girl an individual second name when they have time to sort out their thoughts on such matters . Outside the confines of the hospital , the probability of the arrival of quintuplets was a well kept secret . There was tense excitement inside , however , as Mrs. Fischer was taken to the delivery room before midnight . The first arrival was a girl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The next was another girl at 2:03 a. m. , and was followed by a third girl at 2:14 a. m . The boy was the fourth to be born , appearing at 2:39 a. m. , and the ordeal ended with the fifth birth , another girl , at 3:01 a. m . Dr. Berbos said all except the second girl were breech deliveries . In contrast to the usual head-first birth , breech delivery involves arrival of the lower extremities first . News Spreads Thru World News of the event spread rapidly thruout the world , touching off unprecedented communications activity for this ordinarily calm and quiet city on the wind-swept plains . The early calls were from seekers of information but these were surpassed within a few hours by congratulatory messages as the nation awakened . One of the first of these said : " Please accept our best wishes and hearty congratulations . It is an event of great national pride . " This was signed by Mr. and Mrs. John F. Kennedy . It was learned that the President , spending the week-end with his family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been told of the event by Sen. George S. D. , S. D. The father , without sleep since Thursday night , made his way home in the dawn with only only a weary answer to those who asked his future plans , " I 'd like to go to bed , " he said . There was to be little sleep for Fischer , however . He had to milk the cows , then hasten back to the hospital to be on hand for the baptism . When he reappeared at the hospital he was accompanied by Joseph H. Barnett , an Aberdeen lawyer . The appearance of the lawyer was regarded as indicating that the Fischers were aware of stresses and pressures in store for them as parents of the nation 's only living quintuplets . Danny , 7 , eldest of the family , took over as spokesman . " I wanted a brother and I got one , " he said happily . Surrounded by girls , Danny had hoped for someone to play ball with . The other children are Charlotte , 6 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . The father , a tall , crew-cut man , is a shipping clerk for an Aberdeen wholesale grocery firm , the Nash-Finch company , his employer for 18 years . Ile reportedly gets a paycheck of $152 every two weeks . He was born in Linton , N. D. , and grew up in Eagle Butte , S. D. , about 180 miles west of here . He and the former Miss Brady were married May 14 , 1955 . Their farmhouse home is rented and Fischer does no farming except to care for and milk two cows . They moved to the place a few years ago because they could think of no other way of supplying milk for their expanding family and because the house had the space they needed for the amount of money they could spend . There are five bedrooms upstairs and five rooms downstairs . The house faces a blacktop road . Provides Field Day The births provided a field day for statisticians . It was announced that despite seven previou8 quintuplet births in the United States since the first record of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an instance where such infants have survived . In the western hemisphere quintuplets have survived to maturity on two occasions in this century , the first that of the famous Dionne quintuplets born in 1934 in Callender , Ont. , and the other the Diligenti quintuplets of Argentina , now 20 . Quintuplets were born a week ago today in Maracaibo , Venzuela , to Mrs. Inez Maria Cuervo de Prieto , 34 , a grandmother , and are gaining weight . Their condition has been reported " satisfactory . " The last set of quintuplets born in the United States were born Oct. 20 , 1959 to Mrs. Cecilea Hannan , wife of an air force lieutenant , in San Antonio . All died within 18 hours .                     