@@721911

txt Hyannis Port , Mass. , July 4 - The White House thru a boner to da y omitted a key sentence from the text given to American report ers of President Kennedy 's Fourth of July reply to Russian Premier Nikita Khrushchev . The omission was admitted by Andrew Hatcher , White House associate press secretary , after the Moscow radio version of the Kennedy message was circulated with the extra sentence . In that sentence the President agreed with Khrushchev 's hope , voiced in an Independence day greeting to Kennedy , that the peace can be kept if both governments demonstrate a sincere will to do so . Moscow Gives Tipoff The Kennedy text given American newsmen by Hatcher this morning was only four sentences long and was largely unresponsive to Khrushchev 's overtures in his twice-as-long message to negotiate outstanding problems . The temporarily lost sentence injected a friendlier and warmer tone into the Kennedy reply to the Russians . White House newsmeh noticed from press dispatches that Moscow radio had included a fairly long and substantive fifth sentence not in the mimeographed text distributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation base . After examining the message sent by the President thru the state department to Khrushchev , Hatcher this evening said the . sentence in question had inadvertently been dropped from the text released here but had been included in the actual message . How Message Read The Kennedy message as actually sent to Khrushchev and Russian President Leonid I. Brezhnev I with t h e mysteriously mislaid missing sentence in italics reads : " I wish to thank you personally and on behalf of the American people for your greetings on the occasion of the 185th anniversary of t h e independence of the United States . " It is a source of satisfaction to me that on our 185th anniversary the United States is still committed to those revolutionary principles of individual liberty and national freedom for all people which motivated our first great leaders . " I am confident that given a sincere desire to achieve peaceful settlement of the issues ! chick still disturb the world 's tranquility we can , in our time , reach that peaceful goal which all peoples so ardently desire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rests upon the Soviet Union and the United States . " I want to assure the people of your country of our desire to live in friendship . and peace with them . " Hatcher , after releasing to reporters the bobtailed text this morning , went for a long cruise on Nantucket sound and could not be reached until several hours after a reporter noticed the discrepancy from the Moscow radio iersion . This evening , when the discrepancy was called to his attention , Hatcher professed to be mystified by it . He seriously suggested at first that he would ask the Russian embassy in Washington for an explanation of the " inserted " sentence . At the same time he cautioned newsmen not to interpret such a move as meaning he was accusing Russia of doctoring the Kennedy text . " I am at a loss to explain this discrepancy , " Hatcher said . Admits Own Error A few minutes later Hatcher reappeared - in the press room of the Yachtsman hotel in Hyannis to say the mystery had been solved . lie said the Moscow radio version @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been sent to the Russian leader . " I just dropped out the one sentence by mistake in dictating the text to a secretary for distribution to reporter s , " hatcher said . The President , even in the full version , made no refer ence , as Khrushchev had in his note , to their meeting last month in Vienna . Neither message mentioned the tense Ber lin dispute by name , hut Khrushchev did so by implica. tion in saying there is urgent need to solve pressing prob , lems still left over from World War II . The mislaid sentence in the Kennedy reply was responsive to this in calling for sincerity in settling issues that mar world tranquility . New Flagpole Set Up The President , Mrs. Kennedy , their two ' young children , and a score of others in the Kennedy clan spent a restful Fourth of July in ideal vacation weather at their Cape Cod retreat . There are three Kennedy homes , including the President 's , on the Hyannis shore overlooking Nantucket sound . A new flagpole about 30 feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Presidential flag was run up to fly under the Stars and Stripes . The Presidential ensign will be flown henceforth when the President is in residence at Hyannis . As they have the three previous days , the Presidential couple and others in the clan went for a cruise on the sound in the cabin cruiser Marlin the afternoon . The President plans . to fly back to Washington to . morrow morning .                     