@@723996

txt Schools supporting " disobedience to the laws of the state of Mississippi " would be banned and teachers at unlicensed institutions subject to a maximum of six months ' in jail and a $500 fine . The proposed law obviously is aimed at blocking the " freedom schools . " But state administration forces have quietly buried the bill in committee on advice of Attorney General Joe T. Patterson that it could compromise the state 's defense in pending Federal civil rights cases . A still more important reason for believing Mississippi 's reception of outsiders could prove kindlier than forecast earlier is the somewhat less militant stand in recent weeks of the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , the group coordinating civil rights activities in this state . It 's staffed chiefly by members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee ( SNCC ) , the most militant of the major civil rights groups . COFO said earlier this year it was calling for an invasion of Mississippi by 2,000 volunteers . SNCC Chairman John Lewis said the aim was to " saturate " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force Federal intervention . It appears nowr however , that far fewer volunteers will be on hand than first anticipated , perhaps less than 1,000 . Dr. Staughton Lynd , a history professor at Spelman College in Atlanta and co-director of the " freedom schools , " calculates that only some 350-volunteer teachers will be needed to instruct the approximately 1,000 local Negro teenagers expected to enroll at 24 locations around the state . The youngsters , using Negro churches and meeting halls , will study such topics as Negro history and the impact of race relations on Southern politics , subjects widely skirted by public schools here . They 'll also receive remedial help in such areas as reading and composition . When the schools wind up in August , it 's hoped students will carry on as civil rights cadres in their communities . Another 600 to 700 volunteers are expected to work on other COFO projects , including one to obtain signatures of 400,000 Negroes to carry to the Democratic national convention as a protest against discriminatory voting barriers in the state . One factor holding down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state is the relatively small number of Negroes who have applied . " There has been growing concern in SNCC that too many Northern whites are doing work that should be left to Negroes , " says a white COFO field worker at the organization 's bustling headquarters in a former Negro radio station here . Rejection of Whites ? Some 825 applications have been received from prospective volunteers thus far , but only about 15% of them from Negroes . Thus , whites may have to be rejected to keep the number of Negroes on COFO field projects close to the desired 40% ratio . " We had plans to subsidize Negro undergraduates who often have to earn their next year 's tuition by working at summer jobs , " says Prof. Lynd . " But the funds we were hoping to get have n't materialized as yet . The proportion of whites teaching in the schools is going to be higher than we thought , and from the standpoint of a thoroughly integrated staff as an example to the students , it could prove disastrously high . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers at the " freedom schools " should play in Negro protest activities apparently has been resolved in favor of de-emphasizing such activities . Plans originally called for students to be available for " other COFO projects " during the afternoons . But the academic day now is scheduled to run until 5 p.m. , leaving less time for such work . " There may be times when a class will feel the necessity of becoming involved in a local situation , " says Mendy Samstein , a school coordinator for COFO . " But the objective of the students will be to learn and demonstrations will not be encouraged or urged . " Ohio Is Staging Area The schools also will avoid dangerous rural counties where the sight of white teachers boarding with Negro families might be expected to stir local passions . And to help insure that summer workers do n't undertake spur-of-the-moment protest activities , volunteers are expected to attend orientation sessions at Western College for Women , Oxford , Ohio , before moving on in small groups to assigned posts in Mississippi . Applicants , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty members ; the National Council of Churches hopes to recruit some 75 ministers who will act as counselors to both volunteers and local students in Mississippi communities . COFO 's own " guidelines for interviewing " cite the example of a recent volunteer who hot-headedly insisted on working in Yazoo City , a Delta town that COFO leaders consider dangerous to enter , against the advice of his project director . He was finally assigned to Jackson headquarters . If the problem presented by this volunteer Were multiplied enough times , the guidelines warn , " the whole program could be jeopardized and lives could even be lost . " It adds , " A. student who seems determined to carve his own niche and win publicity and glory when he returns home can only . have harmful affects on the Mississippi program . "                     