@@723485

txt Duluth , Sept. 24-President Kennedy talked about federal unemployment aid for the Great Lakes region here tonight in his third speech of a busy day . was on the first leg of a coastto-coast trip of 10,000 miles thru 11 states , a trip which he has labeled nonpolitical . The trip is being made for the announced purpose of inspecting national parks , natural resource s , and reclamation projects . Because of its professed nonpolitical nature , the taxpayers , rather than a political party , will pick up the tab . The President spoke here in the fieldhouse of the Duluth branch of the University of Minnesota . Eailier he had spoken in Ashland , Wis. , and in Milford , Pa . New Disciplines Needed At his first stop in Milford , where a dedication ceremony was held for the Pinchot Institute for Conservation Studies , he said conservation must embrace disciplines scarcely known to prophets of the past . The institute is named for Gifford Pinchot , pioneer conservationist , friend of President Theodore Roosevelt , and twice Republican governor of Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an expanded economy and better use of the nation 's abundant natural resources are the keys to progress of the United States as a nation . He said his administration is seeking to correct unfavorable economic conditions in northern Wisconsin caused by waste of timber and other resources . Goal : Foil Employment He told his Duluth audience that " year after year this area has had the short end of every economic indicator . " He said the goal of the federal government is full employment of both natural and human resources , which , he said , the region has in abundance . His administration , he said , is determined to put all available federal facilities and programs at the disposal of this developmental effort . He said the program must be cooperative , involving federal , state , and local governments , and coordinating public and private enterprise . 7 Weapons Available Above all , the President said , the program must apply what he called the multiple-use principle , with forests being used for both timber and recreation , and with clean water available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to seven federal programs for bringing full employment and prosperity to the northern Great Lakes region . He said these include labor force training , increased financial aid to areas of high current unemployment , an accelerated public works program , the proposed youth conservation corps , a speedup of rural area development , federal . state , and private re , search , and the 11 billion dollar tax cut his administration is seeking . The President 's trip will take him into nine states he lost in 1960 to the Republican Presidential nominee . Richard Nixon . When he left Washington his plane carried 15 Democratic senators from.10 of the 11 states he will visit , seven of whorl have seats which will be at stake in the 1964 elections . Udall . Freeman Go Along Also aboard the Presidential plane were Stewart Udall , secretary of the interior , and Orville Freeman , secretary of agriculture . On hand with the President at Ashland were Gov . John Reynolds of Wisconsin . a Democrat , and Sen. Gaylord Nelson ID .. Wis . . The crowd at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A helicopter brought the President from Ashland to the Duluth airport , where Gov . Karl Rolvaag of Minnesota greeted the Presidential party . Police estimated that 100,000 to 150.000 persons lined the route from the airport to downtown Duluth. cheering the President and the governor as they rode in a bubble-top limousine . Kennedy . who has a history of back trouble , barely escaped a fall as he arrived in Duluth . After shaking hands with members of a welcoming crowd at the airport , he turned to walk away and slipped on the raindampened apron . Four aids kept him from falling . Exposure tor Humphrey Minnesota 's two Democratic senators , Hubert Humphrey and Eugene McCarthy , sat on the stage with President Kennedy when he gave his fieldhouse address . Humphrey 's term expires in 1965 , and his seat will be at stake in the November , 1964 , election . In his Milford address the President struck a keynote for his trip by asserting that this country 's industrialization and urbanization are crowding the water. , fresh air , and open space available to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale . No Lack of Capability The conservation movement , the President said . " must marshal our vast technological capacity on behalf of our vast natural resource supplies . " It must concern itself with the secrets of nuclear energy , as well as Pinchot 's agriculture . with the physics and chemistry of water purification , as well as Roosevelt 's TVA , with the economic and engineering factors of open space planning , as well as the preservation of scenic treasures . "                     