@@722160

txt The talks between Prime Minister Macmillan and President de Gaulle have restored harmony to British and French policies on Berlin reliable sources reported tonight . There is reason to believe that the French President now takes a more favorable view of Western initiative to discuss the future of Berlin with the Soviet Union , providing that the Allies do not appear to be negotiating under military pressure . A qualified source summarized tonight the results of the deGaulle-Macmillan talks . The source said he thought the gap over the wisdom of negotiations with the Soviet Union had now been closed between the United States and Britain on one hand and France and West Germany on the other . Previous Position Noted General de Gaulle 's previous position was that the Soviet Union had caused the crisis over Berlin and that the West should not make approaches to Moscow under what seemed to be conditions of duress . The immediate problem facing Western diplomats , the source here suggested , is that of refining the various Western positions into a succinct ? proposal on the future of Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not yet complete , sources emphasized . Further exchanges between Western leaders are expected  --  particularly between Chancellor Adenauer of West Germany and General de Gaulle and , perhaps , between Mr. Macmillan and Dr ; Adenauer . De Gaulle Back in Paris President and Mme. de Gaulle flew back to Paris from Gatwick Airport shortly after 10 A. M. in a heavy fog that reduced visibility to 100 yards . The French leader arrived Friday and he and Mr. Macmillan began their talks that night . A joint Western approach to the Soviet Union will be discussed when the United States , British , French and West German foreign ministers meet in Paris Dec. 11 and 12 , sources said . The ministerial council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is then expected to discuss Berlin policies on the next two days . Prime Minister Macmillan and President de Gaulle met Friday night and yesterday at Birch Grove , Mr. Macmillan 's country home in Sussex . The French President , it is understood , was glad to find his host sympathetic to France 's // desire to play an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on . the other hand , apparently found his guest less adamant than he had expected hint to be on the subject of talks with the Soviet Union . The French President apparently was prepared to recognize that the renewal Tuesday in Geneva of negotiations for a nuclear test ban , and other circumstances , had strengthened the British and American case for discussions on Berlin . Sources said that although the general could not be regarded as enthusiastic , he was at least prepared to acquiesce to diplomatic conversations on the formulation of a joint approach to the Soviet Union on Berlin . Mr. Macmillan . it was said , found the French leader well informed about the negotiations between Britain and the six other Governments of the European Economic Community ( Common Market ) ? France , I West Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Bergium and Luxembourg . Both the Prime Minister and Edward Heath , Lord Privy Seal , who was present at the talks Friday night , thought General de Gaulle encouraging about Britain 's proposed entry into the Common Market and sympathetic about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Commonwealth nations fear that British entry into the , market will adversely affect , their trade relations . Urges European Unity The French President , em-1 phasized that he regarded Brit-1 air 's political and economic ' unity with Europe as a matter ' of primary importance . It is understood that he believes that political unity can not be finally achieved unless Britain accepts the Common Market tariff as ' applicable to all Commonwealth countries . However , President de Gaulle and his negotiators in Brussels apparently are prepared to accept some program for gradual application of the tariff to Commonwealth nations on the understanding that ultimately the full tariff will apply as much to them as to any outside nation . This , he feels , is the harsh but necessary fee Britain must pay for entry into the Common Market . It was reported that the talks also touched upon the relationship of a united Europe to the rest of the Atlantic community . There were hints in Allied diplomatic circles that the two old friends  --  they have known each other for more than twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , achieve harmony on Berlin and the Common Market by mutual uncertainty over the direction of German policy in years to come .                     