@@725798

txt Business opposition to the Administration 's anti-inflation tax bill has not impaired the outlook for favorable Congressional action on the measure . The House Ways and Means Committee is expected to modify the bill in several respects , but members expressed doubt today that any fundamental changes would be approved . The committee , which completed public hearings Friday , will start closed-session deliberations on the measure tomorrow . Its chairman , Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas , had originally set next Tuesday as the target for final committee action , with floor debate to start later in the week . Debate Is Delayed Members reported today , however , that it was now unlikely that the committee would be able to finish its work before Thursday or Friday . This would necessitate postponement of House debate until next week . In Atlantic City Sunday , the United Steelworkers of America urged the Government to reshape its wageprice guideposts , a key Administration weapon in its anti-inflation drive . Page 23 . The bill , as introduced for the Administration on Sept. 3 by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for business investment in equipment and buildings . The suspension would apply both to a 7 per cent tax credit now available on outlay 's for machinery and other equipment and to fast tax writeoffs , known as accelerated depreciation , on industrial and commercial buildings . The aim is to discourage borrowing by business con , 7erns to finance capital investments that the Administration regards as inflationary under present conditions . The Administration contends the suspension would ease the upward pressure on interest rates and also make more money available for loans to home buyers . Business Opposes Move The Ways and Means Committee , sitting morning and afternoon for five days to hear testimony , was given an almost unanimous display of strong business opposition to suspenT sion of the tax benefits . It also heard pleas for special exemptions from the bill , notably for equipment acquired by railroads , small business , farmers and industries in depressed areas , and for residential buildings . Members expressed the belief that a sizable majority of the committee , possibly including two or three Republicans , would Nevertheless support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 Democratic and 8 Republican members , and has supported the Administration on major issues in the present Congress . The Administration is against any exemptions , however meritorious . Granting even one exception , it fears , might lead to so many others that the bill 's effectiveness would be destroyed . A major cause of committee concern , members said , is the possibility that many companies would be unfairly penalized under the bill for carrying forward expansion and modernization programs already under way when the suspension took effect . In its present form , the bill would deny the 7 per cent investment credit to outlays for any equipment ordered during the suspension period . Equipment ordered earlier would be eligible for the credit only if it was delivered or installed pursuant to a " binding " contract . Mr. Mills regards this provision as unjustly stringent , because many concerns may have started capital investment programs and firmly committed themselves to completing them without entering legally binding contracts . He has ordered the committee staff to ? draft amendments to provide more flexible criteria . Later Date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' one for an effective date of Sept. 8 rather than Sept. 1 , which is specified in the present text of the bill . The purpose would be to prevent any injustice to concerns that placed orders between Sept. 1 and Sept. 8 , the day the.bill was introduced . Members said the committee was also likely to add a provision authorizing the President to restore either or both of the tax incentives , if warranted by economic conditions , prior to the end of the suspension period on Dec. 31 , 1967 , as specified by the bill . In addition , Mr. Mills has indicated that he will seek committee approval of amendments for liberalization of the 7 per cent investment credit at the end of the suspension period . The present law limits the credit for an individual or corporate taxpayer to 25 per cent of the taxpayer 's total tax liability in any year . It permits the taxpayer to carry forward unused credits and apply them against taxes due in five succeeding years . Under the Mills proposal , the limit would be increased to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be increased to seven years . Members said a majority of the committee apparently f avored all the changes suggested by the chairman , and there were indications that the Administration would not oppose them .                     