@@724943

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. 10 -- President Johnson signed today ; a $7.5 billion housing bill and called it " the single most im-1 portant breakthrough " in the ) housing field in the last 40. years . Speaking to a large audience ) of Congressmen , Government ! officials , labor leaders and private builders gathered in the White House Rose Garden , the ) President asserted : " Only the Housing Act of 1949 approaches the signifi-I cance of this measure . And in years to come , I believe this act will become known as the singlei most important housing legislation in our history . " The bill consists of an expansion of existing programs as well as several new and arresting ideas , some of them provided by Congressional Republicans . Meanwhile the Senate was // working on the Administration bill to establish a new Cabinet level Department of Housing and Urban Development . After voting to preserve the integrity of the Federal Housing Administration within such a new department , the Senate deferred final action on the bill until tomorrow . The F ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Democrat of Alabama , was adopted by voice vote . So was another by Senator Leverett Saltonstall , Republican of Massachusetts , proividing that any community will be assured a public hearing on a program of the department within 60 days of a request by a state governor . Many of the housing bill 's seemingly minor provisions would have a profound impact on individuals , such as small businessmen displaced by urban renewal , and on the programs in large and small cities . The President took particular care , in discussing the controversial rent subsidy provision , to stress that it would be carried out under the sponsorship of private organizations.1 During Congressional debate on the bill , many members said that the rent subsidy program " smacked of Socialism . " Under the subsidy plan , the Government will pay part of the rent of low-income families ) accepted as tenants in new , nonprofit housing projects built or owned by private , nonprofit groups such as churches , cooperatives labor unions or Ihnmited-dividend corporations . The family would pay roughly 25 per cent of its total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference to the owner . Officials hope that the subsidy provision ? which authorizes $150 million in contracts over the next four years ? will lead to the construction of 375,000 new units , mainly apartments . Program of Grants Mr. Johnson also singled out another of the bill 's new features  --  a program of grants of up to $1500 to persons whose incomes are below $3,000 annually . The money i$ to be used to rehabilitate their properties so that they can continue to live in them and not be forced to move . Mr. Johnson described these two programs as the most important of all the new ideas in the bill . Taken together , he said , they would help insure " the construction and rehabilitation of housing for the elderly and for families of low income  --  the people who live in the most wretched conditions . " " This imperative housing , " the President emphasized , " will be built under the sponsorship of private organizations . It will make use of private money and it will be managed by private groups . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went on , " the private builders will be able to move into the low-income housing field which they have not been able to penetrate or to serve effectively in the past . " Major Provisions In addition to the rent subsidy and rehabilitation grants , the bill 's new housing and urban renewal programs include the following : Watching grants to localities for water and sewage facilities and for construction of ' community centers in low-income areas ; 4A program to permit public housing families to be placed in empty units in existing apartment houses , with the permission of the landlord , who would be paid a subsidy . 4A new system of very low down payments on home mortgage for veterans who have not used their veterans ' housing rights . tiMatching grants for urban beautification and fur parks and playgrounds . ( iThe authorization of loans and , grants for fixing rundown properties in urban renewal areas . Republicans on Capitol Hill have claimed authorship of some of these provisions , notably the extension of benefits to servicemen who have not been able to obtain the benefits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the present legislation are loans for college housing , low-interest loans for families of modest incomes , and the urban renewal program , for which an additional $2.9 billion is authorized . Wagners Are Praised Mr. Johnson had high praise for those whose " understanding of housing " helped in the passage and shaping of the bill . Among those singled out were Robert F. Wagner , Mayor of New York , and the Mayor 's father , the late Senator Robert F. Wagner . " I am so happy this morning , " the President said , " to see the great and distinguished Mayor of New York here because it was his father who pioneered the housing legislation in this country . " Mayor Wagner 's father introduced and vigorously fought for ( several bills in the 1930 's that ultimately led to greatly expanded powers for the Federal Housing Administration .                     