@@725037

txt President Johnson 's announcement of significant progress in treaty talks with Panama over the status of the Canal Zone was a move to reassure the Panamanian people of Washington 's good intent . To observers in Washington it came as evidence of the Johnson administration 's desire to please Panama and dampen the long-simmering sparks of dispute between the two governments . In a specially called television and radio ceremony Friday afternoon , the President announced : ? The treaty of 1903 under which the Canal Zone has operated since the canal was constructed will be abrogated . ? A new treaty to recognize Panamanian sovereignty over the canal is in advanced stages of negotiation . The President singled out the two United States and three Panamanian negotiators by name to congratulate them on the progress thus far . ? The new treaty will terminate after a specific number of years ? on or about the date that a new sea-level canal is built in one of four locations now under discussion . Two of those locations arc in Panama . Joint announcement The President 's announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Marco A. Robles , in Panama City . It was understood in Washington that President Johnson 's decision to bring the issue before public attention at this time resulted from a wish of the Panamanian Government that some sort of interim statement be given on the negotiations . The President 's announcement was something of a personal triumph . The Panama dispute of January , 1964 , was the first for- . eign test of the new President following his assumption of the presidency upon President Kennedy 's assassination . That dispute simmered through the spring of 1964 . It has taken skillful diplomacy on the part of the United States to bring relations between the two governments to their present state . Potent point Particularly significant in the view of Washington observers was President Johnson 's firm statement that the new treaty " will effectively recognize Panama 's sovereignty over the area of the present Canal Zone . " This point has particular potency in Panama , where Panamanian nationalists have long chanted for a return of the zone 's sovereignty to their country . Much of the unhappiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the much-debated 1903 treaty , the United States was accorded control of the Canal Zone " as if it were sovereign . " The wording in that treaty has particularly galled Panamanians . President Johnson also announced that there would be a new status-of-forces agreement , governing United States military personnel in the Canal Zone , and a treaty governing the building of a new canal , should such a canal be built on Panamanian territory . Routes discussed Such a new canal may be built through Panama ? either by using the present canal as a route or using another alternative Panamanian site . In addition , a route through the northwestern neck of Colombia to the south and the Nicaraguan route to the north have been discussed . All four are under active study by United States engineering personnel . The building of a new canal  --  much needed because the present canal is inadequate  --  has been a factor in the long United States-Panama dispute . But the main issue has been the status of the present canal and the Canal Zone which stretches five miles on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispute erupted in January , 1964 , rioting which grew out of the flying of the Panamanian flag alongside the United States flag in the Canal Zone . The trouble started when North American youths , members of the families of Canal Zone employees , tore down a Panamanian flag . The rioting resulted in the killing of 19 Panamanians and three United States soldiers , and several hundred injuries . Panama broke relations with the United States in the middle of the crisis  --  relations which were not restored until April of the same year .                     