@@724204

txt Organized labor gave Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy its overwhelming endorsement for the United States Senate yesterday . His supporters at the convention of the New York State American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations overrode fragmentary opposition to win MrJ Kennedy the official backing of the two million-member body . Mr. Kennedy did not get the unanimous endorsement that the 1,500 delegates gave President Johnson and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey earlier in the week . About 40 delegates representing two maritime unions and al union of plastics and toy makers abstained from voting . Only three persons voted against the endorsement . Mr. Kennedy received tumultuous applause before , during and after his delivery of a vigorous address in which he attacked the views of Senator Barry Goldwater and identified himself repeatedly with the cause of labor . The delegates rose from their seats , cheered , whistled and applauded for more than five minutes when the Attorney General and Mrs. Kennedy entered the Commodore Hotel ballroom . The ovation continued as the Kennedys went to the platform . Mr. Kennedy departed frequently from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was nominated by the Democrats on Tuesday . Although tiffs prepared remarks contained only two references to President Johnson , and these concerned Mr. Johnson 's association with the late President Kennedy , the Attorney General in his speech emphasized again and again his identification with the JohnsonHumphrey national ticket . Many delegates said they were surprised and impressed by the power of Mr. Kennedy 's oratory . Concentrating his attack on Senator Goldwater rather than Senator Kenneth B. Keating , his Republican opponent , he alluded with sarcasm to the Arizona Senator as one who spoke disdainfully of the " harmful byproducts of relief , social security , collective bargaining and public housing . " No Tightrope Walking " I stand for the record built by John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson , " he declared . " I am against Barry Goldwater . I will not have to walk a tightrope between my party and my principles . " in a discussion of local issues. ) ** ' ) ) ? ) mder the Republicans New York State had lagged in solving the problems of unemployment and of providing an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prolonged , standing ovation when he asserted his belief in medical care for the aged and his opposition to Section 14(b) , the so-called right-to-work section , of the Taft-Hartley Act . After he had finished his address , - it took several minutes for him and his wife to make their way through well-wishers to an exit from the ballroom . Virtually all the labor federation 's top leaders ' urged Mr. Kennedy 's endorsement . The resolution urging his support was introduced by Raymond R. Corbett , president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O . Seconding speeches were made by Daniel , Gilmartin , president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union ; Charles Kerrigan , regional director of the Automo ble Workers Union and Harry Van Arsdale , president of the New York City Central Labor Council . A lengthy speech critical of Mr. Kennedy was made by Paul Hall , president of the Seafarers International Union . He said , his union would abstain from , voting until it could hear wheth er Mr. Kennedy had changed his position of non-support for the union 's fight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flags . Joseph Curran , . president of The New York Times Paul Hall , Seafarers International Union president . : the National Maritime Union . said in. a. telegram to Mr. Corbett that his union could not support , although it would not oppose Mr. Kennedy . " Robert Kennedy 's record contains no active friendship to the labor movement that we are aware of , " he declared . Mr. Corbett reported later that he had received a telegram from George Meany , president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , saying that he was " happy " over the endorsement of Mr. Kennedy . Senator Keating said in Washington that the endorsement of Mr. Kennedy before the views of each candidate mb Yos Itto ; rb. vo.t . PI ) D uated by a nonpartisan commit- ' tee was " highly unusual . " " I am sending a telegram tonight to President Corbett requesting that the usual procedure be followed and I be given an opportunity to compare my labor record with my opponent 's barren labor record , " he said . " I do n't want to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Replying to the Keating , telegram , Mr. Corbett said last , night that the delegates " comprise the greatest nonpartisan committee in this state . " They listened to both candidates , " he said , " they heard the resolution , they debated it and then for an hour and then they voted almost to a man to endorse Kennedy . " The issue was put squarely and fairly before them by the candidates who appeared in person , and the delegates then made their own free choice . "                     