@@723847

txt Secretary of Defense Robert S. threw his full support today behind the Administration 's drive against poverty . Citing figures showing that , about a third of the nation 's youths fail either mental orb physical examinations given by , the Selective Service , Mr. Mc- , Namara said : " It is the youth that we can ? expect to be the most immediate beneficiaries of the war onl poverty . " He said he was endorsing thel " entire program " both as a citizen and as a member of the Cabinet . His endorsement came as his fellow Republicans in Congress continued to hammer away at parts of the Administration 's antipoverty program . Job Training Provided The program is embodied in a $962.5 million bill . It aims at helping underprivileged young people through job training and education in camps , in community centers and on campuses and at stimulating local , communities through Federal assistance for their own antipoverty drives . The bill would also authorize nonprofit corporations to acquire rural land and develop it into family-size farms for sale to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Celebreze , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . He was questioned for nearly three hours . The antipoverty program , the Republicans insisted , would undercut the authority of the Cabinet members by making Sargent Shriver a " poverty czar . " " I do n't see how you can lie down and be a doormat for this kind of operation , " Representative Peter Frelinghuysen Jr. , Republican of New Jersey , commented . Clashes With Goodell Mr. Celebrezze , usually a softspoken man , retorted sharply that he could not see any conflict , that he had worked closely with Mr. Shriver in setting up the program . " Even the director Mr. Shrived will have someone over him , the President , " Mr. CeleInezze went on . " I feel sure that if any conflicts arose , the President would straighten them out . " Later Mr. Celebrezze got into a bitter shouting match with Representative Charles E. Goodell , upstate New York Republican , over the question of whether the bill would allow Federal grants to churches to wage local wars . on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grants to church or church-related organizations , Mr. Celebrezze replied that it depended upon what kind of activity was planned , that he could not give a general answer . That , said Mr. Goodell , amounted to an admission that there was no prohibition against such use of the funds . , " I 'm not admitting anything and do n't try to put any such thing in the record , " Mr. Celebrezze shouted angrily . " It 's already in the record , " Mr. Goodell fired back . The bill does not specifically ban grants to church groups , but the Federal grants for local antipoverty campaigns are intended for far broader programs , drawn up by entire communities . Replies to Critics Earlier in his testimony , Mr. Celebrezze attempted to answer critics who contend that the President 's antipoverty program fails to place enough stress on education for young children . He said that much of the $315 million that would be allocated to local communities to carry out local wars on poverty probably would be channeled into educational projects . He cited several examples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children ; remedial education centers after school hours , on weekends and in summer months ; centers at which children from poor homes would be given pre-school training ; and day care centers for children of working nlothers . Mr. Celebrezze was backed up in his testimony by Francis Keppel , United States Commissioner of Education . The Administration bill also calls for creation of camps and training centers  --  to be called a Job Corps  --  for youths aged 16 through 21 . The corps would seek to enroll 40,000 in the first year and up to 100,000 a year thereafter .                     