@@725298

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times . pg . 32 Letters to the Editor of The Times Workers ' Buying Power vs . Productivity To the Editor : Your Jan. 30 editorial " Guides for the Guideposts " fails to recognize several important facts about wages , prices and productivity . In three of the past four years of the Administration 's wage guideline the actual rise of productivity in the total private economy was substantially greater than the guideline for wages . Fair treatment , it seems to me , would surely permit the guideline figure to rise to 3.6 per cent in 1966 ? as the Council of Economic Advisers ' arithmetic itself requires  --  merely to offset , in part , the years from 1962 through 1964 , when the wage guideline was considerably below the rise of output per man hour . To leave the guideline at 3.2 per cent is simply an attempt to short-change workers . Labor Cost Trend There is no evidence of general wage-cost pressures on the price level . The President 's Economic Report states that unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as gains in productivity have largely offset moderate increases in hourly labor costs . " Moreover , in the key manufacturing sector , the labor cost per item has been in a declining trend since 1960 ; last year , the President 's Economic Report states , unit labor costs of industrial goods declined eight-tenths of 1 per cent . Despite this record of general stability of unit labor costs , and declining costs of labor per unit in the manufacturing sector , the level of consumer prices has risen over 1 per cent per year ? thereby eroding part of the value of wage and salary gains . But the Administration 's wage guideline takes no account whatsoever of the rise in living costs ? an economic fact of life that is vitally important to workers . As a result , the Administration 's wage guideline is considerably less than 3.2 per cent in terms of buying power . During the past decade the buying power of wages has risen at a much slower pace than the economy 's productivity . For example , from 1960 to 1965 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average yearly rate of 3.6 per cent , the buying power of employe compensation ( wages , salaries and fringe benefits in the private economy per hour ) increased only 2.9 per cent per year . This lag of workers ' buying power behind productivity indicates a continuing shift of income distribution , away from wage land salary earners to other groups in the economy . This shift in income distribution can be seen in the soaring rise of business profits and dividends from one record peak to another , at a considerably faster pace than employe compensation . In the most recent year , alone , corporate profits rose 15 per cent before taxes and 20 per cent after taxes ? more than twice as fast as total wage and salary payments . But there are no Government guidelines for profits , dividends or prices on the stock market . These are some of the facts ? in addition to the Council of Economic Advisers ' shift in the method of calculating the wage guideline in order to cut it down  --  that account for organized labor 's opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not believe that the rigid application of any single factor , such as productivity , is a workable or equitable means of wage determination in an economy of many costs , in addition to wages , and an economy of thousands of different markets , industries and occupations . NAT GOLDFINGER Director Department of Research A.F.L.-C.I.O . Washington , Feb. 2 , 1966 ? Dissenters ' Passports To the Editor : The State Department has announced that it is revoking the passports of Staughton Lynd , Herbert Aptheker and Thomas E. Hayden because they went where the State Department forbade them to go . You comment that the State Department has the legal right to do this . If our laws permit the State Department to reduce our foreign relations to utter chaos , and then permits the department to punish anyone who tries to investigate or improve the situation , is it not time that we changed our laws ? Editorial Feb. 9 . It would be reasonable for the State Department to warn citizens who went to certain areas that it could not guarantee their safety . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to judge its critics . What more is needed for dictatorship ? WILLIAM PALMER TAYLOR Hamilton , Ohio , Feb. 5 , 1966 ? Ivy 's Status To the Editor : How is any kind of real discussion possible when the President sums up opponents ' points of view as lie did in Honolulu : 11 . . We can not accept their logic that ... subjugation by an armed minority in Asia is different from subjugation by an armed minority in Europe . " Is not this somewhat less than honest ? Who among the many different opponents of Mr. Johnson 's policy has ever suggested this as his reason ? Is not Marshal Ky rather the representative of " an armed minority ? KONINGSBERGER New York , Feb. 7 , 1966 ? To Limit Plane Capacity To the Editor : I agree with your Feb. 7 editorial " Too Much Precious Cargo . " The Presidential plane on its Honolulu trip did have a precious cargo and a crash could have been catastrophic . But what about the 700-passenger plane that has been sold to the military , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be spent ? Would it not be just as much or more of a catastrophe if 700 troops should crash in one of these monsters ? Some will crash as others have before . A widow 's son is more important to her than anyone else in the world . We ought to limit the passenger capacity of all planes to about 110 people . That is enough eggs in one basket . We should limit the greed and ambitions of those who would profit from the billions of dollars in grams to design and build a prototype unit and also of those who see only the dollar sign in operating them . After one crash of a 700-passenger plane , that would be the end of them . WILLIAM PITT LAMBERT Matawan , N. J. , Feb. 7 , 1966 ? No Scofflaws in Mexico To the Editor : Whether a $50 parking fine is more of a deterrent to the habitual street clogger than the 15 fine remains to be seen Editorial Feb. 2 . Tickets that are stored in glove compartments and forgotten , regardless of penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from our good neighbor south of the border could well be learned in New York City . License plates from illegally parked cars in Mexico City are simply removed . The owner may redeem the plate(s) at the police station the address of which would be on a temporary pass left under the windshield wiper authorizing the operation of the vehicle without plates for , say , 24 hours . The nuts and bolts are conveniently left on the driver 's door handle . One can only imagine the effectiveness of this system particularly for out-ofstate vehicles . Is n't this a worthwhile system to put an end to scofflaws ? CLIFFORD L. WICKMAN New York City , Feb. 2 , 1966                     