@@724140

txt Washington , Aug. 4 ? President Johnson told the country tonight that American forces , were counter-attacking North Viet Nam gunboats " and certain supporting facilities ' ? by air in retaliation for attacks on American destroyers in the Gulf of Tonkin . In solemn , measured tones , the President announced he will - ask Congress to pass a resolution " making it clear our government is united . in its determination to take all necessary measures in support of freedom , and in defense of peace , in southeast Asia . " The President said he has ordered . Adlai Stevenson , the United States . ' ambassador to the United Nations , to take an American protest before the body 's Security Council . Talks with Barry The , chief executive-said that just before his report to the nation he talked by telephone with Sen. Barry Goldwater Ariz. , the Republican Presidential nominee , and that Goldwater expressed his approval of the President 's action . Goldwater was in California . Further , Johnson said , he'has instructed Secretary of State Dean Rusk to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that the . United States " will seek no wider war . " ? The President repeated what already was well known , that following Sunday 's attack on the destroyer Maddox off the coast of - North Viet Nam , the attacks were repeated today against the Maddox and the destroyer C. Turner Joy , sent to the scene on Johnson 's orders yesterday . Johnson said it was believed two of the attacking boats were sunk today and that there were no American losses . Reply-Is Being Given " But repeated acts of violence against the armed forces of the United States must be met , not only with alert defense , but with positive reply , " Johnson declared . He added : " thatareply is being given as I speak to you . " Air action is now in execution against gunboats and certain supporting facilities of North Viet Nam which have been used in these hostile operations . " The president did not identify the " supporting facilities " nor state whether they were on the mainland of North Viet Nam or at sea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American miltiary might , was ablaze with lights and the mammoth building was a beehive of activity . Has Bipartisan Support Johnson spoke to the nation over television 3 hours and 20 minutes after he had conferred for 90 minutes , with 16 congressional leaders . He said the leaders gave him " encouraging assurance " that the requested resolution would be introduced at once , " freely and expeditiously debated " and passed with " overwhelming support . " " It is a solemn responsibility , " the President said , " to have to order even limited military action by forces whose over-all strength is as vast and awesome as those of the United States of America . " But it is my considered conviction , shared thruout your government , that firmness in the right is indispensable today for peace . That firmness will always be measured . Its mission . is peace . " Stresses Viet Importance Johnson said the North Vietnamese attacks " brings home to all of us " the importance of the struggle in southeast Asia . Communist attacks on the villages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . the high seas against The United States of America , " he said . " The determination of all Americans to carry out our full commitment to the people and government of South Viet Nam will be redoubled by this outrage , " the President said . Off Hainan Island Earlier in the day , when news of the meeting between President Johnson and the congressional leaders spread , crowds began to gather on Pennsylvania avenue outside the White House grounds . The second PT boat attack on the destroyers Maddox and C. Turner Joy.in the international waters of Tonkin bay , which lie between North Viet Nam and Red China 's island of ? Hainan , took place this morning at about the time the United States government was sending a strong note of protest to the North Viet Nam government . The note warned that grave consequences would follow any more attacks on American naval forces in that area .                     