@@722897

txt New York Nuclear physicists appear to be on the verge of a breakthrough in knowledge that could be as important scientifically as the discovery of fission . It is the reduction to simplicity and order of the complexity of material particles that have been found over a number of years . Physicists now are talking of arranging these particles in an orderly system analogous to the periodic table of chemical elements . There also are hints that the particles , now more than 70 in number , may all be explained in terms of a very few really basic entities . If this hope is realized , it will mean that physicists can understand and predict nuclear behavior from knowledge of basic particles as precisely as they now account for all chemical behavior from a knowledge of tJle electron structure of atoms . Unit Electric Charge The developments involved have come from a number of experiwnts and theoretical studies over the past few years . They are typified by a paper presented during the current meeting of the American Physical Society here by Dr. E. J. Sternglass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggesting is that the atomic nucleus and many of the perplexing particles may he explained as built up of combinations of two simple particles . These are Theory Offered the familiar electron and positron . The electron carries the fundamental unit charge of electricity . It is a negative charge . The positron is exactly like the electron except that its charge is positive . A year and a half ago , Dr. Sternglass reported that , theoretically , he could account for all observed Properties of the simplest of a type of particle known as mesons , the so-called neutral pi meson , by assuming it to consist of an electron and positron circling each other in a tight orbit ( 0.0000000000001 centimeters in diameter ) and at speeds near that of light . Other Pairs ? Now , he is reporting theoretical studies that suggest many more of the mesons can be accounted for as combinations of such positron-electron pairs . He theorised that the pairs are held together by magnetic forces generated by a poistron and electron circling each other . at high speed . Dr. Sternglass further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory , that pany particles , including the proton and neutron which make up atomic nuclei , may ultimately be built up of such positron-electron pairs . He notes that protons and neutrons can be disintegrated entirely into mesons , with no other entities produced . The heavy mass of such particles could be accounted for by the fact that the masses of even light positrons and electrons increase very substantially as these travel close to the speed of light ; according to relativity theory , Sternglass further notes that the strength of the magnetic forces between positron-electron pairs is 500 times that of ordinary electrical forces of attraction and repulsion . Thus it could account for the forces holding the nucleus together . Orientation Critical Also the force depends on the relative orientation of the orbits of two positron-electron pairs . It can reach high strength only when the pairs come close enough to each other for their mutual influence to produce necessary alignments . This would account for the characteristic short range of nuclear binding forces . If Dr. Sternglass is correct , then the electron and positron are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be broken down into simpler structures . The only way electrons and positrons form is to be created in pairs out of pure energy . Conversely , the  --  only way they disappear ? is for an electron and a positron together to change into energy . It is too early to say much more than this . But it is beginning to appear that some such simple structural arrangement as that suggested by Dr. Sternglass lies behind the many material particles that other physicists already are beginning to classify in an order reminiscent of the chemical order of the atoms .                     