@@725183

txt The legality of Mayor Wagner 's controversial " borrow now , repay later " financing program was upheld yesterday by a state appeals court . The verdict , unless successfully challenged , will allow the city to sell $255.8 million in bonds to meet what , the city contends are mandatory pension obligations . Opponents of the Mayor 's program , including a number of civic groups , had charged that the bond issue actually was designed to raise money to close the gap between the city 's record budget and its income . The court ruling , in essence , gives the city a credit card . It enables the city to " charge " increased police protection and sanitation services , for example , and to pay off later . Challenge by Citizens Suit This concept had been challenged by a citizens ' suit on the grounds that the state legislation authorizing the bond issue was unconstitutional because it was enacted without a home rule request and because it would raise the city 's borrowing above its legal limit . The Appellate Division of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 2 decision , rejected both these arguments yesterday . The majority opinion accepted the city 's contention that the . money raised by the bond sale ' , would be used for pension pay- ' ' , ments and held that " payment by New York City of its mandatory pension or retirement liabilities is a matter of state concern " exempted from " the home rule article of the Con stitution . " Minority Opinion The minority opinion bluntly rejected the city 's contention , holding that " it clearly appears from this record that the needs of the retirement systems are merely the pretext , not the reason for this bond issue . " It added that " the real purpose of this bond issue obviously is to provide deficit financing for other current , ordi- , nary operating expenses in the city budget . " When Mayor Wagner first announced what he called his ! " borrow now -- repay later " program last May , he made no mention of mandatory pension obligations as a reason for the proposal . He said that he did not " propose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our commitments to meet the essential needs of the people of this city . " And , he added , his preference as to methods for raising the needed funds " is to borrow now , , repay later , and reluctantly impose an increased real estate tax as soon as possible . " The bond issue was then authorized by the State Legislature , and a suit challenging it was filed by Charles Bugeja , a member of the Citizens Tax Council . The council is a private civic watchdog group . Last July 16 , Supreme Court Justice Frank J. Pino rejected Bugeja 's suit and he appealed , and yesterday 's ruling was the result . Mr. Bugeja can file a further appeal with the State Court of Appeals . Because of Mr. Bugeja 's suit a group of banks recently dropped an option on part of the proposed bond issue , Big Banks in Syndicate The First National City Bank and the Chase Manhattan Bank were among members of the syndicate . Yesterday there was no indication whether , as a result of the Appellate Division ruling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonds . Other pitfalls were ahead for the bond issue . To close the gap between the city 's budget and its revenues , the mayor proposed an increase in the real estate tax . The State Legislature approved the increase at its session . but it can not go into effect until it is approved also in a second legislative session ; and then in a referendum vote by the people of the State . The ; earliest this could happen would he January , 1967 . The next session of the Legislature is expected to approve the increase , but there is some doubt that the state 's voters will follow suit . Agree on Debt Limit In yesterday 's ruling the majority and the minority agreed that the bond issue would not raise the city 's debt above its legal limit . But the majority opinion said that if the bond issue was not approved , and the city defaulted on pension payments , this could " signal the collapse of the city 's civil service system , or at least it is within the judgment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " nowhere does the city claim that the retirement systems are less than solvent or unable to meet their obligations . . . and it asks for the right to sell these bonds upon the plea that other city services may be reduced if it has to meet its pension oblizations . This ( ) pinion also said that the bond issue would violate the state 's Home Rule law . The ruling was written by Justice James D. Hopkins and was concurred in by Justices Henry L. lichetta and Samuel Rabin . The minority opinion was by Presiding Justice George J. Beldock and Justice A. David Benjamin .                     