@@726360

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 32 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . For Mideast Peace To the Editor : While the Security Council 's cease fire has been accepted , it is clear the capability of the United Nations to preserve the peace as well as the Western concept of reliance on international guarantees to prevent aggression has been tested and ? to date  --  found wanting . In 1957 , after the Sinai campaign , Israel believed her withdrawal of forces was based on the acceptance of four major assumptions reinforced by recognized principles of international law : The Suez Canal would remain open to Israeli ships and car-goes ; The Strait of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba would comprehend international waters with rights of free and innocent passage guaranteed to all nations ; The Gaza Strip would not be under United Arab Republic ? hut U.N.E.F. ? administration , pending a peace settlement ; and Efforts would be made to move toward relationships of detente and peace . The last ten years have seen these concepts violated and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Failures The simple fact is that Israel ? in light of the painful lessons of recent history -- cannot be expected to go back to a status quo ante  --  where there was no peace -- and where the stated design of some of her neighbors was " to destroy " her statehood . The , mistakes and failures of implementation , of and since 1957 , must not be repeated . No withdrawal should occur without completely new conditions of peace and stability obtaining . I believe many in Israel who fought in the war of independence , in Sinai in 1956 , and during the past few days , prayerfully hope now that there can be a withdrawal to peace  --  and not to an armistice . For the future , Israel has the right to expect from the community of nations a new era ? an era which , as Israeli Foreign Minister Abba . Eban has stated , should embody acceptance of Israel 's statehood and rejection of the fiction of nonexistence ; direct contact between the parties as part of a pacific settlement ; and recognition by external powers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are basic starting points . The specifics must certainly include and guarantee free and innocent passage into the Gulf of Aqaba ; and adherence to the unanimous Security Council resolution of Oct. 13 , 1956 , that " the operation of the Suez Canal should be insulated from the politics of any country , " with the U.A.R. no longer claiming belligerent rights against Israeli ships and cargoes . Status of Jerusalem The status of the Old City of Jerusalem -- to which Israel has returned " never to part from it again , " in the words of Defense Minister Moshe Dayan  --  is probably not negotiable , except as to international guarantees fur the holy places , and the west bank of the Jordan River will be central to Israel 's position and future in any negotiations . Further , any meaningful progress to a durable peace settlement must comprehend the some 900.000 refugees , equitable utilization of the Jordan River waters , multinational development opportunities  --  perhaps through a Middle Eastern development bank -- and arms limitations . The latter may be a starting point for serious and high-level talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential to either d  --  tente or peace . Certainly the Soviets must recognize that their $3 billion of arms aid to certain Arab states has hardly been the best investment , and its repetition would not offer the most likely means to stabilize Soviet influence in the Middle East . Purther , renewal of the Middle East arms race would be inconsistent with the efforts the United States and the Soviets are making toward a nonproliferation agreement . The current draft United States resolution before the Security Council recognizes the merits of direct talks among the countries in the area  --  utilizing the U.N . and third parties . Foreign : Minister Eban has called for " faceto-face " discussions . The U.N . Charter clearly calls on tile members themselves to settle international disputes . This is not a bad place to begin . OGDEN REID The writer , member of Congress from the 26th . District , New York , leas Ambassador to Israel 1959-61 . ? Levy Trial To the Editor : At the moment when we are deeply embroiled in a war in Vietnam with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is indeed extraordinary that the most conspicuous feature , on Page 1 of The Times of June 4 , is a photograph of a slight young Jewish medical officer handcuffed , as though he were a dangerous criminal with homicidal tendencies , while being propelled down the courthouse steps . In a more adult society than the Army a troublesome young dissident , sincere or insincere , would have been quietly shut up , transferred or fired . But the Army 's public relations could hardly have contrived a more damaging blow to the Army 's image than Captain Levy 's preposterous trial , followed by the photograph and Homer Bigart 's news article . The photograph has made a martyr of this young man . It will be seen on every TV screen in the world , in every magazine and newspaper . The crass stupidity of it will , I fear , bring us exactly the cynical sneers we deserve . LYDIA BOND POWEL New York , June 4 , 1967 ? Columbia Recruiting To the Editor : The May 11 letter by Douglas Roberts which concerned military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Roberts 's principal charge is that I " unduly seized the role of spokesman at large " for the university community by inviting the United States Army to recruit at Columbia . Such was not the case . The invitation to the Army was extended by myself , acting as president of the senior class , after the Students for a Democratic Society had raised the threat of violence , thus forcing the cancellation of all further military recruiting on campus . It was issued on behalf of the executive board of the class , which had voted five to one in favor of the move and was , I believe , supported by the class as a whole , which had indicated its approval of similar recruiting by an overwhelming margin in a poll earlier in the year . That the university community as a whole also supported the right of the Army to recruit was seen when the Army did , at long last , conic to Columbia . Without S.D.S.-inspired physical obstruction there was no disorderly conduct of any kind , and the only demonstration which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful picketers . TttoM:us C. HAuS  --  R President , Class of 1967 Columbia College New York , May 11 , 1967 ? To Curb Coal Pollution To the Editor : Your May 20 editorial " The Darkening Sky " not only quotes out of context a statement I made to a Senate subcommittee , but it does the same for the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , John W. Gardner . In so doing , it vaults to unwarranted conclusions about the coal industry 's policy on air pollution control . You say Secretary Gardner told the Senate subcommittee on air and water pollution , " The nation is not even close to employing all the economically and technically feasible methods available for reducing discharges of pollution into the air . " So he did . But you neglected to quote his next sentence : " Accelerated research is needed to advance greatly our technical capability for controlled action . Between us and our goal of a pollutionfree atmosphere lies a host of technological problems . " Secretary Gardner properly advocates regulation to the limit of technology , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this approach . Where economically feasible technology exists , as for the control of flyash from coal burning , or in the control of particulates from incinerators , it should be applied . We encourage it . RIDER ON THE SHORE White gulls wake where a girl rides A chestnut horse over the wet brown sand , Clearing the mossy breakwaters with , long strides , Ilair and mane flying in the wind Against the pearly sky , feeling the sea 's Salty air singing in their blood . They pause a moment , changing their direction , To cross the silver pools ? the chocolate ? and To the water 's edge , their re-flection Beautiful as statues , while the 81l7 : Slowly climbs above the ; green horizon ; Until , legendary , girdle-1 with gold , Hm.sc and rider are gone Swiftly over the sand . DOUGLAS GIBSON But where technology does not exist , it is futile to regulate instead of performing research . In quoting me to this effect , you omitted this key sentence : " The fact is that no economically feasible method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That being the case  --  and it is  --  I submit that we must find a technological solution before industry can be expected to meet strict national standards to control sulphur oxide emissions . Technological Advancement We support the Administration bill as modified by the amendments introduced by Senator Randolph . The amendments arc technical in nature , but . a major point of emphasis in them is directed toward accelerated research and technological advancement . There is one major difference of judgment  --  the authority to impose national standards for industries . H.E.W . sought this authority in the original Administration bill . All industry opposed national standards , not for lack of sympa thy with the ultimate objective , but because such standards could cripple our industrial economy . In truth and in ' fact the Administration bill as modified by the Randolph amendments does provide the means to accomplish clean-air objectives within the limits of present technology , President Johnson has asked Congress for a substantial increase in Federal funds for research in the control of sulphur dioxide . As Secretary Gardner said in a letter addressed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coal and oil industries and interested Federal agencies . The Secretary noted that " we are all in agreement : with the vital importance of an expanded and accelerated research and development program . " Realistic Regulation Moreover , I would add that members of the Senate subcommittee on air and water pollution , at the conclusion of exhaustive hearings recently , expressed serious doubts that national air quality standards for each industry are desirable . The coal industry Is not opposed to realistic regulations , but it does maintain that the regulations must take into account varying conditions in various localities , . as well as the technological ability to cope with the regulations . STEPHEN F. DUNN President National Coal Association Washington , May 23 , 1967 As The Times editorial stated : " More research is desirable , but It must not be a pretext for more evasion and delay . " - . , Editor , The Times . ? Riverside Subways To the Editor : Should n't studies be made to build tubes for subways under rivers paralleling them , not just crossing them ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present traffic . A. AD1JJ Flushing , L. I. , May 3 , 1967                     