@@726156

txt A report by the Presbytery of New York charging that Congress had denied Adam Clayton Powell due process of law because of his race has divided local Presbyterians . Some -- estimated by one minister at 20 per cent of the total  --  say that the Presbytery should steer clear of politics and social issues , that race has had no bearing on the Powell case and that a man 's conduct should be the criterion by which he is judged . - Others  - -  -  those who support the report maintain for the most part that the church should become involved in politics and social issues and that the Harlem Representative was denied a trial by his peers because he represented the Negroes ' fight for recognition and was thus a threat to the power of his white colleagues . The Presbytery is the governing body for the 118 Presbyterian churches in the city- Its report , issued a week ago , was prepared by a. committee of six ministers named last month to study the Powell case . Mr. Powell is pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a voice vote . Of the 150 ministers and laymen voting , about 10 voted in opposition , according to some who attended . The full membership of the Presbytery varies , but it is in the neighborhood of 240 . Usually , 100 to 200 attend meetings . The report said it believed the House of Representatives had acted for " reasons of political expediency " when it removed Mr. Powell from his chairmanship of the Education and Labor Committee and refused to seat him pending an investigation of his conduct . It called for a judgment based only on the pertinent facts and reached proper judicial procedures according to a code of ethics applicable to all members of Congress . Such considerations as " whether Powell is arrogant or not do not bear on the issue of his fitness to sit in the House , " the report declared . Yesterday , the Rev. Dr. Robert A. Edgar , minister of Central Presbyterian Church . Park Avenue and 64th Steeet , told worshipers that the report " resulted in almost volcanic eruptions . " Report Is Defended He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reaction of a few parishioners who were " not inctined to take the report lightly . " Dr. Edgar preached in defense of the report . But after the service George Steuerwald , an elder of the church for 40 years , said he still opp ised the document . In his view " a man 's conduct is the gauge , the controlling factor . " " We have no right to say what Congress has to do . " he asserted . " If Congress did n't think it was exercising due process of law it would not have removed Powell . And race has nothing to do with it . " In an interview after the service . Dr. Edgar said some parishioners had failed to understand the import of the document . He commented that after a re-reading , many had said they favored the report . He acknowledged that some of those opposed to the report were churchgoers who saw no reason to involve religion in social issues . In his sermon . Dr. Edgar said the racial issue was paramount . He described Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Negro . " We can say , ' My God , what an image : he declared , " yet Representative Powell has become the symbol of the new hope of the Negro for political and economic power . Year after year he has been the outspoken and often irritating advocate of Negro rights , ambitions and hopes . " Fabian Bachrach DEFENDS THE REPORT : The Rev. Dr. Robert A. Edgar of Central Presbyterian Church preached in support of document on Representative Adam Clayton Powell . On the other side was the re action of T'imonthy J. Connor . a . Presbyterian layman living in Manhattan . In a letter to the Rev. Francis D. Wallace , stated clerk , or chief administrative officer , of the Presbytery , he wrote : " As a Presbyterian layman I can only react with dismay and disbelief to the statement of the Presbytery urging that Congressman Adam Clayton Powell be restored to his House Committee chairmanship . The statement is a sanctimonious fraud . " What this statement amounts to , in short , is an attempt by a supposedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community in New York to condone and excuse the actions of an adjudged law violator . " I consider it a blatant distortion of Christian ethics and as such I do not consider that it speaks for me , nor , I submit , for most of my fellow Presbyterians in New York . " Dr. Edgar stressed in his sermon that the Presbytery " speaks to the church about moral issues , but does not speak for churchgoers . " According to the minister , the report was discussed for about an hour at the Presbytery meeting . He said no one spoke against it . A spokesman for the Presbytery , the Rev. L. Humphrey Walz , said in an interview after the service that 12 formal letters of protest had been received . He added that there had been " numerous " telephone calls criticizing the body . The Rev. Dr. D. Reginald Thomas , pastor of the Brick Presbyterian Church , Park Avenue and 91st Street . said in an interview yesterday that he and his assistant had voted against the report . He cited these reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction made between personal morality and social ethics . " There are many good things in the report . " he said , " but in view of this distinction . I had to reject the whole document . " One minister who asked that he not be quoted , estimated that " probably 20 per cent " of the Presbyterians in the city had objected to the report . There are 45,000 in the city .                     