@@721444

txt The United States notified Cuba today that Premier Fidel Castro would be restricted to Manhattan while he is in New York for the United Nations General Assembly meeting . The restriction is the same as that imposed on Premier Khrushchev . The Cuban Embassy was informed by telephone of the curb . The call was made , by Edwin E. Val/on , deputy director of the State Department 's Office of Caribbean Affairs . Mr. Vallon also told Dr. Aurelia Giroud , second secretary of the embassy , that Premier Castro would be expected to live as near as possible to the United Nations headquarters on the East River . Announced by Herter The Assembly 's fifteenth session opens there Tuesday . Premier Khrushchev and Premier Castro are to lead the Soviet and Cuban delegations , The restrictions on Premier Castro were announced by Secretary of State Christian A. Herter at his news conference . Mr. Herter was asked today what would happen if Premier Khrushchev or Dr. Castro decided to go outside Manhattan and , in fact , went . After the laughter , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am afraid that is an entirely speculative question and I could n't give you any definite answer to it . " The assumption here , supported by indications from security officials , is that the New York police will have orders to prevent any such excursions . The explanation offered to the Cuban Embassy was that the restrictions were necessary to insure the personal safety of Premier Castro . Actually , all that the United States Government knows about Premier Castro 's plans to , lead the Cuban delegation to the General Assembly it has learned from newspapers . The Cuban Government has not informed the United States Embassy in Havana , nor has the Cuban Embassy here infoymed the State Department , that Premier Castro will come to New York . News dispatches from Havana yesterday reported an announcement by the Presidential Palace that Dr. Castro would be accompanied by Dr. Raul Roa , Foreign Minister ; Dr. Manuel Bisbey Alberni , Cuba 's permanent delegate at the United Nations ; Capt . Antonio Nunez Jimenez , director of the National Agrarian Reform Institute , and Dr. Raul Primelles Zenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dr. Roa and ( Captain Nunez Jimenez will need visas , but the Cuban Government has not yet made application for them . State Department officials were asked today what would happen if Premier Castro and his colleagues arrived at New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , without the necessary visas . The officials said this was a matter for the Immigration Service authorities to decide . Immigration officials , in turn , . said that if the Cuban delegation had no visas , a quick call would be put through to the State Department for instructions . Presumably , officials said , the visas would be waived to avoid difficulties . Secretary Herter expressed doubt today that during his visit to Mexico City this week President Adolfo Lopez Mateos would raise the subject of Mexico 's possible mediation between Cuba and the United States . Mr. Herter recalled that Mexico was a member of a special six-nation committee created at the recent foreign ministers conference of the Organization of American States in San Jose , Costa Rica , to investigate the facts in the disputes between Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in settling them . Later today the United States asked the Organization of American States to convene the special committee so that it might investigate Cuba 's charges that ' the United States has been guilty of aggression against the Castro regime . The Cuban Government has indicated that it will not permit the committee to come to Cuba .                     