@@727982

txt The Chinese Nationalist Government is planning a major reorganization of its 600,000-man armed forces for the first time since the Nationalists retreated to Taiwan in 1949 . The reorganization is described here as a significant effort to modernize and convert the large , unwieldy army into a somewhat smaller , betterarmed , and more mobile strike force . To create savings that can be applied toward raising payscales , the Nationalists will eliminate several major military units . In the past , the Nationalists felt it was necessary to preserve their army at its original figure , despite the heavy cost , to prove their continued determination to recapture the mainland from the Chinese Communists . The Nationalist Government considers itself the rightful ruler of all of China and asserts that the present situation is temporary as it will some day retake the mainland . It is by this view that the Nationalists justify one-party rule in Taiwan . The reorganization plan seems to indicate a more flexible approach to Taiwan 's problems . Nationalist officials are quick to add , though , that the new program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time , in some informed quarters in Taipei , doubts are voiced whether the Nationalists can now avoid raising questions about their chances of accomplishing their goal . The man behind the reorganization is believed to be 59-yearold Chiang Ching-kuo , elder son of President Chiang Kai-shek , and his probable successor . As Minister of Defense from 1965 until last month , when he moved up to be Deputy Premier , the younger Chiang actively pursued a policy of moddernizing the armed forces . According to Maj. Gen. Richard C. Ciccolella , chief of the United States Military Assistance Advisory Group , the basic idea of the new program is to // substitute quality for quantity . General Ciccolella , a short , energetic , and highly articulate man who likes to smoke cigars , said in an interview this week : " We discussed the analogy of the Arabs and the Israelis . What the Nationalists need is an elite , well-armed , and very mobile strike force . They will never defeat the Communists by sheer numbers . " From the Nationalists ' viewpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States is helping to compensate them for their smaller size with increased firepower . The most important new item the Nationalists will acquire are Bell UH-11-1 helicopters , known as Hueys , which have proved useful in Vietnam . With a $5-million loan from the United States , the Chinese Nationalists are preparing to build a helicopter factory in central Taiwan in cooperation with the Bell Helicopter Company . . Tanks and Jets Acquired The Chinese has also recently acquired several squadrons of F-5 fighters and several hundred tanks . They received the tanks through a program General Ciccolella devised to provide the Chinese with excess or salvage military equipment from Vietnam . The Chinese pay only the transportation costs . In addition , American aid programs have enabled the Chinese to become almost selfsufficient in their ordinary military needs . They now have factories that can produce M-14 rifles , machine guns , trucks and field radios . " It has reached the point , " General Ciccolella said , " where the Chinese really do n't need us any more . " The economy aspects of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $17 a month for a second lieutenant and $45 a month for a major ? the Nationalists have had serious difficulty recruiting a strong young officer corps . Civilian Life Attractive This has become an increasing problem recently as Taiwan 's economy has grown by nearly 10 per cent a year over a decade and per capita income has doubled . Civilian life has proved people . more attractive for most young American military aid , which ' had been as high as $100-million a year and provided 30 per ; cent of Taiwan 's military ex penses , has been cut in less ; than half in the last two years.1 Additional reductions are ex- ; pected by an economy-minded ! Congress . A major question that re-i mains unanswered is how this reorganization will affect the political atmosphere in Taiwan . For years , conservative officials of the Nationalist party and the armed forces have been afraid to change their large military establishment lest they raise doubts about their ability to recapture the mainland . The Nationalists ' one-party rule in Taiwan , the continuation of martial law originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the budget is devoted to military expenditures are all justified by the theory that eventually the Nationalists will retake the mainland . Sporadic clashes have continued over the years between the Nationalists and the Communist forces . The Communists continue their shelling on alternate days of the Nationalistheld offshore island complexes , Quemoy and Matsu , inaugurated after their major artillery attacks an the islands in 1958 . Most of the Communist shells are air-burst missiles containing leaflets and other propaganda material . Occasionally , the Nationalists respond with propaganda shells of their own .                     