@@721186

txt Newark , N. J. , April 19 ? Sen. Clifford P. Case Tuesday made a successful bid fort renomination for his sea% in the United States Senate in ' a Republican primary that was marked by light voting , despite clear weather and intense national interest in the outcome . Case , a liberal whose voting record has been likened to that of an ultra-New 1Dealer , defeated Robert Morris , a conservative , who hammered away during the campaign at the Eisenhower administration 's alleged ' failure to recognize the communist threat and its failure to stem the inflationary tide . With 3,927 of 4,284 districts counted , Case held a lead of 203,578 to 108,049 over Morris . Called Discontent Test Case campaigned on his support of the Eisenhower administration and has been considered a bellwether of the liberals . The test between the two was considered a barometer of just how much discontent there is in conservative ranks within the party . This was the second unsuccessful attempt that Morris has made to capture the senatorial nomination . In 1958 he ran third in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sub s equently lost the election to Harrison Williams , and a former White House - aide , Bernard Shanley . Morris formerly was chief counsel to the Red-hunting Senate internal security committee and is a former New York Municipal court justice . Apparent from Start Case in 1954 won his Senate seat by a margin of less than 4,000 votes but Tuesday he appeared certain of being renominated by a comfortable margin . Shortly after the polls closed at 8 p. in. it became apparent that the victory was going to Case . In a statement issued at his campaign headquarters here . Sen. Case said he had never " known a campaign in which there has been such a spontaneous outpouring of help from . all parts of the state . I am confident that all of us can and will close ranks for the crucial campaign that lies ahead . " A little more than three hours after the polls closed , Morris issued a statement conceding - his defeat and thanking his supporters . " We fought this campaign on , principle , " he said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same principles . Meanwhile , I want to extend my gratitude to the many good people who have supported me . " Meanwhile , Thorn Lord , with only token opposition , was a certain winner for the Democratic Senate nomination . Available returns showed him leading his only opponent , Richard M. Glassner , by a margin of 10 to 1 . Interest Is National National interest in the New Jersey vote centered in the race between the conservative Morris and the outspoken liberal Case . For weeks there will be weighty discussion of what , if any significance for the upcoming national campaign lies in the results . Morris vigorously carried his case to the voters . He left no stone unturned , and shook hands diligently on commuter trains and at factory gates . Makes Three Points Particularly he made three points : 1 that ' Case had failed to support the administration in the wholehearted manner in which Case maintained he had done ; 2 that the communist menace is a real and present danger to America and world peace , and 3 that neither the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat of inflation . Case , busy in Washington in the closing days of the congressional session , was forced to confine his campaigning largely to week-ends . On the Democratic side , Gov . Robert B. Meyner , who will lead the state 's Democratic delegation to the natonal convention in Los Angeles , and will get its support on the first ballot for the Presidential nomination , did not take an active part in the campaign . There was little need , since Lord had only I scattered local opposition and was assured of nomination .                     