@@721295

txt PARIS , June 14 ? President de Gaulle renewed and clarified tonight his offer to seek an " honorable " peace with the leaders of the rebellion in Algeria and guarantee them full participation in a future political settlement . " I believe that we have never been closer to arriving at a real solution , " the President proclaimed on the basis of the imI proved military outlook and the general reaction to his offer of self-determination for Algeria by a referendum . The President devoted to the Algerian question only the last four minutes of a twenty-threeminute radio-television address to the nation on domestic problems couched in terms designed to appease farm and labor discontent and stimulate general French self-confidence , Earlier Decline Traced General de Gaulle began his review of the domestic position , ill true fairy-tale style ? " Once ' upon a time there was an old country , wrapped up in habit ! and caution . " He went on to trace the decline of France from her once dominant heights , her failure to keep up with industrial progress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth rate and her ruinous political , social and religious struggles . l " Finally , two World Wars having decimated , ruined and torn ' it the country , many throughout the world wondered whether it would be able to pull itself together , " the President said , , speaking , as always , from memory and straying never more than a word or two from the text available to the press a few minutes in advance . France Has Pulled Together ' " Well , this country , France , has pulled herself together , " he affirmed confidently . As evidence he cited Gaullist reform of the state in the direction of coherence and au ' thority after it had been on the ' brink of civil war in the May 13 , , 1958 , European uprising in Algeria , the peaceful evolution of the French African colonies south of the Sahara toward independence within the French Community , the stabilization of money and finances and the general trend toward economic expansion . President de Gaulle broke no new ground in the sections devoted to Algeria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // touch with the rebel viewpoint , this may prove to be the most important declaration on the subject to date . The tone of the speech , at once confident and conciliatory , and the precision of the guarantees offered for free Algerian self-determination have a chance of changing for the better the psychological climate in which the Algerian problem appeared to have reached a dead end , according to these observers . Previous peace overtures had foundered on two points . The National Liberation Front , the principal rebel organization , chose to interpret earlier cease-fire offers as virtual demands for surrender . And the rebels contended that they could not lay down their arms without being assured of the nature and extent of the guarantees that Algeria would be granted a free choice by referendum of independence , association with France and " Francization , " or integration , with France . " Once again , in the name of France , I turn toward the leaders of the insurrection , " President de Gaulle said tonight . " I tell them that we await them here to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combats that still drag on , to settle the disposition of arms and assure the fate of the combatants . " This appeared to be a more conciliatory , less equivocal statement of the offer of a " peace of the brave " than either its original formulation Oct. 23 , 1958 , or its repetition Sept , 16 , 1959 . He insisted again that the decision on the political future should be that of the Algerians themselves . And he restated his conviction that their decision would be that of " good sense ? to accomplish , in union with France and in cooperation among the communities Moslem and European , the transformation of an Algerian Algeria into a properous and fraternal country . " The new declaration still stopped short of meeting the rebels ' demands that the political conditions for the self-determination process should be settled simultaneously with those of a cease-fire                     