@@727233

txt Washington , July 9-The president of The Woodlawn organization in Chicago today defended his group 's administration of a federally ftmded training project for two south side Negro gangs , insisting that some good had come from the controversial project . " The first year was a little ambitious and did n't work out quite as well as we thought it should . " acknowledged the Rev. Arthur Brazier . " But some of these boys are really trying . We 've seen some real behavior changes in a lot of them . " The Rev. Mr. Brazier testified before the Senate . permamem subcommittee on investigations . which was in its 10th day of hearings on an antipoverty grant of nearly a million dollars to finance the programs . He was introduced by Sen. Percy ER. , Ill. ) , who hailed the minister for his " personal integrity , selflessness , and courage . " Percy Praises Testimony After the Rev. Mr. Brazier 's three and a half hours in the witness chair , Percy , who sat in on all of it , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south side minister will return to the witness chair tomorrow when the hearings resume . The Rev. Mr. Brazier , admitting that he had heard rumors of liquor drinking and marijuana smoking in the training centers , said he had no personal knowledge of it . He also denied any direct information about reports that members of the Blackstone Rangers . one of the gangs being aided , were shaking down school children for the right to attend public schools and demanding kickbacks from the S45 a week the gang members received for participating in the poverty job training project . He Voices Surprise " I 'm surprised that the police saw all these activities and never called T. W. 0. , " he said . " Why did n't they close down these centers when they found this illegal activity ? It 's almost beyond belief . " We knew we were n't dealing with choir boys . Some of them probably did participate in illegal activities . " The primary purpose of the program was to see if we could , in some way , encourage these youths to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " We had noted that efforts to break up these gangs thru police action were never successful . " He insisted that T. W. 0 . had cooperated with 3d district police. , and cited several examples of the cooperation . The job training program was a help to the police , he insisted , because , if for no other reason , it kept hundreds of youths off the streets while they were participating . The Rev. Mr. Brazier seemed to make it a point to avoid mentioning the Rev. John Fry , pastor of the First Presbyterian church , 6400 Kimbark ay. , who has been painted by previous witnesses as having condoned and encouraged criminal activity among the Rangers . T. W. O. rented the third floor of his church as one , of its training centers . " Rev. Fry had nothing to do with this project , " the Rev. Mr. Brazier emphasized , when his name was mentioned by Sen. John McClellan ED. , Ark.1 , chairman of the subcommittee . Cites One Problem The closest that McClellan and the Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister said one of the things that had to be taught the trainees was to be on their new job on time . " Are we going to nurse people all the way thru their life ? " asked McClellan . " I would n't want to say nurse , " the minister answered , " but some people need a tremendous amount of support thruout their life . " He said the federal government is going to have to spend a lot more time and a lot more money to solve the problems in the Negro ghetto . " We're. paying for'years of segregation and neglect , " he said . " Has Some Difficulties " The Rev. Mr. Brazier said one of the biggest problems confronted by his group was monitoring the time sheets , to make sure that those being paid had actually attended the sessions . " We had lots of difficulties with this project from the beginning , " he said . " The animosity shown to the project by some persons makes it a miracle that this program accomplished what it did . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project director and said that if the city administration had cooperated , it could have had much more Chance for success . Sen. Fred Harris D. , Okla. and Sen. Edmund Muskie D. , Me. , , both members of the subcommittee , made their first appearance in the hearing room today . Both denied reports they had attended the afternoon sessions at the behest of Percy . It was just a coincidence that they attended the same session , Harris said . Percy submitted a list of six witnesses to the subcommittee who , he suggested , might provide an in-depth picture of the project . Those named were Aid . Leon Despres ; Dr. Julian Levi , vice president of the University of Chicago ; Edwin Berry , executive director of the Chicago Urban league ; Sam Sains of the Xerox corporation ; Dr. Harold Visotski , director of the Illinois mental health department ; and State Sen. Richard H. Newhouse D. , Chicago .                     