@@725702

txt Washington , Aug. 4 - A revised draft call of 46,200 men in October was announced today . It is the largest number of men to be called in any month since the Korean war . The Pentagon also announced that it is hiking the September draft request by 6,000 , to 37 , - 300 . The war in Viet Nam is the main reason for the high draft call . 280,000 Now in Viet There are now in excess of 280,000 service men in South Met Nam , and many more in other areas of southeast Asia . Many of them are completing the one year required tour of duty and are being replaced with fresh troops . Altho some are extending their tours , the rotation is placing an extra heavy burden on the army , which leans on the selective service boards more than the other services . All of the 46,200 men to be drafted in October are headed for the army , as are the September draftees . The Pentagon said the reason for the change in the September draft call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as anticipated . Korea High : 80,000 The biggest draft call during the Korean war was 80,000 in both April and May of 1951 . However , the draft leveled off in that war to about 50,000 a month . The announced manpower levels in Viet Nam are lower than those in Korea at its peak , but in absolute terms of both money and men the American commitment is now much larger in Viet Nam than Korea . Total number of Americans in uniform today is slightly in excess of 3,000,000 . Rep. Mendel Rivers D. , S. C. said today that altho the draft will have to be continued for the foreseeable future , the present system probably is n't working as well as it should . River s , chairman of the House armed services committee , made the statement in releasing an interim report on hearings held by his group on draft law . Further hearings will be deferred until next year , Rivers said , " My committee is determined to give the most careful and thoro consideration to every responsible recommendation involving a possible change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rivers said . " I can assure you that the committee on armed services , after it concludes its future hearings and studies , will have very positive recommendations to make to the Congress early in the next session . " ILLINOIS CALL : 3,200 Springfield , Ill. , Aug. 4 ( UPI ) - The Illinois draft call for October will be about 3,200 men , John H. Hammack , state selective service director , estimated today . The estimate was based on past percentages , he said .                     