@@728020

txt President Nixon announced today the nomination of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . of South Carolina to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court . The nominee , a 56-year-old native of Greenville , is chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit , which has headquarters in Richmond . Judge Haynsworth , a fifthgeneration lawyer , has a conservative record on civil rights and a mixed conservative and liberal record on criminal cases . He is to fill the seat vacated last May by Abe Fortas , a liberal who resigned in the controversy over his acceptance of a fee from the family foundation of Louis Wolfson , a convicted stock manipulator . Easy Approval Foreseen The nomination is not expected to encounter any serious opposition from the Senate Judiciary Committee , which is dominated by conservatives . The committee chairman , James a Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , and Senator Everett Dirksen , of Illinois , the ranking Republican , have both strongly endorsed Judge Haynsworth . Judge Haynsworth ? s also expected to win confirmation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more serious because of what appears to be a coalescing protest from civil rights and labor groups . Ronald L. Ziegler , the Presidential press secretary , said that in his choice of Judge Haynsworth , the President believed " he has selected a man who has a proven record as a jurist , both as associate judge and chief judge on one of the country 's busiest courts of appeals . " " Judge Haynsworth meets the qualifications which the President believes are essential for an Associate Justice for the Supreme Court , " Mr. Ziegler said . " The President feels that during Judge Haynsworth 's years on the bench , he has demonstrated judicial temperament , // balance , impartiality and fairness and he is a man who at the early age of 56 is an eminently qualified jurist , scholar and intellect . " In Greenville , Judge Haynsworth said in a statement : " The President has highly honored me in his announcement of my appointment to the Supreme Court . For his trust in me I am deeply grateful . I will strive earnestly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the administration of justice . " When he nominated Judge Warren E. Burger to be Chief Justice last May , replacing Earl Warren , who resigned , Mr. Nixon defined his qualifications for a Supreme Court justice as : qA man whose judicial philosophy would tend to reverse the liberal majority that usually prevailed on the ; Court during the Warren years in criminal law decisions . 9A strict constructionist in the interpretation of the Constitution on matters of criminal law . 9A man who was not a personal friend . ilAn Appeals or District Court judge or a practicing lawyer or law professor with considerable experience in constitutional law . While Judge Haynsworth met the last two qualifications , it was unclear how well he fitted the first two . On the admissibility of confessions he has been a strict constructionist and some of his decisions have been overturned by the Supreme Court . But on the issue of habeas corpus he made several liberal decisions . These decisions expanded the rights of prisoners being held on state court findings , permitting them to be released by appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reduce to three the number of consistent liberals on criminal matters on the nine-Justice Court . They are William 0 . Douglas , William J. Brennan Jr. , and Thurgood Marshall , with Justice Hugo L. Black fluctuating from one decision to another . The nomination of Judge Haynsworth also broke the tradition of reserving one seat on the court for a judge of Jewish descent . Mr. Nixon had announced his intention to break this tradition at the time of Justice Burger 's nomination , unless the nominee , by coincidence , happened to be a Jew . An examination of Judge Haynsworth 's judicial record showed that while he has essentially been a conservative on civil rights , he has liberalized his opinions on this issue in direct response to the judicial guidance handed down by Supreme Court decisions . In 1965 he ordered the integration of the North Carolina Dental Society . Mr. Ziegler said today that the President had not cleared Judge Haynsworth 's nomination with any political figures or with the American Bar Association . When he nominated Justice Burger , the President said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ziegler also said that an examination of Justice Department records had disclosed that there was " no substance " to allegations that Judge Haynsworth had been acting with conflict of interest when he cast the deciding opinion in a three-to-two decision by the Fourth Circuit in 1963 in favor of Deering Milliken , Inc. , a Carolina textile concern , in a dispute with the Textile Workers Union of America . The . National Labor Relations Board had found Deering Milliken guilty of an unfair labor practice in closing a plant to avoid bargaining with the union . The three-to-two decision by the Fourth Circuit reversed the N.L.R.B. 's finding . There were allegations at the time , revived last week , that Judge Haynsworth was first vice president and a shareholder of the Carolina Vend-a-Matic Company , which had contracts to supply vending services to various Deering Milliken plants , and that the large textile concern increased its business with Vend-a-Matic after Judge Haynsworth 's deciding vote . An investigation shortly afterward by Judge Simon E. Sobeloff , then chief judge of the Fourth Circuit , disclosed that Judge Haynsworth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case was in litigation but before the decision was rendered and that subsequently Deering Milliken rejected a bid by Vend-a-Matic in favor of a competing concern . Questioned about the allegations last week , Judge Haynsworth called them " blatant falsehoods . " He declined to answer , however , when asked if he had owned shares in Venda-Matic at the time of the decision . In stating that an examination of Justice Department records had " totally put to rest " any possibility that the allegations were true , Mr. Ziegler distributed exerpts from various letters . One was from a letter to Judge Sobeloff dated Feb. 6 , 1964 , from the attorney for the textile union . The letter expressed regret over the " trouble " caused by the accusation and said " we now know that the allegation made to our union was inaccurate . " In a subsequent letter on Feb. 18 to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , Judge Sobeloff said he wished to state " on behalf of the members of the court that our independent investigation has convinced us that there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our complete confidence in Judge Haynsworth . " In a letter of reply on Feb. 28 , Mr. Kennedy was quoted as saying : " Your thorough and complete investigation reflects that the charges were without foundation . I share your expression of complete confidence in Judge ' Haynesworth . " Today 's announcement of Judge Haynesworth 's nomination by Mr. Nixon was somewhat anticlimatic . Senator Dirksen said last ' Tuesday that Judge Haynesworth would be named by the President on Thursday .                     