@@725614

txt Charles de Gaulle of France may or may not find in Moscow a more congenial association for himself and his country than the old one with the United States from which he is Dulling away . But his trip to Moscow has focused world attention on Europe and on the new uncertainties about Europe . Quite suddenly , it is perceived that while Vietnam may or may not be important in the broad stream of history , Europe is vital . What is the future shape of Europe to be like ? The question must be asked and can not be answered with certainty . One measure of how fluid the European situation has become has been provided by Dr. Rainer Barzel , the deputy leader of West Germany 's ruling Christian Democratic Party . Here is a young new political figure in Germany who is regarded as the " heir apparent " to the Chancellor . He has committed what would certainly have been regarded as heresy until the very latest times . Politically tolerable ? He has dared to propose that Soviet troops might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and permit the political reunification of Germany . The Barzel proposal is not an official proposal of the German government . It is merely the personal thinking-out-loud of a single political figure . But Dr. Barzel is an important political figure who would hardly say such a thing unless he felt that it was politically tolerable in his own country . And his proposals reflect a new departure in the thinking of Western Europeans . They show that he is trying to understand the Soviet interest in central Europe and provide fairly for the safeguarding of those interests . In one sense the proposal of allowing Soviet troops to remain in Germany is realistic . It recognizes a fact : namely , that Moscow is afraid of a reunited Germany and hence is unlikely ever to permit reunification of Germany unless the Soviet Union is solidly protected against any danger of another invasion from Germany . After all , Russia has been invaded three times in a century and a half by armies marching east from Germany . Perhaps it is politically unrealistic in German terms to think of Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany . Yet , this is the sort of idea which at least gropes toward a solution to the problem of Soviet concern over Germany . It was interesting to notice that the loudest cries of anguish over the Barzel proposals came from Walter Ulbricht in East Germany . Dr. Barzel has certainly made one major contribution to new thinking about Europe . He has opened the door for serious talking Pattern of diplomacy between Russians and Germans about ways and means of achieving stability in central Europe by means other than the division of Germany . The ideal solution would be a European settlement which would tie all of Europe together , and the United States as well . Washington and Moscow both have enormous stakes in a European settlement . Both will have to be involved . Both are involved . Iron Curtain busting The news of the moment is that preliminary explorations have opened between East and West looking toward an all-European settlement within which the division of Germany might safely be ended and the Iron Curtain blown away . There is an intriguing undertone to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to and with each other about a new shape for Europe also tend to exchange words about ways and means of ending the Vietnam war . Travelers from places like Romania and Canada keep going to Hanoi . Someday , something might come of all this . And of course it would be easier for President Johnson to let himself be gently disengaged from the Vietnam war if public attention were focused on some place else .                     