@@722896

txt London ? Probably the most relieved single statesman anywhere today is Edward Heath , Britain 's Lord Privy Seal ? which title means nothing  --  and Britain 's chief negotiator at Brussels ? which means everything . When he took the Brussels assignment roughly a year and a half ago he was given , as is usual in such cases , both a maximum and a minimum target . His maximum target was to get Britain into the European Common Market under agreeable and favorable terms . His minimum target was to see to it that under no circumstances must Britain be left out and also appear to be responsible for being left out . * The achievement of the minimum was not at all ceatain at the time of commencement of the Heath assignment . Britain was odd man out ? in those days . A prosperous Western Europe was not at all sure it wanted to bother with Britain . The Commonwealth had ceased to be sufficient for Britain 's economic needs . Washington was always polite but increasingly inclined to treat Britain as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In midsummer of 1961 when all of this got under way , Britain was in danger of becoming isolated from Europe , the Commonwealth , and the United States . The task Mr. Heath undertook was a formidable one , and it is interesting to note that at that time he was a young man regarded in the Cabinet as being promising but also expendable . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan did not undertake supervision of the Brussels negotiations himself . None of the other elder Conservative statesmen begged for the assignment . As things stand at the moment , Mr. Heath has not reached his maximum target ? nor could he ever have realistically expected to reach it . But he has more than achieved his minimum target . Britain is not in the Common Market and may never get in . It is even conceivable at this moment of writing that the Common Market will fall apart over President de Gaulle 's intransigeance . But , at least the responsibility is seen by everyone to lie with General de Gaulle himself . In fact , he himself has said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost total . From being most in danger of being isolated Britain now is the candidate of everyone but General de Gaulle for membership in and even The Uncommon Frenchman substantial leadership of the Common Market . The other members never would be content with General de Gaulle 's leadership after the example he has given of readiness to use his arbitrary veto to keep Britain out . The net effect of the de Gaulle wrecking operation has been to . restore Britain 's tarnished position in Washington and make Britain almost the hero of the non-French members . Isolation now is the monopoly property of General de Gaulle . This change in the British position is of major value to the British in the event that the Cornmpn Market operation does prove a failure . There will have to be an alternate context for Britain 's economic future . Britain 's trade partners in the European Free Trade Association , in the Commonwealth , and the United States now will all be seeking ways and means of repairing the damage . And they will have friends inside the Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world around are aghast at the de Gaulle performance . His negotiators at Brussels had so arranged things that Britain could have been kept out on what appeared to be technical grounds . There was no need for the general to admit that he wanted Britain kept out for what to him were broad reasons of principle . He showed his hand unnecessarily and left Edward Heath in the happy position of achieving everything but his maximum assignment . Political careers are made by just such strokes of fortune .                     