@@724940

txt United States labor , having virtually scaled the sheer cliff of right-to-work repeal , is already eying a new legislative precipice for 1966 . It hopes next year to push toward a higher peak in federal spending for public construction . At the top of that summit lie more jobs . Laborites calculate that each additional $1 billion the government spends on , say , new school buildings and hospitals , makes 100,000 new jobs . And the pyramiding effects could add another 50,000 or 100,000 . It is a mountain labor wants to see climbed next year , if  --  and it is a big if ? defense needs in explosive Vietnam permit . Another unsealed peak still looms this year , but perhaps too high for labor to conquer . It is the three-stage hike in the minimum wage . The measure stands a good chance to pass the House . But the Senate is stalling ; it wants something more modest . As reported out of the House labor subcommittee , the bill would boost minimum pay from $1.25 to $1.75 an hour by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would gather 6.1 million more workers under the minimum wage umbrella . It enjoys strong backing in the House . But the Senate prefers a jump to only $1.50 an hour and 4.6 million additional workers  --  perhaps less . And so does the President . Unless the White House applies pressure  --  and it probably wo n't ? Senate-House differences could block all revision . Teamster chief James R. Hoffa continues to teeter from one court appeal to another . And as long as there is one more appeal left for him to cling to in trying to beat a jury-fixing conviction , his grip on his job is safe . The United States Court of Appeals in the Sixth Circuit just upheld his conviction . But he immediately laid plans to push on to a still higher court . Many Teamster leaders now , however , believe that Mr. Hoffa has all but lost his fight to avoid an eight-year sentence and that his presidency will be up for grabs in 1966 . More intensive and perhaps open jockeying for the office is now likely . Trends ... The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with it union pressures for higher wages . Labor has been showing a keener concern over money lately . Negotiated wage hikes have soared to the highest levels in five years-8.3 cents an hour on the average . And union demands will probably go up even more now . The government 's last cost-of-living index ? in June  --  stood at an all-time high . And the jump in prices from May to June was the steepest in years . If the index this month goes up ? or simply holds steady  --  more than a million automobile and other workers will get automatic cost-of-living hikes of 2 cents an hour . And bargaining demands across negotiating tables in other industries will drift upward accordingly . Strain gauges between labor and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ( NAACP ) ' are registering new highs too . The NAACP has charged 10 employers and five unions with job discrimination and filed formal complaints with the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission ( EEOC ) . The cases will test job bias bans that took hold July 2 . NAACP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions are angry . They insist the first they heard of the bias complaints was when the NAACP lodged them with the EEOC . How and why ... Labor is only half happy with the brighter employment picture . The latest figures showed employment at a record high ( 74,900,000 ) and the unemployment ratio down to its lowest ( 4.5 percent ) since 1957 . But labor is still worried . Unemployment among blue-collar workers still hovered at a high 5.5 percent . And the unemployment rate among Negroes was up to 9.1 percent . These figures point up unrelenting trouble in employment areas particularly important to unions . Moreover labor expects national unemployment to start creeping up again before year 's end . It sees another scarcity of jobs building up in 1966 unless more government job-making programs are rushed to the rescue .                     