@@721217

txt Every now and then the low opinion held by the Soviet rulers regarding their people 's intelligence becomes vividly apparent . A dozen years ago Stalin showed this when he assured the residents of his capital that there were no more slums in Moscow , though most of that city was then one vast slum . In 1953 and 1954 Malenkov exhibited the same trait by announcing major price reductions for consumer goods and foodstuffs without bothering to make sure that the people 's demand for these commodities could be even approximately satisfied . Now Nikita Khrushchev has " abolished " taxes . To see what a departure from the facts this statement represents we need look at only two official Soviet documents : the budget announced last October and last January 's official report on the Soviet economy in 1959 . The first document tells us that the chief single source of Soviet revenue in 1959 was to be the general sales tax ( oborotny nalog in Russian ) , whose proceeds were estimated last year to be 333,000,000,000 rubles . The second document informs us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pays the sales tax came to 710,000,000,000 rubles . Dividing the first figure by the second we find that the average rate of sales tax paid by Soviet consumers last year came to almost 50 per cent . This sales tax is still in effect and is not affected by the latest Soviet tax reform . What Premier Khrushchev has actually done is something much more modest than he claims . He has decided to eliminate the relatively minor direct income tax  --  source of less than 8 per cent of Soviet state revenue this year ? in slow stages over the next half decade . No doubt the beneficiaries will appreciate this slight easing of their burdens . But since these beneficiaries know how unfavorable the ratio is between their wages and the prices they must pay , we may doubt whether many of them will be encouraged by Mr. Khrushchev 's words to believe they are about to be catapulted into some tax-free Utopia . Cuba 's New Ambassador The State Department is reported to be pleased that Jos ? Mire Cardona , a distinguished jurist , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare for our Government to be pleased over anything happening in Cuba these days , and in this case there is good reason for satisfaction . Dr. Mire Cardona is one of the top lawyers of Cuba and he has an international reputation . He is serious , moderate , experienced and friendly toward the United States . In a revolution where almost all the leaders are even younger than Premier Fidel Castro , who is 33 , Dr. Mini Cardona is positively ancient at the age of 58 ! He has been completely loyal to Fidel Castro and to the Cuban Revolution and he will therefore be an acute and understanding interpreter of a phenomenon that Americans are finding so hard to understand . So long as Cuba is in the throes of a social revolution directed by her present leaders , she is going to be in conflict with the United States . We think this wrong , but it is a fact of life . The revolution harms American interests in Cuba and in Latin America generally . Consequently , presuming that the revolution will continue , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to weather the storm , how to minimize the harmful effects to American interests , how to make the Cuban leaders realize that their permanent interests lie in cooperation with the United States and not in conflict . In such an effort it will be valuable to have such experienced and understanding ambassadors as we will both now have  --  our Philip Bonsai in Havana and Cuba 's Jose Mire Cardona in Washington .                     