@@724259

txt One-Way Street The new agreement is to last for one year , with renewal possible . Visits will be permitted four times during the period ? 14 days this fall , 16 days over Christmas and New Year 's , probably 14 days at Easter , 1965 , and another 14 days at Pentecost . For West Berliners with urgent family problems in East Berlin . visits will be permitted throughout the year . In no case will East Berliners be allowed to visit West Berlin . The agreement is a one-way street . For the West German Government , the dilemma was to satisfy the human yearnings of divided families , while pre : venting the Communists from making political capital of the agreement . East German authorities were trying to picture the Ber1 lin pass negotiations as recognition by the West German Government of the legal status of the East German regime . Pitfalls Skirted This was the latest in a long series of maneuvers by the Communists to gain legal recognition from Bonn . Such recognition would confirm the partition of Germany and weaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the Soviet zone . To defeat this maneuver , West Germany did not negotiate directly with East German authorities , but through Horst Korber , a member of the West Berlin city government . This in itself contained a pitfall , lest the East German Government contend the pass agreement has been negotiated solely with West Berlin , which the Communists contend is an entity separate from West Germany . To forestall this , Bonn officials stressed that Willy Brandt , Lord Mayor of West Berlin , had received his authorization to sign the new agreement directly from West German Chancellor Ludwig Erhard. gni p roventen t.t , ' Cited Being interpreted , this meant that the West German Government had not itself negotiated with the Communists , but was solely able to authorize the final agreement . West German officials stressed other " improvements " over the Christmas pass agreement . including a clause in the permit application forms noting that West Germany does not consider East Berlin the " capital of the German Democratic Republic . " Karl Gunther von Hase , spokesman of the West German Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement contained a inaimum of " humanity " and a minimum of technical contacts with the East . Waving Across Berlin Wall Before the new Berlin pass agreement was reached , this is the way West Berliners had to communicate with friends and relatives in East Berlin . The new pact is to last a year .                     