@@723879

txt The Soviet leadership , after six months of public silence , harshly condemned today the ideological position and political tactics of Communist China . It also declared that it favored a world conference of Communist parties to discuss " basic problems " facing them . The Russians accused the Chinese leaders of " ideological apostasy . " This , in the view of Western observers , came closer than any previous Soviet statement to an attempt to read the Chinese Communists out of the international Communist movement . The accusation was contained in an editorial in Pravda , the organ of the Soviet Communist party . A summary of the editorial was published by Tass , the official press agency , Publication Deferred Tass said that Pravda would also contain a seven-page text of a speech made by Mikhail A. Suslov , the party 's chief ideologist , a month and a half ago . Mr. Suslov outlined the Soviet party 's stand on basic ideology and its attitude toward Communist China at a meeting Feb. 14 of the Central Committee of the Communist party . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the meeting . The publication of Mr. Suslov 's speech had been predicted several times by party sources but was postponed pending the outcome of exchanges between Soviet and Chinese representatives and a mediation attempt by the Rumanian Communist leaders . Mr. Suslov charged that the Chinese leaders through their policies and activities had become the " principal threat to the unity of the Communist movement . " Personal Attack Scored Mr. Suslov particularly criticized the Chinese for making Premier Khrushchev the personal target of their attacks and for trying to isolate him from the rest of the Soviet Communist party . These attempts are doomed to abject and " shameful failure , " he said , and added that the Soviet people had never been more firmly united behind the Premier as the " recognized leader of our party and na tion . " He also accused the Chinese leaders of seeking to spread " the personality cult " of Mao Tse-tung , the Chinese party chief , to the world Communist movement . Mr. Suslov said Mr. Mao , like Stalin , wanted to become a god who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions to them . " History does not repeat itself and what once was - a tragedy can only look like a farce the second time , " he added . Mr. Suslov put forward the proposal for a world Communist confeernce to deal with " basic " party issues . The Soviet leaders nave been favoring such a conference for several months . They have tried repeatedly to press the idea on foreign Communists who share their ideological views . But some foreign parties , notably those of Poland and Italy , have been resisting the Soviet suggestion for fear that a meeting might lead to a formal break in the movement . Faced with this opposition , the Soviet leaders had to shelve their proposal . In reviving it today , they were careful to avoid any suggestion that the conference might serve as a platform for disciplinary action against the Chinese . On the contrary , as Tass phrased Mr. Suslov 's statement , the conference would permit the " broadest possible exchange of opinions " and might help the movement " surmount " its present difficulties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity meeting " and not a " showdown . " This distinction is extremely significant , according to observers here . It was noted that Mr. Suslov on several occasions in his 30,000-word statement put the Soviet Communist party on record as being still convinced that the Communist movement would regain its unity . Mr. Suslov delivered a pointby-point indictment of the Chinese Communist activities and policies . Principal Accusations The principal charges were these : cThat the Chinese leaders backed " subversive activities aimed at splitting the world Communist movement . " lThat the Chinese leaders are seeking to separate the national liberation movement in Africa , Asia and Latin America from the international working class elsewhere . iiiThat the Chinese have pushed their disagreements with the Communist movement to the point where the differences touch on all basic questions . cThat beneath their " outward revolutionary slogans " the Chinese leaders are masking an attack " not on the imperialists but primarily on the Communist party- of the Soviet Union and other Marxist-Leninist parties . " 9The Chinese Communists are standing in the way of progress toward peace since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuse to sign the nuclear test ban treaty : The Chinese are continually provoking incidents on the Soviet border . The Pravda editorial made it clear that it was Peking 's attack on Premier Khrushchev and the Soviet Communist party Tuesday that provoked today 's sharp retort . The Chinese attack , published in the Peking journals Jenmin Jih Pao and Hung Chi , called on Communists everywhere to " Repudiate and liquidate Khrushchev . Pravda said that the Chinese call was a " terrible insult " to the Soviet party and to " the entire Soviet people . " It said that with this attack the Chinese leaders had finally ' gone beyond " all limits " and had become guilty of " open revision ' , of the basic theses of Marxism-Leninism . Pravda added that the Chinese Communists were playing a " hypocritical game " with the unity of the world Communist movement . " They are trying to use the desire of Communists for unity , " it said , " and are blackmailing the other parties with the threat of a split so as to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity of the leadership of the Chinese Communist party . " It added that this was why . the Central Committee of the Soviet party had decided to pubH lish the text of the statement at the February meeting . The charge of " ideological apostasy " hurled at the Chi- ' Communist leaders was believed to be the strongest ever made by Moscow against Peking .                     