@@725218

txt The Pentagon expects its reL cently designated " select force " of 150,000 men in Army National Guard and other Army Reserve units to be ready for mobilization by July 1 . This does not necessarily mean that all or any of the reservists in these units , mostly guardsmen , will be called July 1 , officials stressed . Nor does it mean that reservists who are not in selected units are free of potential call-up . Officials emphasized that the current stepped-up training of the select force was part of an Army-wide intensification and expansion of training , a precautionary measure to facilitate a major war mobilization should the fighting in Vietnam continue to escalate . Plans for the select force of Army Reserve units were announced by Secretary of Defense Robert S. last Oct. 13 . The force comprises 119,000 guardsmen and 31,000 other Army reservists . Under the plans , three National Guard divisions and six independent Guard brigades are to be brought up to full personnel strength and equipped on a level of combat status . According to Maj. Gen. Winston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the selected units are already up to better than 97 per cent of their combat strength . He said that by the target date of July 1 the select force would be ready to answer a mobilization call and meet the requirement that it could be deployed within eight weeks of : mobilization . Members of the select force ' are spread across the country . Understrength units have been filled with men from lowpriority reserve outfits . Person- , nel officers have concentrated on drawing into the select force ! men who had at least two years of active duty . The National Guard units in ? ? the select force are as follows ; Divisions  --  The 28th Division headquarters and one brigade ; from Pennsylvania , one from Maryland and one from Ohio ; the 38th Division headquarters ! and one brigade from Indiana , , one from Illinois and one from ! Michigan ; the 47th DivisionI headquarters and one brigade ' from Minnesota , one from Wis-I cousin and one from Oklahoma. ; Independent brigades ? The ' 29th from Hawaii . the 67thi from Nebraska @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ; a brigade of the 36th Division ' ! from Texas , a brigade of the ' 41st Division from Oregon and ! Washington , and a brigade of , the 49th Division from Califor-I nia . Other states are insofar as possible . Under the ' law National Guard men must be volunteers ; thus it takes a anecial recruiting effort to shift ; r " en from low-priority Army ; llfserve units to National Guard , However , many guardsmen in low-priority units have indi- : cated a desire to shift to high-I priority unts . In addition there : is no lack of volunteers for ; service in the National Guard ; by men eager to take advantage of the six-month active , duty program . Permits Direct Enlistment This program permits persons eligible for the draft to enlist in the National Guard directly . They then serve on active duty for training for about six months and return : to their unit for regular weekly ! , or bimonthly drilling for the : remainder of their six-year military service obligation . Certain units of the select @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter this year , I instead of spring or summer as in the past . Some of the ! units will be taking two weeks I of annual training as early as ; February . With the stepped up train- ; ing effort , according to some ! reports . Army training facilin ties have been overtaxed . There ' . have been reports that some men who recently joined the National Guard have not been : ordered to active duty for training within the customary 120 days . The Army began last October a sizable expansion of its , training facilities to provide : for the training of 408,000 men ' , in the year ending next June 30 , : an increase of 213,000 over the : previous 12-month period . Goals of Expansion The expanded training pro- : gram was intended to provide ; soldiers for the planned in- : crease of 235,000 men in the Army , bringing it to a total strength of a little more than one million , as well as the men , needed for replacements to offset normal attrition . The training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ky. , Fort Jackson , S. C. , Fort Gor- , don , Ga .. Fort Sill , Okla .. Fort , Polk , La. , and Fort McClellan.I Ala. , have been expanded to maximum capability . In addition new reception and ; basic combat training centers have been opened at Fort Benning , Ga. , and Fort Bliss , Tex . An average training load of ; 10.000 soldiers a month is being ! planned at Fort Benning and 7.000 soldiers a month at Fort Bliss when the two bases reachi their peak soon . The total aver-I age training load of 105.000 at ; all training centers is being increased to about 150,000 . Army service schools are being expanded to accept 140,000 students in the next 12 months , nearly an 85 per cent increase over this year . The officer candidate schools are jumping from a school body of 3,400 this year to 12.000 next year .                     