@@723845

txt President de Gaulle received assurances today of Mexico 's complete support in establishing closer relations not only with Mexico but with other Latin-American nations . The assurances ' were given in a joint communiqu ? by the French President and President Adolfo Lopez Mateos of Mexico . Pledges were given of " equal devotion to the cause of peace , ' which can only be assured in a , stable manner within respect for the independence of each , ' country . " The communiqu ? specified only in part the matters discussed by the two Presidents in their daily conversations since General de Gaulle arrived Monday . He is leaving Mexico tomorrow . Added Trade to Be Sought There was agreement that France and Mexico should study all means of increasing trade . There was also agreement that an interparliamentary affairs body would be created to discuss French-Mexican problems . Plans to increase cultural exchanges were also proposed . The communiqu ? omitted mention of a discussion of a disposition of a long-term credit ' of $150 million granted to Mexico by France last year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of accelerated French investment in Mexico to combine with Mexican capital . It committed the two chiefs of state to efforts toward closer working arrangements between the Common Market and the Latin-American Free Trade Association . Visit Seen a Success There is a belief among observers that the de Gaulle visit has been a success , certainly from the standpoint of the general 's wish to show himself as a leader of great reserve strength and compassion for the man in the street . An assessment of the success of the visit in terms of real results , however , will have to be made later . There is a general theory that an underlying purpose of the visit was to lay the groundwork for future goodwill visits to other LatinAmerican countries . Considerable mystery surrounded a possible conversation this morning between President de Gaulle and Gustavo Diaz Ordaz , who will probably be the next President of Mexico . Mr. Diaz Ordaz is the dandidate of the dominant Institutional Revolutionary party . Party nomination amounts to certainty of election . The election is to be in July . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the de Gaulles are staying . He was seen leaving a half hour later . A spokesman for the Mexican Government , however , expressed surprise at the report of the meeting . " It is all news to me , " he said . On the ; financial arrangements ; an authoritative source disclosed that French support of trade with Mexico would be limited to the long-term credit 61 $150 million . Future French assistance to Mexico 's economy , the source said , will be confined to scientific and technical cooperation in the development of Mexico 's industry and agriculture . The Mexicans also are keenly aware of the great gulf between the size of French financial support and that provided directly or indirectly by the United States . Bulk Is From U.S. The Mexicans are aware , the source said , that their country has received in recent years $487.8 million in financial aid . The bulk of this came from the United Statea:or from international financial agencies supported largely by the United States . Direct United States aid amounts to $40 million through the Agency for International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , Mexico 's trade with France is about 3.5 per cent of her total , while her trade with the United States is 70 per cent of the total . Mexico is France 's secondbest customer in Latin America , ranking behind Brazil . Mexican trade with France and with Western Europe surely will increase , although gradually , as a result of the de Gaulle visit . In seeking this increase , a French source said President Lopez Mateos appears to be speaking for all Latin America . Sees Natural Cooperation The ' general told the nation 's leading industrialists this morning that : closer cooperation would develop naturally between the : , two countries . Speaking to the National Chamber of Commerce after having received ' a silver plaque , General de Gaulle said , " In : France , we are confident in every respect about your future and as you have wished to have confidence in us , cooperation is established between Mexico and France . " At the National Autonomous University of Mexico , the general was received with entinisiasm by the students . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The university is known as a center for demonstrations over remote as well as immediate causes . The pattern of the Mexican ! and French security forces hasl on the surface become increasingly lax . This is attributed by the police to the President 's , tendency to break away from . established arrangements . lie has gotten so deeply buried in , crowds that his security guards have had difficulty in ' pulling him free of the out-1 stretched hands of spectators . The French President 's schedH ule closed today with . a recep-. tion at the French Embassy . ' Tomorrow at his request he will be flown 20 miles by helicopter to excavations of a preAztec city .                     