@@726938

txt The allied command was sharply divided today over the aims of the enemy 's new rocket-and-mortar offensive , in which dozens of cities , towns and military outposts came under shellfire . A high American official acknowledged the division but added that the command was agreed on two points : that the enemy had enough resources to continue the attacks , and that the allies should remain alert to combat them . 1 One group , according to the ' official , feels that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese staged the bombardment to divert attention , men and materiel from the Khesanh I area , where they are believed Ito be preparing a major ground assault . Another group views the bombardment as a form of stepped-up harassment with political rather than military objectives . And a third is convinced that the bombardment was a " substitute for a secondwave assault " on the nation 's principal cities . " This group believed that the enemy planned to follow up they Lunar New Year offensive with la second-wave attack aimed at overrunning the cities , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided that now is not the time ; the nation is too much on the alert- So they believe the enemy decided . ' Let 's just slam them around for a while and wait for a better time before we start the real second wave . ' " Comments from military spokesmen underlined the division of opinion that exists here over the purpose behind the , enemy bombardment . Officers Are Reticent At the command 's afternoon briefing for reporters , one spokesman referred to the bombardment as a " second wave , " while another called it " harassing action . " Still another spokesman said ** office was having difficulty persuading high officers to discuss the enemy 's aims publicly because the aims were still being assessed . The view most commonly held by South Vietnamese officials is the harassment theory . sometimes called the " Thieu theory " because it was advanced by President Nguyen Van Thieu after the Lunar New Year offensive of Jan. 30-31 . He believes the aim of the enemy is to harass the ' United States and the South Vietnamese Government into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vig-. orously opposes . Some American officials share the harassment theory.1 but others think the Lunar , New Year offensive and the ; countrywide mortar raids were simply a way of setting the stage for an attack at Khesanh , ! near the demilitarized zone , ini the pattern of the 1954 battle at Dienbienphu , which caused the French to leave Indochina . " They could be hoping to keep us off balance so we will not concentrate more troops ' around Khesanh. " said one United States Embassy official who has frequent contact with military strategists . Some military officials , though not the highest ones , take an opposite view . They suggest that the enemy troop move- , ments around Khesanh are ' nothing more than a diversion , and that the enemy 's chief aim is to assault the cities constantly  --  sometimes with ground action , sometimes with mortars ? to bring a crisis , to overthrow the South Vietnamese Government and to erode American support for the war . Supply Traffic Continues Whatever the enemy 's aims might be , many commanders feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Supplies are still coming in over the Ho Chi Minh Trail at an accelerated rate , " a high official said . He added that so long as supplies of mortar shells kept arriving the enemy could attack cities with bombardments at little risk to manpower . If the enemy should decide to abandon mortar bombardments in favor of ground attacks , ac- , cording to allied intelligence estimates , he has enough manpower to mount them , provided he is willing to risk heavy . losses . Before the Lunar New Year offensive , high military officials estimated that the enemy had 100 fully ready , fully equipped battalions and- 50 partly ready battalions . Now the estimate is that he has 50 to 60 fully ready battalions in South Vietnam that he could commit to a new offensive , plus the 50 partly ready battalions . and the remnants of those committed in the Luna : - New Year offensive .                     