@@727697

txt Mayor Lindsay 's Rent Guide- ' ' lines Board proposed yesterday , that the owners of 400,000 un- controlled apartments limit themselves to rent increases of , 15 per cent on two-year leases.1 The board also called for al reduction to 15 per cent of any , rent increases that exceeded ' that amount on leases signed after May 31 of last year . It also asked that tenants be given credit on their rents in months to come for whatever increase they have paid above 15 per cent since last Jan. 1 . The board also urged legislation in the City Council that would place under standard rent control the property of an owner who refused to comply with the guidelines . Mayor Lindsay endorsed the proposal and demanded that the real-estate industry accept it . Otherwise , the Mayor said , " I will recommend legislation instituting some form of direct rent control in the presently uncontrolled housing market . " There was no comment on the plan from the industry ! , leaders , who had submitted a ' milder formula of their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasurer of the Real Estate Board , said his committee would meet " within 24 hours " to consider the proposal . City Council President Francis X. Smith and Majority Leader Thomas J. Cuite , in a joint statement , said : " An initial reading of the report inclines us strongly to differ with the Mayor . There seems to be no sharp reduction in the industry 's general position . " The industry had advocated increases of no more than 17 per cent every two years . Mr. Smith said the Democratic-controlled Council would go ahead with hearings on 18 pending rent-control bills on March 24 . The legislative part of the Mayor 's proposal would also be considered , he said . The nine-man Rent Guide , lines Board consists of housing experts and business , labor and financial leaders . It was named by the Mayor last month after his Housing and Consumer Affairs commissioners reported median rent increases of 26.5 per cent in apartments not under rent control . The board 's proposal yesterday envisioned an elaborate system of enforcement that it said would cost the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All owners would be required to join an association and , by doing so , certify in writing-that they intended to abide by the guidelines . Any owner who failed to join , or who joined and then violated the guidelines , would find all his rental property in the city subject to standard rent control . Standard rent control , which now applies to about 1.3 million apartments , permits . no rent increases while a tenant remains in occupancy , unless the landlord makes certain improvements or can show that he is unable to get a " fair return " from his property . A 15 per cent increase is allowed when an old tenant moves out and a new one moves in . One question left unanswered by the board 's proposal , according to Thomas Thacher , the chairman , is who will determine whether a landlord has violated the guidelines . " This still has to he worked out , " he said . Another vague area , Mr. Thacher conceded , is a provision in the proposal that states : " If a unit is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the succeeding tenant a free-market rent . " Asked whether this meant that all subsequent rent in- , creases would be free of the guidelines , or whether only the initial increase to a new tenant would be free , Mr. Thacher said that had not been decided . However , under the board 's plan , the guideline would apply to a vacant apartment if the owner had refused to renew a tenant 's lease . The proposal would apply only to existing buildings , not to those built in the future , and not to those which did not have certificates of occupancy as of yesterday . This exception was made , the board said , to meet the argument by builders and realestate men that controls would discourage new construction in the city . It is the lack of new construction , the industry has argued , and the consequent housing shortage , that has helped to push up rents . The proposal would also exclude residential hotels , some of whose tenants have complained of rents being doubled , and two-family houses and the several hundred apartments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were included in the board 's recommendation . Under the proposal , any tenant whose rent was increased more than 15 per cent on a two-year lease or 20 per , cent on a three-year lease after May 31 , 1968 , would be en- , titled to a reduction of rent to those levels , effective Jan. 1,1 1969 . Such tenants would receive ; credit for the excess they paid , in January : February and March , to be reflected in the rents for the balance of the leases . Similarly , new leases executed from now until Jan . I , 1970 , would be subject to the 15 and 20 per cent limits . After Jan. 1 , the board said , a new guideline should be set , based on the increase in operating costs . According to Roger Starr , executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council , and a member of the board , the guideline figures will probably drop substantially once they are based on operating expenses . Halves Equated Since a building 's costs for taxes , wages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Starr said , the rent increase limit should be only half the rise in operating costs . In other words , if expenses continue to rise by about 5 per icent a year , as the board says , they did before last year , the ' maximum rent increase after Jan. 1 , 1070 , would be 5 per cent every two years . The board also urged that , the owners ' association include a code setting forth standards of operation and maintenance of buildings . The owners ' code should also include a provision , the board said , requiring a landlord to renew a lease for at least two years unless the tenant has " created a nuisance " or " adversely affected the building or its appurtenances . " Mr. Lindsay said the board 's report was " a fair , sober , reasoned , nonpartisan document . "                     