@@721742

txt AIR FORCE DENIES ATTEMPT TO GET ALL SPACE WORK White Tells Panel the Job Is Plenty Big ' for Both Military and Civilians BACKS PENTAGON SHIFT Chief of Staff Also Asserts That Army and Navy Will Continue in Roles By- JACK RAYMOND Special Co The New York Times . WASHINGTON , March 18 ? The Chief of Staff of the Air Force assured Congress today that the military was not seeking to take over civilian space projects . He also sought to quiet an uproar over Air Force dominance of space research at the Pentagon . The Air Force chief , Gen. Thomas D. White , testified before the House Science and Astronautics Committee in an unusual Saturday hearing . The meeting was prompted by a Pentagon decision to award most military space-research responsibilities to the Air Force . General White described the decision as an attempt to clarify space-research responsibilities . Under questioning , the Air Force chief said he saw no reason to combine military and civilian space efforts . " The job is plenty ? big for both of us , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that the military forces would inevitably take over all space projects , including those sponsored by the specially created civilian agency , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Absolutely Not ' General White confirmed the existence of a memorandum that he had written on the subject , . but he said " absolutely not " when asked if it meant that he was advocating a military assumption of civilian space responsibilities . An undercurrent in the House committee 's hearings , which began yesterday , was the rising agitation over whether the uniformed military leaders were being bypassed in major Pentagon decisions by the Kennedy Administration . A memorandum by Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , discussing the wisdom of turning over most space-research programs to the Air Force , has been cited as an indication that military men are being edged out of decision-making responsibilities . " Time precluded a develop // ment of a view by the Joint Chiefs of Staff , " General Lemnitzer observed in discussing the research plan . " Although the service chiefs will undoubtedly have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretaries , I feel that in general the Joint Chiefs of Staff should be given a full opportunity to study carefully matters of this sort which have a far-reaching military implication . " The chairman of the Joint Chiefs , whei objected to the research decision four days before it was issued last March 6 , is expected to be called before the House committee to testify . In today 's session , General White emphasized that the decision giving his service the dominant role in space research would not change the space role of the Army and Navy . In particular , he emphasized that the Navy would control its Polaris missile , designed for submarine launchings , and that the Army would retain authority over the Nike Zeus antimissile missile that it is developing . Representative Overton Brooks , Democrat of Louisiana and chairman of the House committee , said that the Army and Navy research chiefs would be asked for their views Monday . Army and Navy sources have indicated their disapprovaL General White said that within thirty-six hours of the issuance of the research directive by Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military commanders . " I told my commanders that we were going to bend over backwards to meet our responsibilities to the Army and Navy under the directive , " the Air Force chief testified . Lieut . Gen. Bernard A. Schrie : . ver , head of the Air Research and Development Command , testified with General White . He is scheduled to take over the new Air Force Systems Command on April 1 as part of a major reorganization of the Air Force space programs . The new organization will have the following major divisions : gThe Ballistic Missile Division , made up of elements of the , Air Research and Development Command 's ballistic missile divisions and the Air Materiel Command Ballistic Missile Center , which have been operating together at Inglewood , Calif . It will also include the Ballistic ( Missile Office of the Army Corps of Engineers , which has been responsible for missile site construction . gThe Space Systems Division , composed of the elements of the development command and the missile center that are not incorporated in the Ballistic Missile Division . liThe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dayton , Ohio , combining the Wright Air Development Division and the Materiel Command 's Aeronautical Systems Center . The Combined Electronics Systems Division at Hanscom Field , near Boston , and the Materiel Command 's Electronics Systems Center , also at Hanscom . When General White was asked about his reported comment that the military would inevitably take over civilian space programs , he observed that he had written a memorandum recognizing the possibility and not b advocatine. it . The memorandum , it was said , was part of an effort to overrule General Schriever and pledge full Air Force cooperation .                     