@@721155

txt President de Gaulle and Premier Khrushchev issued a joint communiqu ? today that gave no sign that they had made any progress toward finding solutions for the problems to be debated at the summit conference here in May . On the eve of the Soviet leader 's departure from France he and General de Gaulle affirmed that international disputes should be settled by peaceful negotiations . They declared that settlement of the problems of Berlin and Germany " would have great importance for the maintenance and reinforcement of peace and , security in Europe and the world . " But there was no hint that the two leaders had reached any agreement on the specific ? issues involved in such a settlement . One official , asked if any specific accomplishments toward ' resolution of outstanding international problems were hidden in the communiqu ? , replied : " Zero . " To Cooperate in Research On the other hand , the communiqu ? announced bilateral agreements for cooperation in the fields of peaceful uses of atomic energy and other scientific research , notably in medicine . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and widen the list of products for exchange . The only other material development was an announcement that General de Gaulle had accepted an invitation to visit the Soviet Union at a time to be fixed in diplomatic exchanges . Twice during his recent tour of the French provinces Mr. Khrushchev warned that if progress toward a general settlement of the Berlin and German problems was not made soon  --  once he referred to the May summit  --  the Soviet Union and its allies would Sign a peace treaty with the East German Communist regime . This , he contended today , would end the accords arising from the armistice , including the Soviet guarantee of Western access rights to a free West Berlin . The last full day of the visit , which began March 23 , was a successful one for Mr. Khrushchev from a propaganda KIMUSHCHEY ENDS TALKS IN FRANCE // standpoint . From 5:30 P. M. until 8:23 P. M. the Soviet Premier dominated much of Europe 's television , sharing it , in France at least , only with Johnny Weissmuller in fifteen minutes of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Eurovision network of Western European stations , linked for part of the time with others in Eastern Europe , carried Mr. Khrushchev 's full news conference from Rambouillet , beginning at 5:30 and ending at 7 o'clock . After the juvenile interlude , the Soviet leader was back again at 7:30 for a speech that lasted , with translation into French , until 8:23 . Neither the news conference nor the speech produced any unusual statements . Both , however , gave Mr. Khrushchev exceptional opportunities for publicizing before an audience of many millions his status as a peace lover and the merits and prospects of Soviet and world communism . In response to questions bearing on the Berlin issue , Mr. Khrushchev indicated general willingness to let discussion of disarmament take precedence over resolution of the Berlin dispute . But his reply was cast in such hypothetical form that most observers thought it was of dubious value as a guide to Soviet policy . " If it were possible to reach an understanding on disarmament in the month of May , for example , and if an agreement on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June , that succession would be - perfectly acceptable , " he said . In another reference to Berlin he said the granting of " serious guarantees " of the free status of West Berlin and against interference by the Communist countries was " exactly " the way he saw the definition of a free city of Berlin . New Bomb Test Deplored Asked to comment on the explosion of the second French atomic bomb in the Sahara yesterday morning , the Soviet Premier recalled that his Government had regretted first French test Feb. 13 and " we maintain the same position . " " The new explosion makes me regret all the more that there is no accord on the prohibition of trial nuclear explosions , " he said . But the Soviet Premier had been informed in advance of the French test and there was no trace of anger in his replies on this point . It was apparent from the prior public declarations of General de Gaulle and Mr. Khrushchev that their positions on most of the major topics of the East-West dispute were almost diametrically opposed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be stating that the talks had accomplished little beyond a full exploration of the extent of these differences . Diplomatic observers found the communique even less communicative , more filled with platitudinous observations than most such documents . They took this as a sign that President de Gaulle had firmly maintained his positions for continued Western rights in Berlin , for refusal to recognize the East German Communist regime in any German reunification procedure and for France 's intention to ignore a treaty banning nuclear tests unless the three other nuclear powers , Britain , the United States and the Soviet Union , agreed to full nuclear disarmament . Mr. Khrushchev , they concluded , had maintained his opposed points of view just as firmly . He Broadcasts Propaganda Mr. Khrushchev 's half-hour speech  --  almost twice as long with translation  --  was mainly propaganda for the Communist system . He declared that by 1965 the Soviet Union would become the greatest industrial producer in Europe , not only in absolute quantity , which it is already in many domains , but in per capita production as well . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States in industrial production and leave it far behind in the agricultural sphere , " he said . Mr. Khrushchev came to France March 23 , devoted three days to ceremonies and talks in the Paris region and six more to a tour of the French provinces and , returning to Paris Thursday noon , passed most of the time since then in conference with President de Gaulle at the Presidential chateau at Rambouillet , thirty-two miles southwest of the capital . Despite the rigorous schedule , undertaken just after recovery from a bout of influenza , Mr. Khrushchev appeared to be unfatigued and relaxed in his two public appearances today . He and his family  --  his wife , son and three daughters  --  and a party of eighty , including a Deputy Premier , Aleksei N. Kosygin , Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko , other aides and Soviet journalists , will fly back to Moscow tomorrow morning .. With Mr. Khrushchev 's departure , more than 800 persons , most of them Eastern European refugees , who were deported to Corsica and Atlantic islands as a ' security measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few hours after Mr. Khrushchev taks off .                     