@@726308

txt South Koreans have given Gen. Park Chung Hee a firm vote of confidence to carry on with his vigorous policies at home and abroad . Reelected President for a second four-year term , the youngish , hard-working , austere general has received strong support for his dynamic program to modernize South Korea and enhance its role in the affairs of Asia . He has also been vindicated in his bold move to normalize relations with Japan and send troops to Vietnam . Some .11.5 million voters or 82 percent of the electorate turned out for the election Wednesday . Although the opposition has leveled charges of rigging and fraud , observers here believe the election was by and large clean and fair and evidenced growing maturity of this once politically chaotic land . Certainly voting at the polling stations which this correspondent visited was orderly and peaceful . Sizes of vote compared Out of 10 million votes counted , General Park and his Democratic Republican Party ( DRP ) received 5.5 million votes or more than 50 percent of the total . His only serious rival , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party ticket , received 4.3 million votes . Remaining votes were shared among five minor candidates . At this writing General Park thus was winning by a good margin of more than a million votes . This contrasts markedly with Gen. Park Chung Hee Reelected President the narrow . 156,000-vote margin by which he won in 1963 . The President won most heavily in the industrialiling southeastern part of the country from which he himself comes . But the DRP , which in the last election gained most of its support in farming areas , made heavy inroads in urban areas . In Seoul itself Mr. Park at this writing was only losing to Mr. Yun by a ratio of 49 to 51 , whereas four years ago he lost to Mr. Yun by 35 to 65 . Mr. Yun showed greatest strength in the farming provinces where people have been dissatisfied with the slow rate of their prog-ress General Park 's sizable victory can be attributed to several factors , foremost among which is probably his clearly demonstrated vitality on the economic front . Under the government 's first five-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made in power generation . Income rose far less dramatically . Voters apparently accepted General Park 's urgings that they must await basic industrial development before they can enjoy its rewards . The President also had the advantage of incumbency . Significant development seen Yun Po Sun , on the other hand , a conservative aristocrat and career politician , was supported by a tenuously organized coalition that lacked a grass-roots organization and unified leadership . In the opinion of many analysts , hi-s-party failed to articulate a well-defined ideological alternative to the government 's policies . " A kind of dialogue is developing between the ruling party and the opposition , " commented a leading Korean scholar to this correspondent . " The government is being challenged on specific issues and must answer for its actions . This is a significant development . " With a strong mandate in hand , General Park will now concentrate on Korea 's second five-year plan , which he has promised to fulfill in 31 " : 2 years . By 1971 , he and his government hope greatly to expand the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the country self-sufficient in food . In the international arena , the next four years are likely to see even greater involvement of Korea in Asia and Pacific dipl - macy and particularly in Southeast Asia .                     