@@724561

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam , Feb. 14 - " I do n't want to go . " said Mrs. Katherine Westmoreland , looking longingly at the face of her husband , Gen. William C. Westmoreland , . commander of United States forces in South Viet Nam . She and the wives of two other generals departed for home today as the exodus of American dependents from , 1 South Viet Nam continued . Some I have never seen the United States . All the estimated 1,800 1 dependents will have gone by Wednesday . an embassy official said . The reaction of Mrs. Westmoreland is similar to , that of nearly all the women who have left . Called Good Soldiers The general himself told newsmen : " She and the children have been good soldiers over here . But now it 's time to leave . " Mrs. Westmoreland was accompanied by her daughters , Stevie , 16 , and Margaret , 9 , and son Rip , 10 . Stevie , an attractive brunette , said , " I do n't want to go either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " I do n't think so . " Mrs. Westmoreland said , " I 'll come back when I 'm invited . " She told numerous Vietnamese friends seeing her off , including Mrs. Nguyen Khanh , wife of the Vietnamese armed forces commander , " I will be back . " Also departing was Mrs. John L. Throckmorton , wife of the deputy commander of United States forces in Viet Nam , and Mrs. J. H. Moore , wife of the commander of the 2d air division . On arrival in Honolulu tonight , Mrs. Westmoreland told interviewers she would remain in Hawaii . Mrs. Throckmorton said she would visit in Honolulu two days , then fly on to Washington . Among others who left were the wife and four children of Joseph W. Grainger , an American civilian aid representative who was captured by communist Viet Cong guerrillas six months ago . They flew to Bangkok , Thailand . Couple Stay on Duty A Vietnamese girl is on her way to an alien United States because she married an American soldier just one day before President Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wives of service men have also been sent to their husbands ' homeland for the first time , alone . One husband and wife are staying together because both are United States government employes , but their 12-year-old son has been sent home . The United States has 23,000 American advisers helping South Viet Nam in its war against communist guerrillas . I Gen. Westmoreland Bids GoodBy to Family ( Stoll , on page 1 ) Mrs. Katherine Westmoreland , wife of Gen. William C. Westmoreland ( background , right ) , commander of United States forces in South Viet Nam , blows kiss to friends as she and son , Rip ( foreground ) , and daughter , Margaret ( center ) , prepare to board plane for United States at airport in Saigon . AP Wirophoto : BY Radio from Saloon '                     