@@723316

txt Equal Employment Opportunity continued their sit-in and sleep-in in front of Mayor Wagner 's office . The Rev. Robert Kinloch , pastor of the Chapel of the Free Spirit , 3420 Park Avenue , the Bronx , conducted an interfaith service for a sitin group at Governor Rockefeller 's office , 24 West 55th Street . The Greater New York Coordinating Committee for Equal Opportunity announced that it would move in Federal Court Wednesday to force the state and the city to suspend all , construction work in which there is job discrimination . And in Far Rockaway , Queens , the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , conducted a " freedom " rally . Anarchy a Felony Under the anarchy charge , six of the neo-Nazi prisqners were accused of belonging " to a subversive organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government . " The charge is a felony . The six charged with anarchy were identified as Edward Cassidy , 18 years old , of 348 West 49th Street , alleged " No. 3 man " in the party ; Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corrigan , 20 , of 350 East 30th Street ; Ian Lehr , 25 , 630 turbance at the White Castles , according to the authorities . The police gave this account ; of the following developments : : Some or all of the eight menu arrived in the vicinity of the Soundvie* Avenue White Castle ' at 9 P.M. Saturday in ? small , , foreign , yellow truck to distribute hate literature . and were promptly chased away by a , group of Negro men . But by this time all police in the borough had been alerted to , be on the lookout for the yellow ' truck . How and where they spent , the next six hours remained a mystery . But shortly before 4 A.M. Cassidy , Joachim and , Corrigan arrayed in the truck at the police station , near the , Cross Bronx Expressway , to complain that they had been attacked by pickets and that a window of their truck had been broken . Detectives William Rooney and Edward Hanratty and Police Sgt. Henry Franklin went outside to inspect the truck and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crossbow , the steel-tipped arrows , a loaded .22-caliber revolver , an air pistol , a flare gun , a tear-gas pencil , a teargas pen , a brush hook , a loaded derringer , a kitchen knife with an eight-and-a-half-inch blade , a five-inch switchblade , some straight razors , a box of fishhooks , a box of .22-caliber bullets , a halloween plastic mask and a Navy foul-weather mask . Among this assortment the police said they found some pornographic literature and rank of " major " in the Renaissanceparty , which held a rally in Yorkville May 25 that ended in violence touched off bye , hecklers . Mr. Weintraub said the police were also investigating the possibility that the three men were involved in the shooting , of a man last Wednesday night with a pellet gun near the Boston , Post Road White Castle . He was accompanied to the Benedict Avenue station by his father , who declined to give his name , but who was close tol tears and was shaking his head , saying , " and I 'm Jewish too . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed . Mr. Kinloch charged that the management of the White Castle on Boston Post Road had turned off the stand 's air-conditioning early in the morning and turned on its steam heat to make it unbearable for pickets who were staging a sit-in at the time . He said that the temperature soared to 112 degrees in the White Castle , causing four demonstrators to pass out , and that they " were taken on stretchers to the hospital . " Mr. Kinloch said the sit-in was called off at 8 A.M. A Jacobi Hospital spokesman reported that three demonstrators had been treated for " mild heat stroke " and released . White Castle employes esleaped the heat by going to another room where the temperature was normal , Mr. Kinloch said . At 10 ; 30 Alf . a Negro picket , Mrs. Sara Day , 34 , of 2819 Barker Avenue , the Bronx , filed a complaint against a private guard at the White Castle , Theodore Clark , 36 , of 1619 Clinton Avenue , the Bronx . She accused him of poking her with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand 's awning . Mr. Clark then filed a charge ) , against Mrs. Day , and both were arrested on simple-assault complaints . 2 Suits Planned The legal action threatened by the Greater New York Coordinating Committee for Equal Opportunity on city and state construction would be in the form of two " omnibus " suits , according to Paul Zuber , attorney for the group . One of them would charge Governor Rockefeller and Mrs. Caroline K. Simon , the Secretary of State , with failure to carry out New York State anti ? discrimination laws . The second suit would against 4.11 the unions in construction and transportation Industries . It would also seek to have the state and city sus. pend work on construction projects currently proceeding at o yearly rate of $2,800,000,000 , Mr. Zuber said .                     