@@723936

txt Communist Rumania , in a new effort to bring about a truce between Moscow and Peking , published an urgent call today for a meet . ing of Soviet and Chinese lead ers with Rumania as mediator . In a statement carried by its major newspaper , Scinteia , the Rumanian party also said that the Russians had " agreed in general " to the truce plan . It said it was the Chinese who-so far had failed to heed it and had continued their anti-Kremlin campaign . The statement , issued by the official Rumanian press agency Agerpress , said the Rumanians believed it was " the duty of every party to do its utmost to avert the danger of a split . " All ' Parties Emphasized The Rumanian proposal was aimed at bringing the Russians and Chinese to agree to form a commission of officials of the three parties , which would make preparations for a worldwide meeting of Communist party leaders . Such a meeting , the Rumanians proposed , would " comprise all Communist parties of the world , not merely certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Russians agreed to examine the proposal , the Chinese have not yet made known what they think about it . This conference , proposed to the Russians and Chinese last March , should serve to " discuss and finalize " an appeal to all the Communist and Workers parties to solve controversial issues in conformity with the norms jointly established at the 1957 and 1960 Moscow conferences concerning relations between Communist parties , the statement said . Economic Stand Affirmed The statement and an accompanying " policy analysis " outlining the views of the Rumanian party ran to more than 12,000 words . It disclosed the contents of documents whose publication was decided on by the party 's Central Committee last Wednesday after a weeklong plenary session . The analysis also made it clear that Bucharest would defend its economic position in the Eastern bloc and would resist Soviet attempts to curb Rumania 's industrial development in favor of more raw material and food production . The statement said that the project of a supranational control body in Comecon ? the Soviet bloc 's Council for Mutual Economic Assistance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relations between Socialist countries . " " The idea of a single planning body for all Comecon countries , " the statement declared , " has the most serious economic and political implications . The sovereignty of the Socialist state requires that it holds in its hand all the levers for managing economic and social life . " The documents on the SovietChinese ideological dispute offer a rare insight into the struggle between the two giants for leadership of world Communism . The documents disclosed that the Rumanian party sought to stave off Soviet attacks on the Chinese while trying to achieve a truce . According to the statement , the Russians informed other Communist parties on Feb. 13 that they planned to publish a " collective rebuff " to the Chinese party 's views . " This caused us great anxiety since it aggravated the danger of a split on the Communist movement , " the statement said . Consequently , the Rumanians " comradely and insistently appealed to the Russians not to publish the materials of the Soviet party plenum , and at the same time appeal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polemics " and " suggested a meeting of the higher leadership of the two parties . " The Russians agreed to delay publication of their Feb. 15 plenum report on condition that " the Chinese would also cease their public polemics . " The Chinese said they were ready to observe a temporary cease-fire and invited a Rumanian delegation to Peking . This mission , headed by Premier Ion Gheorghe Maurer , went to China late in February . It ran into stiff Chinese opposition to the idea of halting the propaganda battle . " The Chinese declared that the open polemic could be stopped only after an agreement was reached through bilateral or multilateral discussions on the condition of its cessation , " the Rumanians said . Returning from Peking , they were told in Moscow that , in view of the Chinese refusal , the Soviet party would no longer remain silent .                     