@@726789

txt If American automakers had any hopes of soon gaining access to the Japanese market , these hopes have been roundly shattered . After a high-powered bilateral conference here , it is clear that the Japanese have no intention , within the foreseeable future , of lowering their discriminatory tariffs against American cars or permitting American manufacturers to produce cars in Japan . On the contrary , they give every indication they will continue to pursue policies aimed at protecting their own thriving auto industry . No tangible agreements were expected to emerge from the conference , though American car industry representatives were said to be " pretty satisfied " that some headway had been made in committing the Japanese to a reappraisal of their policies . But the impression left is that the United States did not gain anything substantial in its over-all efforts to bring about liberalization of trade between the two countries . Demands sketched In the two-day talks this week , attended by high-level industry and government representatives on both sides , the United States asked for : ? Lower Japanese tariffs on auto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan 's tariffs will still be 17.5 percent , while the American tariff on Japanese imports will be 3 percent . ? Revision of the system of commodity taxes . This tax is 40 percent for most American cars . compared with 15 percent for almost all Japanese cars . ? Revision of import quotas for engines , chassis , and other major auto components . ? Free movement of American auto capital into Japan , just as Japanese capital now is allowed to enter the United States . To all these , however , Japan said a polite " no . " Japan 's argument is that it is still weak in domestic automobile production and is unable to meet international competition . Ka tsuji Kawamata , president of Nissan Motor Company and head of the Japanese delegation , told the conference that although Japan ranks second in the world in number of motor vehicles produced , the country stands only fifth in actual value of production and sixth in number of passenger cars produced . No threw seen Meeting with the press after the talks Wednesday , Philip Trezise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Development and head of the American delegation , said the United States feels that the apprehension of Japanese industry is much " overdrawn . " Japan , he said , had made progress " unparalleled in the history of the auto business " and had proved its " competitive power . " Even after the Kennedy round is in effect , added Mr. Trezise , Japan would continue to enjoy higher tariff protection than do most industries in other countries . As for the " superior power " of American companies , he said the Big Four which operate in Europe " are far from dominating the European auto industry " and would not pose an overwhelming threat to Japan 's caretakers . Both sides said the talks , which were not meant to be negotiations , had produced a " friendly and frank " exchange of view . For the Americans , however , their mission appeared to be a disappointing failure .                     