@@727270

txt More than 1.1 billion dollars will be required to meet the city 's critical public education needs in the next 20 years  --  the school board was told yesterday . Key recommendations in a two-volume study on long range school planning were construction of 15 educational parks and more than 100 new elementary , middle , and high schools . The study was the latest in a series prepared for the board by a team of consultants headed by Dr. Donald J. Lou , a consultant in educational planning at Michigan State university . Earlier studies covered immediate educational needs and the educational park concept . Tax Burden Grows In in a king their recommendations , t h e consultants took pains to point out that Chicago 's taxpayers can not be expected to carry a 1.1-billiondollar tax burden over the next 20 years . " Massive commitments by business and industry , and local citizens along with federal and state monies are needed , " they said . " For example . major highwify problems facing our nation are being solved with a 00 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a priority of resources and commitment . " The long-range plan proposed is geared to modernizing school facilities and providing specific educational opportunities in the different areas of the city  --  allwhite , transitional , and all-Negro . For modernization , It advocates phasing out all school buildings built 63 or more years ago . That Involves 139 elementary schools and 19 high schools . 228,000 Seats Short Fifty-one other elementary and 15 other high schools would be convert ed into middle schools , designed to bring 601 , 7th , and 8th grades together under a new concept . As a result of such phasing and converting , and considering expected enrollment increases , the study estimates that the city 's schools will be short 228,000 seals out of anticipated 1975 enrollment of 014,000 . To bridge part of the gap , the consultants recommend c o nstruction of 53 ' elementary schools , 25 middle schools , and 21 high schools and expansion or rebuilding of 10 other facili-ties , Other Park Sites The remaining surplus stn. dents would be accommodated in the 15 educational parks recommended for potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Near Taft High school , 5625 N. Natoma ay. ; near Winnemac park , Foster and Damen avenues ; near Cicero avenue and Irving Park road ; in the Lincoln park area , probably within 2 miles of the lake between Fullerton ale Diversey parkways ; near Humboldt park , North and Kedzie avenues ; and near Cicero and tile Eisenhower expressway . Also near the Chicago Circle campus of the University of Illinois ; near Cicero and the Stevenson expressway ; near Marquette park , Kedzic and Marquette road ; near Parker High school , 6800 Stewart ay. ; near the Dan Ryan expressway ' and 103d street ; and near Carver High school , 801 E. 133d  | . Three others on the southeast side are not placed even generally as yet . As developed by Len in an earlier study , an educational park is a group of schools on close but noncontiguous sites , plus a planning center . Pupils would range in age from kindergarten thru high school , and they would come from a large geographical area . Old Buildings Needed Over the short range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be phased out . Even keeping all of them in service would leave about 150,000 children with no classrooms by 1975 . To f ill that need , they proposed a two:stage short range plan as the first step in the long range plan . The first stage would commit 167 million dollars to projects including 11 elementary schools , 11 middle schools , four high schools , part of seven educational parks , and special education facilities . The new buildings would be financed fr o m the school board 's 140-million-dollar lease agreement with the public building commission , and from the board 's own construction funds . Two other stens in tarrying out the long range plan would be stage two of the short range plan , costing 156 million dollars ; and a middle range plan for 636 million dollars . The consultants gave no indications about how to finance that big a construction program . Tho ' consultants also had some comments on the use of schools to promote integration and neighborhood stability . Must Reduce Panic " Successful integrating experiences which reduce flight and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Action designed to hold the vast majority of Chicago 's white citizens in Chicago is needed . " A small minority of Chicagoans will feed on and spread fear , hatred , and misinformation along with racial and religious prejudices . The city is better off without them ! " That statement , when read . to board members by Dr. Led , drew a derisive renonso from the overflow audience In the board room . Thomas J. Murray , noting board president , cautioned the audience that such outbursts constituted interference with a public body could cause the room to be cleared .                     