@@724546

txt " A new riotous color comedy-hit , " claims a movie advertisement in a recent issue of the Oklahoma City Daily Oklahoman . The ad also carries the names of the movie 's stars ? Tony Curtis and Natalie Wood . Significantly . however , the ad does n't mention the name of the movie . The omission was not a typographical error . The title of the movie in question , Sex and the Single Girl , was left out because the Daily Oklahoman has adopted a ban against the use of the word " sex " in theater ads . The Oklahoman is one of a growing number of papers scattered ai ound the country which have been cracking down on what they regard as offensive movie advertising . To some extent these ads reflect the fat t that movies have been treating sex much more frankly in recent years . But some newspaper ad men contend that ads often go beyond the bounds of the movies therm-elves in ti ing to lure readers to the box office . Even the vice president of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such objections . " I 'm afraid some of the boys in the business arc getting a little too fresh in their ads , " he syjs . Readers ' Complaints In seeking to curd inoviei ads. newspapzirs often are prompted by cm lr ants from church groups and individual rei ers , particularly parents concerned about the impact of the ads on their offspring . The Los Angeles Times , which adopted a new ad code last month , told its stage and movie advertisers that it had received " many thoughtful letters " from readers pointing " to the abuse of our franchise and obviously yours . " The Times noted it had gotten these complaints despite a program begun four years ago to screen movie and stage ads . The new code was adopted , the Times explained . to " more explicitly define problem areas and phrases which in most usages will not be acceptable . " The code lists 17 subjects to avoid , ranging from " burlesque " and " bust measurements , " to " violation of normal moral standards " and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid are " flesh-a-scope , " " nudies , " " nymphs , " " party girls , " " scanty panties " and " skin-a-scope . " The Boston Globe promptly adopted the Times ' code for its own movie ads . And the Detroit Free Press has warned local exhibitors that unless they tone down some of their ads , the paper would establish a code to regulate them itself . Free Press ad men say they have been receiving letters from readers complaining about " obscene types of advertising . " The paper says it recently insisted that one exhibitor reduce the size of type used for the title of a movie called Dr. Sex . Apparently anticipating controversy about advertising for Sex and the Single Girl , Warner Bros . Pictures , Inc .. the movie 's distributor , offered exhibitors some suggestions for avoiding newspapers ' objections . One ad proposed by Warner Bros. reads in part : " Because of a lot of last-minute confusion this picture will temporarily be known as ' Guess What and the Single Gi  --  l . ' " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any . impact movie ad restrictions have on movie attendance . But Walter Brown , owner of Detroit 's Fox Theater , claims a restriction placed by the Detroit News on one of his ads well may have drawn people to the movie . Sin on the Beach . The film 's title appeared in the News ad as just On the Beach . For their part , movie men complain that newspaper censorship policies often are capricious and inconsistent . One industry executive complains : " There 's no relationship between what some papers think is sensible in movie ads and what they put in their news columns . " Milton London . executive director of Allied States Association of Motion Picture Exhibitors , says one big-city paper turned down an ad for the English film Room at the Top because it contained an illustration of a reclining couple . The exhibitor then turned the illustration around 90 degrees . putting the couple in an upright position , and the paper accepted the ad . Some movie ads on TV also have been stirring more objections . The National Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ film are unacceptable under the code will be enforced more rigidly on big tions subscribe . Major film studios blame most of the objectionable ads on small producers and distributors who specialize in sex and sensationalism . Nevertheless , industry sources say , the Motion Picture Association of America which represents major film makers , is concerned about complaints that some recent big-studio productions have been in poor taste . These sources predict that the industry 's production code will be enforced more rigidly on bigstudio releases than it has been in the past .                     