@@726701

txt A bill imposing rigid restrictions on the ownership and sale of rifles and shotguns was passed yesterday by the City Council . Immediately after the legislation passed , by a vote of 26 to 10 , Mayor Lindsay commended the Council for passing it . Mr. Lindsay , who is expected to sign the bill , called it " tough , pioneering gun-control legislation . " The bill would require all persons owning or buying " long guns " to obtain a license from a new Firearms Control Board and to register them . Only those with gun permits would be allowed to buy ammunition . A $3 license fee would be imposed . Applicants for gun licenses would have to be fingerprinted . Weiss Scores Foes On the final tally , after an effort to send the measure back to the City Affairs Committee had failed , all six Re-I publican councilmen joined ) g four Democrats in voting I ' against the bill . The unanimous opposition of the Republicans , despite Mayor Lindsay 's expressed support of control legislation , received ) sarcastic comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sponsor of the bill , as he cast his vote . " Now I know , " Mr. Weiss , said , " why John Lindsay preI'fers to call himself a fusion mayor . He 's been deserted by every Republican in the House . " At an earlier point in the discussion , appealing to his colleagues to approve the pro- posed gun controls , Mr. Weiss asserted : " If in the course of a year , this legislation saves only one life , the City Council can be proud of its achievement " A typical expression of the opposition came from Councilman Joseph Modugno , Queens Republican . He said : " After months of deliberation , the City Council has labored and brought forth a mouse ? a little mouse which will only annoy our lawabiding citizens without in any way affecting crime . " . During the more than four hours of floor debate , Majority Leader David Ross , Bronx Democrat , and other Democrats rqundly castigated the " gun lobby " and particularly the National Rifle Association , for what they termed its " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Weiss charged : " The behavior of the leadership of the National Rifle Association was that of high-class punks . Like all punks , they relied on intimidation , and when they were stood up to , we found their power was that of powder puffs . " Woden Scott , a New York lawyer and'a. vice president of the National Rifle Association , said last night : " Mr. Weiss 's statements concerning the N.R.A . leadership are incorrect and irresponsible . " Those who opposed the bill argued generally that it would not prevent criminals , narcotics , addicts and other undesirables from obtaining guns outside the city : In commending the Council for approving gun controls , Mayor Lindsay noted that the legislation did not . include a provision he wanted -- one that would empower the Mayor to prohibit temporarily the sale or display of weapons when the Police Commissioner certified the existence , of civil disorder or " its imminence . " Mr. ' Lindsay urged the Council to amend the legislation soon " to , include this vital provision . " The , Council leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorders proposal - separately , later . The , . tee-member Firearms Control Board set up under the bill WoUld ' ' be composed of the Police and License Commission- , srs-and the City . Clerk . The $3 License fee would cover all weapons owned by : appli:ant . The ' license would be good for three ' years and would be automatically renewable . All weapons would have to registered with the board . In addition to being fingerninted , applicants would be equited to say whether they had to hunt or engage in target shooting if supervised by a licensed adult . Gun dealers would pay $50 for a license and gunsmiths $25 . The bill also provides for creation of a six-member appeals board to which an adverse decision by the Firearms Control Board could be taken . The legislation would take effect 90 days after its enactment , but required applications could be filed . immediately .                     