@@725983

txt The United States copper stockpile is dangerously below normal . Shortages of copper are already pinching production of civilian goods from TV sets even to some cars . The pressure wo n't let up . Copper users are concerned that if the Vietnam war is still going full blast next summer , tight government controls on copper are almost inevitable . Even price control may be necessary , they say , to prevent a major black market in the metal . The United States copper stockpile has dwindled to about 259,000 tons . The minimum amount needed for national emergencies is supposedly- 775,000 tons . Government officials estimate production can be stepped up by 150,000 tons next year . But the . Commerce Department now announces that defense needs beginning in January will shoot up to 26 percent of all copper produced domestically . This is compared to the 18 percent needed in this final quarter of 1966 . And in the second quarter of next year , the Vietnam defense take is expected to spurt up again to 29 percent . People used to smile at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't cause air pollution . This is suddenly important . And development of the electric car is purring right along . It 's providing a spur to oil companies to step on the gas . They 're speeding up their efforts to combat air and water pollution . Next month , Standard Oil Company of New Jersey will announce new measures to deal with a major factor in air pollution caused by cars  --  evaporation of gasoline from tanks and carburetors . The American Petroleum Institute has earmarked $2 million for research in air and water pollution next year . Together with individual companies the institute this year is spending an estimated $9 million on air-conservation studies . This is more than half the federal expenditures in this area . Oil executives see no immediate threat to their business . But they are n't smiling any more at the little old electric buggy . CB A new-old type of aircraft  --  the gyroplane ? is again attracting some attention . Avian Aircraft , Ltd. , a tiny Canadian firm in Georgetown , Ontario , believes there 's a worldwide market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four months it expects to complete tests of its.gyroplane for a certificate of airworthiness . An autogiro has to move forward to stay up . Other than that , it can do most things a helicopter can . Each has a rotor . But while the helicopter rotor is driven by an engine , the autogiro rotor is a free-wheeling wing which rotates as the plane moves forward . If the engine stops , the rotor continues to revolve , allowing the aircraft to glide safely to the ground . The autogiro wo n't cost as much as most helicopters . Avian is talking about a price of less than $20,000 . Trends . The Republic of Ireland 's canny development program is dragging in the dividends . It 's even drawing its Irish sons and daughters home again . For the first time in a very long while there has been a net increase in Ireland 's population . Emigration has been outweighed by Irish returning home . Give the credit to investment . It now is almost 20 percent of gross national product . Give it in particular to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attract their capital . Eighty percent of all new capital for manufacturing is coming from overseas . Incoming manufacturers can get up to two-thirds of the cost of site , buildings , and plant given to them as a grant . Mergers of electric utilities in the United States may be easier in the future  --  and more numerous . In recent years there has been much talk In the electrical industry of merging companies to reduce costs and provide improved service . But industry has been reluctant because the attitude of the Federal Power Commission was not known . Now FPC has cleared the air with its unanimous approval of the merger of the big Midwestern utility , Commonwealth Edison , and the much smaller Central Illinois Electric &; Gas Company . The commission said it approved the merger because of Central 's need for an increased power supply . It also laid down guidelines it expects other utilities to follow in proposing future mergers .                     