@@728238

txt The leaders of the European Common Market , with President Pompidou of France in grudging agreement , said tonight they were prepared to open negotiations with Britain and other ' ' I countries seeking membership . This decision was announced in a communiqu ? issued at the close of a two-day meeting here in the ancient and resplendent Hall of Knights . Spokesmen for the six members , including Foreign Minister Maurice Schumann of France said at news conferences that Ithe expectation was that preparation for negotiations with Britain should be finished by June 30 , 1970 . July 1 therefore is considered the starting point for negotiations . The French , in the opinion of their closest friends and , in some cases , severest critics , are thereby committed to serious negotiations on British entry next year . The five other members of the community paid the French price . This is , in the words of the communiqu ? , a pledge for " a definite financial agreement for a common agricultural policy by the end of 1969 . " This means subsidies for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , the five other members would not accept the French President 's demand for an unalterable agreement on farm financing . Acceptance of the agricultural agreement , the communiqu ? says , " does not exclude its adaption by unanimous vote , in particular In the light of an enlarged community and on // condition that the principles of this arrangement are not infringed . " This stipulation is expected to strengthen the position of the British Government with opponents who argue that the agricultural regulations are to be permanent and punitive , as far as Britain is concerned . Mr. Pompidou in this morning 's meeting stressed the need for a " more rapid , more active and more positive " attitude toward the preparatory talks on British admission . This was all very well , Dr. Joseph M. A. H. Lums , Foregin Minister of the Netherlands , answered , but although " we have confidence in you , we would like something more concrete . " Response by Schumann That " something " was Mr. Schumann 's statement at his news conference that France saw " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should take more than six months . This , the diplomatic consensus held , is the key French commitment . One observer offered the opinion that Mr. Pompidou 's reluctant acceptance of moves toward British entry had come because " he realized that all France 's partners were against her and were no longer willing to acknowledge the primacy of Paris in the Common Market . " Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany , affable and tough in the negotiations , appeared to most diplomats to have emerged as the key figure in the community , just as West Germany 's economic strength is recognized as the basis for Mr. Brandt 's influence . Many believe that a major factor in ' moving the community toward enlargement was Mr. Brandt 's throwaway line in his formal speech yesterday . " And I do not hesitate to add , " he said , that " whoever may fear that the economic strength of the Federal Republic of Germany could cause an imbalance within the community ought to be in favor " of Britain 's admission for this reason . This disavowal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , had more effect than any threats of its application would have . Mr. Pompidou , perhaps to cover his retreat on British admission , presented an ambitious plan for expanding common market cooperation in the political , monetary , nuclear and technological fields . Most of these proposals were incorporated in the communiqu ? . The communiqu ? called for closer political cooperation " within the context of enlargement , " that is , once the British and other applicants have been admitted . The other applicants are Norway , Denmark and Ireland . The other members are Italy , Belgium and Luxembourg . The members also agreed that a plan should be worked out to create " an economic and monetary union " and that the development of monetary cooperation should depend on the harmonization of economic policies . In this connection , both Mr. Brandt and Mr. Pompidou declared their governments ready to set up the cooperative machinery necessary to ward off monetary crises . Both said it was necessary to create a European reserve fund , of which countries would transfer a portion of their national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common reserves to tide them over balance-of-payments difficulties . Mr. Pompidou also said the community should form a common front in the International Monetary Fund , the organization that manages a pool of $22-billion in gold and currency reserves of 112 nations . It has long been a French view that the Washingtonbased institution is dominated by the United States and Britain .                     