@@724996

txt London . With full backing from President de Gaulle , France 's space program is discreetly forging ahead . Beside the gigantic space efforts of the United States and the Soviet Union it looks puny . But President de Gaulle and the team of scientists at the National Center of Space Studies ( CNES ) in Paris are seeing to it that the program is coherent and spread over as wide a field of activity as possible . The French President believes that any country wishing to survive in the present era must have a space program . It contributes to national prestige . It stimulates technological progress . Already France 's space effort is No. 3 in the world , pushing Britain into fourth place . Some time next year , CNES hopes to launch its own 40-pound satellite with a Diamant three-stage booster . The launching , from the Hammaguir range in Algeria , is planned as an all-French affair . Even an independent chain of space tracking stations is being built to cover it . ! Ikon lab planned Eventually , CNES hopes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 330-pound space laboratory on the surface of the moon . The same rocket will have the capacity toorbit . a man in space . However , as far as is known , , no specific plans exist yet for human launching . Like the French huc-lear arms program , the space effort is given high priority in government - Spending . NIu ? ll of it is top-se cret . Outlay ' has risen from an officially admitted $8,120,000 in 1961 to around $56,000,000 this year . Nearly three-quarters of this is going into strictly national space projects . The rest goes into joint European research with Britain , West Germany , Italy , and other countries in the European Space Research Organization ( ESRO ) . An active French space program began in 1959 . Already , a number of military rockets had been developed . The Veronique rocket , for exaMple , has served as a test basis for more complex and powerful boosters now being built or designed . Research varied The civil space program is closely merged with the military . Versions of the rockets designed for satellite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now the spearhead of the nuclear striking force . So far , firings of the small Dragon rocket have measured particle energies and densities in the Van Allen belt ringing the earth . In 1963 , a Veronique rocket captured world headlines by launching a cat into space . Considering that the space budget is relatively limited , CNES engages in . a strikingly wide spectrum of research . A space simulator for astronauts is under construction . Plans are afoot for tests next year of a prototype atomic power source for space satellites . Earlier this year , Trench engineers successfully bounced a laser beam off an American Scout rocket . New site readied One complication in the space program is that the Hammaguir range is to be handed back to Algeria two , years from now . But already work has begun on a replacement near Kourou in French Guiana . In many ways the site is better than Hammaguir . It is near the equator , giving rockets the maximum thrust from the earth 's rotation , and will allow firings eastward toward the Atlantic  --  avoiding inhabited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early 1968 . Probably the men in charge of the French program realize that there is a ceiling beyond which France can not go unaided . But by pressing on to the limit now , so that their country has no rivals in Europe , they hope France may eventually lead the entire European space program . CNES makes little seere ' . of its hope that a new space center going up at Toulouse in southwestern France not only will spearhead the national effort but will provide a focus for a French-dominated European space effort in the 1970's.                     