@@722092

txt Premier Khrushchev called today for the unity of the Communist bloc in its final drive to . defeat capitalism . He spoke on the second day of the twenty- ; second congress of the Soviet ' Communist party . He referred to the dangers ' cited in the new program of ' the party for any nation that ' strayed from the bloc , The warning of the Russian leader took on particular significance as Premier Chou Enlai of Communist China tacitly demonstrated opposition to Soviet policy . Mr. Chou declined to join the general applause for key sections of Mr. Khrushchev 's speech . Mr. Chou was believed to be smarting from the Soviet Premier 's announcement last night that Albania , Peiping 's ideological ally , had been banished from the international Communist movement . Communist China and Albania have obljected to Mr. Khrushchev 's foreign policy in Communist meetings as insufficiently mili ' tant . Draft Program Presented 1 The cool demeanor of the Chinese Communist Premier . who sat among the honored guests on the congress hall stage , marred what was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier put before the congress the draft of the third program of the party , which aims at creating a utopian Communist society within the next twenty years and at ' the establishment of Soviet World supremacy . Mr. Khrushchev described the program as " the Communist manifesto of the present epoch . " By 1980 , according to the draft program , the Soviet Union will produce more than twice as much industrial goods as the United States and its people will enjoy a higher standard of living than the American people. , The last previous party pro- gram was presented in 1919 by Lenin . During this six-hour speech reviewing the draft program , Mr. Khruschev restated his thesis that world communism could be achieved through " peaceful coexistence " and the ? danger of world thermonuclear conflict could be averted . The draft program was published in The New York Times Aug , 1 . When Mr. Khrushchev , hoarse and coughing , , completed his second marathon speech in two days , the 5,000 delegates rose t- give him an ovation with cadenced clapping . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Premier Chou and his colleague from the Chinese Communist Politburo , Chen Peng , got slowly to their feet during the ovation , chatted and then casually clapped . Mr. Khrushchev acknowledged the continuing ovation from the Center of the stage and then turned to the left to leave , receiving congratulations . As he walked toward the bench where the Chinese delegates were seated , Mr. Chou strolled away . Mr. Khrushchev shook hands with Wladyslaw Gomulka of Poland and other foreign party chiefs and then walked out while Mr. Chou left by the other wing .. The Chinese Communist leader began withholding his applause last night when Mr. Khrushchev disclosed that Albania had been exiled from the international Communist movement . Iloxha , Sided With Chinese At the closed meeting of the Eighty-one Communist parties in Moscow last November , the Albanian leader , Gen. Enver Hoxha , had sided with President Liu Shao-chi of Communist China in attacking the Khrushchev foreign policy as insufficiently militant . Mr. Khrushchev in his speech yesterday did not refer to Peiping 's opposition . According to the : text , published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , today , the Soviet Premier accused General Hoxha of practicing a cult of personality of the Stalinist type in his own country . " We Soviet people believed the Albanian leaders thought that mutual understanding and unity of views existed between our party and the Albanian Labor party , " Mr. Khrushchev said . " Facts show , however , that lately the Albanian leaders , contrary to their previous assurances and decisions of their own party congress , without any ground sharply altered the political line and adopted a course of sharp deterioration of rela tions with our party and with the Soviet Union . " Mr. Khrushchev continued : ) " They started to depart from the generally agreed line of the entire world Communist movement on the major questions of modern times . This became especially evident in the middle of last year . " Albania now is in the ironic position of being isolated from the world Communist bloc in the company of her bitterest enemy , Yugoslavia , which broke with the Stalin regime in 1948 . While Mr , Khrushchev has continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , he was reported to have infuriataed General Hoxha by repairing Soviet relations with Yugoslavia on the governmental level . In the private discussions that will take place here while the party congress is in session , Mr. Khrushchev is expected to try to head off a further cleavage in the world Cor  --  nunist bloc by mending his relations kith the Chinese Communist delegation . As the Soviet Union prepares for a possible test with the West over Berlin , he presumably would like to demonstrate a solid Communist front . Chinese Stand on Germany Peiping recently has supported Mr. Khrushchev in his Berlin policy and applauded Moscow 's resumption of nuclear tests . It remains to be seen whether Mr. Chou will be as enthusiastic about Mr. Khrushchev 's expression of willingness yesterday to postpone the signing of a separate peace treaty with East Germany if the West displays readiness to negotiate . The Chinese Communists are in a poor position to challenge Mr. Khrushchev 's authority openly . Their economy has been crippled by a series of reverses in agriculture and they need Soviet economic aid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his speech today Premier Khrushchev warned the Communist countries against the ideological sins of revisionism as well as one that the Chinese Communists have been particularly accused of in the past by Moscow : dogmatism . He said that a Communist country that displayed nationalistic tendencies would retard its development because " it would deprive itself of the possibility of using the opportunities afforded by the world Socialist system . " Premier Chou sat grimly still when a storm of applause broke out after Mr. Khrushchev declared that Communist countries stood " one for all and all for one . " " Anybody who would raise his hand against the Socialist gains of the peoples of our community will get a crushing rebuff from a billion builders of socialism and communism , " Mr. Khrushchev added . Khrushchev asserted that " the balance of world political , economic and military , forces has changed " in favor of the Communist bloc . " American capitalism has passed its prime and is declining , " he said , declaring that by 1980 " the world Socialist system will account for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet leader contended that his country 's science already was the most advanced in the world . Mr. Khrushchev described Cuba as a " bright beacon of liberty " for the peoples of Latin America . The Soviet Union , he said , " will continue to render assistance to the fraternal Cuban people in their sacred struggle for their just cause . " As the delegates burst into applause , Mr. Khrushchev turned to the Cuban Communist leader Blas Roca , who was sitting on the stage , and the applause swelled louder . Premier Chou this time did not hesitate to join in.                     