@@723567

txt BERLIN , Nov. 5 Tuesday UPD ? Russian armored cars - ushed up last night to block a United States army c o n v o y after it attempted to break out of a Russian roadblock at the western end of the 110-mile highway from West Germany . The West Berlin-bound convoy of 44 men in 12 vehicles had been halted at the Russian Marienborn checkpoint sinc e 9:01 a . NIL yesterday . At midnight , the convoy suddenly moved out without Russian permission . It rolled past two road barriers but was blocked by a third about 400 yards inside East Get-many as Russian armored cars and five trucks , presumably laden with troops , rolled up to stop it . Assembly of Vehicles Two armored cars parked on a traffic island about 200 yards in front of the lead vehicle and several others were parked on the side of the road behind the first two . Five Russian trucks also moved into position on the highway behind the armored cars . It was believed they carried troops , but this could not be confirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armored cars and the five truck s " moved into position to block any forward movement " of the convoy . Watched by Russian armor , the convoy spent the night in East German territory at the Marienborn checkpoint . Three Allies Consult The western allies United States , Britain , and France consulted here on how to deal with the situation , and the army postponed , as a precaution , a Berlin garrison maneuver scheduled for tomorrow . The soldiers slept in their sleeping bags in the trucks while armed sentries stood guard with fixed bayonets . The convoy , equipped with warm clothing and emergency rations , was ready for a long stay . During the night the troops were sent hot coffee , soup and cigarets from the West German border and were promised breakfast . - An American army spokesman said " this is a flagrant violation of the western allies ' unrestricted rights of access to Berlin , for which action the soviets must bear the full responsibility for any consequences . " German Drivers Report West German truck drivers who passed thru the checkpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them and troops inside . They said 25 Russian infantrymen in battle gear were deployed behind the armored cars . One truck driver reported he saw three ' Russian tanks moving thru the woods toward the checkpoint . Several minutes later a fourth rumbled up . The armored cars then redeployed , two remaining in blocking position in front of the convoy and two moving on past the convoy to take up position behind it . The new holdup strengthened the-belief of western officials that the Russians were engaged in a deliberate campaign of harassment and noted that a Russian with the-rank of lieu. - tenant colonel challenged the convoy . Officials here never accepted the view accepted in Washington that last month 's hold ' ups were caused by a misunderstanding by subordinate Russian officers . Nor could the new holdup be attributed to Russian misunderstanding of western allied processing procedures . In order to avoid any misunderstanding , the allies agreed on a uniform dismounting plan and submitted it to the Russians . The plan calls for soldiers to dismount if there are more than 30 in a convoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convoy there were only 20 passengers . 11 short of the proposed number . The other 24 in the convoy were drivers . Refuse to Discount The Russians refused to pass the convoy because the convoy commander , Lt. John Lamb , of North Augusta , S. C. , rejected the Russian demand that the soldiers leave their vehicles to be counted . A similar Russian demand that soldiers dismount to be counted last month held up an American convoy for 48 hours and a British convoy for nine hours . The Russians were told yesterday that soldiers in such Small convoys do not dismount . But the Russians replied that they , not the western allies , will determine how convoys will be processed . Called a Challenge The Russian statement was considered a challenge to the western right of free access and Maj. Gen. James Polk , Berlin 's American commandant , sent an officer to the Russian checkpoint to explain the western position . , The officer , Maj. David J. Anderson , of Iron Mountain , Mich. , told Russian Lt. Col. Viktor Spiridonov , " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order troop passengers to dismount in order to facilitate soviet verification of the total number of troops in a specific convoy . "                     