@@721704

txt New York , Feb. 19 1/P1 -- Striking flight engineers resisted the personal intervention of Labor Secretary Arthur Goldberg today , and five of the six strikebound air lines decided on drastic curtailments of operations tomorrow . Pan American , Trans World , American , Eastern , and National Air Lines said they would begin furloughing close to 67,000 workers in the morning if a settlement in the three day old dispute is not reached . Eastern Airlines announced in Miami it was beginning to lay off 6,500 of its 17,000 employes , including 3,500 of the 7,000 at Miami . Schedule Half of Flights Eastern said it planned to operate 194 flights tomorrow using supervisory personnel on flights requiring engineers . That would be about 45 per cent of normal . Trans World Airlines said at Kansas City all flights by its four engine planes would end by tomorrow morning , at which time a decision would be made whether to furlough 6,500 TWA employes in Kansas City . Western , the sixth line affected , declined comment at its headquarters in Los An ? geles . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same number at American and 15,000 at Pan American . National said between 3,200 and 3,500 of its 4,000 workers would be idled . Use 2 Engine Craft In most cases , the precise extent of the lay-offs was un ? determined . The air lines said they hoped to maintain some skeleton service with twoengine craft , which do not require engineers . The engineers are protest . ing a Feb. 6 decision by the national mediation board ordering them to join the Air Line Pilots ' association as a single bargaining unit . American said it planned to begin issuing " emergency leave " notices at 8 a. m. if the strike were still in progress . The notices would take effect at the end of work shifts in progress . American said it planned to keep 25 twin-engine Convairs in operation . and 4,000 of its total work f or c e of 24,000 would be kept on . National said it planned three flights from Idlewild to Miami and five from Miami to Idlewild prior to noon tomorrow . Afterithat nothing wag definite . Reject Goldberg 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking engagement and conferred by telephone with the parties involved in the dispute . " I ca n't report progress or lack of progress , " he said . " I am just awaiting developments . " In Washington , Ron Brown , president of the Flight Engineers ' International association , said its members have rejected an appeal by Goldberg that they go back to work while the labor secretary looks into the situation . " The men want something more specific before they will return to work " Brown added . Goldberg said that if the engineers go back to work he would review the situation " within the framework of existing law and in consultation with all interested parties .. " The struck lines employ members of the Flight Engineers International association on their four engine planes . The others use licensed pilots as . enginenrs . Flight engineers are not used on twin engine crafts . Among the country 's major airlines , only Capital , United , Delta , Braniff , and Continental were unaffected . They were swamped by requests from stranded travelers for flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anger . Switchboards were flooded . Overseas service , offered by 1 Trans World and Pan American , also was hard hit . Several thousand Chicago employes will be idle today if the strike by flight engineers continues , spokesmen said last nialit . A Trails World spokesman said that 1,240 employes in the Chicago area will be put on furlough , without pay , if the strike is still on at noon today . Only skeleton crews will report to work . Business Cut in Half A spokesman for American said 1,600 will be made idle in the area . They will be put on emergency . leave status , also without pay , if the strike is in force at 8 a. m. today .. Meanwhile , ? curtailment of flightt from Chicago was continued by many air lines at Midway and O'Hare airports as flight engineers remained away from their jobs . Both fields reported passenger , traffic was down to nearly , half of its usual Sunday business . Plan Extra Service Nearly all flights of jets and four engine planes have been grounded by six major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American , Trans World , American , National , and Western . Northwest Airlines , with its flight engineers on strike since October , also grounded its jet and four engine aircraft . Normal service , except for slight delays because of heavier passenger demands , were reported by Delta , Capital , United , and Continental air lines . Continental has , scheduled extra flights today between Chicago and Los Angeles as well as thru service to Denver .                     