@@726725

txt New York , Nov. 14 Reuters - Secretary of State Dean Rusk said tonight that he would go anywhere to discuss peace with a representative of the North Vietnamese government . In a speech at the Foreign ' association dinner , Rusk said the Viet Nam war could be ended within hours . " If a representative of Hanoi would make himself available anywhere to discuss peace , I would be there , " he said . " We will negotiate today without condition or about conditions . " Asks Minimum Cooperation Launching a new counterattack against Viet Nam war critics , Rusk said : " Those who deplore the violence , as I do , s h o u 1 d know that all the violence could end within hours with minimum cooperation from the authorities in Hanoi . ' Those who are concerned about escalation should know that we have tried over and over again , thru diplomacy and by practical actions on the ground , to start the process of &escalation;  --  only to face categorical rejections f rom the other side . Tells Rebuffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia . " Those who would brush aside a security treaty as a scrap of paper should reflect soberly on the dangers which would rise if it should be discovered that our security treaties do not mean what they say , " he declared . Rusk disclosed that the United States government was rebuffed by communist China for years in efforts to exchange scientists and peaceful technical information . Tells Proposal to China " In recent years we have tried to engage the authorities in Peking in the exchange of scientists and doctors and scholars , in the exchange of weather information , and in the exchange of plant materials involved in basic food crops , " he said . " We have been disappointed that the answer invariably has been that there is nothing to discuss until the people of Taiwan Formosa are surrendered . " Rusk gave no further details , but the United States approaches were understood to have been made during regular secret meetings in recent years between American and Chinese diplomats at Warsaw , Poland . Not World 's Policeman The secretary of state challenged what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . He said it would be " futile and suicidal " for Americans " to withdraw unto ourselves , pretending that the rest of the world is not there . " At the same time , he added , " we are not the world 's policeman , even tho we have deliberately chosen to accept , as our appropriate share , a portion of the total task of preserving peace . "                     