@@726486

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 36 Letters to the Editor of The Times New Tax Measure To the Editor : President Johnson 's tax message is a further demonstration of the disastrous political conditions now prevailing in this country . The President proposes an inequitable tax surcharge , which will affect middle- and lowerincome groups the hardest , and which is an evasion of the need to overhaul the distribution of tax burdens and plug the loopholes which benefit the well endowed . The President requires additional money to further prosecute our disastrous policies in Vietnam , which are lacking in any tactical , strategic , political or moral justification . The President emphasizes rigid economies in unspecified domestic programs . He thereby encourages those who , with monumental irrelevancy , seek the causes of civil disorders not in the failure of our leaders to create a livable society for the underprivileged , or in our own cult of violence in Vietnam and elsewhere , but in the activities of " agitators . " Like the President 's other recent remedies for existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in irrelevance and an evasion of true responsibility . However , words have lost their meaning . Any deity the President seeks to invoke will certainly not understand a rhetoric in which incompetent policies are sought to be sanctified by invocations of " America 's responsibility and purpose , " and in which the Vietnam fiasco is identified with " the light of a proud tradition , " as in the President 's tax message . One might , however , borrow from the President 's favorite rhetorical stock the old saw : " God helps those who help themselves " ? by sober and realistic policies attuned to demonstrable facts . Until the latter come into being , we may undoubtedly look forward to a rapid increase in the strains which threaten the fabric of this country 's existence . GEORGE K. ROMOSER Pocono Pines , Pa. , Aug. 4 , 1967 The writer is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of New Hampshire . ? Tax Loopholes To the Editor : Nowhere in the President 's tax message , or in the statements of the Congressmen who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about tax reform  --  nothing about closing or even amending pernicious tax loopholes for special interests : the 271/2 per cent depletion allowance for the oil and gas industries is at the head of the list . Why is it always so difficult for government to do the decent thing for the mass of the people ? JOHN P. CONNELL Forest Hills , L. I. , Aug. 5 , 1967 ? White View of Negro Strategy To the Editor : Negroes in America have been making progress through nonviolence , threats of violence , and violence . All three strategies are essential to further progress . Of the three , the threat of violence is the middle term . Nonviolent Negroes use it passively : violence will occur if you do n't respond to our nonviolent solutions . Violent and pro-violent Negroes use it actively : open up or we 'll break through . Nonviolent Negroes accomplished much by getting themselves victimized ? on TV ? by white violence , This strategy of appealing to the majority 's compassion and sense of justice is of decreasing effectiveness as the majority 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Further progress will depend nn the intelligent use of all three strategies , including strategic terrorism . Atpresent there is no evidence that violent Negro leadership ? if " leadership " is not too strong ' a term  --  has the organizing capacity to pass from mindless ghetto explosions to selective destruction of the property of those in whose hands are the levers of power . If such guerrilla activity does emerge , we shall see the swift demise of many myths and a swift shift of nationalpriorities toward domestic economic justice . Two questions must be asked of the notion that we must not " reward violence " : Is the violence justifiable as an attentiongetter in order to move toward necessary change ? In the minds of those in power , will the costs of not " rewarding violence " be higher ? ( Rev. Dr. ) WILLIS E. ELLIOTT United Church Board for Homeland Ministries New York , Aug. 5 , 1967 ? Choice of Judges To the Editor : In The New York Times of Aug. 1 , in an Albany news dispatch concerning the Constitutional Convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Appeals is quoted , in opposition to appointive judges , as stating that " important democratic values are lost when the choice of judges is taken away from the people . " In many , if not all , of the state 's judicial districts not only have incumbent Supreme Court justices been endorsed , but there has been endorsement of nonincumbent candidates for vacancies on the Supreme Court bench . Similarly , on occasion endorsement has been given to incumbent Court of Appeals judges as well as to nonincumbent candidates for vacancies . Every time this happened the choice of judges was " taken away from the people " and " important democratic values were lost . " If under ' an appointive system of judges this choice improperly would be taken away and these values improperly would be forfeited , then the endorsement practice to which I have referred has no place in our democratic processes . GEORGE A. YAEGER Liberty , N. Y. , Aug. 1 , 1967 ? Better Hospital Care To the Editor : Health Services Administrator Dr. Howard J. Brown should be commended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals . This will be a modest beginning in providing dignified high quality medical care for all members of the community . Medicare and Medicaid have established a framework where every person needing hospital care can be a paying patient , eliminating the distinction between " fee " or " charity " institutions . These hospitals should be reorganized physically and administratively so that patients in all economic categories , regardless of the source of their medical funds , will be welcome in them and will seek them out for medical care . To achieve this goal , semi-private rooms must be built in these institutions ; an appointment system should be established in outpatient departments ; and greater care must be taken to assure that every patient receives quality medical care . We should expect city hospitals of such quality that they can not only compete with voluntary hospitals but will serve as models of excellence to which other hospitals can aspire . DONALD RUBIN New York , July 18 , 1967 ? Peace in the Mideast To the Editor : Reading the Rev. Russell J. Clinchy 's Aug. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether he and I have been witnessing the same events . According to him , the " Her brews " have had no national state in the area for the last 2,523 years . Has he never heard of the state of Israel ? Or does he believe , along with the Arabs , that Israel should just be wiped off the map ? Further , he characterizes the blockade of the Gulf of Aqaba , the mining of the Straits of Tiran , the mobilization of 80,000 soldiers on the borders of Israel , the arrival of Iraqi troops in Jordan and the constant threats of national extermination as " questions of a legal and technical nature which should be presented for judicial consideration and answer by the International Court . " Charge of Aggression Having viewed these provocations with such equanimity , Dr. Clinchy accuses the Israelis of " aggression and terror , " of bombing armies " on the desert plains of their own countries from which they had not advanced . " Inasmuch as the Egyptians have always claimed to be in a state of belligerency with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression for Israel to act belligerently . President Nasser can not have his cake and eat it . He can not close the Suez Canal and Aqaba and then protest when Israel reacts in like manner . Moreover , whoever the initiator in Sinai , it is indisputable that it was Jordanians who began hostilities with Israel by their shelling of Jerusalem and other Israeli towns . As for the poor soldiers being shot at in their own land , I was not aware that one of the rules of war is to wait until an enemy crosses over onto one 's own land before firing at him .                     