@@722904

txt London What machinery can now be used to preserve the emotional unity of Europe so that it may later be consolidated in the political and economic fields ? Both the immediacy and the extreme difficulty of this question have been underlined by Prime Minister Harold Macmillan 's flying visit to Rome . " It is hard to grasp the implication of the Brussels breakdown , " Mr. Macmillan commented . And he and Premier Amintore Fanfani agreed that probably all they can do is work through the existing machinery of Western European Union . WEU derives from the Brussels Treaty of 1946 , which brought together ( it was thought ) Britain , France , Belgium , Luxembourg , and the Netherlands . It was a treaty for cooperation in defense , economics , and culture . In 1954 , following the failure of the French Assembly to ratify the treaty for a European Defense Community , Italy and Western Germany were included in the " association . " It was second best . WEU has functioned ever since , but has been almost totally ineffective . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1958 its existence did not avert failure , although then , too , six out of the seven governments favored that idea . Influence Modest WEU had no influence on the formation or development of the European Economic Community ( EEC ) , or of the European Free Trade Association . Demonstrably , it did nothing to help Britain 's effort to enter the EEC . Yet there is one significant difference between the situation in 1958 and that in 1963 . With the collapse of the Free Trade Area talks the view gained very wide currency that through them Britain had been trying to split Europe ; that it had been pursuing the supposedly traditional British policy of breaking up any European grouping stronger than itself ; and that , in some never-defined way , its proposal to link all Europe in a single market was actually directed at fragmenting Europe . Today few people outside France believe that any more . In 1963 the conviction has spread that Britain stands for a wider unity than France , a unity embracing virtually the whole subcontinent and stretching then across the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity Britons prefer . The important task that WEU now might be able to perform , even in face of a French veto there too , would be to keep this conviction and this concept of unity constantly in public view . It is however doubtful that WEU can be used for any practical measures to achieve unity . The development of EFTA meanwhile is likely to be kept in parallel with the EEC , so that the possibility of linking the two free-trading organizations can be kept always in reach . France Still Essential In Paris , wider machinery for sustaining the idea of unity exists in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and in the Organization of European Economic Cooperation and Development . The OECD includes of course the members of NATO , WEU , the EEC and EFTA , plus the Republic of Ireland , Spain , and Turkey in Europe , and Canada and the United States in North America . But once again the WeSt brought abruptly up against the question : Why has this machinery been ineffective in the past ? And , after that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek ? " Cooperation , it seems to have been proved , is not enough . But if this unity involves a merger , whether of economic , political , or defensive sovereignty it can not be completed without France . If it does not involve a merger , if it is just cooperation , how then ' is the West united ? The first tentative British-Italian answer is , through a NATO multilateral nuclear force , with or without France , and then " closer consultations " in Europe over ecomilmic , social , and political policies , operated mainly through WEU . Many observers believe it can be only an interim answer .                     