@@727633

txt Madison , Wis. , Feb. 14 ? A torchlight parade of 3,000 University of Wisconsin students was broken up tonight by Madison policemen . The students marched inh town after national guar ( troops were removed from th ( strife-torn Madison campus o the university . The militant students were returning to the campus after a short sit-in on Capitol square when 150 policemen carryinE riot batons split the parade , forcing students to march on sidewalks . Two Are Arrested Demonstrators sat in the street in front of the Wisconsin Capitol building shouting " equality for blacks . " Police did not interfere with them until they marched back to the campus . Two young men were arrested during the parade , making a total of seven arrested during the day . When protesting students saw the approaching p olic em e n , cries of panic went up and there was a rush to side streets and sidewalks . Police encountered little resistance and students dispersed when the threeblock long parade reached the university library . About 2,000 bayonet-carrying national guard troops were withdrawn this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edwin Young , Dane county and Madison policemen also were withdrawn ; Plan Long Rally Today A rally from 11 a. m. until . 6 p. m. is scheduled on campus tomorrow . Sound trucks advertised the rally , urging all university students to attend Chancellor Young said troops would remain in Madison armories unless they are needed to quell any future disorders . " They will not be back tonight , tomorrow , or ever , unless there are disturbances that disrupt the function of this campus , " Young said at a press conference called after be bad conferred with the national guard commanding officer and the chief of Madison police . " The purpose in activating the guard , to keep classes open , has been achieved , " said young . Striking students have stopped barring the way to classroom buildings to demonstrate their support for 13 demands by black students upon the university administration . " Whether the guard comes back rests solely on the shoulders of those who have been trying to disrupt the campus , " Young said . " They the troopers ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can come back , but I hope they will not be back . " Bar Traffic Sporadically Earlier , striking University of Wisconsin students played a hit and run game of harassment in Madison . Students in groups of a few hundred stood in intersections and blocked traffic until police or national guardsmen approached , then drifted away to another location where they repeated the demonstration . Three or four groups totaling about 1,000 students were operating this way . The nonconfrontation tactics virtually paralyzed motor traffic for up to 15 minutes at a time along University avenue , e major thorofare in Madison . It was the same street where police used tear gas yesterday to disperse student demonstrators . Coats $22,000 a Day James Lison , Wisc onsin adjutant general , announced that the cost of keeping the approximately 2,000 national guardsmen on duty here averages $22.000 a day , all paid by the state . He said this includes basic pay and allowances for the guardsmen on duty , gasoline , maintenance cost , and food . Meanwhile . John Felder. 18. of New York City . a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking for the entire black community on the Madison campus . He opened the press conference by announcing that he would not answer any questions posed by THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE , which he denounced as racist . He said blacks are firmly in control of the strike on the Madison campus and any actions related to the strike . " This is our thing . " Feider said . " There is no question of any other group taking control . "                     