@@727651

txt A. L ) ubious ' Turn in the Poverty War The rhetoric said one thing . It could even be considered a call to arms . " The blight of poverty requires priority attention . It engages our hearts and challenges our intelligence . It can not and will not be treated lightly or indifferently . .. " The action tucked in the rhetoric said another . In a militaristic parlance it could even be considered a withdrawal . The war on poverty would move forward , said President Nixon last week in his first formal message to Congress , but the war 's command post , the Office of Economic Opportunity , would be stripped of two of its major programs  --  Headstart and the Job Corps  --  plus two more minor ones ? Comprehensive Health Centers and the Foster Grandparents Program . He recommended that the O.E.O. not he extended for five years as Representative Carl D. Perkins , chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee , had urged , nor for two years as President Johnson suggested just before he left office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had criticized the war on poverty as " a failure " in his campaign for office , disposed of his most pressing domestic issue last week before leaving for Europe . In his message he let it be known that he was sympathetic to the poor , that he intended to escalate efforts aimed at helping deprived youngsters in their earliest , most formative , years , but that he intended to review all existing programs carefully with an eye toward their effectiveness and their efficiency . Having shifted four programs from the O.E.O. , he indicated that still additional changes could be expected in another message later in the year . Mixed Reaction The initial changes left O.E.O with its Legal Services , Emergency Food and Medical Services , Family Planning and several other national impact programs as well as with its planning , coordinating , innovating and community action roles . Reaction to the President 's message was mixed . Bertrand M. Harding , acting director of O.E.O. , said that he was " extremely pleased " by its tone . Representative Perkin had a slightly different appraisal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day before by Daniel Patrick Moynihan , the President 's urban adviser , the Kentuckian expressed immediate reservations . " I may be just a country boy , but I think you are making a mistake or two , " commented Mr. Perkins . Dr. Moynihan interjected that perhaps he simply had not made himself clear . " I understand what you 're ' saying , boy . I just do n't agree with you . " Mr. Perkins then left to attend a roll call on the floor . Nearly 50 irate Rhode Island mothers arrived in the nation 's capital early Thursday morning after an all-night bus ride from Providence to protest the President 's transfer of Headstart from O.E.O. to the . Department of Health , Education and Welfare . View of Poor " We do n't want Headstart transferred from O.E.O. , " said Mrs. Phyllis J. Robinson , a Negro mother of four . Headstart is an environmental improvement program for pre-schoolers , aimed at the family and the neighborhood : She . paid participation of parents is vital and that other programs run by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President placed it temporarily in the office of the Secretary , leaving unresolved a dispute over whether , if transferred at all , it should go to the Office of Education or to the Children 's Bureau . Representative Perkins noted this quizzically . If the President had not made up . his mind on the point , he wondered why he bothered to move . Headstart at this time . He said.that stripping the O.E.O , or " these plums " would leave it aliost.defenseless when it came , up . : for renewal . The President 's rhetoric , however , included ? a - good word for the O.E.O. as an ; innovator and an incubator of new programs . He even praised its community action activities which involve ' the poor themselves in providing a host of community services while jogging city governments to provide still others . Mr. Nixon insisted that programs be run efficiently - and free of scandal ? he said money stolen was stolen from the poor  --  but he also insisted that these programs " will be pressed forward " and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 0 . E.0. " for such endeavors . Mr. Harding , who felt quite encouraged , said he was astonished at such favorable language coming from an old critic of his program . Mr. Perkins was more dubious and wondered , - in effect , if the O.E.O. would be freed of other programs . as Samson was freed of his hair . I-NAIVICC-1CCPIST                     