@@725065

txt Covina . Cal. , Oct. 14 ( RI-Mrs . Zita Parker 's open letter to American fighting men in Viet Nam is 42 feet long  --  and getting longer every day . Lengtnerung it are signatures she tapes to it as they arrive from strangers all over the country . So far there are more than 1,700 . " We , the undersigned citizens of the United States of America , " the letter begins , " consider it a privilege to acknowledge our support of and confidence in the United States military forces . Hits Peace Outcries " We want you to know that the hysterical outcries of the ' peace-at-any-price ' individuals DO NOT represent the true feelings of the American people . We know that these vociferous voices constitute but a tiny segment of our citizenry . . . The American people DO support the defense of our freedom in these dangerous but necessary military operations . " Mrs. Parker , a pleasantfaced mother of three , told a reporter that she never before got involved in a cause . But last summer she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , she read about 1 anonymous , " kooky " phone calls to the widows of GIs killed in Viet Nam and 2 Berkeley students demonstrating against United States involvement . " Then I heard an officer in Viet Nam say on television that what soldiers need most is friendly letters of support from people back home , " she recalled . " So I sat down the next day and wrote my letter . Then I thought , gee , why do n't I get more signatures ? " First she wrote to Gen. William C. Westmoreland , commander of United States forces ' . in South Viet Nam , to tell him of her plan . Back came this reply : " Thank you for your inspiring letter . . . Many similar letters indicate to me that the majority of American citizens fully support our efforts here in Viet Nam . I look forward to receiving your open letter . . . Our information office will no doubt be able to disseminate it to our troops . . . " Project Snowballs Mrs. Parker typed copies of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The recipients mailed them to others , and the project snowballed . A woman friend now mimeographs the letters , which Mrs. Parker mails to anyone who asks for them . Mrs. Parker is the daughter of a marine . Her husband Jack , a car salesman , served in the navy in World War II . She plans to mail her letter and all signatures received to Gen. Westmoreland in about 10 days . Meanwhile , " to keep our poor mailman 's back from belog broken , " she has taken out a special post-office box : Operation Support , Box 1225 Fleetwood Annex , Covina , Cal. , 91723.                     