@@724925

txt Edward Heath , new leader of the Conservative Opposition , and Prime Minister Wilson clashed angrily tonight in the final minutes of debate on a Tory motion of no confidence . The motion was defeated , 303 to 290 , a majority of 13 for the Government . Labor has a majority of only three in the House , but was I helped in the voting by the abstention of the 10 Liberals , who ( said they were not prepared to join in a blanket condernnation of the Government 's actions . The long-awaited confrontation between the two party leaders , both 49 years old , reflected the country 's heated political climate . ' Misjudgments ' Charged Mr. Heath , making his first major speech as Tory chief in the House of Commons , earlier accused the Government of having undermined confidence through a series of economic " misjudgments " dating from last October , when Labor assumed power . The Chancellor of the Exchequer , James Callaghan , replied that the Government 's economic troubles were inherited from the Conservatives last year and were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day wore on , with speakers becoming increasingly personal in their remarks . One of the most biting attacks was delivered by a former Chancellor of the Ex- i chequer , Reginald Maudling , whom Mr. Heath defeated for the Tory leadership . Mr. Maudling declared : " My main charge against the Prime Minister is that he loves the smear and the innuendo land that he is a mean-minded I man  --  a little man masquerading as Prime Minister . " Angered by Wilson Remark He had been angered by a Wilson remark last Thursday that Mr. Maudling had published balance-of-payments figures " in the middle of the night . " Mr. Wilson , closing the debate , ignored Mr. Maudling 's attack and made a final important point on the economic situation . If voluntary wage and price restraints in the country are not effective , he said , legal controls will be brought into play . He then baited a trap for Mr. Heath . Did the Tory leader know , he asked , that the Conservative Government had been preparing for introduction last October alternate plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import quotas , : while Mr. Heath was on the hustings denying the gravity of the situation ? There was a roar as he pointed an accusing finger at Mr. Heath . In the Conservative Government , Mr. Heath was Minister for Industry and Commerce . The Tory chief sat tensely but said nothbig . Mr. Wilson jabbed again : " Your refusal to answer that question , because we know the facts , shows that this censure motion and your own atti- , tude on this is total humbug . " ' The uproar mounted and Mr. ' . Heath suddenly sprang to his ! feet . He had to shout . " This is absolutely typical of ! everything which has characterized ... , " he began , but the rest was drowned out . He conceded that the Conservative Government had instructed officials to examine every possibility in the economic situation and that no decision had been taken . The two leaders then faced each other , angrily ' ' ' exchanging words that could not he heard . Mr. Wilson flung a newspaper , sheet at Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliamentary experts said Mr. Wilson had the edge in the exchange , fie had succeeded in making a major issue of a point that was extraneous to the discussion , and in making the cool Mr. Heath visibly ang ? . Earlier , Mr. Heath accused the Prime Minister of resorting to " gimmicks " in economic policy . He also said the Wilson Government was one that acted and then almost immediately denied the validity of its action . Mr. Heath was asked by a Labor backbencher . Sydney Silverman , to state precisely whether the Government was doing the wrong thing , or doing the right thing too late in its deflationary economic policies . Mr. Heath replied that he was not going to be " taken in " by a question like that and went relentlessly on with his attack. / This point was stressed again when the Chancellor of the Exchequer . James Callaghan. rose to defend the Government . He said that if Mr. Heath was to give real alternative leadership he should say clearly whether the Government was doing too much in curbing inflationary demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right thing at the right time . Last Tuesday Mr. Callaghan announced strong new austerity measures to curb demand . The measures were also aimed at eliminating the international payments deficit by the end of 1966 . Mr. Callaghan had words of encouragement for the House today . He said the payments deficit ;  --  the difference between what ! Britain spends overseas in de-1 tense . foreign aid and import purchases and what she earns ! from exports and investments ' ? fell in the first quarter of , 1965 and would show another ! sharp decline when the second ' ! quarter figures were published. ; He said there was no doubt ! ' the deficit position would be ' " vastly better than it was last ! year , when it totaled the equivalent of $2.08 billion . Earlier , Mr. Callaghan said it would be less than half of last year 's fig- , ! tire . He said the deficit this year ; ould be financed provided over-i seas confidence factors re- ' mained " neutral " and there was , no upset such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fourth quarter last year . Mr. Callaghan stressed the ! importance of spending cuts .. ' To placate left-wingers on the ' ( Labor benches , he laid par- ' icular emphasis on overseas , ' military expenditures , which he ' aid had more than doubled to he equivalent of $1,545.600,000 a year over the last eight years . ' Mr. Heath . enunciating his prescription for getting the country back on its feet . tressed the need for developing a highly competitive society that would encourage the individual                     