@@724524

txt The , House voted today to stop sales of surplus food to the United ' Arab Republic . The roll-call , first of the year on substantive legislation , showed 20-1 favoring the ban and 177 opposed . The decision struck at ! cast . a glancing blow at President Johnson 's foreign policy . For some members , however , the jective was a direct slap at , President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the U.A.R. House leaders , including Speaker John W. McCormack , pleaded with their fellow Democrats not to tie the President 's hands , but 76 refused to go along . Among them were all the Democrats from New York City except for two who did not vote , and several from upstate New , York . They joined 128 Republicans in adding the restrictive ' amendment to a supplemental ' appropriation for the Commocl- ? ity Credit Corporation . G.O.P. Discipline Representative Robert Ft . Michel , Republican of Illinois.i led the fight . No Republican ; crossed the party line to vote against the Michel amendment . Republicans also criticized ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poration , which administers the , disposal of surplus foods , They said the fund request , was the consequence of a " phony " budget sent by President Johnson to Congress last year to help keep the budget total below 5100 billion . Since the appropriation is a. supplement to the budget : adopted in the last Congress , it , does not raise the total of the ' new budget sent to Congress ' this week . The Republicans made not serious attempt to block the ap-i ' propriation , however . It carried ' ' by a voice vote and was sent to the Senate . The anti-Nasser amendment ; was rejected at first , 128 to 122 , on a count of heads . But the Republicans then forced a rollcall and reversed the action . Representative Carl Albert of Oklahoma , the Democratic floor l leader , took the floor to warn , that " this will have major repercussions . " The restrictive amendment was dangerous , he said , beCause it afforded an advantage to Communist diplomacy . Representative Benjamin S. Rosenthal , Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't necessarily mean support of a stupid foreign policy , " he declared . Republicans applauded . Representative Seymour Halpern , Republican of Queens , called President Nasser " the Castro of the Nile . " He said the Arab leader had made a mockery of the foreign aid program and was guilty of " repugnant abuse of the United States . " In reply , Representative George H. Mahon , Democrat of Texas , said he was ' " confident that the adoption of this would be hurtful to Israel in the long ' run . " " Just because Nasser told us to go jump in the ocean is no reason why we should go jump in the ocean , " he said , evoking laughter and applause . He pleaded with the House not to be exercised by " a pinprick by a puny little nation . " Foreign policy , he said , can be Modified when the appropriate legislation reached the floor . It was Mr. McCormack who firmly tied the impending vote to the principle of upholding the President in foreign policy . Looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminding them that " we had an election last November and the people manifested their confidence in President Lyndon B. Johnson by the largest plurality in history . " He said that in the eight years under President Dwight D. Eisenhower the Democrats had not tried to hinder his foreign policy . President Nasser 's military posture toward Israel has been a long-standing source of irritation to many in this country . His circle of critics expanded a month ago when he spoke sneeringly of United States aid " We get wheat , meat , and : leftovers , " he said then . He also told of a deputy 's ' conversation with the United States Ambassador who " does not like our currency . I would lite him to know that whoever does not like our currency can go and drink up the sea . If the Mediterranean is not enough , there is the Red Sea . We can give him that as well . As for American aid ... we tell them ' thank you ' and ' may you have plenty , ' but we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The amount of aid that could be affected by today 's action is tiny . The significance is not related to the amount but to the gesture , which may foreshadow trouble on foreign aid . The effect of the amendment would be to serve notice to the office of the Food for Peace Program not to send the United Arab Republic the $37 million worth of commodities still due under an agreement of October , 1962 . The export value of the commodities covered by that agreement is $431.8 million . All but about $37 million of that has already been sent . The remaining commodities include wheat , tobacco and vegetable oils . Under the program , they are sold for Egyptian currency , which is then held for the United States to spend in Egypt .                     