@@726100

txt Republican leaders said today that President Johnson 's budget was so " shabby and phony " that Congress should send it back to the White House for drastic revision . Representative Gerald R. Ford of Michigan and Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois made the proposal at the Capitol news conference that regularly features the House and Senate Minority leaders . A few hours later , the President said at his nationally televised news conference that the newly strengthened Republican minority in Congress seemed to find fault with almost every move he made . Question 9 , Page 14 . Mr. Johnson said , however , that his Administration would try to deal with the Republicans in Congress " like I 'm trying to do with our adversaries " elsewhere in the world . " " I 'm going to say to the minority party , who I do think appears to be able to find fault with almost every act , that I want to meet them halfway and I want their cooperation , I want their help . " The President acknowledged the increased spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weak minority in the 89th Congress and were overrun almost daily by Administration Democrats who were able to enact most of the President 's legislative program . This year , the Republicans hold 47 seats in the House and three in the Senate that were occupied by Democrats in 1965 and 1966 . Some Democrats have complained that the Republicans are using their new strength in a spirit of revenge . " I think it 's quite a different Congress , " Mr. Johnson said . " I think it 's going to be a more partisan Congress and I think it 's going to be more difficult to obtain favorable action on Administration measures . " The Administration , he added , " will win some and we 'll lose ' , some and we 'll try to work out . an area of agreement where we , can take some modified language in certain legislation We have to pass . " ? Mr. Johnson said he did not believe it was good for the coun- , try " to have partisan political . in-fighting all the time . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the election for that . " But the Republican leaders , served notice they were ready to fight long and hard over the executive budget . The " Ev and Charlie Show , " named for Mr. Dirksen and the former House minority leader , Charles A. Hallcck of Indiana . was staged this morning in a walnut paneled meeting room near the Senate chamber . There were two large signs for props . One said : " 1967 ? interest on the national debt $14.2-billion ; 1941 ? entire Federal budget $13.3-billion . " The other was a blowup of a headline saying " budget adds up to $700 more to family costs . " Senator Dirksen and Representative Ford arrived precisely on time looking fresh and bright-eyed . The Senator 's wavy hair , usually mussed , was neatly combed . Reading from a script , he said the budget was top-heavy with " absolutely nonessential items " that the Republicans will attempt to cut . " We are prepared to wield a swinging meat-cleaver or use a delicate scalpel as the operation may require , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , read that the budget " should be returned to the President by the Congress immediately with the demand that it be reviewed and revised into a document that makes sense to the Congress and to the American people . " In a question period that followed the readings , Mr. Ford said , and Mr. Dirksen agreed , that the budget was " shabby and phony " in that it did not reflect the true amount of the national debt and did not establish priorities on national spending . Asked how Republicans could go about havng it returned to ' the President , Mr. Ford said ) he hoped the Republicans on the ' House Appropriations Commit-1 tee could join with Democrats ! on the vonimittee and " do what they can to get the Adminis- : tration to review it . " Mr. Dirksen said a resolution ' , could be introduced to send the ' budget back for review . " Will you introduce such a resolution ? " Mr. Dirksen was asked . " Not at this time , " he replied . Mr. Ford was asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I will put one In. " he said . ' , But be then expressed doubt that it would be accepted by ' the Democratic majority . During the conference , Mr. ' Dirksen showed signs of wavering in his opposition to EastWest trade expansion and a consular treaty with the Soviet Union . This intensified the mys-1 tery Mr. Dirksen had been weaving , with seeming relish , around his ultimate stand on these crucial issues . Asked if his opposition to East-West trade was thawing . Mr. Dirksen said . " I do n't know that I ever got frozen on East- . West trade . " On the consular treaty he said . " I have never said I was absolutely opposed to it . There have been several conferences on this and there will be several more . Then we will see where we are going . " For and Against NVASHINGTON , Feb. 2 ( AP ) ? The Republican leadership role of Senator Dirksen was criticized today by Senator Clifford P. Case , Republican of New Jersey , and praised by Senator Hugh Scott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Case said there was a " very definite possibility " that moderates in the Senate would revolt against Senator Dirksen 's opposition to the United StatesSoviet consular treaty , his anticipated fight against expansion of East-West trade. , and the " hard line " he is taking on Vietnam . Senator Scott , a supporter of the treaty and trade expansion , praised Mr. Dirksen as " a legend in his time " who has become " the strong right arm of the nation " in supporting President Johnson 's Vietnam policies . Senator Case made his comments on a television program taped for New Jersey and New York stations . Mr. Scott made his remark in a speech prepared for Northwestern University 's Mock Congress .                     