@@724063

txt Washington , June ** air assault will be intensified against the Communists in Laos unless they stop their aggressive tactics threatening southeast Asia . A long-developing plan which can be disclosed today shows these measures will be taken unless the Communists stop their land grabs and threats to the neutralist Laos govern . ment : 1 . American planes flown by South Vietnamese pilots will bomb areas of guerrilla infiltration and their approaches in both Laos and along the borders of North Viet Nam . Yank Pilots Ready 2 . If the South Vietnamese fail to deter the communist drive , then American Pilots now waiting in the background will be ready to take over with higher-speed and more lethal jets . 3 . An additional 500-member special force team will be dispatched to South Viet Nam to strengthen the 16,000 Americans who are advising , training and fighting alongside the South Vietnamese . American jet fighters and crews have been moved into five recently ; completed or nearly completed air fields in South Viet Nam , at Bien Hoa , Tan Son Nhut , Da Nang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields were pushed nearly two years ago after the Communists showed no signs of agreeing to the Geneva treaty designed to neutralize Laos . Set up Communications In addition , navy ships have moved to Thailand with new equipment to replace equipment stockpiled there for American use two years ago when it appeared the Communists might cross the Mekong river from Laos and threaten Thailand.American troops were moved there then , but withdrawn without making contact with the Communists . An advanced communications network has been established along the line of five air fields , which can be used by either the South Vietnamese , Americans , or a combination of both . One of the fields , that at Da Nang , 350 miles north of Saigon , is long enough to handle the largest American bombers that might be needed . Navy Can Play Role F-100 jet aircraft have been positioned and reportedly have been taking off daily , accordim to dispatches from South Viet Nam . The South Vietnamese and their American advisers have been using propeller-driven T-28 trainers for bombing missions within the country , and B-26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being replaced with 100 Skyraider fighter-bombers which can carry a larger bomb load . The navy , which sent the initial reconnaissance flights over Laos at the request of the neutralist government in late May and subsequently lost two of them ) , could also play a role in the crisis with carriers of the 7th fleet . In the early show of force , the attack carrier Kitty Hawk was posi-1 tioned in the South China sea i with about 100 fighters and bombers . Carrier planes , along with some air force craft , have strafed and bombed communist positions in later missions when the Communists threatened them with ground fire . The plan now being disclosed would go beyond such defensive strikes and instead would attempt to interdict the flow of supplies and troops . Depend on Reds Conventional bomb loads ? not nuclear bombs  --  would be used in the attacks . The air response will depend upon the future course of the Communists and whether they will continue their aggression in Laos against the neutralist government headed by Premier Souvanna Phouma . The plan deliberately does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be put in effect temorrow , or three months from now . The United States , in a variety of ways , has been trying to communicate to the Communists in both Hanoi , the North Vietnamese capital , and Peking , the Red Chinese capital , that it intends to protect the western position in southeast Asia . Top military leaders have told reporters on the record that the United States is prepared to fight . Yesterday , when President Johnson announced he was sending Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , to South Viet Nam to replace Henry Cabot Lodge as ambassador , he warned : " I have said before that there is danger In southeast Asia . It is a danger brought on by the terrorism and aggression so clearly , if secretively , directed from Hanoi . The United States intends no rashness , and seeks no wider war . But the United States is determined to use its strength to help those who are defending themselves against terror and aggression . " The President said that " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , but we have made pr etty clear , I think , our policy and attitude . " Can Act by Degrees The air plan is designed in such a flexible way that it c ould be used in only the amounts required to avoid any sharp upturn in the not-so-cold war of southeast Asia . The Communists of North Viet Nam do not have an air force , altho they do have a few transport planes . The Red Chinese do have a substantial air force , built up with Russian craft and technicians . However , it is believed that Russia has not provided any material assistance , spare parts , or new planes since 1960 , when the two communist nations began to drift apart . No major shifting of Red Chinese troops has been observed during the American . South Viet Nam military buildup , which has been going on for more than two years . Gen. Paul D. Harkins , who has just retired as commander of American forces in South Viet Nam , yesterday pointedly observed that the United States had established a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a speech March 26 , Secretary of Defense Robert S. said that one of the options before the President was to initiate military " action outside South Viet Nam , particularly against North Viet Nam , in order to supplement the counter-insurgency program in South Viet Nam . " " This course of action , its implications , and ways of carrying it out , have been carefully studied , " he said . Both military and economic aid have been increased sharply since the speech . It has been estimated that the Untied States is spending 2 million dollars a day in the last two months , an increase of about $500,000 a day .                     