@@726016

txt Economics and humanity As Indian women carry their earthen water jars across drought - besieged wastelands , the international struggle mounts between Washington and New Delhi over food aid . The harrowing struggle between Washington and Delhi over food for India leaves officials and observers here aghast . Food pipelines are draining fast , hunger is mounting , and the human drama becomes almost unbearable . Yet the contest of political and economic issues is inhumanly balanced . There is reason to hope that an accommodation will be found before the damage becomes too great , either in human or political terms . But no one is certain in the present rush of events . As seen from Washington , the tightening struggle between the two countries  --  and within each of them  --  has two major elements : 1 . Fertilizer and the method of producing it . India desperately needs fertilizer on a large scale to solve its own food problem and to end chronic dependence on American food . Others urged to help out But its nationalized fertilizer plants are yielding disappointingly small output @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the big American oil companies have made very large technical advances and can build plants with 5 to 10 times as much output . President Johnson is holding up food shipments , for one reason , trying to induce the Indians to admit the capitalist behemoths. 2 . The other reason is American . With the food surplus evaporated in the United States , food for India no longer comes out of the bin . It has to be produced and purchased by the government like a cash crop . For Washington , this is not a gift from abundance , it is a budget item , bought by hard money from a war-taut national budget . The President is seeking , by holding up shipments , to compel other well-to-do Western nations to assume part of the humanitarian burden in India , instead of leaving it all to the United States . They have been resisting . Pressure applied The Johnson pressure is being applied at probably the only time it might be effective ? when food shipments under the present arrangement are running out and a new food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs the food due to protracted drought . - While this hard bargaining drags out , not only are the specter and the fact of hunger on the increase , and the fear of it worsening , but India is aimed for a grave political crisis . Prime Minister . Indira Gandhi and her government are shakily headed toward national elections in two months . Mrs. Gandhi has risked her position with the left wing-of her party by trying to go along with President Johnson 's commonsense approach to the fertilizer problem , though not with the price the oil companies are asking . This has alienated some of her socialist followers and outraged others , who argue that the American oil companies have built a reputation as ruthless international bargainers and exploiters . They say they will not permit such intruders in their socially conscious country . Some of the President 's advisers say that the fall of Mrs. Gandhi 's government could throw India to the political extremes  --  unpredictably , either of right or left  --  and that the entire Asian picture could be altered by such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics with human misery . They echo the Indian complaint that the oil companies are pressing their advantage too far and that the President ( with ' some evidence to the contrary ) is not pushing them as hard as he is pushing Mrs. Gandhi toward concessions . The opposite , and prevailing view , is taken here by many officials , national and international , and by a quiet but influential minority in Delhi . They say that India will not be persuaded out of its socialist " inefficiency " in the vital matter of fertilizer and can onlyibe shocked out of it by superior force of events and pressures . Many Indians confidentially plead with Washington to force the issue , saying they can not pay the political cost of such arguments at home . Neighbors cited Both they and their Washington counterparts argue that  --  the issue is not one of moderate hunger , and malnutrition today , but of widespread famine and large-scale human disaster tomorrow , if the fertilizer is not produced . These sources also say that the American oil companies face considerable risks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while seeming inordinate to Indians , will be literally small by comparison with the value of large-scale fertilizer and the managerial and technical know-how that India can not otherwise obtain , to replace its socialist bureaucracy . The question is further complicated by some Indian states that are not contributing as much food as Delhi and Washington think reasonable to help their neighbor states that are in serious want . The expectation here is that an emergency food arrangement will be made to keep the pipeline from running dry . But they do not expect the full crunch of this painful negotiation until after India 's February elections when the political future is less obscure and another food agreement has to be bargained out . This presumes that the fright and the ideological pressures will not foreclose the issue and destroy all possibility of adjustment by driving India in February to political extremes .                     