@@722330

txt Governor Rockefeller was reported yesterday to be working on Ms own legislation to authorize New York City to take over the strikebound Fifth Avenue Coach Lines . Albany sources said that , in any case , a bill to permit city acquisition by condemnation would be approved by the Legislature this week . Whether the version to be adopted would be Mayor Wagner 's or the Governor 's remained in question . The Mayor 's proposed legislation is made up of two bills . The first would empower the city to condemn any of the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines ' properties , including the company 's franchises , that the city deemed necessary for operating , the lines , whether or not they were used in public service . Clarification Sought The object of the bill is to clarify the power of the city to take over the struck company . The second bill , a highly technical one , would strip the Board of Estimate of the power it has had since 1953 to raise the basic fare , which in most cases is 5 cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interim basis and most of them expire April 1 , Thus the city could technically cut back the fare from 15 cents to 5 cents and depress the value of the franchise . Advisers to the Governor have voiced deep suspicion of this measure . They fear its ultimate effect would be to restore to the Public Service Commission the power it had to set fares before 1953 . Then , they argue , Mayor Wagner could blame the commission for any future increase . Rockefeller Studies Bill At the Governor 's New York office , it was said only that he was reviewing the Mayor 's legislation with his counsel , Robert MacCrate , and preparing a statement on the bus crisis for release today or tomorrow . The Rockefeller statement , it was understood , will deal with a proposal to prevent Mayor Wagner from " abdicating his responsibility " in setting fare rates for the line . Mr. Cohn called a press conference yesterday at the Pierre Hotel , the same hotel . where Mr Felix had met on Feb. 23 with the company officials . Mr. Cohn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm , Saxe , Bacon &; O'Shea . Distributes Affidavit Mr. Hochhauser distributed copies of an affidavit In which he described himself as a witness to the conversation between Mr. Felix and the Fifth Avenue heads . In the affidavit , Mr. Hochhauser said that he had gone to 477 Madison Avenue , where Theodore W. Kheel , impartial chairman of the transit industry , was conducting an arbitration hearing . Mr. Hochhauser said that he had gone to the hearing room of the American Arbitration Association to deliver some papers to Mr. Weisman . He said that Mr. Weisman had asked him to remain to assist in drafting some papers . At the close of the hearing , he said , he had accompanied Mr. Weisman to Mr. Kheel 's offices in the same building . From there , he continued , he accompanied Mr. Weisman and Mr. Weinberg to the Pierre Hotel lounge , where they were soon joined by Mr. Felix . Mr. Hochhauser said that a ninetyminute discussion of the bus situation followed . ' Willing to Make Deal ' The lawyer said that Mr. Felix had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a deal with us , namely , that if Fifth Avenue did not press the Mayor before the election in November , the Mayor would assure us a fare increase no later than Jan. 1 , 1963  --  the time he planned a fare increase for the subways . " Mr. Hochhauser said that Mr. Felix had said that this was an " absolute commitment , " and that if Mr. Wagner became Governor , Paul R. Screvane , City Council President , who would succeed him as Mayor , would honor it . Mr. Cohn said that similar affidavits would be signed by Mr. Weinberg and Mr. Weisman tomorrow . The company counsel said that all three men would be willing to testify under oath before the Erwin committee on this . He added that the company could produce witnesses to testify on " deals " between Mayor Wagner and Michael J. Quill , president of the striking Transport Workers Union . Mr. Felix repeated his denial of the charge and also expressed a willingness to testify in an inquiry . Felix Issues Statement He issued the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his press conference today are false and border on fantasy . " I attended the meeting on Feb. 23 as Commissioner of Labor . I wanted to do what I could to prevent a strike , and I would have been remiss in my responsibilities had I not done so . " At no time did I suggest a secret deal with Mr. Weinberg or any kind of deal . At no time did I indicate in any manner that I have been authorized by the Mayor to serve as his emissary in any private discussions with Mr. Weinberg and his associates . At no time did I mention the Mayor 's future political course , about which I am in no way informed . " Should I be asked to repeat my statement under oath , emphatically am prepared to do so . I am willing to have my Lawrence I. Weisman , executive vice president of Fifth Avenue , certain conditions for averting the strike that began March 1 . Mr , Cohn said that Mr. Felix , acting as an " emissary " of Mayor Wagner , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union alone until after the election " next fall , the city would " guarantee a 20-cent fare " by next Jan , 1 at the latest . This charge has been denied by Mr. Felix . He conceded that a meeting had taken place , but said that at no time had he made any commitments in behalf of Mayor Wagner . Mr. Felix has maintained that he acted in his official capacity in an effort to avert the strike . The subcommittee that will investigate the charges will be headed by Senator John H. Hughes , Republican of Syracuse . Other members will be Senators Warren M. Anderson Re-enter Weinberg or anyone else . " He added that he had never sent an " emissary " to Mr. Weinberg . Asked whether Mr. Felix had made an error , Mr. Wagner replied , " I have confidence in Harold Felix 's integrity , and no one could say I authorized Harold Felix or anybody else to make a secret arrangement . " Mr. Wagner said that he would be glad to appear before anybody " under oath or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As to Senator Erwin , he said : " I do n't know what the Senator 's intentions are . He has never knocked himself out to help the City of New York . " Mr. Wagner again urged Governor Rockefeller to " assist " in restoring service on the struck bus lines by sending to the Legislature a message of necessity to clear the way for the two city bills . He said he " sincerely hoped " that the Erwin investigation would not delay the legislation . Joseph Zaretzki , Senate minority leader , charged that Senator Erwin 's action was " nothing but politics , designed to embarrass the Mayor . " He called the inquiry a " Republican stalling operation . " The Manhattan Senator made his statement from Gracie Mansion , where he was attending the secand of a series of Saturday morning meetings with the Mayor .                     