@@726958

txt Vincent F. Jr. , a 24-year-old student at Union Theological Seminary , burned half of his draft card on the Sheep Meadow of Central Park last April and sent the remaining half to President Johnson as a protest against the war in Vietnam . At St. John 's Seminary in Brighton , Mass. , which prepares priests for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston , three seminarians have turned in their draft cards . In December , three students at Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati , a Reform Jewish Seminary , were arrested during a sit-in at a draft board . Their fellow seminarians raised the $2,700 bail . Typical of Movement Such incidents are typical of an antiwar movement that since last fall has made rapid inroads ? and in some cases has come to dominate campus discussion ? at Protestant , Catholic and Jewish seminaries across the country . About 150 seminarians , most of them Protestants , have turned in their draft cards and identified themselves with Resistance , an antidraft organization that operates primarily on secular campuses . Many hundreds more have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homes of high Administration officials to weekend junkets to New Hampshire to support the campaign of Senator Eugene McCarthy , who is seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination as an opponent of President Johnson 's Vietnam policy . As in similar developments elsewhere , the antiwar movement in seminaries is built on a combination of ethical and political concern . Among the most frequently mentioned causes are claims that military victory is not possible in Vietnam , and that the war is immoral because of the destruction it entails . At theological schools , however , peace activities take on special religious dimensions that vary widely among Protestant , Catholic and Jewish institutions . Involved are significant changes in attitudes toward pacifism , a widespread mistrust of the traditional concept of the " just " war , and increasing anxiety over the special privileges by which clergymen and seminarians are exempted from military service . Antiwar sentiment ? in the seminaries has developed slowly over the last three , years , and first attracted widespread notice last spring , when students began holding rallies and turning in draft cards . The major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from vacation in a new mood of urgency and frustration . " The Resistance dominated the school this , fall , " said the Rev. Robert Lynn , a dean at Union . " 9very student here had to confront the issue of the war and decide where he stood , " Opposed to Escalation Numerous seminaries held prayer services in which the opportunity was offered to hand in draft cards . Four students at Princeton Theological Seminary , for instance , surrendered their cards on Dec. 4 at a service in the seminary chapel . A New York Times survey last week indicated that while the number of students active in the peace movement rarely numbered more than 10 to 15 per cent of any student body , a majority of the approximately 75,000 seminarians of the three faiths appeared to oppose escalation of the war . Antiwar sentiment is strongest at the major interdenominational Protestant seminaries with traditions of social action . For example , 24 of the 275 bachelor of divinity candidates at Union have got to the point of handing in their draft cards . At Yale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This feeling is less strong at Jewish-and denominational Prot estant seminaries , and weakest at Catholic and fundamentalist Protestant institutions . Opponents of the peace movement are present everywhere , but they tend to be less vocal . David L. Garrett , a 26-yearold student at Yale Divinity United Press International The Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr. , Yale chaplain ; has been an antiwar leader . School who served four years in the Navy , agreed that the war raised moral issues but he added : " We also have a moral responsibility not just to leave the South Vietnamese hanging . " Students at St Joseph 's Seminary in Yonkers , the seminary for the Archdiocese of New York , said the overwhelming majority favored the war . Antiwar sentiment now differs sharply from comparable opposition to World War II . In 1940 , six Union Seminary students refused to register for the draft and subsequently served sentences of a year in prison in Danbury , Conn . All described themselves as pacifists who were opposed both to war and to conscription . They received little support from fellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sloane Coffin , who was president of the Union at- the time . William Sloane Coffin , Jr. , the Yale chaplain who has been a leader of - the contemporary antiwar movement , is his nephew . But Line Is Fuzzy Today there is little pure pacifism . Almost all of the antiwar seminarians say they would fight against an aggressor such as Hitler , but that they regard the war in Vietnam as wrong . " We seek a principle of selective conscientious objection , which would make it possible to legally abstain from participation in some but not all wars , " said Bruce E. Toschler , president of the student body at Union . He turned in his draft card last October . The line between pure and selective conscientious objection , however , is sometimes fuzzy . Mr. , who was indicted by a Federal grand jury last Thursday for refusing induction , said , he considered himself a conscientious objector not because he opposed all war on principle , but because " I ca n't conceive of a war that would be just in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seminarians exhibit a general distrust of the tradtional theory of the " just war . " This concept , first propounded by Augustine , lists a number of criteria for judging the morality of a war , including whether means are proportional to ends . " These rules were supposed to be a guide for judging wars , " , said Lawrence D. Spears , a student at Union , " but instead they have usually been manipulated so that bishops could bless any war they happened to like . " Underlying all aspects of the seminarian peace movement is the IV-D draft classification , which exempts seminarians and clergymen from military service . Only a small minority , mostly volunteers , serve as chaplains . Last spring a movement to end this special classification for the clergy gained widespread support in the churches , and several bodies , including the Episcopal Diocese of Newark , called for its abolition . One factor was the belief , that middle-class students should not be exempted when less privileged groups , especially Negroes , were being sent to war . Resent Distinctions Religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in theology that emphasize involvement in secular affairs , many students said that they resented distinctions between themselves and those in such secular fields as law . / Many also agreed with Peter 1Garthe , a 22-year-old student at St. Mary 's , a Catholic seminary in Baltimore , who complained : " How can we be moral leaders , in the future if we do n't have to face the same moral decisions that others have to-day ? " Some of the students who turned in their draft cards said they had so done to protest alleged injustices in the selective service system , and that they had sought a confrontation on the constitutionality of the law requiring the physical possession of a draft card . Many were subsequently reclassified 1-A and called for induction , however , and they now Complain that their draft boards unfairly shifted the issue to whether they would accept induction or not . John Hay , for example , said he asked to have his IV-D card returned but instead had received a 1-A card from his board in St. Louis . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Religion Minor Factor Another Yale student in a comparable situation it Lawrence Reilly , 32 , who turned in his card and has been called for a physical examination even though he is married , has three children and has a honorable discharge from the Army Reserve . Seminarians generally said that their religious interests had little direct effort on their opposition to the war in Vietnam . Some differences , however , are evident between semiarians and other students . At institutions such as Yale , the peace movements are stronger in the divinity schools than in the university as a whole . Participants in the movement said one reason was that the seminary communities were smaller and more cohesive and that those who undertook civil disobedience received more support from fellow students and faculty members . Another reason , they said , was that a clergyman suffered less professional damage by going to jail than , say , a law student . ? " The antiwar movement in the seminaries is also marked by a lack of cynicism and by an absence of the political radicalism present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less likely to end up vilifying the United States , " said Michael Koonsman of General Theological Seminary , an Episcopal school . " He speaks more of restoring honor to the country than of destroying the system . " ? Political Role Favored The vast majority of antiwar seminarians also choose political action or peaceful demonstrations , rather than civil disobedience ? to express their views . For example , an estimated 3,000 divinity students across the country are active in Seminarians for Peace in ' 68 , an organization that seeks to channel antiwar feeling into support for peace candidates . There are also differences of approach among seminarians of the three faiths . Jewish students , for instance , have been reluctant to consider civil disobedience , and practically none have turned in their draft cards . " We have a sense of horror of war , " said Rabbi Abraham Heschel , a philospher at Jewish Theological Seminary . " But a respect for the law is central to the Jewish community , and most do not want to criticize a country that offered Jews a haven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special situation in regard to the draft , for all are expected to become chaplains if asked . " We do n't feel that we are receiving special privileges that nonseminarians do n't have , " said Robert Saks , a student at Jewish Theological Seminary . Last year , however , two students at the seminary indicated they would not enter the chaplaincy because to do so constituted military service . Protestants , on the other hand , often cited precedents for civil disobedience in their own tradition , such as the Abolitionist movement , and many said they were thus able to approach civil disobedience with less anxiety . They also expressed more confidence than Jewish and Catholic students that such acts would not bring their patriotism into question . In Catholic seminaries the sense of obedience to authority was profound , and students said they gave considerable thought to the possible reactions of superiors before turning in their cards . Most antiwar Catholic students were highly critical of the leadership of the American hierarchy on the peace issue . Concern for Religion Underlying the peace activities of seminarians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious organizations on important moral issues . Students spoke frequently , for instance , of the ? general failure of German Protestants and Catholics to speak out against Hitler , and many agreed with Donald Steed , a 26-year-old seminarian . at Yale , who said : " I do n't think we 're in danger of fascism , but there is a danger that if the church is silent on the peace issue now , it wo n't be willing to say anything to society if that time ever comes . "                     