@@725099

txt Gov . Richard J. Hughes won a landslide victory in New Jersey yesterday , sweeping Democrats to power in both houses of the Legislature for the first time since Woodrow Wilson did it in 1913 . Mr. Hughes was re-elected over State Senator Wayne Dumont Jr. , the Republican candidate , thus assuring Democrats of the longest domination of the Governor 's office in this century . His victory dealt a harsh blow to a Republican party already split and faction-ridden . Returns from 4,682 of 4,753 E.D. 's gave : Hughes , D. 1,270,421 Dumont , R. 914,624 Mr. Hughes achieved the largest victory by any candidate for Governor in the state 's history . The Democratic sweep extended to the Administrative Building in Bergen County , a Republican stronghold . The Democrats took all four Senate seats , six of the seven Assembly posts and all three county Freeholder seats up for election . The landslide gave the Democrats control of the county for the first time h modern times . It changed the State Senate from a 14 to 6 Republican majority to at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats an overwhelming margin in the Assembly . Congratulated by Johnson Governor Hughes , who received a congratulatory message from President Johnson , told jubilant supporters in Trenton : " I think we should forget the angry words that have been spoken . I think we should join together as Americans in the never-ending quest for peace and freedom , never forgetting our Constitution and our laws . " And as New Jerseyans who love their state , let us all work together to build that state to the stature it deserves and to the height to which courageous men can lift it . " Earlier in the evening , Robert J. Burkhardt , the Democratic state chairman , said : " This is strong evidence to future candidates in New Jersey elections that elections ca n't be won by exploiting the unsubstantiated issue of soft on Communism . " Herbert Holran , a high campaign aide to Senator Dumont , said he Was ' stunned . " " Maybe We figured A Wrong , " he said . Democrats said the victory . was a complete repudiation of Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University as the dominant issue in the campaign . Senator Dumont based his campaign upon the controversial remarks of Dr. Genovese , who told a Rutgers teach-in on Vietnam that he would welcome a Vietcong victory in South Vietnam . Aside from the Governor 's breakthrough in Bergen County , which was traditionally the banner Republican county in the state , he also rolled up a monumental plurality in Hudson County , where he got 155 , - 628 votes to Mr. Dumont 's 55 , - 620 . This represented 74 per cent of the vote . Democrats envisioned a statewide plurality for Mr. Hughes exceeding 300,000 votes , making it the largest in the state 's history . Gov . A. Harry Moore , a Democrat , carried the state by 230,053 in 1931 . Message from President President Johnson , whose 900,000-margin landslide set a record last year , sent a telegram from the Johnson ranch in Texas : " The people of New Jersey have spoken and their good judgment means continued good government and progress for the state . I am proud of you . Ladybird @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to carry out a campaign pledge and introduce some form of broadbased tax to the new Legislature next January . New Jersey is one of the last states without one . Mr. Hughes favors an income tax . Some 2.2 million persons voted , or about seven out of every 10 of the 3.16 million eligible to vote . Senator Dumont appeared before a crowd of glum supporters in Newark at 11:30 P.M. and conceded . " I want to congratulate Governor Hughes on his victory , " he said . He attributed his defeat partly to huge Democratic expenditures . " They spent 15 times what we did , " he said . One dejected campaign worker looked up , and remarked : " It 's a first class disaster . This is the end of this party in this state for years come . " In winning a second term , Governor Hughes extended Democratic control of the Governor 's office to 16 years  --  eight of them under Gov . Robert B. Meyner . The Democrats reported huge pluralities in their traditional strongholds of Mercer . Middlesex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican , reported a thumping 2 to 1 majority for Mr. Hughes with most of the vote counted . The Governor took other Republican counties such as Cape May and Somerset . Along with Bergen , what pleased Democrats the most were the results in Passaic and ) Hudson . These are the two counties where Senator Dumont was given the best chance of chip.H ping away at Democrat strength by his use of the GenH ovese issue . To Revise Congress Lines Moreover , Democratic domination of both the Governor 's office and the Legislature will allow the party to determine a Congressional reapportionment of the state 's 15 districts early next year . The party undoubtedly will help the Democratic Congressmen who were swept into office last year by President Johnson . Dr. Genovese , whose new book , " The Political Economy of Slavery , " is to be published today by Pantheon Books , said last night : " Senator Dumont damaged a great university , insulted its ' distinguished board of governors , villified Governor Hughes for the crime of meeting his constitutional responsibilites and distorted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victim . He ex pected to panic his constituents , but he was a decade too late and they have answered him . " A Democrat at Mr. Hughes 's b campaien headquarters re-marked : " The stakes in the election were more than the Governor 's office or a Democratic Legislature , They were whether a local or state election still could be won or lost on trying to show that you 're more patriotic , more loyal than your opponent . " Mr. Hughes , a 56-year-old former judge from Trenton , won the Governorship four years ago in an upset victory over the late James P. Mitchell , who had been Secretary of Labor in the Eisenhower Administration . Mr. Dumont , a 51-yearold lawyer , is a veteran of 14 years in the Senate . Most observers agreed that Mr. Hughes 's most effective issue against Mr. Dumont was the Senator 's opposition to a gun control bill introduced in the final hours of the last Legislative session . Governor Hughes and his wife Betty began the day early going to Roman Catholic services in Princeton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock mass with five of their 10 children . Mr. Hughes went a half hour later to the Catholic chapel at Princeton University , a few blocks from Morven , the Governor 's residence . Afterward , the Governor and his wife walked through the crisp , early morning haze to Borough Hall , where he cast ballot No. 36 , and she No. 37 . About 35 miles north , Senator Dumont and his wife Helen were up early , too . They live in Phillipsburg along the Delaware River and they voted at the high school field house , a few blocks from their home . Last night , the Governor waited for returns at the Hotel Hildebrecht in Trenton and Senator Dumont made his headquarters at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark . Climax of Bitter Fight The election ended one of the most bitter and emotional campaigns in New Jersey 's history . It was a campaign that began with an emphasis on rival revenue programs but that ended being dominated by the remarks of Dr. Genovese , an obscure , left-wing professor at Rutgers University . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precipitated in the state by the United States Supreme Court 's one-man , one-vote decision was obscured by the furor surrounding Dr. Genovese , who told a ing Dr. Genovese . It was during April that Senator Dumont was campaigning hard , leading to his victory in the June Republican primary over State Senator Charles W. Sandman Jr . of Cape May County . But he did not seize upon Dr. Genovese 's remarks until July . when he turned them into his major campaign issue . As the incumbent Governor and dominant political leader in the state , Mr. Hughes had no primary . And as he and Senator Dumont measured each other carefully during the summer political hiatus , political observers and preliminary polls taken by both parties indicated a big victory for Sir . Hughes in November . Republicans Badly Split Moreover . the Republican party was faction ridden and badly split , with its state treasury $80,000 in the red at the beginning of the b campaign . Vast sources of campaign funds afforded Mr. Hughes hour upon hour of television and radio commercials and page after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for extensive polling ; Mr. Dumont had to settle for limited ones . Mr. Hughes could employ a small army of advance men , Mr. Dumont usually traveled on his own . Even on the issues , Mr. Dumont found the going rougher than the Governor . The Warren County legislator was firmly committed to a statewide sales tax while the Governor refused to tie himself to the income tax he favored . During the closing weeks of the campaign , Mr. eiughes said he would take the income tax , the sales tax , a lottery or any combination of revenue measures to produce new revenue . The Republicans also saw in the drought a major issue ' against the Governor . But as the summer ended and people no longer needed their swimming pools or air conditioners and when the water out of the tap became cool , the issue lost its impact and Mr. Dumon'ts advisers conceded that they must lock elsewhere for campaign hardware . Mr. Dumont saw the initial impact of what they called the " Genovese thing " and he and his advisers made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the board of governors of Rutgers , the state university , dismiss Dr. Genovese . When they refused , he demanded that Mr. Hughes apply pressure upon the board . When the Governor refused on the grounds of protecting academic freedom , Mr. Dumont exploited the refusal into a campaign said to be aimed at making the Governor appear soft on Communism . During the final weeks of the campaign , Mr. Dumont told crowd after crowd that Mr. Hughes did not understand the dangers of Communism , the principles of patriotism and . that his defense of academic freedom was undermining the ' American military effort in ' South Vietnam . Republican campaign pamphlets dwelt on American dead and wounded in Vietnam and asked , " Who would they vote ; for ? " Campaign commercials ; asked voters to give " our boys ; in Vietnam a vote of confid- ; ence . " Governor Hughes said he had ; " gambled everything " in defend-. ing Dr. Genovese 's right to say , what he did . He said to do less , would undermine the eonstitu- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Genovese issue split Republicans . Senator Clifford P. Case opposed Mr. Dumont . And ' every national Republican fig- ; ure who came to New Jersey ; in behalf of Mr. Dumont re- ; mained silent except for for- ; mer Republican Vice President ; Richard M. Nixon . Senator Robert F. Kennedyd was credited by Democrats with ' ; giving the Governor a major lift when he campaigned there ; last month and made an im- ' passioned defense of Mr. Hughes 's position .                     