@@721336

txt Transportation prospects for Long Island commuters appeared grim today . Bus officials said that even with emergency schedules , their lines could not hope to carry more than a third of the 85,000 regular commuters stranded by the Long Island Rail Road strike . The bus-line operators said there would he no attempt to extend regular runs into the center of the city , because of re congestion and parking problems . The N ? v York Public Service Commission had granted the Nassau County bus lines permission to extend service to Manhattan for the duration of the strike . Routes of the fifteen bus companies that operate in Nassau County and Jamaica , Queens , will remain unchanged during the strike . But school and special eharte ? buses will be called into service and shorthaul runs will be made as of ten as possible when necessary , ac-1 cording to the bus officials . They said they feared that during rush hours all buses would be filled to capacity before they left terminals . Regular customers at bus stops along the routes may be passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled . The operating schedules will be determined by reports from bus company radio cars . These will be assigned to study and make reports from all operating areas . All lines will begin their schedules no later than 6 A. M. The Bee Line said it would have eighty-one buses in operation at 5 A , M. from Freeport , Baldwin , Rockville Centre , Lynbrook and Valley Stream to Jamaica . Transportation officials urged that , whenever possible , passengers attempt to depart from seven major bus terminals to be sure of getting on the buses . They named these terminals as Glen Cove , Hicksville , Mineola , Hempstead , Freeport , Long Beach and Grant Park , at Hewlett . The Bee Line added , however , that special buses from the Rockville Centre Bus Corporation , described as a feeder line , would be used to set up a terminal at Rockville Centre . Parking Site Discounted Although the Roosevelt Field shopping center was named by Nassau County officials last week as capable of providing parking space for 18,000 cars , officials of the Schenck Bus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to depart either from Hicksville or Mineola . They said that except for special short hauls , all buses passing Roosevelt Field would , be from Hicksville and would ) undoubtedly be filled during rush hours , Ervin N. Hatch , the director of Nassau County 's Department of Franchises and Transportation , confirmed the bus executives ' estimate on the number of railroad commuters that could be carried . " We hope that about 25,000 to 30,000 of the railroad 's daily 85,000 commuters can be accommodated by the emergency schedules , " he said . " Every available piece of equipment will be in use if the situation requires . " 100 Extra Buses Due Bus officials estimated that under normal operations 400 buses in Nassau County carried about 100,000 passengers daily . They said that at least 100 additional buses would be pressed into service beginning today and that perhaps more could be obtained from other areas later in the week . . Bee Line spokesmen said that under their short-haul program extra buses would be stationed at West Hempstead and Franklyn Square on the run from Hempstead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line said that on its route from Glen Cove to Flushing , which passes through ' Roslyn , additional buses would start a short-haul run from Roslyn to Flushing . The company runs from Hicksville , through Westbury , Carle Place and Mineola , and from Mineola , by way of Mineola Boulevard , Jericho Turnpike , Willis Avenue and Hillside Avenue , into Jamaica would be supplemented by extra buses from Mineola , Willis Avenue and New Hyde Park Road . The company said it would also set up service from the Mineola terminal to Jamaica Station by way of Mineola Boulevard and Jericho Turnpike . Changes Possible All companies made it clear , however , that their operations today would be flexible and might be altered . Radio-car reports will provide the guidance , they said . Deputy Mayor Paul T. O'Keefe said that all efforts were being made to discourage Long Islanders from driving into Manhattan . Parkways and special parking areas in Queens and Brooklyn will be reinforced with policemen . In a special release from the Mayor 's office it was emphasized that the strike would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that all such regulations would be strictly enforced . In Brooklyn and Queens only , parking will be allowed on both sides of the streets , instead of on alternate sides , for the duration of the strike . All other parking and traffic regulations will be strictly enforced , the statement emphasized . Although car pools were recommended , it was also urged that such cars be parked in the outlying areas of the city . Parking Areas Listed The following parking areas were recommended for motorists from Long Island : Rego Park , near the intersection of Queens Boulevard and Horace Harding Expressway , with space for about 400 ears available , to the IND Woodhaven Station . Vamaica Lot No , 3 , at Ninetieth Avenue and 168th Street , with space for about 295 cars available , to the 169th Street Hillside Station on the IND and the 168th Street and Jamaica , Avenue Station on the BMT. tlAstoria Lot , at Hoyt Avenue South and Twenty-ninth Street , near the Triborough ? Bridge , with space for eighty cars , available , to the Ditmars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plaza for the IRT Flushing Line . SIRockaway Lot No. 1 , at , Beach 116th Street , space for 100 cars available , to IND RockH 3. way Park Station , Beach 116th Street ; Brooklyn Civic Center Garage , Jay Street and Myrtle ! avenue , with space for 400 cars , ' ; co Jay Street Borough Hill Sta:ion of the IND . It also was pointed out that . he Willets Point Parking Field , n Flushing , Queens , had apwoximately 4,000 spaces avail- , tble . The Coney Island Parkng Field in Brooklyn has , . , 500 spaces and the Carnarsie ' arking Field in Brooklyn ) 100 spaces .                     