@@727036

txt PARIS ? The only sensible way of creating peace and prosperity in the Middle East is by an alliance between Egypt and Israel . The idea may sound crazy , but surely no crazier than today 's Franco-German alliance would have sounded in 1870 , 1918 or 1945 ? after three savage wars and mutterings of revenge along the Rhine . Egypt was militarily smashed by Israel last year but Egypt has no need for complexes . It is the world 's oldest nation-state and has been shrugging off tribulations for eons . The Nile Valley 's uninterrupted civilization is the most persistent fact in political history . Intruded States There is at present deep hatred of Israel , the Middle East 's newest and only successful intruded state . Yet past times have seen similar intruded states when foreign peoples settled in the Americas , Cuba or New Zealand  --  and the world came to accept them . Egypt ( now called the United Arab Republic ) is Arabic speaking and mainly Islamic , yet its traditions antedate Arabism by millennia . There is such historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resemblance between President Nasser and statues of Pharaoh Rameses II . Arabism grew in Egypt during the nineteenth century and gained additional vigor when Britain sponsored the Arab League and made Cairo its seat . London evidently hoped to encourage Egyptian interest in Southwest Asia while diverting that same interest from the Sudan , which Britain wanted to dominate . Egypt is now vibrantly Arab in a political and cultural sense : the strongest , most coherent Arab state ; but this fact need not necessarily preclude both peace and alliance with Israel . After all , there is logic in the American political adage : If you ca n't lick ' em , join ' em . Neither Egypt nor Israel can " lick " the other because such a definitive attempt would provoke world war  --  which the superpowers wo n't permit . For Israel to lick Egypt would mean destroying the fabric of a country with history 's longest survival capacity . Russia would never allow this . For Egypt and its allies to lick Israel would mean annihilating it and driving its survivors into the sea . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplate a permanent solution and not just another stopgap between military campaigns . It is time both sides faced the major issue of a healthy regional future , just as de Gaulle and Adenauer made a similar attempt to bury the old FrancoGerman rivalry . Neither Washington nor Moscow intends to permit the kind of Middle East war that might produce a permanent battlefield solution ; therefore the only alternative is a permanent diplomatic solution . This must have as its ultimate goal Israel 's integration into the area , combining its technological and organizational genius with the Arabs ' underdeveloped wealth . Then wasteful spending on armaments might end and the region could be truly neutralized , ejecting each great power bloc . Both Israel and the Arabs are Western-oriented by custom and religion . Moscow 's longterm objective is to achieve development of a new Arab economic society and ultimately a Marxist political system . This aim could theoretically be achieved but might take so long that Russia 's maturing Communism itself would no longer be recognizable . The likelihood is both Israel and Egypt could fit into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minds to do so . The Eisenhower Plan Once peace comes , a haven must be found for the hundreds of thousands of Palestinian Arabs expropriated by Zionism . Here General Eisenhower 's plan would help  --  establishing huge nuclear plants on both the Mediterranean and Aqaba sides of Sinai to provide desalted water for irrigation . power for industry and immense new habitable areas when permanent frontiers are re-established . Peacemakers Available Peace . on the basis of geographical borders existing before last June 's war , would have to be arranged swiftly and in secret . Furthermore , negotiating it requires strong , imaginative governments on both sides . Audacious Middle East leaders always run the risk of assassination by fanatics , but Nasser  --  despite shaky moments since the 1967 defeat  --  is the most inspirational force the Arab world has seen in centuries , while the Israeli Government , if lacking the flamboyance of Ben-Gurion , also seems solidly in power . It is time the four most interested outside capitals ? Washington , Moscow , Paris and London  --  encouraged new ideas . Compromises must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always in diplomatic surgery . Nevertheless , if France and Germany could become allies in Europe why ca n't the same thing happen in the Middle East ?                     