@@725274

txt Reapportionment is reaching down to the local level  --  and in the process raising enough of a ruckus that there is actually secessionist talk in the nation again . This time , the would-be seceders are five rural towns in the potato and summer-home country on the eastern end of New York 's Long Island . They do n't want to quit the United States , however , or even New York State . But they do want to dissociate from Suffolk County . Their complaint : A recently reaffirmed court decision ordering reapportionment of the county board of supervisors will leave them with practically nothing to say about county decisions . At present , each of the county 's 10 towns ( townships ) puts one supervisor on the board ; under the new plan , the 10-man board will be reapportioned on the basis of population ? and some of the complaining eastern towns have less than 1% of the population of towns in the western part of the county . The towns ' possible solution is unusual  --  the last secession from a New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now Nassau County on Long Island seceded from Queens County because its residents did n't want to become part of the city of New York . But the towns ' problem is n't so rare . In fact , there is a widening effort across the country to apply the Supreme Court 's historic one-man , onevote doctrine to city and county governments , a battle that is becoming even more complex than the widely publicized reapportionments on the state level . Help for the Suburbs Local reapportionment so far is lagging well behind the state-wide changes , and only one big city , Cleveland , has actually completed the switch . But citizens in nearly a score of states , who claim they are underrepresented in city or county governments . have filed a wave of suits already . Political experts expect a lot more to be filed in the near future . The upshot of the battles could be significant changes in the balance of power in many local goVernmental units , including city councils , school boards and even special districts dealing with everything from sewage to snow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded , low-income neighbor. hoods would have more power . In many counties , the voice of the suburbanite would be strengthened while that of the farmer would be weakened . ? These changes could lead to increased pressure for city-fostered welfare programs , for new schools in slum areas , for vocational education and , in the suburbs , for new water and sewage systems , for parks and for stricter pollution control . In addition , reapportionment could lead to county governments taking on more tasks , such as regional planning , that were n't performed before . " The pressures of reapportionment are more likely to be in the direction of a higher level of local service and spending than in the direction of economy and minimal service , " says Jack B. Weinstein , a professor of law at Columbia University and a leading authority on local reapportionment . " Significance Is Sinking In " The Supreme Court has yet to require reapportionment beyond state and Federal bodies , though authorities believe it 's only a matter of time before the High Court does get into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , California , Michigan and Wisconsin already have ordered the reapportionment of county or city voting districts as a result of the 1964 decision by the High Court in which area alone was rejected as a basis for legislative districts . A survey by the Council of State Govern . ments showed that 14 states had localreapportionment suits pending as of June , and suits have been filed in at least two more states since then . The vast majority of these suits have been filed in the past year or so , says George A. Bell , research director for the information exchange group . " There seemed to be a preoccupation with state legislatures at first , " he says , " but the significance of reapportionment now seems to be sinking in at the local level . " The reapportionment advocates have plenty of fronts on which to attack . There currently are more than 100,000 cities , counties and other local governments in the U.S. , with a total payroll of more than 5.6 million employes-20% more people than those working for the Federal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some $40 billion a year of the taxpayers ' money . Some of the units , of course  --  such as school boards and smaller cities  --  are immune to reapportionment because they are run by appointees or by officials elected at large rather than by districts . However , such seemingly minor bodies as cemetery maintenance and irrigation districts in Idaho , soil conservation and water control districts in Texas and park districts in Minnesota are run by officials elected on the basis of area rather than population . How to Secede As an indication of the sheer quantity of disputes wrapped up in local reapportionment , consider the fights on Long Island . In Nassau County , residents in more populous sections are pressing for creation of county-wide property maps , at a cost of some $4 million , to eliminate expensive title mistakes resulting from less detailed maps currently used in realty transactions . County supervisors would be more apt to authorize the maps after reap : portionment , says Professor Weinstein . Nassau voters defeated a reapportionment plan in NoPlcosc vember , so some citizens are expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a reconstituted board of supervisors probably would act quickly to authorize a $1 billion public sewage system to replace septic tanks , which are causing pollution in the more densely developed western sectors . But the current board refuses to authorize the system . Further legal appeals currently are hOlding up the court-ordered Suffolk reapportionment , though the redistricting is expected to occur eventually . When that takes place , and if the eastern towns secede  --  which would have to be accomplished through petition to the state legislature and passage of enabling legislation ? there could be " a floodtide of litigation , " warns Bernard L. Burton , assistant county attorney . He says , for example , there would be " horrendous " decisions of how to assign the county 's outstanding debt between the two resulting entities , how to compensate taxpayers for the county buildings they paid for but which would wind up in the new eastern county , and how to divide up the county 's fleet of cars , trucks . and equipment . At the moment , the unhappy citizens in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they are talking openly of it . The five towns ' population totals about 66,000 ; the county 's total population is about 850,000 . More Say for the Negro One thing reapportionment of counties will do , hopes Robert G. Dixon , Jr. , a professor of law at George Washington University , is to " stir up increased interest and upgrade participation in county government . " He says , " Urban counties , particularly , will be able to assume the role of true metropolitan area-wide governments , which have been so difficult to create up to now because of powerful opposi- tion from dominating central city govern . ments . " And reapportionment of cities , say other authorities , will give the Negro a more powerful say . In Baltimore , where reapportionment is being sought , a remapping of the city council " could very well result in more Negroes on the council , since Negroes represent about 40% of the city 's population but hold only 2 of its 21 seats , " says Ambrose T. Hartman , deputy city solicitor . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wrinkle to the complexion of the local government involved , particularly where it is already roughly representative of the population . Cleveland , the one city to reapportion since the High Court ruling , is an example . " We ended up with the same number of Republicans ( 4 ) and Negro councilmen ( 10 ) on our ( 33-man ) city council as we had before , " notes Anthony V. Leanza , assistant city attorney . The city 's 33 wards now contain about 15,000 voters each ; they previously ranged from 12,000 to 30,000 . Actual reapportionment is expected to be completed in many other areas before too long . The Wisconsin and California legislatures have passed laws requiring all their county boards to redistrict , with Wisconsin setting an April 1966 deadline . The Michigan legislature , which reconvened this month , is expected to receive shortly a bipartisan bill requiring remapping of some local governmental districts . A Way Out ? One way to avoid reapportionment , some people figure , is to toss out district voting completely and change to at-large elections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party in power conceivably could elect all councilmen , rather than yield some seats  --  as probably would happen in reapportioned district voting  --  to racial , political or other minor . ities . But this may not work . In fact , it could be illegal , believes John L. Sanders , director of the Institute of Government at the University of North Carolina . Says he : " There is a strong suggestion in the U.S. Supreme Court 's opinion " in a 1965 case " that if the election of two or more legislators at large would operate to minimize or cancel out the voting strength of racial or political elements of the voting population , it would be unconstitutional . "                     