@@727190

txt LONDON ? Over the last several years the House of Lords , that delightful anomaly of the British Constitution , has quietly enlarged its moral authority by proving that it can be useful and responsible . Last week it tried to exert political force ? and succeeded mainly in damaging , itself . The issue was Rhodesia . Before the Lords was a government order applying the recent United Nations Security Council mandate for total sanctions against the rebellious whiteruled territory . The order required approval of both houses of Parliament , Commons and Lords . The Conservative party leader , Edward Heath , decided to oppose the order . He did so in part out of genuine disenchantment with the Labor Government 's policy of economic warfare against the Rhodesian minority regime , a policy which has been ineffectual to date . The Conservatives have a built-in majority in the House of Lords ? if and when the hundreds of hereditary peers decide to turn up . Last Tuesday just enough did to defeat the Rhodesian sanctions order , 193 to 18L Derisory Margin After all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote , the margin of nine was considered derisory . It allowed Prime Minister Wilson to distract attention from his own low public standing for a moment and rally his followers against the old enemy : inherited privilege . Heath 's reputation for political ineptitude was strengthened , The substantive Rhodesian issue was not seriously affected . Under parliamentary procedure the Government will issue a fresh order , and this time the Lords will almost certainly let it go by without a fight . Life will . go on , including the Rhodesian rebellion , which seems to be beyond Britain 's power to affect . What the affair did do , on the serious side , was to injure the chances for an overdue constitutional reform in Britain . That is the rationalization of the second chamber of Parliament . At present the House of Lords plays at least five legislative roles , Its ability to do so is confused by the fact that its members are not elected , Somo are appointed by Prime Ministers , the life peers , who are rewarded for merit or political services and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oldstyle peers , there because an ancestor was ennobled . A handful are bishops . None represents any constituency . One role of the Lords is simply that of a revisory chamber , a group of legislators who tidy up bills passed by Commons , the popular house whose members are elected . Someone has to do this job nowadays , when Commons is so overworked , and Lords is the logical candidate . Peers ' Role A second role , developed recently , is to initiate reform in sensitive social spheres where political attachments may actually inhibit change . The peers have thus played a large part in liberalizing Britain 's laws on homosexuality , abortion and theater censorship . Third , there is what could be called the role of constitutional conscience , distantly akin to that performed in the United States by the Supreme Court . When the Wilson Government jammed through the Commons its bill stripping British citizens of Asian ancestry in Kenya of the right to live here , for example , the peers carried out an elevated and nonpolitical debate and came close to stopping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brake to the power of an executive that , with a substantial Commons majority , could otherwise be a virtual dictatorship . For instance , the Wilson Cabinet last year put the party whips on to make the Commons approve an airport that public opinion violently opposed . But the Government drew back when it thought it was going to be defeated in the Lords . Finally , there is politics . Some Conservative peers have a theory that they are entitled to stand against a government that has lost its popularity , or against particular proposals that they think are unpopular . Those who believe in the importance of a second house have long wanted to strengthen Britain 's by making it more sensible in its basis and more acceptable politically . That means removing or subordinating the hereditary clement , whose present dominance gives the Lords a Gilbertian quality and makes and strong action by it suspect . A reformed house , many political scientists have felt , could be especially valuable as a check on executive power . It could question , investigate executive malpractice , debate issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it were not in the end empowered to override the Commons . Labor Opposition But many Labor party parliamentarians over the years have been opposed to any rationalization of the Lords . They have feared that increasing its public standing would give it power at the expense of the house they know and love , the Commons . Even the present limited power of the Lords over legislation  --  the right to delay any bill for a year  --  has been unwelcome to many Laborites . And last week 's escapade provided a perfect excuse for them to cry for the peers ' blood . Wilson basked in the sound of cheers from his own backbenchers for the first time in months as he promised revenge against the Lords . He said he would take " radical " steps to reduce their power , but left the timing and exact proposals open . - . ANTHONY " LEWIS                     