@@724048

txt A special House subcommittee called on Congress today to bring some order out of the chaos of state corporate income taxes imposed on interstate business . After a three-year study by an expert staff , the committee found that the complexity of state taxes , and the conflict among them , made compliance extremely burdensome . Some companies pay too much . But most pay too little or nothing at all . " It is a system which works badly for both business and the states , " the committee concluded . " The states are reaching farther and farther to impose smaller and smaller liabilities on more and more companies . The system calls upon tax administrators to enforce the unenforceable , and the taxpayers to comply with the uncompliable . " Left to Courts Until Now The report is the first serious effort by Congress to appraise the effect of state taxation on interstate commerce . Until now , it has been left to the courts to draw the line on what the states might tax . The 1,108-page report was prepared by a professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was also an advisory board of tax experts , with Prof. Ernest J. Brown of the Harvard Law School as chairman . The subcommittee held lengthy hearings , getting the views of business and of state tax officials . It also sent out and analyzed thousands of questionnaires to business on what really goes on in the state-tax area . Because administration is so scattered , there has never before been any comprehensive survey of the workings of state corporate-income taxation . One important fact  --  as opposed to tax theory ? turned up by the committee is the large degree of noncompliance by all but the largest companies . Study Authorized in 1959 The study was authorized by Congress in 1959 , after concern arose over Supreme Court decisions allowing the states to tax interstate commerce more freely . A special subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee , under Representative Edwin E. Willis , Democrat of Louisiana , did the job . At least 120,000 manufacturing and mercantile corporations in this country operate in interstate commerce , and the number may be as high as 200,000 . The committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fewer than 20 employes and sales of less than $1 million annually . But even the small mostly had sales in several states . Thirty-eight states have cor- porate income taxes , and most of the companies involved theoretically owe income taxes in ' more than one state . But In practice , the committee found , most companies pay only in their home states . " The vast majority of paid studied companies either paid no state income tax or paid in only one state , " the committee said of its survey . " Fewer than a tenth of the studied companies paid taxes in more than three states . " High Complexity Found The reason for the " discrepancy between the legal rules and the actual practice , " the committee found , is the " extraordinarily complex " taxing situation that meets the average company . The system is simply beyond the comprehension and the ability of the typical small company to meet it , the study held . First , in the stream of complexities , there is the question whether a company is covered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax any concern maintaining a warehouse there , some a company with a mere telephone-answering service ? and others do not tax even a business with a sales office in the state . " The picture presented , " the committee said , " more nearly resembles the product of a nonobjective artist than logical and predictable rules for imposing income taxes . " The general trend is for tile states to reach farther and farther out , for companies less and less connected with the taxing state . The tendency is to make companies liable wherever they sell . Many Do Not File But that again is only theory . The committee found , for example , that only 21 of 819 surveyed companies that had salesmen in a taxing state filed a return  --  though all were required to file . Only 91 of 234 companies with goods in a taxing state 's public warehouse filed returns . The question of liability is further complicated in that some cities have started to impose their own corporate income taxes . And a city 's definition of liability sometimes differs from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes , the committee said . But the potential for confusion is " overwhelming . " The second question in each state is what is taxable income . Nine states follow the Federal definition , but the others have their own . The result is more complexity , since deductions and other factors vary so widely for any company attempt- ; ing to fulfill the law in several ; states . Question of Dividing Income Third , and perhaps worst , there is the question of how to divide the income among tax-1 ing states . The tax laws generally attribute a company 's ; income to various states accord-I ing to the business done in each , and apportion the tax accordingly . The trouble is that the states have different apportionment formulas . Some weigh how , much property a company has , in a state , or how much pay- , roll . Some weigh the volume of sales orginating in the state , and some the sales whose des tination is there . Combinations of all these factors are used . Hardly two formulas are the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find itself taxed on more than the total of its net income , because of overlapping formulas . This chaotic situation , the committee said , puts an impossible accounting burden on all companies except the giants with punch-card accounting . The committee said that in many cases it would cost a company more to prepare a return than the tax due . " For the corporate giant , " the committee said , the state tax complexities " are time-consuming and irritating . For the vast number of small- and moderate-sized companies which carry on their business across state lines , the system simply has no relation to their ability to cope with it . " Viewed in these terms , the results of the situation become Associated Press Representative ' Edwin E. Willis , Democrat of Louisiana , who led a survey on interstate tax problems . apparent . In broad areas the ) demands of the states upon in-I terstate business are largely ; disregarded . " The inequities are numerous , i the committee noted . Some i companies pay more than others ? similarly situated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay taxes that competitive interstate companies do not . The solution to the whole problem can come only from Congress , the committee concluded . It said that the states had been trying without success for 50 years to coordinate their tax approaches , and that there was no real hope in that line . The committee did not offer specific recommendations now . They will come in a separate report , probably next fall . But the committee did give some hints of its thinking . One major reform would be for Congress , invoking its power over interstate command , to lay down a single formula for the apportionment of interstate business among the states for taxing purposes . The Simplest Formula An interesting chapter of the report measured the actual effect on state tax revenue of various uniform apportionment formulas , if all states were required to follow one . The surprising discovery is that the impact would be very slight . Only a handful of states would lose more than 1 per cent of their tax revenue if they switched to a model apportionment formula . None @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and some would gain . The simplest formula , putting the least burden on company accounts , would weigh merely a company 's property and payroll in each taxing state . The addition of sales to the formula , by origin or destination , introduces the real complexity . Destination has been used by some underdeveloped states on the theory that it would compensate for their lack of big manufacturing facilities . But the committee shows that manufacturing states also tend to attract the most sales , so that ! destination formulas do not ; make much difference . Also , all ; states are tending to become ! industrialized . The committee suggested ! that if sales were to be weighed , at all , some substantial volume , figure be established as a cutoff point so that companies selling Mess than that in a state would ; not be liable . Thus the considerations going into apportionment of taxes would also weigh in whether al company was liable at all in a ' state . Congress could act here , too . The report was hailed today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the special subcommittee . He especially praised the subcommittee staff . I " It is necessary for Congress Ito take action to alleviate this ; Lindsay upon commerce , " Mr. ; Lindsay said , " and I believe that the report we are filing : today will serve as the basis . for this legislation . "                     