@@724379

txt Abu Shnbel , Egypt In a few weeks , the huge temples of ancient Egypt that were cut in the rock here 32 centuries ago will be going under . The covering will be sand  --  not water . The sand cover is the second step in the big job of saving the temples of Abu Simbel . The task has captured the imagination of millions . This has been so ever since it was first disclosed that the temples , with their colossal statues of the Egyptian Pharoah Rameses II , were going to be flooded by the waters of the Nile , backed up by the new Aswan High Dam . The Dam , being built by Soviet engineers almost 200 miles down stream , will create the greatest man-made lake in the world , lake Nasser . beginning in September of next year . 1 At Abu Simbel , a five-nation team is working to move the twin temples to a new location higher UP the rock cliff . Sawing Scheduled This means sawing these huge structures into big stone blocks and putting them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 66 feet high and burrow back into the rock more than 180 feet . " We 're right on schedule , " said Werner Esme , a German engineer working with the Hochtief construction firm which is directing the operation . " The coffer dam that will hold back the Nile water until we are finished here is almost complete . Now we are working on the second step , covering the face of the temple and the walls inside with plastic and then sand .  --  ? " In a few weeks  --  certainly by the end of the year  --  the entire temple will be filled with sand and the front covered . Then we will start to cut it up into pieces of about 30 tons each . " The process is the same one used by the ancient Egyptians more than 3.000 years ago to build their massive temples . Technique Sketched They put down a layer of rock , then covered it with sand and built the next layer . After the roof was put on , the sand was shoveled out , and decorators worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the sand level was reduced . " We will do the same thing , cutting the temple into pieces from the top down , " Mr. Esme said . " Each piece will be numbered . The limit for each one will be about 30 tons . The ancient Egyptians sometimes moved 500-ton blocks , but 30 tons is a more practical size for our modern equipment . " The whole job will take seven years  --  two to cut up the temples , three to reassemble them , and two years to put the finishing touches on the job . Hotel Planned A new airport and tourist hotel will be built at the site . Until then , only a few weeks remain for visitors to see the temples at their original site , and boatloads are taking advantage of the opportunity . They ca n't see much  --  scaffolding is up inside and a big steel funnel has been built through the door of the main temple . This will allow workmen to go in and out after the front of the temple is covered with sand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy . and Egypt are involved in the project . Funds Contributed About all the United States sent was money  --  and there was a struggle about it . The job will cost S36 million . The United States promised SI2 million , but a congressional committee cut the sum out of the appropriations bill when it first came up . Eventually the money got put back in . Egypt has matched the total , and 45 other nations have added S5 million . A committee headed by Huntington Hartford , the American financier , is trying to raise the rest .                     