@@727314

txt President Johnson disagreed today with his political critics who say the nation is seriously ill and taking the wrong medicine to cure itself . Breaking the silence he has maintained since the Republican party nominated Richard M. Nixon for President , Mr. Johnson cast himself as a diagnostician of the nation 's health and pronounced it basically good . " There are some who say that we Americans are on our deathbed and that we have n't done anything to cure ourselves , " he said in a speech here . " Others say we are in bad health because we have prescribed too much medicine  --  or the wrong kind . I disagree . " " America , I believe , is essentially healthy , " the President said . " America is getting healthier . Because we have shown that our remedies are taking hold , we must work harder than ever toward our goals . " Addresses Medical Group The President relied heavily on the medical analogy presumably because he was speaking before the annual convention of the National Medical Association , a predominantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shamrock-Hilton hotel . Noting that President Franklin D. Roosevelt had " inspired a nation with the Four Freedoms " 30 years ago , Mr. Johnson listed " five new freedoms ? the new freedoms we are trying to win for America in our time . " He said they were " The freedom to earn a decent living from a full-time job , " the " freedom to own a decent home , " the freedom of every , citizen to " get all the education that he or she can absorb , " " freedom from discrimination " and the right " of every American to as healthy a life as modern medicine can provide . " " Jobs , homes , health , education , " he said , " four simple words that can mean every- thing in a person 's life  --  all without discrimination . That 's what things are all about these days . " The President listed the accomplishments of his Administration to help assure these freedoms , including reduction of the number of citizens in poverty , the new housing discrimination ban , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws in the last five years and doubling of annual Federal health expenditures to $16-billion in the last five years . He was warmly received during the 45-minute talk by the 2,300 doctors and guests present , particularly when he reeled off a long list of his Administration 's achievements fort Negroes . He ' also appealed " to the entire medical profession to exercise restraint in their fees and charges " to help control Medicare costs . And he pounded the lectern to emphasize an appeal for law and order , saying , " No man  --  not even the President  --  has a right to say what law he will abide by and what law he wo n't abide by . " Mr. Johnson did not specifically refer in his speech to Mr. Nixon or the Republicans , but he observed that " Presidents are not the only analysts on the scene today . " He omitted , in delivering the speech , the statements about those who say the nation is on its " deathbed " or " in bad health . " But aides said he stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the LBJ Ranch to make the speech , his first public appearance since he came to Texas nearly two weeks ago . He returned afterward to the ranch , where he has been working and relaxing . Mr. Johnson renewed his appeal for " new ways to improve " Medicare , putting heavy emphasis on his recent proposals for extending coverage for mothers and children from the prenatal period through a child 's first year . " Call it Kiddycare or whatever other name you will  --  but one day the healing hand of Medicare must reach out to every child in America , " Mr. Johnson said . " This will be the best investment we can make in our future . "                     