@@721205

txt President Eisenhower urged today the " uniting and strength-i ening " of the North Atlantic community of nations for the ' coming summit conference and other challenges that will follow . In a message read by Secretary of State Christian A. Herter at the annual spring meeting of the fifteen North Atlantic Treaty Organization foreign ministers here , the . President declared that strength , unity and firmness of purpose would be needed whether or not the mid-May summit meeting produced tangible results . After two working sessions behind closed doors , the NATO ' , ministers were reported tonight to have endorsed fully the Western positions on two questions to be discussed at the summit meeting  --  disarmament and the problems of divided Germany ' ' and West Berlin . New Tactic Considered It was also learned that the foreign ministers of the United States , Britain and France were pondering a proposed new tactic that could be used in their discussions with the Soviet Union about Germany . The device , if adopted and if feasible under the circumstances of the Paris conference , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's proposal for separate peace treaties with East and West Germany , but only on condition that the Soviet leader agree to an all-German plebiscite . to determine whether that was what the German people really wanted . Western leaders are confident that the Germans want reunification and would reject the idea of separate peace treaties in any such plebiscites . President Eisenhower 's message cautioned the NATO ministers against expecting " quick or spectacular " results from the Big Four summit talks , which begin two weeks from today . Need of ' Insurance ' Cited " If our negotiations with the Soviets do not prosper , we will have even more reason to look to our combined NATO forces as our greatest insurance against aggression , " he said . The President continued : " If these negotiations do create some hope of reducing the risk of hostility , our efforts to enhance NATO 's material and moral strength and cohesion will be the more needed  --  in order to meet the challenge of intensifying competition with the Communists throughout the world . " As the Atlantic pact 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , students opposed to EISENHOWER URGES A STRONGER NATO // the Turkish Premier , Adnan Menderes , chanted demands for " freedom " within a few hundred yards of the conference building . Norwegian Urges Unity The students were dispersed by soldiers while Turkey 's Foreign Minister , Fatin Rustu Zorlu , was expressing to the delegates the " deep sorrow " felt by Mr. Menderes at being unable to attend the opening cere-monies , Premier Menderes has been in Ankara , the capital , since last Wednesday , the day before the riots began , The disturbances have kept him from participeing in what Government spokesmen have described to the Turkish press as the most important international meeting ever held in modern Turkey . Like President Eisenhower , the Norwegian Foreign Minister , Halyard Lange , who is presiding at the NATO meeting , stressed the need for cooperation in his opening remarks . " It is easier to stick together in foul weather than in fair , " Mr. Lange said . " But the unity of our alliance is essential for its efficiency in international I affairs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unity is also an essential requirement for success in negotiations with the Soviet leaders . " At the morning business session , held behind closed doors , Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd of Britain reviewed the position taken by the five Western nations at the ten-power disarmament conference in Geneva . Mr. Lloyd was said to have emphasized that when disarmament is discussed at the summit meeting , the West should not be satisfied with talking about general principles but should insist on trying to draw up directives and concrete suggestions to resolve the stalemate at Geneva . Need of Controls Stressed He was quoted as having said that if there was to be any real progress , the Russians must show a willingness to enter detailed negotiations on questions of controls and an international peace enforcement agency . Mr. Lange and two or three others remarked during the discussion that public opinion in the West did not seem really to understand the Western position on disarmament , largely because the reasons for insisting on effective controls had not been explained widely enough . However , no objection was voiced to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon session Mr. Herter reviewed the Western position on Germany and West Berlin . Fundamentally it is that German reunification must be pursued vigorously and Western rights in West Berlin must be preserved . In the discussion that followed , Foreign Minister Heinrich von Brentano of West Germany declared that the German question was an essential test of the will of the West to resist the Soviet Union and communism .                     