@@721320

txt Cuba 's Government airline said , today that the foreign oil companies whose refineries were seized here yesterday had instituted reprisals by demanding ' cash payment for fuel needed by the airline 's planes on international flights . The action threatened to disrupt or even halt the foreign operations of Cubana Airlines . According to Cuban sources , the reprisal action was taken by the Esso and Shell cornpanics . The refineries seized here yesterday were those or Esso ( Cuba ) , Inc. , a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Company ( New Jersey ) , and the Shell Petroleum Company of Cuba , owned by Canadian Shell , Ltd. , of the Royal Dutch-Shell group . Airline 's Credit Canceled The only other foreign-owned refinary in Cuba , that of Texaco , Inc. , was seized Wednesday . All three refineries had refused to process Soviet crude oil bought by the Cuban Government . In Mexico City , there were indications that the Cubans were seeking to buy Mexican crude oil . Strong United States opposition to such a move was expected . Cubana Airlines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities for fuel at all overseas airports along its route had been canceled . The line was notified in Miami and New York that it would have to pay cash for the refueling of its planes . In view of Cuba 's shortage of dollars , the airline 's first deci ? sion was to make the aircraft carry enough fuel from Havana for round trips . However , this forced Cubans this morning to cut its pas senger payload in half for it flight to New York . It is be lieved that Cubana can fly witl its own fuel to New York , Mi ami , Mexico city and Montegi // Bay , but it may have to abandon its Madrid line . A flight to Miami today also left with only twenty passengers , less than half the plane 's capacity , so that it might carry a maximum fuel load . Carrying a short load of passengers will cut the airline 's revenue to the point where it may become a totally uneconomical operation . Cubana 's flight to Madrid last night was temporarily canceled when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bermuda , where it makes a scheduled landing to load gasoline for the Atlantic crossing . Cuba is said to have aviation gasoline reserves for forty-two days . Meanwhile , the Cuban Petroleum Institute was forced to close the 35,000-barrel-a-day Belot refinery of the Esso Company because it had no crude oil . When the Esso refinery was ; taken over yesterday morning , its feeder tanks held crude oil for only twenty hours of opera , tons at one-quarter of its ca'pacity . The company , had ' stopped imports weeks ago , anticipating the seizure . While Cuba awaited massive shipments of Soviet crude oil and products to ease- the present shortages , the refinery of the Shell Company here and the Texas Company refinery in Santiago slowed production to maintain supplies for as long as possible . Soviet Tanker Due A Soviet tanker with 80,000 barrels of crude oil is due to arrive here tomorrow morning from the Cacilda on Cuba 's I southern coast with supplies for the Shell refinery . She had been moored at Cacilda for several days . With petroleum stocks in Cuba reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Premier Fidel Castro has made itself dependent or , the Soviet Union for its oil supplies . The hope here is that enough tankers can be found in time to assure a normal flow of oil to Cuba from the Soviet Union before Cuba runs out of gasoline and other products , such a : the fuel oil needed to activate the power plants . Maj. Ernesto Guevara , president of the National Bank and top manager of the Cuban economy , said in a speech yesterday that the Soviet Union would fill all of Cuba 's oil needs . The country consume : about 26,000,000 - barrels an ? nually . While the regime 's radio anc newspapers contended today that the seizure of the refineries competent , immoral or counterrevolutionary . " The proclamation said that most of the teachers were in those categories . It demanded that the university council , the ruling body of the 20,000-student college , immediately meet its long list of proposed changes . It was not considered likely that the council , which the federation abandoned this week in a dispute over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accede to the demands . Esso Explains Action All affiliates of Esso , Inc. , a subsidiary of the Standard Oil Company ( New Jersey ) , were instructed Friday to make the Government-owned Cubana Airlines pay cash for its fuel . An Esso spokesman explained that the Esso organization was not refusing to refuel Cubana , but that the airline had to pay cash for the refueling of each plane in the negotiable currency of the country involved . Cubana paid in dollars yesterday , for example , at New York International Airport , Idlewild , Queens , for the refueling of one plane . Allied New York Services , which has a contract with the Pcrt of New York Authority to refuel all planes at the airport , also put Cubana on a cash basis starting Friday .                     