@@722352

txt Robert C Carden. president of a lumber supply firm in Kinsale , Va. , wandered into a plush anteroom off the Commerce Department 's lobby the other day . Whom could he see , he asked a pleasantfaced fellow who greeted him , about expanding his line of crating products into something that the Government might buy . Labor costs are going up . he said , and new sales outlets are vital for survival In a trice , Mr Carden 's greeter lined up appointments with people in the Commerce Depai tment 's Business and Defense Services Administration , the Small Bu -- ine , s Administration . the General Services Administiation , which procures Federal housekeeping supplies . and the Defense Department For good measure , he was Rico referred to a military Quartermaster office in Richmond . Now back home in Kinsale . Mr. Carden is regularly getting invitations from the Richmond Quartermaster office to bid on contracts , and he 's applied for a place on the bid notification lists of other agencies He 's also negotiating to supply part of the crating needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's my own fault if I do n't get some business now , " he says . ' Treated Like a King ' Mr. Carden felt so good about his tour of official Washington that he wrote Commerce Sec , etary Hodges a letter after he got home , bit'obling the ' he accomplished " in one day what It would have taken a month to do " had he not checked in at the little anteroom . Mr. Hodges deserves a lot of credit , he said . foi " treating a small businessman like a king . " This is exactly the sort of praise that Mr Hodges was hoping for when he set up his Business Service Center last November . The purpose is to guide visiting businessmen through the capital 's bureaucratic maze with as little wasted motion as possible . At last count , 1.535 slightly lost customers had turned up personally at the service center between mid-November end mid-February . and the office had handled 2,726 telephone inquiries . The renter 's head greeter is a stubby . energetic 43-year-old veteran of the Washington scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Between interruptions to help a new visitor off with his coat and to field a phone call from a Senator solicitous for a constituent . Mr Queen explains that his main job is to listen to an inquiring businessman 's problem and then send him off to the right agency . After that , it 's up to the caller to uncover the information he needs or to sell the agency on a pet scheme " The thing that a businessman r esents most is cooling his heels in somebody 's outer office or gettinc the brushoff all around town . " says Stanley Hays , one of Mr. Queen 's assistant greeters . Receptionist , &; Logbook , ' The center also has two pretty receptionists . Misses Louise Chapman and Adora Prevost. who dispense information on the phone and smile helpfully at office callers . A glance at the entries in their logbooks shows both the startling range of queries received and the degree to which the Government nowadays gets involved in everything . One caller wanted to know if there are cockroaches in the New England states to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was referred to the Agri. culture Department , which assured him that cockroaches are everywhere . A man wanted to know the hourly wage rates for bricklayers in the African nation of Ivory Coast . He was sent to the Commerce Department 's African experts . Is there still regular bus service between Istanbul and Athens ? The question was bucked to a specialist on the Commerce Department 's Greek desk , who said he did n't think so Mr. Queen 's staff also keep , . a list of lobby groups and trade associations that sometimes can help a caller . Thus a query on how a rifle club proceeds to get a Government loan was referred to the National Rifle Association of America . A committee established under State Department auspices to help new-nation diplomats here had this problem : Wives in the embassies of Sierra Leone and Ghana are accustomed to cooking with palm oil . Did the service center have a list of U.S. firms that Import the stuff ? The service center did n't , but passed the question to the Agriculture Department . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other agencies and sent out on the street . Mr. Queen arranges interagency conferences three or four times a week in his own office for important business visitors whose problems cut across several departments . Research and marketing officials of a company making aluminum foil were studying adoption of a new process for refining aluminum . They told Mr. Queen they needed to survey some technical production matters , estimates of aluminum industry production capacity and demand , and the market effect of any reduction in the Government 's aluminum stockpile To help out , Mr. Queen gathered together ( or a meeting some aluminum experts from the Commerce Depai tment 's Business and Defense Services Administration , a technical specialist from the Interior Department 's Bureau of Mines , a staff member of Sen. Symington 's special committee looking into Federal stockpile needs , and the aluminum company 's representatives . In another case , a U.S. company wanted to sell a big order of oil field equipment to India under a long-term credit arrangement with payment guaranteed by Uncle Sam . Although such credit-guarantee arrangements recently have been liberalized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handle a transaction as long-term as this one . Mr Queen set up a meeting between the inquiring company , officials from the ExportImport Bank , the Agency ( or International Development , the State and Commerce Departments , the Congressman from the company 's district , and staff members of the House Ways and Means and Banking committees Everybody decided it would take new legislation for the credit guarantee to be made on the sale 's proposed terms . Mr. Queen and his helpers insist they do n't act as a businessman 's advocate after they steer him to the right Federal office , especially in sensitive regulatory cases . But in the oil field equipment case . Mr. Queen concedes he began mentally pulling for his client 's cause . " We wanted to see them make that sale , because if they did n't , the Russians probably would , " he says sadly .                     