@@724185

txt Organized medicine and the Federal Government , not always the closest of comrades , have embarked on a common crusade against an insidious enemy : Hidden drug dangers . The American Medical Association and the Food and Drug Administration are pooling their resources to create a new nationwide " drug alert " network designed to detect potentially adverse side effects of the thousands of pharmaceutical products now on the market . The warning system will rely primarily on regular reports from hundreds of hospitals and thousands of physicians throughout this country ; but foreign sources , such as the World Health Organization , will be tapped , too . The ultimate objective , of course , is to help perfect the American public 's health protection . One method may be AMA professional education efforts to alert physicians to proper drug precautions . Ultimately , though , the FDA may restrict the use and promotion of unduly dangerous drugs or even bar their sale in extreme emergency . Whatever the means , officials insist the effort 's success rests in large part on the collection of statistics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first Show up in only a handful of individuals , after apparent safe use by hundreds of thousands . Such unwanted side effects may range from the pound-producing proclivities of birth control pills to disability and death caused in a small percent o ' susceptible patients by such powerful products as Chloroinycetin , an antibiotic , and Parnate. an anti-depressant . Because of such hazards , both drugs , once widely marketed , have been rigidly restricted on Government request by their respective manufacturers , Parke , Davis &; Co. and Smith Kline &; French Laboratories . Side Effects Hit 10% While there are no firm figures , experts estimate perhaps 10% or more of hospitalized patients suffer some side effects during drug treatment . Not all of these reactions , of course , are unexpected or avoidable . The harmful effects on blood and bone marrow of many anti-cancer drugs , for example , are well known , but such risks are outweighed by the compounds ' life-prolonging potential . All drugs have some toxicity and experts caution that even the mildest , such as aspirin , can be deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the possibility of serious side effects remaining unrecognized because of the proliferation of products and absence of an adequate intelligence system . Such concern perhaps was crystallized by thalidomide , the apparently harmless sedative that caused thousands of birth deformities abroad two years ago before its dangers were detected . Careful animal testing and preliminary human drug trails may catch only the most obvious dangers . The ideal answer , officials agree . is an accurate and instantaneous alarm system functioning after products are placed on the market . A Single Strategy Toward this end , the FDA and the doctors , after months of meetings , redently reached agreement on a single strategy and a division of duties . The AMA will energetically expand existing efforts to obtain drug reaction reports from its 200,000 physician members , as well as from thousands of the nation 's smaller hospitals . A major difficulty is persuading busy doctors to . fill this function ; so , the AMA intends to promote heightened physician participation through exhibits , articles , county medical society activities and other measures . The FDA , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Veterans Administration and other Government hospitals plus some 500 teaching hospitals , such as university medical centers , where the broadest range of drug treatment is prodded . To insure success of its collection effort among nonGovernment sources , Uncle Sam is purchasing the drug information ; each participating hospital is paid $50 a month plus $5 for each adverse reaction report . Contracts already have been signed with 80 institutions , including the Charity Hospital . New Orleans ; the University of Michigan . Ann Arbor ; Baltimore city hospitals ; and the Cedars of Lebanon Hospital , Los Angeles . Another group of 28 hospitals is expected to be added to the network within weeks and the ultimate goal of 500 attained by mid-1966 , if not before . Before planning a common campaign , the AMA and the FDA frequently duplicated datagathering efforts , requested different information , and failed to regularly inform one another of their findings . Only recently has progress been made to straighten out the difficulties . Dr. Joseph F. Sadusk . Jr .. the agency 's newly installed medical director . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are professional associates and personal friends . Both believe increasingly intimate cooperation between the two groups , in the drug field least , is essential and long overdue . Pear In As a result , several steps are being taken . A common drug reaction report form , satisfying the FDA 's regulatory needs and the AMA 's demand for simplicity , is being adopted . Later this month the two organizations will begin a continuing exchange of drug danger information . The doctors ' group now receives 200 reports a month from physicians and the FDA receives 400 to 503 from hospitals . Hopefully . these numbers will mount in the months ahead . Then there 's what the FDA calls Project Rapid ( an abbreviation for retrieval and automatic processing of information on drags ) . It deals with reports pharmaceutical companies are required by law to file on any unexpected or severe patient reactions to their products . The drug industry , for its own protection as well as other reasons , favors the new AMA-FDA effort to gather together side effect information . These drug reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidentialness , will be coded on IBM punch cards and fed into data-processing machines here and at AMA headquarters in Chicago . The equipment will perform different duties , though similar information is analyzed . The FDA 's Project Rapid is designed to recall and reproduce any knowledge the agency possesses on suspect drugs , knowledge obtained from such sources as manufacturers ' marketing applications and drug-testing requests . The goal is to produce a detailed drug dossier for the guidance of Federal officials who must decide whether the side effects are serious enough to require regulatory action . The critical question , of course , is : Did the drug actually cause the dangerous reaction or was the drug merely given to the patient at the time the difficulty occurred ? " Computers can help , but humans must make the difA1 ? ult decisions , " cautions an FDA official . T But , as drug reaction reports pile up , Rapid will automatically alert FDA medical men to problem products . And , it 's hoped , the system eventually might be able to predict drug dangers early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few reports . The FDA also is establishing a system of non-Government advisory groups to help its own experts assess side effects and make other difficult drug decisions . By October , officials hope to appoint the first and most prestigious panel , a seven or eight member " medical advisory board . " Within another three or four months , a dozen other sub-groups will be set up to deal in detail with particular drug problems . In Chicago at the AMA , the side effects reports , after preliminary assessment , will be compiled by computer and the tabulations then referred to one of eight expert advisor , panels for more exhaustive analysis . These groups , specializing in such fields as allergy , dermatology and pediatrics , will examine the causeand-effect question and , if a relationship appears to be established , alert physicians . In the bad , such warnings usually went to a limited audience of those medical men most directly concerned with the problem ; now . AMA policy will emphasize the broadest possible publication . The panels , for example , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association ( circulation 260,000 ) outlining the dangers and necessary precautions for common categories of drug reactions . The first series , now appearing , deals with the sometimes deadly blood disorders which may be caused by Chloromycetin ; Furadantin , another antibiotic ; Butazolidin. an antiinflamatory and analgesic agent , and several other compounds . The AMA 's annual drug reference book , New and Nonofficial Drugs , is undergoing an itious overhaul to meet more adequately t-Ir iteeds of practicing physicians . Among other changes , the new version will concentrate on fewer , more frequently used compounds and seek to highlight side effects . Association officials , with FDA encouragement , are also examining other drug education endeavors , though no decisions have been made . The possibilities include : Publication of a separate drug newsletter , or the addition of a regular section on drags to the weekly Jot:a. - nal ; compilation of an index of an drugs now on the market to aid physicians in prescribing : and distribution to doctors in some fashion of current FDA-approved drag labeling , winch fully describes all known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 