@@728282

txt A two-day convention of Harlem community , organizations rejected both the idea of a state office building in Harlem and Governor Rockefeller 's recent compromise proposal that the proposed facility be made a " service center , " housing government and private agencies to service local residents directly . The vote , by delegates of Harlem organizations was 178 to 55 against constructing a State Office Building and 167 to 20 against the Rockefeller compromise plan . The delegates voted overwhelmingly in favor of a proposal asking that the construction on the site be stopped ; that the land area be purchased by Harlem residents and that low-income housing and a shopping , cultural , daycare and information center be built on the site at Seventh Avenue and 125th Street . The voters faced two questions : On row A , they could vote " yes " or " no " on whether the State Office Building should be constructed in Harlem ; on Row B , they could vote either for the recent Rockefeller compromise proposal of service centers , or for their own plan that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The state acquired the land at a cost of $6-million , utilizing its right of eminent domain to condemn the property . While it was not stressed on the convention floor , Harlem resident who have advocated ownership of the land have most often proposed that a 50,000-member cooperative be formed to raise at least $150 , - 000 as an initial down payment . The cooperative would be the landlord of whatever facilities were built on the site . Delegates trooped to several voting machines on the auditorium stage while the convention chairman , United States Customs Judge James L. Watson , droned out the organizations and the numbers of votes they could cast . " Harlem for Rockefeller organization , " he called at one point , " two votes . " Harlem Commonwealth Council  --  two votes , " he went on , " Harlem Back Street Youths , Inc. ? four votes . " The delegates , walking to the machines , passed both an American and a red , black and green " Black Liberation " flag . The voting began at 8:40 P.M. It capped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours . It was held at Intermediate School 10 , 147th Street and Seventh Avenue in Harlem . A 15-member resolution committee will now be set up to implement the convention decision . Seven of the 15 members will come from the youthful blacks who squatted on the property last summer and drew national attention to the issue . Indications were , although it was not spelled out , that the matter would again be taken to the State for consideration . The delegates recessed until next Saturday . Six separate proposals originally were considered . The first three , were prepared by the Architects Renewal Corporation in Harlem , which offered alternatives for the best use of the land as the architects organization saw it . In addition , there was the Rockefeller proposal : a proposal by the Rev. M. Moran Weston , rector of St. Philip 's Episcopal Church that local people buy the land in question , and a proposal for the establishment of " an African-American-West Indian department store " on the site . During a series of workshop sessions , the delgates agreed to combine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have much support among the participants . Some 30 black youths who had squatted on the site last summer were commended for the second time in a spirited convention vote . It was also enthusiastically resolved that " this convention be made a part of that action . " The squaters had sat on the site for three months contending that most Harlem residents preferred housing , cultural and educational facilities rather than the proposed State Office Building .                     