@@727380

txt A good many disappointed East Berliners will be unable to hear Rossini 's " Moses in Egypt " and Puccini 's " La Boh  --  me " performed by an Italian opera company this fall . Protesting East German participation in the Czechoslovak invasion , the Teatro Comunale di Bologna has canceled its contribution to East Berlin 's much-touted cultural festival , about to open here . For days after the cancellations , colorful posters of the company continued to festoon East Berlin kiosks , reminding East German citizens of what they were going to miss . One wonders at the average-man 's reaction . Does he blame his own government for angering the Italians , or is he irritated at Bologna for punishing East German citizens for what they can not help ? If anyone is a victim of Communist repression , it certainly is the East Germans . One wonders at the wisdom of condemning Walter Ulbricht 's government by depriving his hapless people of a little non-communist joy and verve . Money is key At lunch one day in East Berlin I sat across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's shopping from a nearby suburb . " So you are American , " one of them said . " What do you think of our beautiful DDR ? " ( DDR stands for East German Democratic Republic . The way the woman said " beautiful " implied she had another adjective in mind . ) " Well , " I replied , " life would seem to be somewhat easier than when I was here last . " The ladies were impassive . " If you have money , yes , " remarked one . She was right . Much of the evident improvement in the quality of East German life applies mainly to those people with excess cash . There are , for example , shops called Exquisit , run by the East German Government , which feature luxury goods , both domestic and imported , at prices shockingly high . If an East German sportsman wants an Austrian ski jacket , he can find it in Exquisit . I saw a whole rack of them in one such paneled and carpeted store I visited in East Berlin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price in Vienna . Rather coarse and unattractive men 's suits cost 490 marks ( $122.50 ) . " I can buy a pair of shoes well up to Western standards , " confided one East German official . " But they will cost me $30 to $35 " ( about twice the average pair of men 's shoes in the United States ) . Plenty of East Germans  --  engineers inventors , professors , the intelligentsia  --  have money to spend . And the hunger for quality goods drives many working-class people into Exquisit . This chain of shops  --  operated by HO , the government 's trade organization ? serves Mr. Ulbricht ' , regime by soaking up surplus purchasing power and diverting it to official coffers , through the medium of a high purchase tax on luxuries . Another small class of East Germans , those who somehow manage to get hold of hard currency , now can go freely into Inter-shops , where foreign goods are sold cheaply , but.only for foreign exchange . Formerly these shops , located chiefly in leading hotels , were for tourists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government by offering foreign shirts , sweaters , perfumes , liquors , and cigarettes at tax-free prices . Now the government winks an eye if an East German citizen wants to spend a few dollars or West German marks , obtained from friends or relatives , in an Intershop . But what about the great mass of East German citizens , untouched either by Exquisit or Intershops ? " Everyone here has his television , washing machine , and refrigerator , " remarked one official . Then he paused . " But heaven help you if your appliances need repair . " Poland licenses artisans " Bed sheets sent to the laundry , " observed another East Berliner , " take three to four weeks to come back , which means you have to have plenty of sheets . " " At least now , " he added , " if your TV goes bad within the guarantee period , another is sent to replace it while your own is repaired . That 's an improvement . But you just hope your toaster or electric iron does n't go kaput @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further and further behind demand . For the fortunate East German with a Moskvitch , Skoda , Wartburg , or other Communist-built car , getting garage service was a nightmare , it was said . " Auto mechanics have a big future in this country , " one car owner said . " Yet my garage man complains that he gets few apprentices to train because the work is dirty and factories offer better wages . " Communist Poland , faced with the same problem , adopted the non-Marxist solution of licensing private artisans , particularly in smaller cities and towns . But officials were unaware of any government plan to do the same in East Germany . Seventeen million East Germans  --  despite their government , many observers would say  --  have managed to produce a wider variety of consumer goods than any other Communist land . But the East German economy has yet to lick the problem of maintaining the things it makes .                     