@@726631

txt Senator John Sherman Cooper took direct issue with President Johnson today by contending that the initiative toward peace in Vietnam lay within the control of the United States , not Hanoi . In a Senate speech the Kentucky Republican urged that the United States take the " first step " toward negotiations and peace in Vietnam by ordering an " unconditional cessation " of the bombing of North Vietnam . Even if such a step fails to result In negotiations , he said , the United States should confine its future military activities to South Vietnam to " reverse the dangerous expansion of the war . " The speech set off another round in the intensifying Senate debate on the war , which has become increasingly atm ! of Administration policy . The Administration found it , self defended primarily by conservative Republicans while influential Democrats , such as Mike Mansfield , the Senate majority leader , and J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , spoke out in support of Senator Cooper . Senator Charles H. Percy , Republican of Illinois , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in criticizCooper Calls on U.S. to Confine Military Action to SouthVietnam . Col , 1 Page From off its supplies to North VietContinued ing the President . He said Mr. Johnson had " failed to pursue every possibility for negotiations leading to a settlement of the war . " Like the Cooper speech , the Percy statement was directed at the President 's speech on Vietnam policy last Friday night , which was designed to quiet the growing restiveness in the Senate over the Administration 's policy . Senator Percy said that in the speech the President had attempted to " discredit " all his critics by suggesting that they wanted unilateral withdrawal . , " The President 's problem is with the vast majority who are dissatisfied with his performance in Vietnam , " Sena'tor Percy said , " not with the 10 per cent who , urge withdrawal . " It was becoming evident that Republican ranks are dividing over the pre-election strategy to follow in criticizing the Administration 's Vietnam policy . Some Republican thoderates , such as Senator Thruston ' B. Morton of Kenpjcky , arc try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by criticizing the Administration as becoming militarily overcommitted in Vietnam . Senator Cooper. , an . influential member of the Foreign Relations Committee , picked up this theme today . Conservatives React The speeches of Republican moderates over the i last week provoked today the first organized reaction from their conservative colleagues , such as Senators Jack , Miller of Iowa , Peter H. Dominick of Colorado , Strom Thurmond of the Cooper speech by , objecting to any bombing cessation and by criticizing the Administration for not applying more military pressure . Senator Cooper has been critical of Administration policy on the war ever since the bombing of North Vietnam began in 1965 . But today was the first time he took direct , personal issue with the President . His criticism was prompted by a statement in the President 's . speech on Friday that " it is by Hanoi 's choice , and not ours . . . that the war continues . " " Fact and reason dictate , " Senator Cooper said , " that the first step toward negotiations ind peace  --  the unconditional : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the : hoice and control of our : ountry . " The reasons which lead the north Vietnamese to ask for . he unconditional cessation of ) ombing , the growing support if this requirement by friend is well as foe , lead to the con:lusion that there is little hope ' or negotiations and for a just settlement of the war in Vietlam until the United States : akes this first step  --  the cessa.ion of its bombing of North /ietnam . " Senator Cooper said confinement of the war to South Vietnam would test Soviet intentions in Vietnam , in particular whether the Soviet Union would respond by reducing or cutting nam Privately , it was learned , some Soviet diplomats have given indications . to Senators that the Soviet Union would reduce its military support ' of North Vietnam if the war were limited to South Vietnam . Senator Fulbright questioned , what he described as a ' premise , in the President 's speech that American security was at stake in Vietnam . The Arkansan Said American security was ' " much more endangered " by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down militarily " and placing strains on relations with friendly countries . Senator Gale W. , Democrat of Wyoming , backing the Administration view , argued that what was at stake was not just Vietnam but the political alignment of all nations in Southeast Asia . Senator Cooper replied : " My own judgment0 that these countries are going to settle their own destiny , and sometimes they settle it better if we are not there . "                     