@@727513

txt In the next few weeks Washington will zoom in on TV violence . As many as three separate hearings may be held on violence in both television entertainment and news programming . The latter would be based on network coverage of the Democratic convention in Chicago last summer . ? The first hearing will take place Dec. 18.20 when the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence resumes its October sessions by summoning media representatives . It is expected that the presidents of all three major TV networks  --  Columbia Broadcasting System , National Broadcasting Company , and American Broadcasting Company ? will be called on one day , Dec. 20 . ? Soon after Congress reconvenes in January , the Senate Commerce Committee 's subcommittee on communications will hold hearings on violence in broadcasting . ? Still tentative : a third set of parallel hearings by the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of the House . Chairman Harley 0 . Staggers ( D ) of West Virginia is considering such hearings now but has made no announcement yet . In a city without an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan pioneering programs . In May it will displace the athletic world from the Boston Arena to stage the American premiere of Roger Sessions ' " Montezuma . " When empty , the cavernous arena has a slight echo , says director Sarah Caldwell , but this disappears as the seats fill up . She hopes there will be no echo in May . Another American premiere will be BartOk 's " The Wooden Prince , " which will be presented on a program with his " Blue-beard 's Castle " and " The Miraculous Mandarin . " " Fluorescent Chrysanthemum " is sign-language for a showing of contemporary Japanese art just opened in London . Fluorescent plastics and pigments have become the favorite media of many contemporary Japanese artists . The chrysanthemum is the ancient imperial symbol of Japan . Together they add up to a bemusing title for an exhibition of new Japanese sculplures , miniatures , visual mtisic scores , - and films . Designed by Kohei Sugiura , who accompanied the exhibition from Tokyo , the show will remain at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minami Galleries . Trends ... After several years of total eclipse , the entertainment play is making a vigorous comeback in London and Paris . " There 's a Girl in My Soup " has chalked up more than a thousand performances in London . Other light comedies like " Not Now , Darling " and " The Secretary Bird " are drawing big and enthusiastic audiences . Of the weightier authors , it is still Shakespeare who fares best . At the Aldwych the Royal Shakespeare Company 's productions of " The Taming of the Shrew " and " The Merry Wives of Windsor " are more popular than the heavier new American plays that have been presented in repertory there . Some complain that Hollywood 's " Oscar " awards are already overloaded with prizes for every conceivable category . Nevertheless , the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is considering some 19 technical achievements for possible special recognition . This would not create new categories , but simply give credit where it is due . And such techniques are doubtless as important in their own way as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some people may squirm as the proliferation of technical categories goes on . How and why ... Those regional theater groups that are doing so swimmingly out in the boondocks may soon have a showplace of their own in New York . Under a deal recently voted by its board of directors , the National Council on the Arts is going to accept Broadway 's ANTA Theater , take over its mortgages , and open it so that New York audiences may see performing groups from all over the United States . Oddly enough , many New York actors are loath to leave the status of Broadway footlights  --  even when unemployed . .. This new arrangement is expected to encourage them to take jobs elsewhere , since from now on performing in a local company may well lead to exposure on New York 's coveted boards .                     