@@725884

txt Unions can be expected to engage Increasingly in coalition bargaining . This is a direct result of the General Electric settlement . Labor 's unity in negotiations with GE produced more gains than many union leaders expected . GE moved very Little from its original offer of 5 percent a year . But it did give ground in areas where it had vowed to hold tight . GE unions are calling the settlement their best ever . They say the company 's original offer was high " due primarily to the unity established among our 11 unions . " Now unified bargaining is either proposed or already under way in other industries where employers deal with more than one union . The 5 percent wage-increase pattern is firmer now that GE has settled at that figure . The settlement presumably had President Johnson 's acquiescence . Government economists still defend as sound economic policy the Council of Economic Advisers ' 3.2 percent guidepost for " noninflationary " raises . But the 3.2 percent figure now is under fire as too low on the basis of Commerce Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western Union , airlines , telephone , and now electrieal-manufacturing settlements have been at or near the 5 percent level . One government spokesman calls that " a realistic plateau . " The administration , he says , is hoping it wo n't be topped in 1967 . James R. Hoffa will probably he on hand for big contract negotiations early in 1967 . The president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters is appealing lower-court convictions that could send him to prison . The Supreme Court of the United States has just completed hearings on one Hoffa appeal . It is n't likely to hand down another decision for at least three months . It may not rule before next June . Mr. Hoffa wants broader-based contracts ? more national and regional agreements . As with every union now laying major bargaining plans for 1967 , Hoffa demands would mean much higher costs . Trends ... Nearly one of every five union members is a woman . A Labor Department study , just released , says 3.143 million women trade unionists constituted 19 percent of total union membership in 1964 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions . More than 600,000 , as might be expected , were sewed up in needle-trades unions  --  the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America . Absenteeism costs American employers $10 billion a year in lost but paid-for labor . The figure came out at a New York meeting on the problems of industrial absenteeism . On any Monday an estimated 2.5 million workers are likely to be absent . They 're " out sick " or give other excuses . And most are n't docked for the day off . Speakers reported that one-fourth of all employees account for the big part of total absences . Those most frequently absent in their first two or three years on the payroll , it was stated , are also likely to be the most frequent absentees after 10 or even 20 years . Conferees agreed employers need " a more positive policy . " How and why ... Why are unions demanding higher pay ? Living costs have risen sharply . They are up about 4 percent this year alone . Add to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Council of Economic Advisers . These figures combined , unions contend , mean that wages must rise 7 percent merely to let workers stay afloat . The AFL-CIO has prepared  --  and widely publicized  --  a budget . It attempts to show that the typical American worker with a wife and two children now needs to earn $3.27 an hour , $131 a week , or $6,797 a year to provide a " modest but adequate " living for his family . The average worker now earns $2.71 an hour , the AFL-CIO says . It tells . its 129 affiliated unions that this average is 56 cents an hour or $23 a week too low if workers are fully employed all year . Many are n't . The federation contends these figures show " the need for substantial wage increases " in contract negotiations ahead .                     