@@725367

txt President Johnson met in urgent session tonight with Vice President Humphrey , members of his Cabinet and some of his principal advisers on ways to prevent further wage and price increases in key industries . The President told those present to be ready to give him their suggestions on how the Government could intensify its efforts to hold the line against inflation by early next week , even if they had to work through the weekend to do it . Robert H. Fleming , the President 's deputy press secretary , said Mr. Johnson feared " some people are thinking more about profits , wages and prices than about men who are giving their lives in Vietnam . " Specific industries , price increases and wage negotiations that are said to be causing concern were discussed at the hurriedly called two-hour meeting . Mr. Fleming 's report on the session left the impression that the President wanted to warn a number of industries and unions that they were going beyond his wage-price guidelines , without , however , identifying them at this time . But Mr. Fleming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Battle The meeting followed a news conference at which the President refused to get into an open battle with organized labor over its rejection of his guideposts for noninflationary wage increases . Question 7 , Page 36 . Present at the meeting , besides Mr. Humphrey , were Secretary of Defense Robert S. , Henry H. Fowler , Secretary of the Treasury ; John T. Connor , Secretary of Commerce , and W. Willard Wirtz , Secretary of Labor . Also John A. Schnittker , Under Secretary of Agriculture ; Gardner Ackley , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , and James Dusenberry of the council ; Lawson Knott , head of the General Services Administration , and three members of the President 's staff , Joseph A. Califano Jr. , Jack Valenti and Mr. Fleming . At his news conference , Mr. Johnson said : " I never have been as a candidate  --  been willing to predict my own defeat . And I 'm not going to predict any defeats on the basis of some newspaper stories out of Florida . " He was alluding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harbour , Fla. , by 1 the executive council of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations charging that the Administration was asking workers to sacrifice legitimate wage gains because of misplaced concern about inflation . The President did not back away from the guideposts , but he clearly did not want to get into a public fight with organized labor . Relations between the Administration and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. have grown testier in recent weeks . In addition to their quarrel with the Administration about the guideposts , the labor leaders are resentful over the Administration 's refusal to support as large an increase in the Federal minimum wage floor as they want and have been highly critical of the cutback in the Democratic National Committee 's program to register voters . Labor is also dissatisfied with the Administration for what it regards as lukewarm support for labor 's unsuccessful effort to get Congress to repeal Section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act . This section permits states to ban labor contract clauses that make union membership a condition of employment . I These complaints led George Meany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three days ago that organized labor was prepared to " make our own way " politically if the Democratic party did not support its legislative program . There is still no conclusion , however , that theestrain has reached proportions that would threaten the basic  --  political alliance between the ? Administration and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. , and Mr. Johnson obviously intended to say nothing that would contribute to a deterioration of his relationship with labor . He drew . a parallel between the disagreement of the Administration and labor over the guideposts and the Administration 's successful efforts last November to roll back a price increase - announced by the aluminum industry . Mr. Johnson was reliably reported then to have been " sputtering mad " at the industry . He and his aides have since gone to considerabe lengths to deny that characterization . The President said the United States had been able to maintain economic stability " because we 've had the cooperation and the wise leadership of labor as well as business . " . He continued : " Now there will be individual situations ? it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read that their President is sputtering mad ' and it may take a week to clean up a situation like that , but the situation is very generally good in that field now . " The same thing will be true in the labor field , where the President reads that someone feels very deeply about the guidelines . I have seen Mr. Meany and the other leaders of labor several times since the first of the year . I think they understand my problem and I have an understanding of theirs . " We ? I 'm hopeful that we can Keep our wages ' in line- with our increased - productivity - and maintain the .. stability . because I know that the first ? person to suffer from inflation and high cost of living are the working people that they represent . " The Administration 's guideposts generally ask unions to forgo settlements that increase labor costs by-more than 3.2 per cent . a year , the long-term rate at which output , a manhour has been increasing. : each year . Labor is particularly ' - incensed because the method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Had last year 's method been used , the ; figure would have . been 3.6 per ; cent . . The guideposts also call on Industries with , above-average productivity gains to . cut prices , those with belowayerage gains to raise them and those with average gains to hold prices steady . The President said ' - he hoped that businessmen would forgo price increases in . violation of the guideposts . " But we are going to hope for the best , and we think we can ' work it ' mit , ! ' the President declared .. . As he has before , the President indiCated , that he would propose a tax increase , presumably in ' corporate and personal taxes , - if he concluded that inflation-of sufficient proportions had developed , . Question 10 , Page 36 . He indicated , however , that he did not intend to move quickly on the tax front , if . at all . He said : " We do n't want to-.put the brakes on too fast .... There 's some encouraging signs and some discouraging every day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete cool authority at this moment on the necessity of tax increases , but we are . watching it closely . . . It mill be high on our priority agenda . "                     