@@726691

txt The reaction of traditional CoMmunist groupings in Latin America , to the passing of Ernesto ( CM ) Guevara suggests how seriously they and " El Che " disagreed on Communist strategy in the hemisphere . While lamenting " the fallen revolutionary , " as the Chilean Communist Party termed Mr. Guevara , hemisphere Communists appear unanimous in backing the view of the Venezuela Communist Party that armed revolutionary efforts are not the course to be followed at present . Implicit in this argument is the disagreement with Cuban Premier Fidel Castro and the apparatus off the Cuban-based Latin American Solidarity Organization which last August called for vigorous pursuit of " armed struggle " in Latin America . The Communist Party view in the hemisphere follows the line voiced by Moscow which is intent upon improving relations , particularly commercial ties , with the present governments in Latin America . The view of Communist parties is this : The course to be followed now is one of coexistence with the governments in power even if these governments proscribe activities of the Communists . Soviet reaction to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoid of any support for the Guevara activities in Bolivia . Intelligence sources in Latin America note the Soviet announcement of Mr. Guevara 's death did not mention Bolivia , nor did the message of condolence sent by the Soviet Communist Party to Dr. Castro . Scorn for danger ' This omission appears to many here to be evidence of a basic Soviet disagreement with the whole Guevara thesis of " creating one , two , or more Vietnams " in Latin America . Interestingly , there are hints in Dr. Castro 's public reaction that he did not entirely share Mr. Guevara 's guerrilla warfare theses . Cubanologists are trying to determine just exactly what the Cuban Premier meant in referring to " extraordinary impetuousness " of Mr. Guevara . On two occasions since Mr. Guevara 's death in Bolivia , Premier Castro has hinted at possible disagreement &between; himself and his fanner close associate who left Cuba under mysterious circumstances in 1965 . Dr. Castro , speaking of Mr. Guevara 's " absolute scorn for danger , " said Oct. 15 : " We tried to protect him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great strategic importance . And we ought to say that we were always worried about the possibility that his temperament , this behavior of his in a moment of danger , could lead him to death in any battle . No one could ever be sure that he would take a minimum of precautionary measures . " Then in a speech Oct. 18 , at the close of an official three-day period of mourning for Mr. Guevara , the Cuban Premier seemed to take the thesis of disagreement a step further , he said : " As a guerrilla , Che had an Achilles heel : It was his excessive aggressiveness , his absolute disregard for danger . This is something in which it was difficult to go along with him , since we understood that his life , his experience , his value as an embattled leader , his prestige and all that he represented in life , were worth much more , incomparably more , than the evaluation that he perhaps made of himself . " Handwriting on wall Cubanologists are searching these two statem-ents to determine the exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests that the Cuban Premier , although he calls Mr. Guevara " a true Communist revolutionary , " was in disagreement with " El Che " on many important issues . And there is some speculation that Dr. Castro may be swinging around more to the Soviet line of coexistence with Latin America  --  despite his pledge to continue the struggle in which Mr. Guevara was engaged .. Some students of present day Cuba openly wonder if Mr. Guevara 's death in Bolivia and virtual elimination of the guerrilla movement in that country may not be the handwriting on the wall which Dr. Castro understands . Mr. Guevara and his guerrillas were unable to win any significant support from the Bolivian populace  --  a fact noted in Mr. Guevara 's diary now in the hands of the Bolivian authorities .                     