@@723234

txt MOSCOW , June 14 ( UPD-Premier Nikita Khrushchev served notice on the west today that the Soviet Union will not permit on-site inspections as part of any nuclear test ban accord . In an interview with . Pravda , Communist party newspaper , Khrushchev said the soviet government " would not agree to throw the territory of our country open to inspection for espionage purposes . " Urges Automatic Stations " National facilities of detection combined with automatic seismic stations are a dependable guarantee to ascertain any possible attempts to violate a test ban agreement , " he said . This was a withdrawal of Khrushchev 's earlier offer to allow three on-site inspections ' yearly by mutually acceptable teams of investigators . Khrushchev was commenting on President Kennedy 's appeal for a slackening of cold war tensions last Monday . The interview was published shortly after Khrushchev told Harold Wilson , British Labor party leader , that he planned to reply to Kennedy 's disarmament speech shortly . Says He 's Ready to Sign " We are ready to sign an agreement banning all nuclear tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is up to the west . " We agreed to a meeting of representatives of the three powers in Moscow to make another effort to reach an understanding on this question but the success of this meeting will depend on the luggage proposals the United States and British representatives will carry with them to this country , " he said . " It will be recalled , " Khrushchev said , " we agreed- to two or three - inspections to check the discontinuance of underground tests and we did this for political considerations . Calls It a Compromise " This was , so to say , a step meeting halfway the desires of the other side . It must be regretted our proposal was not properly appreciated by the partners in the talks . " The meeting is scheduled to be held in mid-July . Kennedy already has named W. Averell Harriman and British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan has appointed Lord Hailsham the west 's chief negotiators . Khrushchev said that Kennedy 's speech on disarmament made a " favorable impression " on soviet leasers in that the President took a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . " Contradictions Are Charged But he said Kennedy still held to some " contradictory theses " in his American university commencement speech on Monday . Khrushchev added that he welcomed Kennedy 's speech but that " good statements must be sealed " by actions . " The impression is being created that the United States government does not seek to explore avenues for an agreed solution on the German problem and remains on this question practically on the old positions which essentially merge with the positions of the most reactionary aggressive forces of Western Germany headed by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , West Berlin Maycr Brandt , and other revengeminded persons , " Khrushchev said . " One of the main sources of the ' cold war ' is thus not to be eliminated , " he said . He said ? that despite Kennedy 's . ' step forward in a realistic appraisal of the international situation , " the German treaty recognizing two nations - east and west ? can not beevaded . " The soviet government is in favor of the strictest international guarantees of a free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , " the premier said . " The question must be settled and will be settled . We would prefer to have it settled by agreement with the western powers . " American Action Cited Khrushchev went on to say that " the pronouncements by the American President on easing international tension were incompatible with the existence of American war bases on alien territories , the flouting of the sovereign rights of other countries by the United States , the blunt calls by the most frantic politicians in the United States for open and even armed intervention in the domestic affairs of Cuba . " If President Kennedy 's statement on an end to the cold war ' and the consolidation of peace is brought to a logical conclusion , " he continued , " it is necessary to renounce interference in the domestic affairs of other states , to respect their sovereignty , to observe the rules of international law and not to pay lip service but in fact to respect the U.N . charter and to liquidate the war bases which are a springboard for aggression against other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a non-aggression pact between the North Atlantic Treaty organization and the communist Warsaw pact nations . He took exception to Kennedy 's assertions that world tensions are caused chiefly by communist efforts to impose their system on other nations . Wilson , who Is ' visiting Moscow and met for the second time with Khrushchev today , indicated there had been no change in the soviet position on east-west issues . The British opposition leader said he reached agreement with Khrushchev on some points but " there was no measure of agreement at all " on others , including Berlin . Wilson in a television speech told the Russian people that there either must be co-existence between east and west or there will be co-annihilation.                     