@@722189

txt Lawyers for the Roman Catholic Church issued an eighty-twopage challenge today to the Kennedy Administration 's position on the constitutionality of Federal aid to church-related schools . The lawyers contended that the Constitution permits aid on a much broader scale than the Administration has been willing to concede . They de-clared : " There is no constitutional bar to aid to education in church-related schools in a degree proportionate to the value of the public function it performs . Such aid to the secular function may take the form of matching grants or long-term loans to institutions , or of scholarships , tuition payments or tax benefits . " The church 's position on the constitutional issue was set forth in a memorandum made public by the legal department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference . The memorandum was authorized by the Administrative 801/4-0 of tht Kationat Catholic Welfare Conference . The board consists of the six cardinals and nine other United States archbishops and bishops of the church . The document was prepared by William B. Ball of Harrisburg , Pa. , executive director and general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done under the supervision of William R. Consedine , director of the legal department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference . Mr. Ball was assisted by George M. Reed of the conference 's legal department and the Rev , Charles M. Whelan , S. J. , of the Georgetown University Law Center , The Administration 's position was laid down last March 28 in an equally voluminous memorandum prepared by the legal staff of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare in consultation with lawyers of the Department of Justice . Loans Ruled Invalid That document ruled out as unconstitutional " across - the - board " loans or grants to church-related schools . It also held that tuition payments for all parochial-school pupils would violate the Constitution . The Administration 's lawyers argued that any aid , to meet constitutional requirements , would have to be limited to a few special purposes closely related to the national interest and not involving religious instruction . In a subsquent memorandum , they specifically upheld the constitutionality of proposals for long-term , low-interest loans to help finance the construction of parochial-school buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Catholic lawyers did not contend that it would be constitutional for the Federal Government to support the religious aspects of education in churchrelated schools . They said their study was " not concerned " with that question . Calls Some Aid Valid Rather , their point was that the Government " may assist all public service aspects of an educational enterprise . " They said that the Supreme Court recognized this principle in its landmark decision of 1947 in the case of Everson against the Board of Education . In that case , the court held that public funds could he used for bus transportation of parochial school pupils without vio-I the First Amendment . It is this amendment that raises the main constitutional question at issue . The amendment says that " Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . " The Catholic memorandum said it would be feasible , through " the art of accounting , " to draw a dividing line between costs attributable to - secular aspects of education and those attributable to religious aspects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious institutions in a program of aid limited to the nonreligious aspects of education . But this is not forbidden by the First Amendment , they contended , " because important national interests in education are at stake . " The lawyers further said that loans , matching grants , tuition payments and tax benefits were " only some of the possible forms " of aid to education in parochial schools .                     