@@727549

txt A fierce fight over how the New York State budget will be balanced is in prospect in Albany . It would be tragic for New York City  --  and other urban and suburban communities throughout the state  --  if the " solution " is to cut state aid in such vital areas as education and welfare . Unfortunately , reports that Governor Rockefeller is leaning in this direction are likely to get a warm welcome in the Legislature , under Republican control in both houses for the first time in five years . The enthusiasm will be especially high in the Assembly , where the balance of power is held by nine Republicans elected with Conservative party endorsements . They are pledged to vote against any tax increases . The Governor may find it difficult to get through the Legislature even the 1 per cent increase in the retail sales tax he is reportedly contemplating . And if he does get approval of a rise in this inequitable tax , which bears so heavily on the poorest groups in the population , it will provide only half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $700 million . A far better way to raise the necessary revenue would be to increase the state income tax , which is based on earnings and provides exemptions for special cases : No one likes to pay more taxes , but an income levy is the fairest way to meet the state 's needs . But the Governor believes higher income taxes might discourage talented people from accepting employment in New York State . New York City and other urban and suburban communities are so overwhelmed by the rising tide of welfare costs that the state must come to their rescue until the Federal Government can be persuaded to assume what is manifestly a national responsibility . Education is a basic state responsibility and any cutback in state aid to schools would also be disastrous to the cities . Aside from the budget and the closely related matter of helping the cities meet problems their own resources are inadequate to handle , the lawmakers will have a variety of other headaches . Probably the most difficult is the highly emotional one of school decentralization in New York City . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impede progress , but the obligation to give localities a larger voice in the conduct of their schools can not be dodged . Another consequence of the same disruptive conflict will be a demand for strengthening the penalties against public employes who strike in defiance of law . Governor Rockefeller has indicated his willingness to have the Taylor Law made tougher and there will be much support among upstate legislators for such a move . Our own belief is that any program for heavier fines ought to be accompanied by measures to prohibit unfair labor practices by municipal and state agencies . There may be some mild amelioration at last of the state 's cruel and antiquated abortion law , although any headway along that line will have to be made over the unyielding opposition of the Roman Catholic Church . Penalties against muggers and narcotics pushers may be stepped up in the drive against crime . And we hope the Legislature will repair its glaring omission last spring by providing for nonpartisan commissions to screen judicial candidates before their formal nominations . Amid all this turmoil it seems quite evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state , will get scant consideration for its special problems . Indeed , if the threatened cuts in state aid go through , it may end up much worse off than it is now . Until this city gets true home rule , with adequate power to manage its own affairs , it will continue to be shortchanged in Albany .                     