@@728124

txt Massive numbers of police , backed up by a force of 2,500 national guardsmen called to duty earlier in the day , maintained an uneasy peace last night as Chicago continued to endure a " guerrilla war " brought on by invading mobs of radical revolutionaries . Following a day of marches , protest rallies , and a violent clash in Grant park , heavy police patrols kept the insurgents at bay in an all-out effort Ito prevent a recurrence of the destruction wreaked upon the near north side Wednesday night . About 300 persons , mostly bystanders and spectators , gathered in Lincoln park last night . Police searched many persons for weapons and maintained a close watch on the group in the park . Police made no attempt to clear the park at the 11 p. closing time . A detail of 50 policemen was ordered out of the park at 11:30 p. in. and the crowd dispersed without any incidents as a shower began to fall , The national guardsmen remained at the ready in armories . They were called up at 3 p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conlisk advised him that additional force would be necessary to maintain order . Police intelligence sources had reported that members of the Students for a Democratic Society , the leftist organization which has been agitating the violence , planned a series of night-time raids in different parts of the city . Police Continue Arrests Conlisk conferred with Mayor Daley and Brig . Gem Richard T. Dunn , commanding general of the guard 's emergency operation headquarters , and requested the assistance " as an ounce of prevention rather than a pound of cure . " Daley then called Gov . Ogilvie . Arrests occurred sporadically thruout the night as police searches uncovered weapons or caches of stones and bricks or as leaders of Wednesday ntgnt 's riot were minima . At least six persons were arrested in Lincoln park during the evening , bringing the total for the two days of disturbances to more than 90 . One of those arrested was a bystander in his thirties who became enraged at the radicals and began hitting one . Police removed him from the scene but arrested him after he attacked another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrestedwhen they attempted to set a park bench on fire , More than 35 persons have been injured since the start of the conflict , the majority of them policemen or bystanders . In each of the clashes , the radicals wore protective helmets , fatigue clothing , and carried clubs . Weapons recovered from the rioters included hunting knives , tire chains , steel pipes , potatoes imbedded with razor blades , and at least one loaded revolver . Find Stones , Bricks Last night , police found a large box of stones cached at La Salle and Hubbard streets , and a car trunk filled with bricks when they searched an auto in Lincoln park . Police stopped a vehicle at 1000 W. Adams St. yesterday morning and found a canister of tear gas , a gallon container of gasoline , fireworks , a motorcycle helmet , and a bullhorn . All three of the occupants were from out of town , including a 17-year-old girl wanted as a runaway . The invasion of rioters was called by two factions of the S. D. S. , aided by members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trial of eight persons accused of masterminding the riots during the Democratic national convention in 1968 . One of the defendants in the trial , Thomas Hayden , was seen in Lincoln park prior to Wednesday 's outbreak . Abbie Hoffman and Lee Weiner , two other defendants , mingled briefly with the crowd of radicals at a rally in the Federal building plaza yesterday afternoon . The most active in the disorders was the Weathermen faction of the S. D. S. , a proviolence group which took their name from a song by folk singer Bob Dylan , which goes , " You do n't have to be a weatherman to know which way the wind blows . " The other faction calls itself Revolutinoary Youth Movement II . According to police observers , the credo of the Weathermen faction is , " it 's good to be . violent against the pigs . " In all of the confrontations yesterday , members of the mob chanted " Pig ! Pig ! " and obscenities , in addition to a chorus of pro-Communist and proViet Cong slogans . Viet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Park The day 's violence began at 10:30 a. m. yesterday , when 100 women members of the S. D. S. 's Women 's Liberation Front gathered by the statute of Gen. John A. Logan in Grant park for a rally led by Miss Bernadine Dohr n , 27 , an S. D. S. leader . After exhorting them to remember : " You are people living behind enemy lines . We will fight behind enemy lines , " Mks Dohrn led the helmeted , fatigue-clad young women on an attempted march to the armed forces induction center at 615 Van Buren St. but was halted by a line of 25 policemen at Balbo drive near Michigan avenue . Two of the women carried Viet Cong flags and most carried three-foot long clubs . Deputy Police Supt. James Riordan , commander of the police detachment , ordered the women to surrender their weapons and call off the march because it would obstruct traffic . Shouting " Pigs ! Pigs ! " the women charged the police line . In the scuffle , five policemen and Stephen Zucker , an assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were bitten and another policeman was overcome by a chemical disabling spray . An additional 50 policemen had to be called in to subdue the women . 12 Are Arrested Several of the women had to be wrestled to the ground . One proved to be a man wearing a wig . After Miss Dohrn and 11 others were arrested , the remnents of the group surrendered their clubs , and left the park . Another attempt to march on the induction center was made , but the women , most of them from out of state , became lost in the downtown area and disappeared into subways . The 12 were charged with aggravated battery , refusing to obey a policeman , and disorderly conduct . Arrest 14 More Another 14 persons were arrested yesterday afternoon as they left a protest rally in the Federal building plaza after undercover policeman identified them as ringleaders or participants in the rioting on the near north side Wednesday night . Thirteen were from out of state . The rally , featuring Black Panther party members and leaders of the R. Y. M. II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionaries and an equal number of spectators . In varying numbers , contingents of the mob also made appearances at the Civic center plaza , where they were booed by angry shoppers and office workers , and at the Criminal Courts building , 26th street and California avenue , where agitators in the group threatened to " tear down the courts . " The mob remained , however , in a park area ' across the street from the court building , where more than 200 Chicago and sheriff 's ' police secured the entrances . Another rally at an International Harvester plant at California avenue and 31st street also was held without arrests or violence . Police reported that in o r e insurgents continued to arrive in the city thruout the day . They reported to " movement centers " at the Garrett Biblical seminary , 2121 Sheridan rd. , Evanston , and the University Disciple church , 5644 University ay. , for instructions and infermation.                     