@@725571

txt deleted first page // the most part stand behind " Dr. Balaguer . At the headquarters of Mr. Bosch 's Dominican Revolutionary party , several hundred men and boys on the lawn heard speakers urge them to go home and be prepared to take lip arms . All spoke of alleged fraud leading to Dr. Balaguer 's victory . At ' Independencia Park , the center of rebel resistence during last year 's civil war , chanting mobs raced up and down the street while jeeps full of armed troops ' and policemen gunned their motors to force their way through and break up the crowds . Several times the police charged into the crowd and attacked laggards withrifle butts . One shit was , fired , but there appeared to be no serious injuries . The feeling of the Dominican left had been that Mr. Bosch , who captured 58.7 per cent of the vote against .11 , ' weaker candidate in the general elections of 1962 , was . certain of victory unless there was fraud at the polling places . The two official bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of the Organization of American States ? have said the voting was orderly and free . Norman Thomas , who led a committee of 70 =official observers who were thought to favor Mr. Bosch , said before he left the country that all his reports indicated a fair election . Bosch ' Urges Calm In a radio address tonight , ' Mr. Bosch warned against vio-1 lence . He asked his supporters ' to remain calm until the full election results became known . Dr. Balaguer , a 59-year-old former lawyer who stands 5 feet 4 inches tall and gives the appearance of being nervous , held a news conference at his expensive suburban home this morning . He was white-faced and appeared to be exhausted . He was asked if he favored the withdrawal of the 8,500-man Inter-American peace force by his inauguration on July 1 , as had been suggested Tuesday by Provisional President Hector Garcia Godoy . He replied in English that he did not think the force should be withdrawn immediately . Then in Spanish , he changed his answer somewhat . He said that from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . But he added that there was also the question of maintaining public order . He said the withdrawal of troops was " a matter to be studied . " The peace force , which includes about 7,000 American troops ; has kept mainly to its barracks during the campaign . Today an order was issued to the force to keep its traffic on city streets to a minimum . The force is the successor to the American troops sent here after civil war broke out in April , 1965 . The fighting was between elements seeking the return to the Presidency of Mr. Bosch , who had been elected to the post in December , 1962 , and ousted by a military coup seven months later , and supporters of the military regime then in power . Mr. Bosch had succeded Dr. Balaguer , President under the Trujillo Government and for eight months after the dictator 's death . The Inter-American force imposed . a. : truce on the warring factions , and on Aug. 31 , 1965 , a Reconciliation Act was- signed setting up the Provisional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Are Frequent If Dr. Balaguer 's Government takes office , it will be the 11th administration the nation has had since the Trujillo assassination . It will also be only the third Government installed after free elections in this . century . The first was in 1924 , six years before Generalissimo Trujillo seized power , and it marked the end of eight years of military government of the country by United States forces . The United States had occupied the country to quell constant revolutions and remedy fiscal chaos , a move widely resented in Latin America . The second free election was Mr. - Bosch 's in 1962 .. Dr. Balaguer was born Sept. 1 , 1906 , at Navarrette in the northern province of Santiago . He began his career in the Trujillo regime 111 ' 1935 and held various Cabinet and ' diplomatic posts before becoming President in August , 1960 . After the Trujillo assassination and a series of power struggles that followed it , Dr. Balaguer was , forced to flee the country and lived in exile in New York . He returned a year ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times WASHINGTON , June 2 ? President Johnson warmly congratulated Provisional President Garcia Godoy today for having conducted orderly and free elections . His message reflected the satisfaction of the Administration with the fact that the voting was heavy , quiet and , apparently , above reproach . Mr. Johnson and other officials carefully - avoided expressing any opinion , about the apparent victory of Dr. Balaguer . Mr. Johnson 's message read : " Few Presidents have had a , more complicated task than the one you successfully accomplished yesterday . " You led the Dominican people from the turbulence of civil strife to the tranquility of free elections . There can be no great . er tribute . - " On behalf of the United States Government and people I express sincere admiration for your wisdom , courage and tenacity . " A principal problem to be faced once the winner is proclaimed is the question of when the Inter-American Peace Force is to be withdrawn . The Organization of American States is expected to ? recommend in the next day or two that the problem be worked out between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . committee in Santo Domingo . President Garcia Godoy has pressed for removal of the force before the inauguration of his successor . Dr. Balaguer has indicated some reservations about committing himself to so early a withdrawal . It is clear , in any case , that withdrawal will depend largely on the degree of order that prevails in the next few weeks . Jeweler Falls to Death Peter Manes , a 58-year-old jeweler , fell to his death yesterday while cleaning the windows of his eighth-floor workshop at the rear of 62 West 47th Street at 12:10 P.M. Mr. Manes is survived by his wife , Sylvia , with whom he lived at 331 Victory Boulevard , New Rochelle , N. Y. , and a son and daughter .                     