@@722035

txt BY GEORGE BLISS Sanitary district officials announced yesterday that 88 temporary employes will be j cut from the payroll . T h e announcement came at a heated meeting in which George A. Lane , the chief attorney , angrily denounced another district attorney and said he had removed that attorney from his job . Frank W. Chesrow , district president , informed other trustees and officials that he has ordered 88 provisional , or patronage , employes removed from the payroll , starting today , and that there will ' be additional payroll cuts at subsequent meetings . Sets Economy Program " This is the result of the board 's orders to department heads to tighten up our operations all down the line , " Chesrow stated . " All the trustees are in accord in our policy of a strict economy program and I will expect and demand further reflections of this policy in our 1962 budget . " Thirty-three other patronage jobs were vacated by Chesrow on Sept. 7 . At that time he took personal charge of hiring and firing . Chesrow referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted that he would bripg about the most efficient and economical operation of the district possible . Takes Charge Himself Lane , after promising the board a complete report on several mixups in the preparation of civil service cases against employes suspended in the scandal , said he has removed Louis L Fisher as the attorney ' assigned to the civil service board . Lane said he has taken charge of the civil service law department himself . Ito said that Fisher , when he returns from a vacation , would be given some other assignment . Lane 's outburst came after Fisher had informed THE TRIBUNE that he would refuse to be made the scapegoat for Lane . Fischer said he originally had trouble working on the case involving the suspension of John Horan , chief engineer of the southwest treatment plant , because Lege kept the files locked . Fisher said he had only a few hours to work on'the case . When he turned the case over to Lane , Fisher said , Lane had almost a full week to prepare for the hearing . Hondas Asks Probe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district law department to " fix responsibility " in the mixups in the Horan and other civil service cases . " Fisher had at least a month to prepare the Horan matter , " Lane said . He shouted to Dundas to " take note that Fisher is writing to the newspapers . " Lane told the trustees and Dundas that they were at liberty to make public or do anything else they wanted with his report on the civil service fight . He said he had nothing to hide . Marked by Clashes The board meeting was marked by a number of clashes between trustees . At one point , Vincent D. Garrity , recently elected district vice president , took over the meeting from Chesrow . While the trustees admitted quick action was needed to straighten out matters revealed during the scandal , they insisted that the district was running at the highest peak of efficiency in history . John G. Henneberger , a trustee , got into a shouting match with Garrity when Henneberger said he had been asked if the crackdown on district loafers " was on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no " whitewash " and that the board of trustees has never attempted to interfere with the workings of the civil service board William F. Patterson , former board president , said the district " would n't be in its trouble " if plant heads and other district officials were given authority and backing by the board . At that point Edmund J. Kucharski , appointed a trustee early this year , reminded the board that several months 4 , Philip Furlong , maintenance and operations director , had made suggestions on improving the district and said that the board should study Furlong 's findings . Hit Payroll Cheats Furlong led a crackdown nn district loafers and pa y r oil cheats . Because of it he was demoted and almost lost his job . Kurcharski and several other trustees said they will insist that Furlong be given top priority in a promised shake-up of the district 's high command because Furlong had led a lone fight to save taxpayers ' money during a period of excessive spending and loafing . Chesrow said that of the 88 to be laid off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district workers who have been " judged surplus by their superiors . " lie instructed department h ea d s to complete vacation schedules as soon as possible and to reshuffle the work assignments of their regular men wherever practical . The 16 " regulars " include three class A maintenance laborers with salaries ranging from $471 to $507 a month , and 13 class B laborers who were paid $452 a month . Chesrow said that the closing of the Ottawa and Peoria water sampling and testing stations , announced Wednesday , would mean an annual saving of $45,274 . At the stations water is taken from the Illinois river and tested by chemists . Dundas said a senior sanitary chemist , five laboratory assistants , and three water samplers who have been assigned to the two stations will he given other district jobs when the stations are closed .                     