@@725097

txt Increased draft calls have prompt &I; Selective Service boards throughout the country to reexamine their rolls with an eye to summoning young men they otherwise might have deferred . Some state directors and local boards have advised national headquarters that they might be calling up married men without children as early as December . In addition , several boards appear to be notifying post-graduate students that their deferments are being re-viewed , Despite the policy of national headquarters to encourage the deferment of students , at least five students working for doctorates at Columbia University have been notified of deferment reviews , One of the students , David Whitcomb , has been told to report for pre-induction examination . Draft Calls Doubled The pressure on the nation 's 2,000 local boards to dig deeper into their lists of eligible young men between the ages of 19 and 26 came as a result of draft calls that have more than doubled since last summer , when they were running about 17,000 a month . They were jumped to 33,600 for October , 36,450 for November and 45,224 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the additional draft levies . In its over-all planning , the Pentagon has decided to increase the strength of the armed forces by 340,000 to three million . Although voluntary enlistments have gone up , largely because of the rise in draft quotas , the Navy and Marine Corps as well as the Army have had to resort to the draft to meet their requirements . The Air Force thus far has avoided requests for draftees . Appeals by the Navy and Marine Corps for reservists to volunteer for active duty in the Vietnam crisis have had little success , officials disclosed . ' In two months the Marine appeal to reservists brought responses from 183 officers and 574 enlisted men . The Navy reported that 335 Reserve officers had agreed to volunteer for active duty in that period . It had no figures on responses by enlisted reservists . Drafted men serve two years on active duty . Volunteers Serve three years but they are granted a choice of training programs for military occupation specialties . Select Training Ordered In addition to building up the regular armed forces , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " , of 145,000 Army National Guardsmen and Army Reservists . But Pentagon officials emphasize that there is no existing plan to.call these men to active duty in the foreseeable future . One reason the draft calls have been raised , officials pointed out , is the decision not to , call . upon reservists at this tine . Army officials had recommended a Reserve call-up in the interest of speed . Selective Service officials here pointed out , in the light of reports that deferments are being reviewed , that local boards are empowered under the law to decide upon the status of individuals in their area . The national headquarters can make recommendations , but the local board designates the draft classification for each eligible registrant . The law provides machinery for appeal . Officials here said that married men had always been classified 1A , that is eligible for immediate induction . However , ' in the " sequence " of eligibles they came after others who were considered first choices . Delinquents Are First At the top of the sequence are draft delinquents  --  that is persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or otherwise attempted to escape their military obligation without the approval of authorities . Second in the sequence are volunteers for induction , that is young men who are about to be drafted and decide not to wait until the last minute . Third in the sequence , and by far the great majority of draftees , are single men , betweer the ages of 19 and 26 , who l ave no occupational or student deferments . When draft calls are low many young men in his group are not called , Since the Korean War ' rid until now , with one excepLon , draft boards in recent years have not been compelled to go below the third sequence of eligibles in their 1-A list . That exception covered men who married after Aug. 26 when President Johnson announced plans to increase the size of the armed forces and to raise draft quotas . The decision was made to treat men who married after Aug. 26 as if they were single to thwart any last-minute attempts to escape service through marriage . While married men without children were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in a low sequence . Clashes With Boards This was done to avoid clashes with local boards who from time to time insisted upon drafting some . married men despite admonitions from national headquarters . President Johnson lifted the inhibition when complaints developed as draft calls increased . Even so , Selective Service headquarters regularly included in its monthly calls to the states a statement urging draft boards to avoid calling married men who had married before Aug. 26 National headquarters removed from its most recent notice to state headquarters a request to continue avoidance of calls to married men . According to an Associated Press survey , Selective Service officials in at least eight states have indicated that they would start drafting married men without children in December . Still relatively free of the prospect of the draft are single and married men over 26 . Last in the list of eligibles are single and married men ; between the ages of 181/2 and . 19 . Discussing the- problem of students , officials . here emphasized that it was still the policy of the national headquarters to encourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national Selective Service headquarters encourages ideal draft boards to give " serious consideration for deferment of full-time students making normal progress . " This attitude covers postgraduate as well as undergraduate students , it was indicated . But officials stressed that the local draft boards made'the decisions , subject to appeal . The law provides for deferment of registrants " whose activity in study is found to be necessary to the maintenance of the national health , safety or interest . " The local draft boards , however , decide which student deferment meets the criterion . The law also permits students satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college , university or similar institution to obtain a deferment until the end of the academic year should he be called to report for induction . However , the student is permitted only one such deferment . At Columbia , it appeared that only doctoral candidates were being notified of pending draft calls . Although good grades have been accepted in the past evidence , ' - of satisfactory progress , the law prohibits selection or deferment to be made among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here Col. Paul Akst , director of the New York City Selective Service System , gave assurances yesterday that deferred students would not be called for military service . Colonel Akst said that New York City 's standards , among the most rigid in the nation , were set after consultation with the state Board of Regents . To qualify for a deferment in New York a student must take 12 credits , work for a specific degree and maintain satisfactory grades . Besides those at Columbia several other colleges reported that full-time students had received notice that their applications for deferments had been denied . At Harvard at least four law students from Tulsa , Okla. , and Baltimore were reported to have been denied student classification . The Crimson , the university newspaper , said that at least one of the students had been told that he could not even receive a 1-AC classification , which would allow him to finish the year . The Princetonian at Princeton reported that at least three full-time graduate students had been reclassified . One student. : Barry Novack , from Westwood . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few deferments for graduate . students would be issued this year . N.Y.U. and Fordham Report New York University and Fordham University said that one student at each institution had reported the denial of his application . Colleges submit requests for student deferments in late September . During their October meetings /local boards usually pass on the applications , and thus the news of their actions is just becoming known . A man has , 10 days after he receives notice of his classification to submit an appeal , and Columbia is advising the students to appeal , according to Richard J. Gilmore , director-of student aid certification . Besides David Whitcomb , a third-year graduate economies student from Clinton , Mass .. those advised of reviews include Robert Manasse , a botany student from New York , and Robert W. 6 Vor'el , a business student from Paterson , N.J. Wesley First , director of university relations at Columbia , commented : " This thing sent cold shivers down my back . Education is big with us . If they 're going to start drafting graduate students this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . "                     