@@727287

txt Summer rally ? Looks more as if Wall Street is limp from summer heat . Fact is the stock market has run out of steam . What look like good rallies in the morning turn into down days in the afternoon . Profits have been harder to make in ' 68 than ' 67 . But smart traders have been making them by being first to buy companies with an interesting story  --  earnings story , that is . With the list pretty well combed through and the general outlook for the next 12 months not too robust , the stage is set for a setback in the next month or two . Only stocks that may withstand the setback will be some of the more conservative industries such as banks , finance companies , insurance , and utilities . But these lack " glamour . " Many investors may decide to sit it out during a fall market correction and not latch on to these groups which are being recommended by growing numbers of advisers . They may just hold on to their money until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . e Fibber McGee cupboards may be on the way out . America 's year-old fair-packaging law has begun to shrink the " undue proliferation " of package sizes . From toothpaste to breakfast cereals ? whose box sizes range from itsy-bitsy to family size too big for anything but a broom closet ? the Commerce Department has identified more than 140 types of household products as candidates for standardization . The department is stressing voluntary compliance by trade groups . And industry is responding . ? More than 40 groups , including potato-chip , coffee , and detergent manufacturers , have already agreed to reduce the variety of their package sizes . Another 70 are drawing up new standards . On the horizon : a possible change in make up of Comsat 's board of directors . Sen .. John 0 . Pastore wants to amend the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 under which the public-private Communications Satellite Corporation was formed . As chairman of the Senate Communications subcommittee , the Rhode Island Democrat proposes limiting the number of directors who represent the common carrier companies . At present the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the carriers , six representing the public stockholders , and three appointed by the President with Senate approval . Senator Pastore wants to set up a formula that would limit representation of common carriers to the percentage of stock they hold . Currently the companies own 42.5 percent of the stock . Under the Pastore plan they would be limited to five directors . If the carriers continue to sell off stock , as they have been doing of late , when the level reaches 40 percent or below , they would be entitled to only four directors . The proposal has wide support in the Sen. ate . It could easily pass next year . Trends .. . British buggies are barging in all over . John Bull 's motor business has maneuvered its front bumper well over the threshold of Europe 's garage . Sales have risen over 1967 levels in both Common Market and European Free Trade Area countries . And in Finland Britain has dislodged Germany as the top car seller . English auto sales are booming in North America , too . Carmakers have had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular shipping services to Canada and the United States . Substitute milk products are n't selling like hot cakes as some dairy companies had hoped . In a few states  --  Arizona , California , and Iiawaii  --  imitation and filled milk are making headway . But in general consumers are still skeptical about the nutritional valite of milk substitutes . In addition , prices of the substitutes often are not much lower than regular milk . One reason is that in many states dairies are required to use top-quality fluid milk instead of cheaper nonfat dry milk. ? Nevertheless , consumers may find the advertising and promotional barrage in support of milk substitutes growing . Why ? Because dairy profits on most milk products have been steadily slipping . The new products offer hope of developing a broader-based product line .                     