@@725632

txt Letters to the Editor of the Times pg . 26 Letters to the Editor of The Times Increase in Tolls and Parking Fees Wanted To the Editor : In your July 5 editorial " The Fare Goes Up " you make the maddening claim , also made by automobile interests , that the $20-million annual subsidy for student fares and the $30-mi1-lion transit police cost are part of the " transit subsidy . " This is , of course , ridiculous . It is not the transit riders ' responsibility to finance school children 's transportation ; it is the city 's responsibility . And the transit police should be considered merely part of the city 's responsibility to protect its citizens regardless of whether they are underground or on the surface . Seldom does anyone refer to the much greater subsidy received by motorists in the city financing of traffic signal systems or traffic police , for which motorists pay next to nothing . Subsidy to Motorists Unaccompanied by needed increases in motorists ' charges for bridge and tunnel tolls , parking fees and charges for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by general taxpayers , the fare rise is a minor calamity . A patronage drop , conservatively estimated at 5 per cent by the Transit Authority , will mean 100,000 fewer subway riders into Manhattan 's central business district every day . If these people take to their cars , the motorized assault will spur demands for hundreds of millions in subsidized municipal parking programs , street widenings and other measures designed to make life even more miserable for pedestrians and bus riders . If they . stop coming to the central business district , the city 's economy will suffer . By conservative estimate , the subway system adds $600 million annually to the city 's real estate taxes , for it sustains a $58-billion land empire equaled nowhere else on earth . It is doubtless the biggest bargain any city ever got from a . subsidy . W. GRIFFITH Jr . Denville , N. J. , July 6 , 1966 ? Victims of Parade To the Editor : As a victim of the traffic nightmare caused by the Lions parade , I was witness to many small but terrifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Madison Avenue bus between 48th Street and 78th Street may not be any kind of a record , but the sight and sound of two elderly women at Madison and 79th in tears , literally , because they could not get across to the West Side to their niece 's reception , was not easy to take . Editorial July 8 . It was almost impossible to enter Central Park below 96th Street and then only with a great deal of patience , All normal downtown private-car traffic was clogged onto Park Avenue ; I have no idea where the downtown Fifth Avenue buses were routed . My conclusion is that whoever authorized this parade at the height of the evening rush hour vas guilty of the most colossal blunder since Con Edison pulled the plug last year . The Lions were going on to Madison Square later ; is the West Side irrimune to parades ? Who was the person at City Hall who gave the approval for the parade ? What is his : rationale ? DAVID LUXNER New York , July 7 , 1966 just approved expenditure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told that the city is in the midst of a " desperate financial crisis " and if the additional taxes the Mayor has requested are not approved , essential security such as police and fire protection will have to be reduced . In reply to my letter William C. Mattison , Commissioner of the Department of Public Works , writes me " the structure will be more than a commercial-type office building . It will be designed for exterior treatment comparable to that of prime office buildings such as the Chase Manhattan Bank Building or the Seagram Building . " Is n't it time for another Boston Tea Party here in New York ? WYLIE F. L. TUTTLE New York , July 5 , 1966 ? Unity in War Stand Urged To the Editor : The New York Times editorial columns and James Reston have been highly critical of President Johnson 's recent moves in the Vietnam conflict , and his criticism of his critics . Mr. Reston , in particular , berates ' the President for asking that his critics " count ten before they hurt . " July 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accusations that Mr. Johnson 's Omaha speech " Is a mishmash of bad history and dubious logic . " If one credits the President insufficiently as to his understanding and intentions concerning the . fuller context of those problems he is attempting to resolve , this may be so . Certainly Mr. Reston must know that President Johnson 's escalation to the bombing of strategic oil depots on the periphery of Hanoi and Haiphong does not prechlde his awareness of or his genuine desire for the larger humane and ultimately democratic aims of our Asia polio &; Goldwater Policy Significantly , neither The Times nor Mr. Reston offers a single alternative to the present escalation , which is intended to offset the strategic and military advantages of the enemy and its consequent cost in American and allied lives . Merely asserting that the President is carrying out Goldwater 's policy means nothing , since in the course of developments one must do what one must do regardless of who may have advocated it . Barry Goldwater , after all , may have been correct . No acknowledgment is made of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the meticulous limitation of bombing targets against an unrestrained and implacable foe . Forgotten , also , are the numerous overtures and peace feelers of our Government , including the twice halted bombing raids in the interest of a negotiated peace . Is it not time now , in fairness and reciprocity , to have the kind of hiatus of criticism against . American policy that was demanded and received in the bombing raids ? Has not the time arrived to discover whether a show of maximum unity and determination by the American people and their allies , unmarred by the sensationalist , overly publicized tactics of various critics , may produce those Very results which those critics ostensibly desire ? This is something that has not yet been done ; let us give it a try ! PAUL MATHEWS Brooklyn , July 4 , 1966 ? Wage Board for Civil Service Disputes To the Editor : Prof. Vern Countryman 's letter in The Times of June 27 responding to the letter of Peter Seitz and Saul Wallen on the subject of public employe bargaining June 20 discloses , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to recognize and come to grips with a fundamental problem . Collective bargaining over wages , hours and conditions of employment , on the industrial model , is wholly unsuited to employes in the public sector for this reason : What makes collective bargaining work is the underlying threat of economic pressure . Not having the right to strike , public employes are legally deprived of that pressure . Yet , lacking it , they are driven to repeated threats of strike and actual strikes in violation of law . Any system which continues to try to apply traditional collective bargaining to public employes inevitably builds in these pressures . Function of Bargaining Moreover , the function of collective bargaining in industry is to force a more equitable distribution of the fruits of the enterprise . In government there are no such fruits . This is not to say that public employes are not entitled to be represented by unions and to have those unions process their grievances up to and including binding arbitration . They are . But in the matter of fixing wages and other conditions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a permanent qualified wage board , before which the union and the government agency present their respective cases , with the board handing down an award which insures fair treatment to the employes involved , while taking account of the rights and interests of the government and the public as well . Thus public employes would be assured of fair wage treatment , in return for deprivation of the right to strike ? an assurance which employes in the private sector do not have and , what is more , can not get , if their economic power is insufficient to force such a settlement in collective bargaining . Professor Countryman 's approach ( remove all penalties and " make collective bargaining work " ) is patently hopeless and can only lead to a proliferation of strike threats and strikes which , even now , are not deterred by legal prohibitions and sanctions . Collective bargaining can not " work " in the public sector . The sooner this is recognized and appropriate measures taken along the lines suggested above , the sooner the city and state will be relieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of services by one group or another . F. A. O'CONNELL New York , June 27 , 1966 ? Modern Britain To the Editor : Richard Blomfield , whose letter you published July 4 , appears to have missed the point of Anthony Lewis 's June 8 news column " Frivolity in Britain , " The latter was surely not chiding the British people for their apparent preoccupation with hedonism per se , but because this preoccupation is to the exclusion of all other things , particularly the all-important issue of the country 's economic situation . Mr. Lewis was pointing out  --  and rightly so ? that a giggle is hardly a fitting accompaniment to a death rattle . For Mr. Blomfield to dismiss " the sliding into economic perdition " as overstatement is not only speciously airy as even the most cursory examination of the facts will show , but also symptomatic of the widespread complacency in the national mood . ERIC GASTON Jamaica , L. I. , July 6 , 1966 ? For Transistor Ban To the Editor : With the beach season in full blast , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't mean on the beaches themselves  --  one , if need be , can always move  --  but the inconsiderate playing of these things on public buses where one is a captive audience . Surely the nightmare sounds blaring forth are as objectionable in public vehicles as is smoking , and should also be prohibited . If these empty-headed idiots must be switched-on wherever they go , why must the rest of us , merely desiring as peaceful a ride to the shore as possible , be made to suffer ? Ca n't some legislation ' be passed ? RONALD M. ALEXANDER New York , July 5 , 1966                     