@@723929

txt Washington , April 24 ? President Johnson today gave a preview of his election campaign style as he made a fast fourstate tour of high unemployment and economically distressed areas to dramatize and seek congressional support for his administration 's billion dollar " war on poverty " program . The President and Mrs. Johnson returned to the White House tonight after landing at Washington National airport at 10:30 p. in . Starting from Chicago , the President went into Indiana , Pennsylvania , West Virginia , and Kentucky . Between inspection of manpower training projects and " pockets of poverty , " he made a series of public appearances and informal speeches which exposed him to thousands of persons and innumerable handshakes . It 's Not Political , He.Says He remarked several times that he was not making a political trip . but went , about greeting crowds and promising a better life for all Americans with the fervor cf an election campaigner . He concluded his day-long tour by meeting in Huntington , a West Virginia railroad center on the Ohio river , with seven state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talking with the governors , Johnson said before boarding his plane to return to Washington that he will ask Congress for legislation to put the projected economic rehabilitation plan for the region into operation . Vows to End Causes At the Huntington airport tonight , the President vowed to eliminate the causes of poverty in the United States . For his audience of area residents gathered to see him off , he invoked the words of President Franklin D Roosevelt ? " the only thing we have to fear is fear itself "  --  and asserted he was proud of the courage and determination he saw today among the unemployed-and the needy . He had praise for Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , undersecretary of commerce who headed a federal - state commission which recently recommended a45 billion dollar , five-year program to bring economic health to the impoverished Appalachia region . The President said he soon will send to Congress proposed legislation to put this program into operation . Addresses Women Voters President Johnson spent last night.in Chicago after speaking at a $100-a-plate , fund-raising dinner sponsored by the - Cook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " this morning with a helicopter flight from Chicago to South Bend , Ind . From South Bend , he moved to Pittsburgh for speeches at a League of Women Voters convention and before members in. an AFL - CIO Steel Workers union local . He proceeded to Huntington , then made another helicopter flight to eastern Kentucky and depressed areas around the towns of Inez and Paintsville . He returned to Huntington tonight to meet an hour and a half with the state governors . In South Bend , the President spent 45 minutes inspecting a federal manpower retraining center and 30 minutes shaking hands with a yelling , milling crowd of 6,000 , mostly school children , who surged around him and Mr , . Johnson . Tells Children to Behave The chief executive stopped smiling at one point and told the South Bend youngsters to behave themselves or there would be no more hand-shaking . Secret service agents and police occasionally lost control of the enthusiastic well-wishers as they shoved forward and carried the President with them . In Pittsburgh , en route to speak at the steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shake hands with those in the crowds lining the street that it took him 45 minutes to drive a mile and a half . At one of the stops , the President a n d Mrs. Johnson stood on the trunk of their open car while he made an impromptu speech . He used a battery-powered " bull horn " so he could be heard . In Inez , the Johnsons drove to the tarpaper shack of an unemployed sawmill worker , his I wife and their eight children I for a chat on the front porch . Once a Shoe Shine Boy At his second stop in Kentucky - the community of Paintsville ? the President spoke from the courthouse steps to the townspeople and told them " I know something about poverty " because he had performed such manual labor as shining shoes and working on a road crew for a dollar a day . Mrs. Johnson moved right along with the President during the 13-hour trip today . She shared the public appearances with her husband and made several brief speeches . . The chief executive visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation there . The 1.3 million dollar program for teaching new job skills primarily benefits workers who lost their jobs last December when the Studebaker corporation closed its automobile plant . When the plant was shut , 7,000 South Bend residents became unemployed . The President looked into classrooms in a building formerly used as a high school where 200 students enrolled in the training program are learning such new skills as automatic data processing and machine shop techniques , or acquiring the basic education needed for vocational training . The average age in the school is 40 . Johnson was surrounded and jostled by the crowd of wel : - wishers  --  most of them school children excused from classes for the occasion  --  when his helicopter landed on a football field near the school building . The building also is used by the South Bend school system for special classes for mentally-retarded children of various ages . The President visited one of these classrooms after he had inspected the adult training classes . Their Problems , His Problems On a signal from their teacher , the mentally-handicapped youngsters began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the President entered the room . An 8-year-old blind boy played a piano accompaniment . Before leaving the school grounds , the Presidoit  --  introduced by Indiana 's Democratic governor , Matthew Welch ? said hr an impromptu speech he wanted to see . the South Bend job training program in operation because " your problems are our problems . " He commended the community for its determination in the face of adverse employment conditinns to help its people " build . better job for tomorrow than . hey had yesterday . " In Pittsburgh , he told his League of Women Voters audience of 2,000 gathered in a hotel that his administration is fighting " an undeclared war on poverty  --  objective total victory . " The President was accompanied on his tour today by Secretary of Commerce Luther H. Hodges ; Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz ; Anthony J. Celebrezze , secretary of health , education and welfare ; and Robert C. Weaver , Federal Housing administrator . The trip into areas of unemployment and poverty was hastily arranged Wednesday as soon as the strike-threatening dispute between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and announced yesterday morning shortly before the President left for Chicago to speak at the Democratic fund-raising dinner . The President had been planning his " poverty tour " for several weeks , but postponed setting a definite date because of the railroad dispute negotiations .                     