@@726765

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times JOHN W. ROSENBERGER , M.D.C.K. KwoxMARIENNE CHATIN(Rabbi) RICHARD L. RUBENSTEI ... pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times Opposition to War in Armed Forces To the Editor : Recent news articles have suggested that men returning to civilian life from the armed forces will form a prowar element in the coming national elections . As two individuals who have recently been discharged from the Army we offer a rebuttal to such predictions . We are both physicians . One of us spent a year in Vietnam with the Army . As physicians we ? had a unique opportunity to talk with many soldiers from all ranks and organizations ( and not just patients ) in a setting which pre-empted the usual restrictions against open , free discussion among military personnel . ( In effect , soldier - physicians are " safe " people for other soldiers to complain to . ) These conversations made it clear to us that there is a significant number of men in the Army who are very much against the Vietnam war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition fell into two broad categories . First , those with experience in Vietnam felt that the U.S. had almost no support from the local populace . Incidents were reported of gross corruption among local South Vietnamese politicians and false " battles " claimed by South Vietnamese Army units . In general , the feeling was that the war is exclusively an American war and that it can only be won by Americans in the face of the apathy , at best , of the South Vietnamese themselves . The second reason given by many soldiers was that the Administration , and the Army hierarchy in particular , were manifesting more and more hypocrisy in an attempt to justify the American position in Vietnam . Casualty reports usually giving the ratio of enemy dead to American dead as ten to one were greeted with knowing smiles . Enlisted men spoke of the frantic efforts by commanders to maintain the image of an American Army motivated by the righteousness of its cause in the face of obvious , if muted , disillusionment . And most apparent was a general feeling of anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make decisions and take responsibility for such things as A.W.O.L. rates , minor deficiencies in discipline and questionable procedures in evaluating training exercises . It is our distinct impression that official news stories ( which must be cleared by military information officers ) fail to reflect the feelings of a significant number of men in the armed forces who , far from being " hawks , " are becoming increasingly opposed , as a result of their military experience , to the direction and extent of the Vietnam war . JOHN W. ROSENBERGER , M.D. New York ARTHUR S. BLANK Jr. , M.D. New Haven , Dec. 4 , 1967 Subway Maze To the Editor : As a visitor recently arrived from London , I feel the superiority of the London underground over the New York subway . If a stranger is lost in London , he can go to the underground and find his way home . Route maps showing all the stops and points of change are to be found in the station , on the platforms and in every car . Over here , I am told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . C. K. KwoK New York , Dec. 6 , 1967 To Bar Gold Sales to France To the Editor : Referring to the Dec. 4 editorial page column by Harry Schwartz entitled " Must the Dollar Be Tied to Gold ? " I wholeheartedly agree with Mr. Schwartz that the time is ripe for a " great debate " on this subject . As a matter of fact , legislation is now being introduced in Congress ( sponsored by Senator Vance Hartke ) to bar the sale of gold to France until she resumes payments on her World War I debt of over $6 billion . This would in part counter President de Gaulle 's attempts to raid the dollar by demanding gold from us for dollars which we in fact have given France to the tune of $9.5 billion dollars over the past twenty years . It is Senator Hartke 's contention that " gold cover " for the dollar is an outmoded shibboleth . Such legislation and great debate on this vital subject would not only enlighten plain ordinary citizens like myself but might be helpful in bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being pursued by their aging leader . In a nutshell , what we as a people must decide is : Shall the " Cross of Lorraine " become our Cross of Gold ? MARIENNE CHATIN Palm Beach , Fla. , Dec. 6 , 1967 Views on Loyalties To the Editor : I wish to protest the unfortunate misrepresentation of my views by Ellen Schwarz of Washington in her Dec. 1 letter . Miss Schwarz claims that I characterized the American Jew as a " wandering nomad " in an " unloved natural environment . " Miss Schwarz used the columns of The New York Times to question the loyalty of American Jews , almost all of whom are strongly pro-Zionist , to their native land . Miss Schwarz will need better evidence than the ascription to me of views I do not possess and have never expressed . Miss Schwarz cites as her source the Aug. 30 issue of The New York Times , in which I am quoted in connection with a theological paper entitled " The Meaning of Place  --  Sacred and Profane " which I gave on Aug. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Architecture and the Visual Arts . I was quoted as saying that " most Americans were like the historical Jews  --  exiles and wanderers . " This was a refers ence to the problem of the high mobility of the business execiitive in a managerial society such as that of contemporary America . Referring to my remarks , The Times continued : " Therefore , he said , there are few ' sacred places ' in North America . He explained : ' The sacred is home and home is strange and alien place in a society largely dominated by wandering professionals skilled iri ? the capacity largely to exploit an unloved natural environl : ment . ' " Impugning the loyalties : of American Jews is a serious , matter replete with the potent tiality ' of great human misfdr-. tune . I do not know why Miss . Schwarz chose to distort my words so that a theological dilr ' cussion of executive mobility and the problem of the sacred ? was made to appear as an affirmation of the malicious legend of the wandering Jew . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my re. : marks carry the meaning sbe suggested . ( Rabbi ) RICHARD L ' . RUBENSTEIN ' Pittsburgh , Dec. 7 , 1967 Library Pay Collection To the Editor : I think that all branches of . the Queens Borough Public Library should have at least ' one free copy of every book in the rental collection . This Si ' not the case . Popular books are offered , in ; the rental collection without a free copy provided for the ' : branch . The books sometirneS stay in the rental group for : long periods of time before be ; , ing transferred to the free ccillection . This is a sad policy for a public library to follow . EUGENE W. SMITH Forest Hills , L. I. , Dec. 5 , 1967 ..                     