@@727369

txt The Senate passed today a gun control bill restricting interstate sales of rifles , shotguns and ammunition . The legislation , proposed by the Administration after the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy , was approved by an overwhelming vote of 70 to 17 as even long-time opponents of gun controls joined in supporting the limited measure . But when it came to stricter controls , the opponents were in firm command . The Senate re jected several attempts to strengthen the Administration bill by requiring registration of firearms or licensing of gun owners . The legislation now goes to a Senate-House conference , with Congesssional leaders determined to obtain final action before Congress adjourns next month . Basically , the Senate voided one major House provision that would have exempted most types of ammunition from controls . Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts made his first appearance on the Senate floor since the assassination of his , brother Robert in June to cast his votes for registration and licensing . But throughout the five days of Senate debate on the legislation , it was increasingly apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately after the Kennedy assassination had been replaced by opposition built up among Western and Southern Senators by various gun and sporting groups . Senator Kennedy remained silent in his back-row seat , his chin in his hand , as the licensing and registration controls that he and his brother had advocated went down to repeated defeats at the hands of a coalition of Western and Southern Senators . He had considered making a speech in favor of stricter controls but , according to aides , had finally decided that such an intervention would not be in good taste . The legislation is designed to help states enforce their own gun laws by limiting the interstate traffic in firearms and ammunition . The bill : Prohibits interstate mail order sales of rifles and shotguns . A similar ban on the sale of revolvers and pistols was contained in the crime control law passed last spring . 9 Prohibits over-the-counter sales of firearms to out-of-state residents . Both the Senate and House bills , however , contain a provision permitting adjoining states to exempt themselves from this prohibition . 9Prohibits sales of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of handguns and under 18 in the case of rifles and shotguns . Purpose of the Law 9Bans mail-order sales of ammunition and prohibits overthe-counter sales to juveniles , convicted felons and persons ineligible to purchase ammunition under state and local law . Under the House bill , ammunition for rifles and shotguns as well as .22-caliber ammunition would be exempted from the controls . The intended purpose of the legislation is to make it mandatory for a person to acquire a firearm from a licensed gun dealer in his own state , thus preventing a person from circumventing state gun laws by ordering a gun through the mails or purchasing a gun out of state . In both the Senate and House bills , however , new and looser definitions were established for gun dealer and collectors licenses . As a result , the Justice Department is fearful that persons who are not genuine dealers or collectors will be able to circumvent the controls in the new legislation by obtaining licenses . For the first four days of , debate , gun control proponents ' fought to tighten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ammunition . 1 With that , the battle turned to registration and licensing controls , which the Administration had requested after first proposing the restrictions on interstate sales , but which the White House did not fight for too strenuously in either the House or Senate . While reluctantly prepared to accept limitations on interstate sales , ' gun control opponents drew the line at licensing and registration controls . From the reaction built up back home , it was also apparent that such controls were politically difficult for-Southern and Western Senators to accept . The Senate Democratic leader , t Mike Mansfield of Montana , alluded to this political fact in a last-minute appeal to Senators to put aside regional con- , siderations and accept licensing and registration controls as a necessary step to control crime and violence in the urban areas . " We should remember we all wear two hats , " he told his colleagues , " one as a Senator from our state and the other as a Senator of the United States . " " Those of us who come from the rural West have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut down on crime , " he said . His appeal fell on deaf ears for only a handful of Western Senators supported ' registration and licensing . Senator Kennedy unobtrucively entered the chamber just as Senator Mansfield was finishing his appeal and as Senator Roman L. Hruska , Republican of Nebraska , the leader of the gun control opponents , was repeating his arguments against registration and licensing . Throughout the debate , gun control advocates sought to depict registration and licensing as anticrime measures , with registration assisting in the solution of crimes and licensing helping to keep guns out of the hands of criminals , juveniles and drug addicts . To this argument , Senator Hruska repeatedly countered that there was no demonstrated connection between crime and availability of guns , that registration and licensing would be extremely costly , lead to a Federal pollee system and confiscation of guns . By a 55.31 vote , the Senate rejected a proposal to require registration of all firearms and licensing of all gun owners . Under the proposal offered by ' Senator Joseph D. Tydings , Democrat of Maryland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the states , with the Federal Government moving in only if the , states failed to act . With the Tydings amendment defeated , the gun control forces were routed on a series of " fallback " amendments . By a 47-35 vote , the Senate rejected a proposal by Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , to cut off shipment of firearms into any state which by 1971 had not enacted controls providing for registration of firearms and screening of gun owners . An amendment by Senator Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachusetts , to establish a national inventory of firearms ? an indirect form of registration  --  was defeated 53-31.                     