@@727696

txt Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird said on departing from South Vietnam tonight that it would be " desirable and possible " to replace some of the 540,000 American military men in this country with South Vietnamese troops . The Secretary declined to say how many Americans could be replaced or when , but he said it had become evident to him during his four-day visit here that the South Vietnamese fighting forces were improving and would be able to shoulder a larger share of the fighting in the future . " I do not want to see any United States military man in South Vietnam a single day longer than is necessary to accoinplish our objectives , " Mr. Laird said . Enemy forces sent seven powerful rockets into the city of Hue ' Monday night , killing two persons , wounding five and destroying a house , United Press International reported . It was the first attack on the city since the nationwide offensive began Feb. 23 . Page 2 . Saigon 's Strength Key Issue As the first representative of the Nixon Administration to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's main points of concern was the upgrading of the South Vietnamese Army and the related question of United States troop withdrawals . In an hour-Iong news conference at Tansonnhut Airport , Mr. Laird made the following points : IliThe enemy 's current offensive in South Vietnam has achieved no significant military success despite the continued shelling of targets around the country . dillHe has been " encouraged and impressed " in his talks with South Vietnam 's leaders " with their repeatedly stated desire to take on more of the responsibility for the fighting . " qHe did not consider it an escalation of the war for American commanders to ? conduct operations across the border in Laos when such operations , were necessary to protect the safety of United . States soldiers . Mr. Laird said that it was in keeping with prevailing United . States policy for American commanders to take " whatever action is necessary for the protection of American troops . " The Secretary 's remarks on operations in Laos came in response to a question prompted by an article in The New York Times yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States marines seized and held . several hilltops on the Laotian side of the border with South Vietnam . The marines were reported to have , remained on Laotian soil for about a week . Violations of Neutrality Their presence constituted a violation of Laos 's neutrality , which was agreed upon at international conferences at Geneva in 1954 and 1962 . Despite these agreements , North Vietnamese troops have been operating in Laos and using Laotian territory as a supply route into South Vietnam for several years . Asked if American troops had been operating inside Laos during the last two weeks , Mr. Laird said ; " I would not confirm that they are there now but I would certainly say that there have been operations in which it has ' been necessary in order to protect American fighting forces that  --  that border being a very ' indefinite border ? it may have been transgressed by American forces in carrying out this responsibility . " The Secretary said that the decision to permit the operations inside Laos had been reviewed at the highest level " and approved by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safety of our men . " He explained that the operations were not the same as the policy of hot pursuit , which usually involves troops crossing a border in pursuit of a retreating enemy in a continuing action . In the recent operations , the marines took up positions ! in Laos to protect their flank during a sweep of the area near Ithe border . Mr. Laird also denied that the United States had intensified the fighting in South Vietnam since the Nov. 1 halt in the bombing of North Vietnam . " The only escalation that has taken place so far as the war in Southeast Asia is concerned has been the escalation of the Vietcong and North Vietnamese , " he said . The Secretary made his remarks just before boarding an Air Force jet for a flight to Hawaii , where he is scheduled to confer with Adm . John S. McCain , commander of American forces in the Pacific .                     