@@724641

txt Washington , March 14-President Johnson will address an extraordinary joint session of Congress at 8 . p. m. , Chicago time tomorrow on his voting rights proposal , plus related matters , it was announced ' tonight . The unusual address to be held in the House chamber , will be televised nationally . It was clear that the evening hous was chosen to provide maximum exposure , The American Broadcasting company , Columbia Broadcasting system , and the National Broadcasting company will carry the speech live . Lyndon Gets invitation The announcement . was made by Jack Valenti , one of Johnson 's personal aids , after a White House meeting of congressional leaders of both parties . Valenti said the congressional leaders invited Johnson to make the address , asking him to present his " views and outline of a voting rights bill and other matters that the President may desire to digcuss . " Picket Line Swells The members of Congress had come to the executive mansion late in the afternoon to go over the details of the proposed bill , which Johnson had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negroes in the south will have the right to register and vote in local and federal elections without interference or delay . The meeting took place soon after a rally in LaFayette park , directly across Pennsylvania avenue from the White House . The rally drew the largest turn-out of demonstrators in the capital in more than a week of protests over the racial situation in Selma , Ala . Police estirriated 15,000 persons attended the rally . When it concluded , many joined in an around-the-clock picket line in front of the White House , swelling the number of pickets from a few hundred to an estimated 7,000 . District of Columbia police had 350 men on the scene . Details of special guards and secret service agents had been augmented at the executive mansion . Special attention was given to passes and identities of qualified persons entering the White House grounds . There were no incidents . Warm , but gray weather , brought a larger crowd to the park than the rally 's sponsor , the District of Columbia Committee for Federal Protection in Alabama , had anticipated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pictures , carrying guitars , or just plain sightseeing . Rock ' n Roll Booms As the rally began , a group of singers used the loudspeaker system to belt out integration songs played to a rock ' n roll beat with electric guitar accompaniment . The mood was festive in part . But in somber contrast was a large number of persons , many of them clergymen , wearing black mourning armbands in memory of the Rev. James Reeb , who was killed in Selma last week by civilian white men . Johnson left the White House for church before the rally 's early arrivals were in evidence . With Vice President Humphrey , and both their wives , he attended St. Mark 's Episcopal church , where the Rev. William M. Baxter , who has been active in political movements , told of his trip to Selma last week . Baxter called the Selma matter " the heartbreak of this nation . " After the services , and time spent at the church 's coffee hour , the Johnson party went to lunch several miles from the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Leaders Are Impressive The meeting with legislative leaders followed . Among those who came were Rep. John McCormick D. , Mass. , speaker of the House ; Sen. Mike Mansfield Mont . , Senate majority leader ; Sen. Dirksen 111.1 , Senate minority leader ; Rep. Carl Albert Okla . , House majority leader ; Rep. Hale Boggs La . , House majority whip ; Sen. Thomas Kuchel Cal . , Senate minority whip ; and Rep. William McCullogh 0.1 , ranking Republican member of the House judiciary committee . Among the President 's advisers to take part in the meeting were Humphrey ; Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach ; Deputy Attorney General Ramsey Clark ; Lawrence O'Brien , special assistant to Johnson for legislative matters ; and Lee White , special Presidential counsel .                     