@@726676

txt The Johnson Administration counter-attacked in force today against a concerted drive for legislation to curb imports of a dozen products ranging from steel to strawberries . Four Cabinet officers led by Secretary of State Dean Rusk went before the Senate Finance Committee to assail bills for stiff import quotas . They said enactment of such legislation would provoke massive retaliation by other countries against United States exports and cause severe damage to the national economy as well as to foreign relations . Rusk Notes Concern " Indeed , " Secretary Rusk testified , " a number of our leading trading partners , with all of whom we have the closest political ties , have already submitted formal diplomatic notes to the Department of State expressing their very great concern about the possible impairment of trade concessions negotiated with us if the bills under consideration were to become law . " He said Australia was one of the countries . The State Department had previously named Japan as another . Later today the department said Denmark , ' Sweden , Finland and Norway lad registered " deep concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iere released the text of an tide memoire , a form of strong iiplomatic complaint just short ) f a written protest note , in which " serious concern " was expressed about the " most serious repercussions " the proposed import restrictions would have on trade relations . " Protectionist measures in W. Willard Wirtz , Secretary of Labor . The Administration presented its case at the opening of three days of hearings on bills for new or stiffened import quotas on oil , textiles , steel , meat , lead and zinc , dairy products , mink skins , strawberries , ground fish , honey , electronic equipment and footwear . More than half of the members of the House and Senate are sponsors or cosponsors of one or more of the bills . Everett Dirksen of Illinois , the Senate Republican leader , and some other Finance Committee members have talked of combining the quota measures and attaching them as an extraneous amendment , or rider , to the Administration 's Social Security bill , which is now before the committee . Senate backers of such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indications that the idea might be dropped . The committee chairman , Russell B. Long , Democrat of Louisiana , said privately that he would not take the initiative in such a move . Senators George A. Smathers of Florida and Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut , both Democrats , spoke out at the hearing against attaching any quota provisions to the Social Security bill . Mr. Smathers said it would be a " very dangerous " threat to enactment of the bill . Mr. Ribicoff said it would be " the height of shocking irresponsibility . " In keynoting the Administration 's testimony . Mr. Rusk said the quotas , if imposed , would " destroy " the advances made in the Kennedy Round of tariff negotiations , concluded four months ago , and would repudiate the country 's longstanding policy of lowering bar-1 riers to world trade . " This Administration , " he , 4 IN CABINET SCORE IMPORT CURB PLAN ! the United States , " the British complaint asserted , " can not fail to generate strong pressure on other governments to take similar action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long been pressure to limit imports , from the United States . It went on : " If the access of British exports to the United States were to be impaired as a result of the introduction of new import restrictions , Her Majesty 's Government would find it difficult to resist the doubled and extended pressures with which it would undoubtedly be confronted . " Appearing with Secretary Rusk at a long witness table in a hearing room packed with lobbyists and other spectators were Orville L. Freeman , Secretary of Agriculture ; Stewart L. Udall , Secretary of the Interior ; Alexander B. Trowbridge , Secretary of Commerce , and William M. Roth , Special Representative for Trade Negotiations . Statements against the bills were filed by Henry H. Fowler , Secretary of the Treasury , and said , " is opposed to a retreat into protectionism because it will harm our domestic economy , injure rather than help our labor force , contribute to inflationary pressures and undermine our foreign policy by breeding hostility and discontent when we need peace and cooperation . " At the outset of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imports from the United States and said it was " time someone began to show a little concern for our own people . " " If foreign countries can erect nontariff devices to substitute for tariff barriers which are coming down around the world , the United States should demonstrate that it , too , has ingenuity in this respect , " he said .                     