@@726180

txt The possibility that Mao Tsetung 's Cultural Revolution may have to be abandoned was raised today in a major statement of policy from Peking . However , the statement incorporated a call for Maoists to press forward with the revolution and establish new revolutionary organs of power throughout the country based on a program of conciliation toward trustworthy officials but of uncompromising opposition to " persons in authority taking the ? capitalist road , " the phrase for those who oppose Maoism . The statement prescribed military participation at all levels in the new organs of power . These , it said , should be based on a three-way alliance of the revolutionary masses , revolutionary leading cadres and the army . The statement was in the form of a 2,500-word editorial in Hung Chi , the fortnightly ideological journal of the Chinese Communist Party 's Central Committee . The journal is directed by Chen Po-ta , one of Chairman Mao 's closest collaborators . Given Wide Display The importance of the statement was indicated by the fact that it was spread across the entire front page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . Approving statements from groups and individuals were obtained and . distributed by Hsinb.ua , the Chinese Communist press agency . The editorial was one of the clearest and most detailed declarations of policy and program to come from the Maoist camp in some time . Almost the entire text - reflected decisiveness and determination , but at the end it struck a different note . It said : " A big question now confrontng the people of the whole country is to carry the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution through to the end or to abandon it halfway . All revolutionLry comrades must keep a cool lead and not get confused . With power to spare , we must pursue the tottering foe . " Raising the question of abandonment at the halfway mark comes at a time when the momentum of Chairman Mao 's hive to purge what he calls 7eactionaries and revisionists Lmong Communist leaders ap ) ears to have stalled . Recently , activities have centered on discipline , rectification and consolidation among Maoists ; incorporation of cadres not initially in the Maoist camp , and alliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking included a decision , noted by Japanese correspondents , to ban Red Guard wall posters that publicized internal information of the Cultural Revolution , information about the Communist party and statements by party leaders before they are officially released .. Another move was the setting up of a committee by Security Minister Hsieh Fu-chih with the assignment of combining all of Peking 's revolutionary rebel organizations into a united front . This presumably was aimed at bringing the multiplicity of rebel units under centralized control , similar to that arranged for the congress of Red Guards organized to incorporate all university and college Red Guard units in Peking last month . The Hung Chi editorial , which analysts here believe was written by Mr. Chen , devoted itself mainly to elaborating on the triple alliances . The editorial said such alliances , at every level of government , were essential for creating revolutionary committees to serve as new provisional organs of power . Reference to Excesses In what seemed to be a reference to the excesses of Red Guards and revolutionary rebels , the editorial said the revolutionary masses must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " errors and shortcomings " that had been displayed by some leaders of mass organizations . These , it said , were inevitable in a revolution . Dealing with the incorporation of revolutionary cadres into the new ruling structure , the editorial said the majority were good " or relatively good " and could join the committees if they integrated , themselves with the masses and followed the Maoist line in their work . The editorial warned , however , that cadre-members who persisted in mistakes and did not " draw a clear-cut demarcation line between themselves and the people in authority taking the capitalist road " must not be imposed on the masses and arbitrarily taken into the provisional organs of power .                     