@@723874

txt The State Senate overrode new objections from the state labor federation today and unanimously approved a bill to curb discrimination in apprenticeship training programs . The measure was pushed through by the Senate majority leader , Walter ? J. Mahoney , Republican of Buffalo . He and other Senators brushed aside a surprise plea by Raymond R. Corbett , president of the . state American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations , . to kill the bill . Only two days ago , Mr. Cor- PO when . it was before the Assembly . But today he came out against the measure again . The Senate 's approval , by a ' 56-0 vote , was a major victory for civil rights groups and affiliates of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. that had supported the measure . Mr. Corbett had come under heavy fire from them . Submitted by Lefkowitz The bill had been submitted by Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz after Negroes and Puerto Ricans , in massive demonstrations in New York City last summer , protested the exclusion of members of their groups from jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make it an " unlawful discriminatory practice " to select persons for apprenticeships for on-the-job training programs on any basis " other than their qualifications . " In debate today , Senator George Metcalf , Auburn Republican , who sponsored the bill in the upper house , said the measure was aimed at ending nepotism and other forms of favoritism in selecting candidates for on-the-job training . Civil rights groups have maintained that many construc- tion and other craft unions exdude Negroes and Puerto Ricans from membership , and therefore from apprenticeship programs , by limiting this se-i lection to relatives or whites . The measure approved today , which was passed by the Assembly Tuesday , would require that qualifications for apprentice programs be determined by " objective criteria . " These standards would be subject to review by commissioners of the Labor Department . and the State Commission for Human Rights . In renewing his opposition to the bill today , Mr. Corbett charged , as he had last week , that " it fails to determine who will set up objective criteria . " He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards and that it was also deficient in that it did not establish a method of determining how equally qualified candidates should be selected when only a few apprenticeship berths were available . " These and other defects are such , " he said , " as to create serious doubt as to the validity of this bill under our State Constitution . " U. S. Pattern Cited Challenging these arguments , Senator Metcalf said that the bill followed the formula laid down by the Federal Government for ending discrimination in apprenticeship programs . The Federal program , he noted , went into effect on Jan. 17 . He said the State Industrial Commissioner would be empowered to disapprove apprentice programs that he found , on investigation , systematically barred Negroes and Puerto Ricans . The State Commission for Human Rights would be empowered to determine , on an individual-case basis , whether a Negro or Puerto Rican had been barred from an apprentice program because of racial discrimination . Governor Rockefeller , who has remained silent on the bill , . is expected to sign it . Another important civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor . It would permit New York City to stipulate that investment ? of city pension funds be limited to securities in states that had antibias laws or with concerns that certified that they did not practice hiring discrimination . This measure had been sought by Paul FL Screvane , President of the City Council . The Governor has not made known his views on it . A bill with statewide application that would have allowed Jewish families and others that observe the Sabbath on a day . other than Sunday to operate stores on Sunday died tonight as the Senate leadership refused to allow the measure out of committee . Also , the Assembly killed a major Rockefeller bill when it sent back to committee the measure to repeal the railroad full-crew law . Final approval was also given by the Assembly to a measure that would make it mandatory for New York City to grant tax relief to food wholesalers anti processors . The measure , which was denounced by the Wagner administration , would cost the city an estimated $15 million a year in revenue .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          