@@726142

txt Educators are taking a closer look at their treatment of the high school student who is n't going on to college . They find he could use more guidance counseling and better efforts to help him find a job . The guidance counselor sticks with a college-bound student until he is accepted by a college . Then the college takes over and guides him into a graduate school or out into the nonacademic community . But the high school student who takes a terminal high school course ? business or manual training  --  usually receives little help in finding a job or in seeking adult-education offerings . Educators are recognizing that this is unfair to about half the student body . So they are planning to offer more thorough counseling service to the stay-at-home student . They also are organizing job-placement offices at schools or in conjunction with them . Never before have college undergraduates been so in need of graduate-level books and periodicals . Students facing fast-paced curriculums and independent research projects are putting the squeeze on their college libraries . But tight library budgets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ libraries stand in the way . Many college libraries are zeroing in on the problem by mutual lending . It 's going on in Arkansas and Pennsylvania . And within the past year eight private liberal arts colleges in the Chicago area have teamed up their libraries for reciprocal aid . Together they have holdings of more than half a million volumes . Pickup of any book or publication is only a matter of a few minutes ' drive . Librarians from the eight colleges meet often as a group called " Libras . " They buy collectively and discuss specialties . One college may be strengthening its American history collection , while another is upgrading its social science resources . The opinion poll is finally going to school . Dr. George Gallup is quizzing school-board members on their attitude toward educational innovations . Such developments , for instance , as team teaching , new math , flexible scheduling , year-round air-conditioned schools , carpeted classrooms and corridors . Results of the poll will be available this spring . Later this year a poll will be taken of teachers and school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes they would support in their own educational systems . These polls should provide information before only guessed at , They may influence decisions of the changemakers in education . More than a dozen demonstration schools ( public ) already have been set up to test the validity of innovations which many educators now support . Trends ... Newest variation on the **26;122;TOOLONG theme is the month-long study interim . St. Olaf 's , North Central , and Williams are among an estimated two dozen colleges which have adopted it . At Rockford College in Rockford , Ill. , it goes into effect next January . Falling right after Christmas , the study interlude will free students from the traditional lame-duck period between the holidays and end-of-semester exams . When January crops up , the art student may take off for an archaeological dig in the Southwest while the sociology student may opt for an internship with the Job Corps . No traditional grades will be awarded , but work completed will need approval as satisfactory . How and why ... The New ' York Regents Advisory Committee on Educational Leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superintendents . Of 830 chief school officers queried , 565 responded . The study showed , among other things , that school superintendents generally come from middle- and lower-middle-class homes . Many of them are the first professionals in the family . ? Of the superintendents replying , 15 percent of their fathers did not complete grade school . ? 87 percent of their fathers did not complete high school . ? 20 percent of their fathers were farmers or farm managers . ? 10 percent of their fathers were professional men , ? 2 percent of their fathers were themselves school or college administrators . While the mothers of superintendents attained somewhat higher levels of education , only 21 percent completed high school .                     