@@724540

txt In sharply contrasting surroundings the Presidents of France and the U.S. held news conferences de Gaulle 's , planned well in advance , was in an ornate room of the Elysee Palace ; Johnson 's hastily organized , was in a cramped White'House theater . Meanwhile Soviet Premier Kosygin was off to North Vietnam for delicate negotiations with a country border . ing Communist . China ( see below ) . New Chapter ? For Big Powers For some months prior to last week there had been a pause an the international scene . It was the product mainly of change at the summit in major capitals . In Russia , Nikita Khruslichev was ousted and new leaders took over . In Britain , there were elections that brought the first change in partrleadership in more than a decade . In the U.S. there were elections , too , and Lyndon Johnson won a Presidential mandate in his own right . The net effect seemed to be a marking of time among the big powers while the new men got their bearings . Last week there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of summitry . President Johnson , addressing a dinner in Washington of the AntiDefamation League of the B'nai B'rith , recalled the proposal in his State of the Union message for an exchange of visits with the Soviet leaders , and said : " I have reason to believe that the Soviet leadership would welcome my visit to their country ? as I would be very glad to do . I am very hopeful that before the year is out this exchange of visits may occur . . . I believe such visits would reassure an anxious world that our two nations are each striving toward the goal of peace . " The President also dispatched one of his top aides to Vietnam for reexamination of the conflict there . The move coincided ? by chance , It was said  --  with a visit to North Vietnam by Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin on his first journey to Asia since taking office . En route he stopped off in Peking for talks with the Chinese leaders on the very day Moscow indicated that it planned to proceed next month with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some of the issues in that conflict unquestionably were discussed in the Peking talks , including China 's opposition to the Moscow meetings . There was no indication any of the issues had been resolved and , in fact , the Soviet Premier 's reception in Peking seemed on the cool side . One reason may have been reflected in the Chinese Communist press M Hong Kong which linked Premier Kosygin 's trip to Vietnam with possible ? U.S. intrigue " for a negotiated settlement of the conflict there . Yesterday Tass reported that the North Vietnamese regime had called for unity among Russia , China and other " Socialist ' states in the fight against U.S.-led " imperialism . " DE GAULLE AND JOHNSON Concern over any tendency by the U.S .. and Russia to dominate world affairs and make " deals " at the expense of the smaller nations ? also has been expressed at times by President de Gaulle . Last week he again spoke out on behalf of his third-force concept and in the process seemed once again to challenge major aspects of U.S. policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Johnson . The setting for the dialogue was provided by press conferences by the two men on the same day . The sessions were in sharp contrast . General de Goalie 's conference , announced a month in advance , was one of his semiannual , carefully stage-managed meetings with the press in the ornate red and gold Salle des Fetes at the Elysee Palace . More than 1,000 persons were present for a performance whose spirit was typified by the General 's comment at one point , " I would like to Say a word , although no one asked me the question .... " This approach has given rise to the description of General de Gaulle 's news conferences as sessions to find out whether the reporters have any questions for his answers . President Johnson 's news conference , on the other hand , was called on a half hour 's notice in the White House theater where 117 reporters , crowded uncomfortably among the TV cameras , strained to hear and see . The President was 20 minutes late for the session and there was reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hasty briefing on General de Gaulle 's remarks . As for the " dialogue "  --  the exchange covered two main points : the crisis in the U.N. , and international finances . On the U.N. , President de Gaulle proposed a five-power conference , including Communist China , to bring the organization back to the original spirit and purpose of its Charter . President Johnson replied that the U.N . ' s problems were not " traceable " to any difficulties with the Charter , On international finances , President de Gaulle proposed a return to the gold standard exclusively , rather than reliance on the dollar and pound as reserve currencies , President Johnson emphasized his determination to take all necessary steps to make the saying " sound as a dollar " a reality . General de Gaulle also made several other points to which Mr. Johnson offered no immediate-replies . Among them was a suggestion that settlement of the German problem be left to the " European peoples . " None of the week 's developments , of course , meant there would be quick or profound changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new chapter might be opening in international relations at a time when the world was slowly emerging from the rigidities of the East-West confrontation . And it appeared , too , that some of the problems might call for discussion at the summit . Associated Press . The New York Times Premier Kosygin being greeted in Peking by Premier Chou as Russian leader stopped off on way to Hanoi .                     