@@725023

txt Two full weeks of fighting between India and Pakistan would appear to have exhausted the original forces involved without producing any important military decision . India has not been able to break through Pakistan 's main frontier defense forces , and Pakistan has not been able to break importantly into India , or even Kashmir . It is not yet a clear military stalemate , but the result has been , or at least should be , a warning to romanticists on both sides who may have cherished dreams of sudden victory . Instead of sudden victory , there has been a sharp clash , costly in casualties . The emergent question is whether enough loss has yet been endured to induce both sides to begin thinking seriously about some new form of settlement which might allow the two states to coexist on the Indian subcontinent . Pakistan has been the first to show interest in peace , probably because Pakistan 's military resources are stretched to the limit Pattern of diplomacy and continued resistance to Indian pressure would require increasing reliance on Communist China . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested lest it be swept away in a whirlwind of aroused Indian nationalism which could as well destroy India in political chaos or give it a tough , authoritarian new government . In either case , India 's still hopeful experiment in democracy in Asia would be the victim . The Western powers watched the fighting stabilize and placed their main efforts for peace on the United Nations which thereby has received a revived usefulness . At least none could think of anything better to do * Please turn to next page *Kashmir stalemate growing ? // than send Secretary-General U Thant to the fighting capitals on a listening mission . It is much too early yet to start talking about a peace formula . But among ideas being bruited about was the revival of an old proposal for the neutralization of Kashmir as a separate and independent state to be protected jointly by both India and Pakistan . Western anxiety about Chinese Communist intrusion relaxed slightly before the ultimatum expired . The Chinese made noises encouraging to Pakistan and highly threatening to India , but at this writing have avoided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue between Peking and Moscow . The Chinese role so far has been to protect Pakistan against the full weight of India 's military power . This was embarrassing to Pakistan , which can escape from dangerous dependence of Communist China only by an early cease-fire leading to a settlement . In the meantime the world has witnessed one of the most important military events since 1945 which does not owe its origins to the old familiar " East-West " conflict , or to " communism versus capitalism . " India and Pakistan are fighting because their respective governments have been unable to overcome the ancient rivalries , jealousies , religious disputes , and legacies of a thousand years of history . Hindu and Moslem distrust each other . It is as simple , and complex , as that . A possible parallel is to be found in the religious war which decimated Europe in the sixteenth century . In the meantime , the United States has noted some glimmering streaks of light across the Vietnam horizon . The end of the rainy season is approaching . The Communist Viet Cong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped for and apparently expected when it launched its big offensive in June . That offensive has been battering for over three months now against South Vietnam and American defense points . It has not broken the defenses . On the contrary , the conclusion appears to be emerging from the test of battle that the Viet Cong can not drive the United States out of Vietnam any more than the United States can drive the Viet Cong out . There can be more heavy fighting before the end of the monsoons , and of course anything could happen . But it does begin to look like the makings of a more stable military situation on which ultimately the diplomats might be able someday to begin to build .                     