@@722676

txt New Orleans , Sept. 24 ( A -- Under threat of a contempt citation , the Mississippi state college board tonight agreed to enroll James H. Meredith , a Negro , in all-white University of Mississippi . The United States Court of Appeals for the 5th circuit set a 4 p. m. deadline tomorrow for his registration . Meredith would be the first Negro admitted as a student at Ole Miss in 114 years . The board offered to register Meredith at Jackson , the Mississippi state capital , which is 150 miles closer to New Orleans than is the University of Mississippi campus at Oxford . Meredith 's attorneys agreed . Barnett Takes Action But these agreements did not take into account Gov . Ross Barnett , who has sworn to go to jail rather than enroll a Negro in a Mississippi school . During the day , while the college board was before the court , Barnett did these things : 1 . He got a state court order forbidding university officials I to enroll Meredith , and Meredith to try to enroll. 2 . He issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tries to arrest or fine a state official . A State Police Alert Just before the hearing in New Orleans ended , the Mississippi highway patrol announced a 24-hour stand-by alert . It did n't say why . Meredith told newsmen after the hearing : " I 've been admitted a lot of times before . " A justice department spokesman said the department had been advised of the board 's agreement . He added : " We 're making arrangements for Meredith to register . " In a statement issued after the hearing , the board said it made the agreement because it " was apparent that fine and imprisonment in amounts unknown to us would not prevent Meredith 's admission . " The board said it understood that the court simply would " appoint someone to register him , " if the board refused to act . Mississippi 's attorney general , Joe Patterson , said : " A great institution in Mississippi has been dealt a staggering blow . The constitutional rights of over 5.000 students at the University of Mississippi have been ignored to gratify the pretended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elbert P. Tuttle of Atlanta , presiding , said the court found the board members did " willfully and intentionally violate " a previous Meredith desegregation order . " . However , " he added , " no order is being entered immediately regarding their guilt . " Tuttle then asked whether the members were " ready and willing to take such action . . as to comply with the injunction . " Board Chairman Tom Tubb , speaking for the 12 members of the 13-member board who were present , told the court the board would comply with any order of the court , One of the 13 members was hospitalized in Jackson , but he confirmed by telephone that he would join the others in their action . 2 Acts to Undo Tuttle told the board that its show of compliance must include revocation of two resolutions passed by the board , one stripping university officials of authority to register Meredith and another giving Gov . Barnett authority to act as reg .. ' istrar . When Meredith 's la wyer asked the court to insure that Meredith would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He Meredith is to be admitted as a student and treated as every other student . If they the university fail to do that , then I think that will be another matter for another citation . "                     