@@724010

txt Pompano Beach , Fla. , June 4-Defense department statements that a May 25 flight over Cuba was a " complete and utter hoax " were denied tonight by the International Anti-Communist brigade , cosponsors of the flight with the 30th of November movement . A brigade official said statements in a letter from Deputy Defense Secretary Cyrus Vance to Rep. Carl Vinson D. , Ga. , chairman of the House armed services committee , asserting the raid was concocted for publicity purposes , were false . Says Flier Threatened James C. Buchanan , secretary of the brigade , said statements from the unit 's commander , Frank Fiorini , were obtained under threat of a prison term to the flyer . Fiorini , who has made many phantom flights over Cuba , was told in a Presidential executive order dated Sept. 14 , 1963 , to cease and desist from any action against the Cuba communist government , Buchanan said . A two-year prison sentence and a $25,000 fine hangs in the balance on each offense against the executive order . Denies Refuting Flight Buchanan said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitted by the defense I department investigators . Fiorini , however , denied making any statements to governmental investigators from Washington discrediting the May 25 flight . The defense department 's statement implied Fiorini admitted the flight was a hoax . Fiorini said this interpretation of the statement came from the omission of four words at the end of his statement . " The sentence should read , ' To the best of my knowledge , a so-called phantom operation , a raid in Cuba , on May 25th , 1964 , did not take place from United States soil . ' " Fiorini said the final four words , " from United States soil , " were omitted in the defense department statement . Flies to Bahamas Buchanan said the plane left south Florida following a legal flight plan to an island in the Bahamas , refueled , then completed its mission over Santiago de Cuba , dropping a portable hospital unit and showering the city with anti-Castro leaflets . The plane returned via the same route , stopping at the island , where a flight plan back into this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Buchanan said certain issues have been raised as to the effectiveness of the radar network guarding south Florida . " It is the position of the brigade that the radar defenses of south Florida are not adequate . As proof of this we submit that phantom raids in the past by the brigade and other organizations have been carried out undetected and unnoticed until officially confirmed by the Castro government , " Buchanan said . The brigade spokesman said their offer to point out holes in the United States radar network to government officials still stands . " So far , the defense department and air force have turned down these offers , " Buchanan saki .                     