@@725500

txt Mayor Lindsay ruled outs yesterday any material relaxation of the stringent waterconservation measures ordered last year to carry New York City through its most severe water shortage . He said that the city 's reserves of water , while higher than last year , were " still dangerously low " and that the only easing possible at this time was on the use of water for air-conditioning . The revised regulations exempt all air-conditioners of less than two-ton capacity  --  enough to cool an average three-room apartment ? and increase the hours of use of larger installations by 25 per cent . In continuing other conservation measures , the Mayor noted that while city reservoirs in Westchester and the Catskills were now at 76 per cent of capacity , the average storage over the last half-century at this time of year was 94 per cent of capacity . He stressed that the city and the entire Northeast were still caught in a five-year drought . He noted that city reservoirs were at 87.7 per cent of capacity on April 1 , 1964 , but had fallen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A year ago at this time , the // reservoir level was at 50.6 per ' ' cent . " It could happen again , " the Mayor declared . " We must not adopt the misplaced optimism of 1964 . " Mayor Lindsay announced the continuance of water controls ' at t city Hall news conference shortly after completing an aerial impectiork of the city 's water storage network with key administration figares and water experts . He promised that there would be periodic reassessment of the city 's water position in the hope that , if conditions warrant , there can be some relaxation of restrictions on the watering of lawns and gardens . These restrictions now save the city 30 million gallons of water a day . Restrictions in Force Other controls that continue forbid the following : Washing automobiles with hoses or in automatic car wash operations where at least 50 per cent of the water is not reused . Use of water for cleaning the exterior of buildings and oilier structures . 9IFilling private swimming pools , including the small , back yard plastic ones . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Operation of ornamental and display fountains except where water is privately purchased . ** of sidewalks with city water . ( Even the Sanitation Department must use river water to wet down streets. ) ( 3Service of water , except upon request , in restaurants . Ten days ago the Park Department negotiated an agreement with Robert Clark , ActThe New York Times April 27. 1966 ing Commissioner of the Department of Water Supply and Electricity , that permits city fountains to be operated with water hot piped into th ecity for drinking purposes . Such water would have to be recirculated . This arrangement now permits operation of the fountain at Columbus Circle that was given to the city by George T. Delacorte , the publisher , and dedicated last Oct. 11 . Rainfall for March was 33 per cent below normal while April precipitation is down 85 per cent . " It will require almost 12 inches of rainfall to fill the reservoirs to full capacity by June 1 , the date the reservoirs usually begin their summerlong decline , " the Mayor said . " Twelve inches of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 300 per cent . " The right to draw an additional 115 million gallons a day from the Delaware River Basin , granted by the four-state commission last year , expires June 1 and must be renegotiated , in light of conditions . This is another reason why the city must continue water conservation methods that save 200 million gallons daily . Water-Meter Bill Gains Special to The New York Times ALBANY , April 26 ? The Senate narrowly passed a bill today that would require a Im/-nicipality to meter its water before being granted new water sources . The bill would apply to New York City , where only a small percentage of daily water consumption is now metered . The roll-call vote was 33 to 30 . Three Republicans joined 27 Democrats in voting against the measure . The bill now goes to the Assembly where the Democratic majority makes passage doubtful .                     