@@723258

txt In the face of much adverse comment and good reasons not to go , President Kennedy is proceeding with his trip to Europe at a most inauspicious time . He will arrive in a Europe in transition , when governments are changing , when the new Pope's. coronation will preempt popular attention , when the Atlantic community is in considerable disorder . Under these circumstances , what was originally planned as a series of state visits with Mrs. Kennedy and was then reduced to a program of " working visits " will be even less than that . Washington concedes that major negotiations are impossible now . This situation tends to convert the trip into a kind of political barnstorming tour , on which the President will address his explanations of American policies more to the European peoples than to their governments . Inevitably his pronouncements will deal with the two primary aspects of these policies . One calls for effective military defense in an integrated North Atlantic alliance and for an Atlantic trade partnership . The other accepts " peaceful coexistence " with Soviet Russia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the status quo . Just as inevitably , he will have to take issue with the disintegrationist policies of President de Gaulle who seeks to prejudice the President 's trip by further weakening NATO . It will be Mr. Kennedy 's first task to convince Europe that the fears raised by General de Gaulle that the United States might abandon the defense of Europe and retreat into a Fortress America are absurd . American policy is shaped by the conviction that the Atlantic community can be defended only by the combined resources of both Europe and the United States , that if these two fall apart both are doomed , that the doctrine of Atlantic interdependence is the doctrine of survival . On that basis he can well call on Europe to live up to its defense commitments and not to indulge in highly protectionist economic measures . But he will convince Europe only if he meets not merely its fears but also its determination to have a larger share in nuclear arms control as the key to political independence . He will not do so by trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear naval force , valuable as that may be as a first step . He will do it only if the United States shows some willingness to share its virtual nuclear arms monopoly in the West with its allies in mutual accommodation without domination . As regards " peaceful coexistence , " he will find ready acceptance of it in Europe . An East-West d  --  tente , a nuclear test ban and general disarma ment would be welcomed by most Europeans , but lot on Soviet terms . There is a fine line between I pledge not to use force to-change the status luo and recognition of that status quo as a permanent peace settlement . It is here that ? resident Kennedy will have to display his greatdiplomatic skill lest he compound the bad timing of the trip by increasing the Atlantic lisarray he is trying to cure .                     