@@724679

txt George Whitmore Jr . suffered a serious reversal in his bid for , freedom yesterday when a Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice ruled that his confession to the knife-slaying of a charwoman last April was voluntary . As a result of Justice Dominic S. Rinaldi 's decision , Whitmore will have to stand trial for ' the murder , probably beginning April 5 . In an angry exchange following the delivery of the 15-page opinion , the chief defense counsel , Stanley J. Reiben , accused Justice Ririaldi of " dooming " his client " Your decision merely recites police , allegations ; ' Reiben said . " I realize ' now that it is the hardest job in the world to get a lower-court judge to rule a confession invalid . " Justice Rinaldi stood up behind the bench and lashed out at the lawyer for " talking for the newspapers . " " I 've thrown out more confessions than any judge in this county , to the consternation of the District Attorney , " Justice Rinaldi Said . Whitmore had won two major legal victories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Hogan dropped firstdegree murder charges against him in connection with the slayings in August , l963 , of Janice Wylie and Emily Hoffert . And last week , Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice David L. Malbin reversed the Brooklyn Negro 's conviction for the attempted rape of Mrs. Elba Borrero last April on grounds of jury bias . Questioned 22 Hours Whitmore was questioned by the police for 22 hours following his arrest on April 24 in connection with the attempted rape . During that time he confessed to the attack on Mrs. Borrero , the slaying of the charwoman , Mrs. Minnie Edmonds , and the murders of Miss Wylie and Miss Hoffert . At his arraignment the next day , the 20-year-old Whitmore recanted all three confessions , charging that they had resulted from duress . His conviction for the attempted rape , which was reversed last week , came in November , two months before the Wylie-Hoffert case against him collapsed . In dropping the charges , Mr. Hogan said Whitmore 's 61-page confession had been discredited . I Another suspect , Richard Robles , has since been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main defense contention in the Edmonds case was that the discredited Wylie-Hoffert confession had tainted the admissions regarding the Edmonds slaying . The major link between the confessions , aside from the fact that they were given the same day , was the presence of Dectective Joseph 1Di Prima . Mr. Di Prima did most of the questioning , and he alone , among the many officers present during the day , participated in all of the interrogations . Simply stated , then , the defense argued that Mr. Di Prima 's presence east doubt on all the confessions . Court Disagrees Justice Rinaldi disagreed . " The Court finds nothing sinister in Di Prima 's continued participation in all the interrogations , " he wrote . Mr. Reiben expressed outrage at a portion of the opinion in which Justice Rinaldi cited the Manhattan Assistant District Attorney , Peter Koste , who took the Wylie-Hoffert confession , as authority for a finding that Whitmore had been " corn ! posed " and " alert " at the end of the interrogation . Pointing at the bench , his face flushed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he 's alert and you say it 's believable ? " In his opinion , Justice Rinaldi accepted the police version of Whitmore 's arrest and subsequent confessions although he had expressed surprise at some testimony during the hearing . At one point the justice threw ' up his hands when a patrolman said he had not arrested Whitmore shortly after the Borrero attack although the youth fit the description of the assailant lin many particulars . Beyond ruling that the confession was voluntary ? an issue that the jury will have to pass on again at the trial  --  Justice Rinaldi rejected a defense contention that Whitmore 's arrest was illegal . The confession could have been ruled out regardless of its voluntariness if the court had held the arrest void , following the theory that it was the " fruit of a poisonous fruit . " The New York Civil Liberties Union , which submitted a brief in Whitmore 's behalf , expressed " shock " at the decision and demanded the prosecution under the Penal Code of police officers responsible for delaying Whitmore 's arraignment . Lawyers could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law making it a misdemeanor to delay a suspect 's arraignment unreasonably. -                     