@@723239

txt Najeeb E. Halaby , the Federal Aviation . Administrator , said yesterday that all three proposed sites for a new jet airport in the metropolitan area were unsatisfactory . He recommended that state and local authorities seek a better site , but made no suggestions of his own . Site selection is a problem to be handled by local officials , Mr , Halaby said . He spoke at a news conference at Idlewild Airport , in the presence of Governor Rockefeller of New Yoik and Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey . Under Study a Year The Federal Aviation Agency has been studying proposed jetport sites in the metropolitan area for more than a year , and the Administrator 's remarks appeared to doom any further consideration of the three that have been proposed . The three had been the only sites under consideration since the New Jersey Legislature last year enacted a legal prohibition to the building of a jetport in the Great Swamp of Morris County about 25 miles west of Manhattan . That site was favored by the Port of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but New Jersey residents were fearful of the changes an airport would bring and brought successful political action against it . Air Space Cited Two sites in New York had been proposed , one in Suffolk county about . 65 miles east of Manhattan , the other in Orange ** about 45 miles northvest of Manhattan . The third ; ite was in Burlington County , V. J. , almost 65 miles south of 4Ianhattan . The F.A.A. study was sumnarized in a report issued yeserday . It made no rec ) mmendations but said : " The study concluded that my of the proposed jetport rites would create air-traffic ) roblems of some , though varyng , degree , since their arrival and departure paths would cross routes required to serve other metropolitan airports or existing en-route airways . " Mr. Halaby said this meant : " Search for a better one . " Despite Mr. Halaby 's remarks , Governor Rockefeller appeared to remain optimistic about Orange County 's chances . He said that the F.A.A. study indicated that problems pinpointed at Pine Island could be dealt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disappointed " at the findings of the report as they related to Burlington . He said New Jersey would make a detailed review of the conclusions to determine their validity . Mr. Halaby appeared to go further than the findings of the F.A.A. study , which was released at yesterday 's news conference . The study merely pointed up various air-traffic difficulties at each of the three sites . The report in general centered its objections to both the Burlington and Suffolk sites on their effects on existing air lanes and the need to realign airways . There appeared to be no other unusual site problems . Although closer to the city and found to be the least objectionable from an air-traffic standpoint , the Orange County site was found to suffer from its relatively high terrain of 600-foot to 700-foot hills , which in turn presented air-space problems . Both the Governors and Mr. Halaby stressed that it was urgent for the metropolitan area to solve what Governor Hughes referred to as an " impending crisis " in airport capacity . In its 1961 report , the Port Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main commercial airports in its jurisdiction  --  Idlewild , La Guardia and Newark ? would be insufficient to meet demand by 1970 . Since issuing its report favoring Morris County among 17 possible metropolitan sites , the Port Authority has kept quietly in the background on the question , giving little indication of its present thinking . Mr. Halaby and the Governors announced yesterday that they had arranged to meet in July with Mayor Wagner and Port Authority officials . Mr. Halaby said his agency and the two Governors were anxious to solve the problem as soon as possible . Declaring that it would take from seven to ten years to build a new modern jetport , Mr. Halaby said that " time is running against us . " He said that after a site had been chosen by local authorities the F.A.A. would first determine if the site was safe for air traffic and then if it met Federal criteria for expenditure of matching airport aid funds . The F.A.A. report was the result of extensive studies conducted by the agency 's National Facilities Experimental Center near Atlantic City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County . It had been undertaken , at the request of Governor Hughes . Later , New York ITquested that Orange County he included . The F.A.A. then added Suffolk County on its own to obtain a more comprehensive picture of the problems .                     