@@726756

txt A 17-year-old St. Charles girl was found beaten to death yesterday in a wooded area near Greenwood avenue and Golf road near Niles . The body of the victim , Cheryl Lyn Littlejohn , a St. Charles High school senior , was discovered about 11 a. m. by three young c h d r en who stumbled across her body as they played in the woods . Friends of hers , especially those who may have seen her Thanksgiving night , when she was reported missing , were sought by police in hopes that they might be able to furnish some clew which would lead them to her killer . Was Sexually Assaulted Sheriff Joseph I. Woods said Miss Littlejohn appeared to have been sexually assaulted . He said the attacker used a heavy metal instrument to inflict a severe wound on her forehead . Miss Littlejohn , whose parents were divorced three weeks ago , was reported missing Thursday evening by Stephen Oberst , 24 , and his wife , Carol , 23 , of 8702 Gregory lane , near Niles . Oberst is a cousin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her mother , Mrs. Carol Littlejohn , of the St. Charles address , ate Thanksgiving dinner with the Oberats . The mother drove back to St. Charles in the evening and the daughter was to stay with her cousin and his wife thru the week-end . Oberst told Sgt. Allan Taylor of the Milwaukee station that Miss Littlejohn went out for a walk about 7 p. m . When she did not return by midnight , Oberst called the police . Several policemen on foot and in squad cars searched the area around the woods and the adjoining Milano Verde apartment complex during the night but failed to find the girl . Woods said several friends and classmates of the girl had been questioned but no arrests had been made . Soldier Is Questioned He said one former boy friend , now an arms ' private , was quizzed by sheriff 's deputies after state police arrested him yesterday evening for speeding near Elgin . He was brought in for questioning after he reportedly told arresting troopers that he was driving fast because he was " upset about the death of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a teen-age girl and a second youth . The soldier was given a lie test and released . Sheriff 's police said they would go from door to door in the area today in an attempt to discover new dews . Will Check Materials The sheriff said investigators were also checking various pieces of metal , glass , and other items which were found in the woods . In addition , Niles police reported that a stolen car was discovered about a bloat away from where the body was found . Coroner Andrew Tomlin said a preliminary examination showed that the skull was fractured . He said she apparently died about 9 or 10 p.m. on Thursday . The body was taken to the county morgue for an autopsy . A spokesman said last night that results of the examination might be known today . Miss Littlejohn was about 5 feet , 2 inches tall and had blue eyes , long brown hair and weighed about 100 pounds . Her father , Frank Littlejohn , moved to Aurora after the divorce . On Thursday , Debbie Littlejohn , the victim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her Kin Are Stunned The girl 's maternal grandparents , Andrew Anderson , 85 , and his wife , Clara , 76 , of 515 Home ay. , St. Charles , were stunned . when they learned of her death . Mrs. Anderson said Miss Littlejohn was a " beautiful , dear girl . I 'll never get over it . " Russell Reid , principal of St. Charles High school , said the victim was " shy , quiet , and personable . " " She had no problems that we knew of , " Reid said .                     