@@722776

txt The United States and the Soviet Union agreed toJay to reopen disarmament negotiations on Nov. 26 . The two big powers , ending Jays of wrangling over time and place , agreed that the United Nations Disarmament Committee should get back to work in Geneva on that date . The committee is made up of 18 nations , including eight neutrals , but it has been boycotted by one member , France , which has criticized its protracted deliberations as useless . The committee itself scheduled Nov. 12 for the resumption of meetings when it adjourned in September . However , it left the final word to the representatives of the United States and the Soviet Union , who serve as co-chairmen . In discussions here , the Soviet Union had been advocating that the negotiations be held in New York or put off until the General Assembly completes its current disarmament discussions . The United States had been pressing- for a return to Geneva without delay . Twenty-eight smaller powers offered a joint resolution to serve as the basis for the committee 's future work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States delegate , in the General Assembly 's Political Committee . Valerian A , Zorin of the Soviet Union withheld comment on the text . Instead , Mr , Zorin again pressed Soviet demands that foreign military bases be abolished as a first step in any disarmament agreement . The 28-power proposal appeared to be an effort at pleasing all the parties concerned . It made reference to Soviet and United States contentions . In addition , it praised concessions made by Moscow and Washington and called for a further " spirit of constructive compromise . " Tension Is Noted A. key element , retained from an earlier draft of the resolution by the United Arab Republic , recommended that the Geneva negotiators give urgent attention to " collateral measures " aimed at decreasing tension . The reference was to proposals made by both sides at Geneva , including United States suggestions designed to lessen the risk of war by surprise attack , accident or miscalculation , and Soviet suggestions for a war-propaganda ban and a bigpower nonaggression pact . One change incorporated in the new text would ask the Disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later than the second week in April . The United Arab Republic version had asked for a report by July 1 . Nearly all the representatives of small states sounded the same warning : that the threat of thermonuclear war that developed over Cuba underscored the need for disarmament by the nuclear powers . This contention was expressed by Yugoslavia , Lebanon , Cambodia , Iraq , Malaya and other countries . Nong Kimny , the Cambodian delegate , protested that his country had been the victim of aggressive acts by South Vietnam . He charged that attacks had been made with arms " generously supplied by the United States . ' Countries supplying arms should make sure the weapons are not diverted for purposes for which they were not intended , he declared . Dato Ong Yoke Lin , the Malayan delegate , and Fouad Ammoun of Lebanon advocated a United Nations peace force . Ali Haidar Suleiman of Iraq urged participation by Communist China in disarmament negotiations along with all other militarily significant states . He said Peking should be included also in the early stages of a disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             