@@722103

txt Regardless of reduction and alteration of their powers that would take place Jan. 1 , 1963 , if the new . City Charter is approved , the Borough Presidents will remain highly important in the government of New York . They sit on the Board of Estimate . Through their votes there and political leadership in their boroughs they will continue to have a major influence in administration , legislation , planning and spending . Two Borough Presidents long a fixture on the ballot will be missing from it on Nov. 7 . Death has removed John Cashmore of Brooklyn . Retirement has taken James J. Lyons of the Bronx , after seven long terms . Our city government suffers now from oneparty monopoly , with almost no seating-room for a loyal opposition . Not a single Republican is to be found on the Board of Estimate , composed of the Mayor , Controller , President of the City Council and the five Borough Presidents . The twenty-five-member City Council is Democratic except for one Republican , Stanley M. Isaacs . This.is not a healthy situation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commends a breaking of this Democratic monopoly , independent voters would do well to take advantage of the opportunity . Manhattan is fortunate in having two excellent candidates for Borough President . Assemblywoman Dorothy Bell Lawrence , the Republican candidate , is serving only her second term in the Legislature , but has already established a reputation for initiative , competence and diligence . She has been the Republican leader in the Eighth Assembly District for many years . Her opponent , Edward R. Dudley , who has Liberal party as well as Democratic endorsement , has made a very favorable impression since he succeeded Hulan E. Jack in early 1961 . While reasons can be found for favoring one or the other of these candidates on various grounds , Manhattan is sure to have a good Borough President regardless of which wins . We express no preference between them . In the Bronx Joseph F. Periconi , with Republican and Liberal endorsement , is the man to vote for in preference to John J. Sullivan , Democrat , who is chief clerk of the Surrogate 's , Court . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Periconi , with several terms in the State Senate before his appointment to the New York City Transit Authority by Governo .. Rockefeller , is good material for the Board of Estimate . In Brooklyn the election of Abe Stark , Democrat , is probably a foregone conclusion . One former objection to him as President of the City Council ? that he was first in line to succeed in event of vacancy in the Mayor 's office  --  is now removed . But in our opinion his Republican opponent , former Representative Francis E. Dorn , would be a more thoughtful leader for Brooklyn . Though too conservative in the House , he is hard working and conscientious and is well informed on Brooklyn 's problems . The Liberal . party has also supplied an excellent candidate , Jacob T. Zukerman , a lawyer who is deeply interested in social welfare . F02 Queens we advise re-election of Borough President John T. Clancy , Democrat , who makes a sensible , level-headed member of the Board of Estimate . His Republican opponent , Robert E. Barnes , is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance as a member of the City Council . Leo Brown , former assistant corporation counsel , is the Liberal candidate . In Richmond , as in Manhattan , voters have a choice between two able candidates . State Senator John J. Marchi , the Republican nominee , would ba a competent leader for the borough during the great changes to be expected with the coming of the new bridge to Brooklyn . Borough President Albert V. Maniscalco , Democrat-Liberal , works hard at his job but , in Board of Estimate matters , has shown little independence from . Wagner policy . The edge lies with Mr. Marchi , in our opinion , but both are capable .                     