@@725430

txt SAIGON , Sunday , March 27 ? Angry young Buddhists shouting anti-United States and anti1 Government slogans tried to burst out of a student rally here today and march on Saigon 's Central Market area . They were forcibly restrained by their leaders . " The time for talking is past ? now is the time to act , " several speakers shouted into the microphone of a public address system set up in the courtyard of Buddhist youth headquarters . About 500 students were at the rally , the second here in two days . The students had planned to whip up the crowd of about 3,000 outside the meeting and then march . But during the meeting , a statement from Thich Tam Chau , chairman . of the Buddhist National Institute here , was circulated in the crowd . The statement urged patience and asked ? that the military Government of Premier Nguyen Cao Ky be given a chance to comply with Buddhist demands , primarily for the swift establishment of a civilian government . The student leaders called off the march . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to demonstrate they tried to march out anyway . Several // scuffles broke out between these students and the leaders . At least one youth was injured . The majority of the crowd consisted of teen-age boys and girls . But there was a sprinkling of well-dressed adults and I some South Vietnamese soldiers I present . The crowd jammed the rooms of the student headquarters , filled front and back courtyards and spilled over into the street . The demonstrators planned to retrace the route through Saigon of a march last night that drew more than 2,000 students who shouted anti-Government slogans . That night demonstration against Air Vice Marshal Ky 's Government was the first in Saigon itself in the agitation that has followed the military regime 's ouster March 10 of Lieut . Gen. Nguyen Chanh Thi , from his command of I Corps area in northern South Vietnam and from his place on the ruling council of generals . Premier Ky in radio speeches last night and again today appealed for order and for support of the Government . He reiterated pledges for the constituting of civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of South Vietnam 's influential Roman Catholic leaders assailed the military regime , charging that it was " worse than the dictatorial Government of Ngo Dinh Diem , " which was overthrown in 1963 . The Rev. Hoang Quynh , chairman of the Catholic Greater Unity Force , said in an interview that he believed the Government should be replaced by civilian representatives of each of the country 's main religions . There are about 1.7 million Roman Catholics in South Vietnam , A majority of the 17 million people belong to various Buddhist groups . At the Buddhist student headquarters rally this morning , a battery of speakers denounced military rule and , at times , the United States . Most of the speakers charged the Ky government was " corrupt " and should be overthrown . They said the Government had sold out to the United States . Prior to yesterday 's march here , protests against the Ky Government had been limited to provincial cities , Hue , a city of general Thi 's former territory about 400 miles northeast of Saigon , was the scene of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets in a peaceful anti-government turn-out that displayed much anti-American feeling . Some of the Hue demonstrators  --  perhaps 500 and 1,000 ? were South Vietnamese soldiers in uniform . Like the students , the soldiers carried banners calling for a civilian government . Saigon March on Saturday Special to The New Torte Times SAIGON , March 26 ? Hun-I dreds of South Vietnamese ? mainly teen-agers and children ? marched into Saigon 's central market tonight to protest against the military Government of Premier Nguyen Cao Ky . They chanted " Down with Ky ! " and carried banners declaring , " Give Us Back Our Sovereignty " and " We Want Democracy . " The demonstration occurred only hours after Premier Ky once again assured the South Vietnamese people that his Government favored a reasonably speedy return to elected leadership . At the same time , he criticized demonstrations demanding an immediate end of military rule . Marshal Ky hinted in his broadcast that the Government might act soon to snuff out the protests and agitation that have convulsed Hue and Danang , in , General Thi 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old imperial capital 400 miles northeast of Saigon , has taken on an increasingly virulent anti-American tone . Today a United States marine there tore down an antiAmerican banner , one of several that festooned the streets of the city . He was arrested by American military policemen , United States sources said .                     