@@727770

txt A key panel of the City Council decided yesterday that the Lindsay administration 's projected 15 per cent ceiling on rent increases in uncon-1 trolled apartments would have to be cut . No decision was reached as to what the reduction would be , but Councilman Donald R. Manes , Queens Democrat , chairman of the special 11-member Council Committee on Rents , said the ceiling might be as low as 10 per cent . Rexford E. Tompkins , treasurer of the Real Estate Board and chairman of an industry committee working on the rent problem , warned that if the 15 per cent figure were lowered , " you 'll have an awful lot of hardship cases " among the landlords . He said , " I just ca n't predict what the industry would do . " Council Gets Bill Last March 10 , the Mayor 's Rent Guidelines Board proposed that owners of 400,000 uncontrolled apartments limit themselves to 15 per cent rent increases on two-year leases and to 20 per cent on threeyear leases . The board , with Thomas Thacher as chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leases signed since last May 31 be rolled back to the maximum levels and that tenants be given rent credits on any higher increases paid . The real estate industry- accepted the recommendation , and Mayor Lindsay submitted a bill to the City Council . generally incorporating his board 's proposals . The bill provided that any landlord failing to join a real estate industry stabilization association , established under the proposed law to police the industry , or who violated the guidelines , would find all his rental property in the city subject to standard rent control . Councilman Manes said in an interview after a four-hour executive session of his committee that the panel members generally agreed with him that the 15 per cent increase recommended by the Lindsay group was " unjustified . " The committee 's own bill , Mr. Manes said , would " tighten up " some of the proposals in the Lindsay legislation . The committee bill , however , probably will remain within the over-all framework of the Lindsay legislation , for which , Mr. Manes said , " the administration should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nr . Manes explained , would probably include a more specific definition of " who is and who is not a member of the proposed stabilization association . " Also , he said , " we want to be more definite as to at what point a landlord , through violations , must come under standard rent control . " Standard rent controls , which now applies to about 1.3 million apartments , permits rent increases only if the apartment changes tenants or the landlord makes certain improvements or can show that he is unable to get a " fair return " from his property . A 15 per cent increase is allowed when a new tenant moves in . Councilman Manes said his committee studied data from both public and private liclusing sources indicating that the costs of operating an apartment house increased 4 to 5 per cent a year . On this basis the committee concluded , he said , that operating increases did not justify a 15 per cent rent rise . " It is our Intention , " Mr. Manes declared , " to draft a bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give landlords a reasonable , but not exorbitant , increase . " He said he hoped the bill would be ready for introduction in two or three weeks . Mr. Manes said he agreed with the Mayor 's Rent Guidelines Board that voluntary compliance with rent ceilings was preferable to including all noncontrolled apartments under the rent control law . But he said legislation was needed to deal with landlords who violated the guidelines . Mr. Tompkins , in explaining later his group 's position , said there hid been a 5 per cent annual operating Increase from 1960 through 1968 . During these eight years rents were stable , he said , and landlords were unable to get back the 35 to 40 per cent increases in operating costs . He said the proposed 15 and 20 per cent increases were justified to permit landlords to " recoup their losses over eight years . "                     