@@726403

txt Father 's Day , and the threeday hot spell , ended with a heavy splash last night . A storm drenched New York with 2.11 inches of rain between 7 P.M. and midnight , complicating matters for drivers returning from Father 's Day excursions . The Weather Bureau reported that in just one hour  --  between , 9,7. and 10 o'clock  --  eight-tenths , 1 Of an inch of ' rain fell in the Icity . The rain was part of a system of thunderstorms that was moving southeastward with a mess of cooler air last night . It flooded highways and streets in New , York . City and . nearby parts of New Jersey , and , interrupted subway service on the IND in Manhattan for a time . Among ' the highways with some flooding were the West Side Highway , the Shore Boulevard in the Astoria section of Queens , and the Belt Parkway in the Fort Hamilton section of Brooklyn . The East River Drive was closed briefly between South Ferry and Grand Street during the storm . There were some minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police reported no major problems . Southbound service on the IND line between 125th and 59th Streets was halted at about 12:30 this morning by flooding , but was restored at 1:20 , the Transit Authority said . Earlier , between 10:27 and 11:15 P. M. , some IND Eighth Avenue trains were rerouted at 23d Street be-1 cause of flooding in the station there , Western Union said that some of its lines in the midtown area had been knocked out by a cable failure and that crews were trying to restore service by this morning . In New Jersey , the Bergen County police reported some flooding on Route 46 near Lodi , but said " It happens all the time , " and said there were no difficulties . Though the airports said the rain has not affected flights , it was raining so hard at Newark Airport at 10 o'clock that the weatherman there said he would n't go out on the roof to measure it . " I 'm waiting for it to let up a little , " he said . First Rain Since May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of May , began to let up after midnight , but the Weather Bureau said it probably would continue off and on through the morning , with a chance of additional showers in the afternoon . The high today is expected to be in the mid 70 's . Although the rain last night was heavy , it was not near the record for a 24-hour period in the city . That was 11.17 inches , which fell on Oct. 8-9 , in 1903 . On Sept .. 21 , last fall , 5.54 inches fell in 24 hours , and 3.1 inches fell in 24 hours last Oct. 18 and 19 . New York was not the only city to be drenched this weekend . Five inches of rain fell on Huron , S. D. in a six-hour period last night , half of that total in a single hour . Storms in a front of cool air pushing eastward from the Midwest dumped 3.3 inches of rain on Allentown , Pa. , in less than three hours , and caused flash floods in Philadelphia . In Albany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a synagogue and washed tons of Nmud into it . The two-yearold building  --  the Congregation Sons of Abraham Synagogue ? will be closed for at least a couple of weeks . In New York , before the rains came , Father 's Day was muggy and generally uncomfortable , but the roads to the beaches , surprisingly , were not especially crowded . At 11:55 A.M. not a single car was at the nine toll booths at Jones Beach , and the larger parkinc , lots were all but empty . Yesterday 's maximum temperature , 84 degrees at 3:15 P.M. , was five . degrees below Saturday 's high ' and 12 degrees below Friday 's . The record for a June 18 is 95 degrees , set in 1929 . " It stinks , " said Charles L. Gilbert 3d of business at the Boardwalk Restaurant at Jones Beach , where he is the manager . On the terrace , where the day 's highest temperature was 75 degrees , many customers sat bundled in sweaters and jackets . Inside the restaurant , where 800 lunches were served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far away , the top half of the Jones Beach water tower disappeared in the milky fog . Easy Day for Lifeguards Down on the beach , where large stretches of empty sand were visible , lifeguards sat bundled in heavy black pullovers , keeping watch over the few swimmers who braved the waves that were a chilly 65 degrees . While 150,000 persons sought to escape . the heat Saturday at Jones Beach , only 60,000 gathered yesterday . Many left early ; others spurned the sand and water and turned to archery , table tennis and paddle tennis . But to Irving L. Gartenberg , of 500 East 77th Street , making his first visit to a beach in five years , the weather made no difference at all . " We would have come out if it poured , " he said as he pulled socks onto the feet of his 18-month-old son , Jimmy . " We promised the children . " Nearby stood Mrs. Gartenberg and their daughter Julie , 4 . The Gartenbergs arose at 7 o'clock yesterday morning and rented a car to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a promise , " said Mrs. Gartenbcrg . While the temperature-humidity index in the city stood at 77 , two degrees above the level where everyone is supposed to feel uncomfortable , 20-year-old Susan Keegan clutched her raincoat tightly at her throat as she read under a boardwalk sundeck canopy at the beach . But only the sea , and pretty Kathy Bourke , 18 , of Missoula , Mont. , mattered to Midshipman Denny Bogosch of Sioux City , Iowa , as they strolled on the boardwalk . Midshipman Bogosch , fresh from duty aboard the destroyer escort Dealey , said , " I came out to see what the ocean looks like from the land side of it instead of the sea . "                     