@@724420

txt The Republicans have developed a reapportionment strategy involving six distinct plans in hope of heading , off a Democratic redistricting effort . The proposal to be put before the special session of the Legislature next Tuesday , it was learned tonight , includes four methods of apportioning the Assembly and two plans for apportioning the State Senate . Qualified Republican sources said that all six plans would be passed by the Legislature and signed by Governor Rockefeller . The theory is that if the courts found some of the plans invalid , at least one would survive . The Democrats intend to pass a bill of their own after they take control of the Legislature in January , and to submit it , even if it is vetoed by the Governor , to a three-judge Federal court in New York City . Choice for Judges They would be saying to the court , in effect , " Take your choice  --  our plan or the Republicans ' . " But the Republicans feel that if the court finds itself confronted with a series of alternative measures that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more likely to choose one of them than a Democratic proposal that had been vetoed . To accomplish this , according to one influential Republican , the following plan of action has been evolved for Assembly re-apportionment : Plan A , the one least attractive to the Republicans , will be passed first . It will be signed into law . Then Plan B will be passed as an amendment and signed , which will have the effect of substituting it for plan A. The same thing will be done with Plans C and D. At the end of the process , Plan D  --  the one most favorable to the Republicans  --  will stand as the state law . When the court begins reviewing the reapportionment plan , as it has said it would , it will be able to strip away the layers of law like leaves of an artichoke until it finds one that meets its standards of -constitutionality . Governor Rockefeller and his counsel , Sol Neil Corbin , are said to believe that their : pro- ' cedure would be legal . Officially , , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means 9f dealing ' with the varying interpretations ! of the - precise meaning of the United States Supreme ' Court 's ! one-man , ; one-vote deeigion of 7,11zie 15 . That ruling . , struck doWii the state 's present a.ppor. tionmerit system . ' In - fad , ' as the - mire : candid Republicans admit , the , goal is to deny to the Democrats the opportunity to do the redisPlan D , the one that the Re-1 trieting themselves . publicans would like to see sustained by the courts , will include fractional voting ? a system under which sparsely populated upstate counties would be given Assemblymen with a quarter or half vote . This plan also provides for the use of the 1962 Gubernatorial voting- figures as a basis Of reapportionment . Because a larger percentage of the population votes in Republican areas upstate than . in Democratic New York City , the RePubli- , leans would gain from such an arrangement . The disparity is substantial . In 1962 , - for example , 34.8 per cent of Chemung County 's 98 , - 706 residents cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1,698,281 residents of , New York , County . Plan D ? " the last resort , " as , one Republican described it to- , day-Hwould use citizen population figures and would involve widespread splitting of- ? counties . Plans B and eare reportedly variations of plans A and D. Even the use of citizen population would be less favorable to the Deinocratar-than the use of ' total population , one statistician here contended , because citizens population excludes aliens . more of whom live in New York City . In the Senate , the two plans are similar , differing principally in that one uses citizen population figures and the other uses voter population . According , to a reliable source , most of the alternatives to be submitted to the . Legislature call for a Senate of 65 , members and an Assembly of 180 , which is in accord with the recommendations of the Citizens Committee on Reapportionment . Using citizen population b- , tals , the Republicans have ! arrived at an average Assembly ' district population of about ! 91,000 . Allowing for- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 33 of the state 's 62 counties fall below this figure and would presumably be given fractional votes . Despite rumors of defections by upstate legislators , and re'ports that some New York City Republicans who were beaten in ! November did not plan-to attend the session , a party leader in a position to kno* said today : , " We have the votes . We 'll pa* our bills . Not a single doubt about it . "                     