@@724339

txt Uncle Sam is getting set for a major medical assault against one of the nation 's leading causes of death and disability ? strokes . The Government 's National Institutes of Health , aided by the Veterans Administration , already has taken the first steps in a national campaign which aims ultimately to conquer strokes or at least to reduce their toll . The fight will be expensive and complex w ; -1 13 waged along many fronts . These range Tirom a search for underlying causes and ' cures , permitting prevention and improved treatment , to research in rehabilitation , hopefully enabling many of those already disabled to avoid a future of futility . The full fruits of these endeavors may take years or decades to develop , experts caution , because progress against strokes requires painstaking investigation of dozens of diverse and difficult medical matters . The problem is considered urgent . A stroke results from an interruption of the blood supply in the vital cerebral blood vessels , leading to brain damage . It is largely a disorder of later years . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every year . The disorder is expected to kill more than 200,000 Americans this year , exceeded only by heart attacks and cancer as a cause of death , and to afflict at least two million in all ; the damage may be scarcely noticeable -- or severe enough to cause crippling paralysis . A Network of " Stroke Centers " The new anti-stroke strategy calls for creation of a network of Federally financed " stroke centers " serving every region of the country . These centers would be based at existing medical institutions , including Cornell University Medical College in New York City , Wayne State University at Detroit , the University of Minnesota at Minneapolis , Duke University at Durham , N.C. , and others . The centers would pull together teams of stroke specialists , ranging from surgeons to speech therapists , and provide them with funds , facilities and patients to investigate all aspects of the disorder . The basic concept is that research on causes and treatment of stroke must proceed simultaneously with maximum application of knowledge now at hand . NIH experts estimate $3 million to $5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts in the next fiscal year . which starts July 1 ; ultimately , annual outlays may mount to as much as $30 million . The Government 's ambitions are likely to get significant support from the non-Government Commission on Heart Disease , Cancer and Stroke , led by a Baylor University surgeon , Dr. Michael DeBakey , which is due to report to President Johnson in December . This blue-ribbon panel almost certainly will enthusiastically endorse the stroke program in broad outline , if not in detail . As now conceived , each center would provide perhaps 10 beds for hospitalization of stroke patients undergoing special study . It 's essential , medical men say , to enlarge the pool of patients kept on hand for research work ; many hospitals lack money and manpower for the costly care of the chronically ill . Avoiding " Socialized Medicine " Dispute To minimize Government expenditures and avoid argument over " socialized medicine , " the special patients would be expected to pay for their riputine medical care . Uncle Sam , however , , . would defray any extra outlays required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stroke patients , population studies may be launched . Healthy persons might be watched closely for years in hopes of detecting early and accurate indicators of impending stroke attack . There also would be field work to determine whether certain population groups experience an unusually high or low incidence of the disease , providing clues for prevention . The University of Minnesota already is conducting one such study throughout the state . Besides research , the proposed centers will offer service to stroke patients in the community at large . Ambulatory patients might get therapy in the centers during the day , returning home at night . Simple rehabilitation techniques to help stroke sufferers become self-sufficient could be taught to general practitioners or nonmedical personnel . The centers might dispatch teams to nursing homes or mental hospitals to assist in stroke treatment . Manpower Is Big Problem Each center , when fully under way , will cost $300,000 to $500,000 or more a year to operate . NIH experts anticipate establishing a dozen , though some medical men want more . A shortage of stroke specialists means growth must be gradual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must stress training of needed medical manpower . " Personnel is the big problem . My great fear is that Congress will call for too large and lavish a program . We need to move soundly and slowly , " insists one planner . As one contribution , the Veterans Administration intends to enlarge its anti-stroke efforts at VA hospitals near the proposed NIH centers by transferring some of its patients from VA hospitals in other areas and increasing its outlays at selected spots . The first of these efforts will probably start early next year at the VA 's Durham , N.C. , hospital , adjacent to Duke , where medical men want to study aphasia , the speech difficulty which commonly accompanies stroke . Eventually the VA may set up ' as many as 12 similar operations ; potential locations include VA hospitals in Cleveland , Los Angeles , Denver , Chicago , Minneapolis , Boston and Dearborn . Mich . Though the present goals are high , substantial progress has already been made against strokes , especially in the last few years , medical men emphasize . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere with radioactive dye or opaque substances has proved steadily more successful as a diagnostic tool . This technique can detect certain danger spots , such as the development in the major neck arteries of fatty accumulations known as " ' plaques " that may slow the supply of blood to the brain . These obstructions , if big enough , may cause small strokes , signaled only by seemingly harmless dizziness , tingling , blurring or other sensations . But these minor attacks , if untended , will progress in time to full-scale crippling or fatal strokes , specialists say . Drugs and Surgery With proper diagnosis , prevention may be possible . One type of treatment is the use of anti-coagulants , compounds which help prevent the blood from clotting . Many experts argue anti-coagulants will reduce the danger that narrowed arteries will become fully clogged . But controversy exists and caution is required . Some strokes are produced by bleeding or hemorrhage , which anti-coagulants encourage . There is great enthusiasm , too , over antistroke surgery to remove abnormal accumulations of fat from the neck or chest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimate such surgery can prevent or aid in treatment of 25% to 40% of all major strokes , but others contend the benefits are being overestimated to sell the stroke program . These isolated fatty deposits do n't always lead to strokes , and thus the surgeons may claim false success . Then , too , present X-ray techniques are n't delicate enough to detect similar difficulties in arteries in the brain , while the " microsurgery " that would be required to remedy defects in these tiny blood vessels is still in the future . Fundamental Knowledge Needed What is urgently needed , many experts argue , is long-range study of such fundamental matters as blood circulation through the brain , the chemistry of blood-clot formation and dissolution , and the cause of atherosclerosis , the thickening and narrowing of blood vessel walls by fatty deposits , which sets the stage for perhaps 75% of all strokes . " The answers may be years away , but we wo n't get them unless we start now , " says one specialist . For three years , two NIH units , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Heart Institute , have been quietly preparing for the coming campaign . Details have been discussed with medical men throughout the country . Now , despite complaints of a budget pinch , NIH has earmarked $800,000 to finance the first phase of the program : A series of small planning grants , probably $50,000 each , to help medical schools prepare for operating stroke centers . These grants would be followed by larger outlays , perhaps $100,000 a year , to enable the schools to hire staff and acquire equipment . This " tooling-up " might take three years . It 's not anticipated- that every institution aided will measure up as a full-fledged center . " We know we 've got to invest some risk capital in this operation , " declares ' one official . And , first firm outlines of the stroke center network emerge .                     