@@721455

txt UNITED NATIONS , N. Y. , Sept. 2 ? President Eisenhower 's speech o the United Nations was a masterul stroke both in the international lid the national political arenas . In the international field , he committed the power of the United ltates to the United Nations , and hus put Khrushchev in the position if having to oppose the U. N. in orler to oppose the United States . In national terms , he provided an maginative long-range program which Vice President Nixon can sup ) ort with pride in the Presidential ? lection campaign and which Sena.or Kennedy can not oppose without ; neat difficulty . This last may have been inciden.al , and maybe even accidental , but . he fact is that he has now given 1 , Ir . Nixon something more honorible to support than the easy tactic ) f saying that Kennedy 's criticism ) f American strength and policy is t boon to Khrushchev . he President 's Ace The President played this coun:ry 's strongest card today . This is ; hat the ideals and national interasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests of the small nations than are the national interests of the Communist world . The small nations look to the U. N. for their security : the President went further today in offering to use American power through the U. N. than any other President in the history of this organization . The small nations want aid from the rich and powerful nations without national intervention : he offered aid without intervention and proposed that the other big states do the same . The small nations want more military power behind the U. N. : the President not only offered it on behalf of the United States but suggested that U. S. funds could be used to help defray the expenses of national forces held in readiness for U. N. use . There will , of course , be opposition to some parts of the President 's speech . The Russians will no doubt complain about his condemnation of Soviet actions in the Congo , Berlin , and in the shooting down of the RB-47 . The French , too , are unhappy , for every suggestion of increased U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention in Algeria . Nevertheless , the President did open the door to renewed negotiations on disarmament and other subjects , and in effect made it possible to discuss returning U. S.-Soviet relations to where they were before the U-2 incident and the abortive Soviet effort to subvert the Congo . filtrushehev 's Move The question now is whether Khrushchev will move toward a reconciliation . There is no doubt that this seems to be the desire of most of the delegations here . Also , there are reasons for believing that Khrushchev may wish to make some progress here toward a reconciliation with Washington before next inonth 's meeting with the Chinese Communists in North Korea . Tomorrow will tell much more about all this when Khrushchev speaks . But , meanwhile , this was the President 's day and what he had to say discloses a great deal about the development of American foreign policy over the years . ' It underscores , for example , a fact that even the U. N. is sometimes inclined to forget , especially during the hubbub of an American political election ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a continuity in the development of American policy . Over the years this continuity has shown a growing support of the U. N. and an increasing tendency to work through the U. N. There have been many waverings , of course , but the line has moved from Roosevelt through Truman and Senator Vandenberg to Dulles until today a Republican President could suggest making the United Nations the principal instrument of United States policy in much of Africa . In the perspective of history this is of more than passing importance . It was n't so long ago that the Republicans were laughing at Vice President Wallace for suggesting a " quart of milk for every Hottentot in Africa . " Now , as an indication of where we are the Republicans are suggesting that we not only feed them but send them to Harvard .                     