@@724798

txt Bonn Relations between West Germany and Romania are to be expanded to include political contacts between the two governments . These contacts are expected to fall short of diplomatic recognition , at least until after West Germany 's national elections in September . But current talks between German and Romanian officials in Bucharest appear to have left carefully ajar the door to eventual recognition . Meanwhile the Associated Press reported that Foreign Minister Gerhard SchrOder , in a televised interview , said West Germany could open diplomatic relations with Communist Eastern Europe . He acknowledged that this was a shift from the " Hallstein Doctrine " under which the Bonn Government maintained no relations with any government recognizing Communist East Germany . Cultural aspect Trade between the two states  --  West Germany already is Romania 's leading Western trade partner  --  will continue to grow . The West German Trade MiSsion in Bucharest , established in May , 1964 , will be granted certain consular functions , including authority to grant visas . Romania 's official trade mission in Frank . furt will be accorded the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an exchange of West German and Romanian artists and theatrical productions . These results so far have come to light from the visit to Bucharest this pastweek of Rolf Lahr , third-ranking official in the West German Foreign Ministry . The stated reason for the Lahr trip was to open a giant West German industrial exhibition in Bucharest on May 19 . More than 400 West German firms , at a cost of $10 million , mounted the largest industrial show ever seen in Romania . This exhibit , including 120 film showings and more than 100 lectures , is described in press reports as a spectacular success among Romanians . But an official of Mr. Lahr 's rank went to Bucharest to do more than cut ribbons and open a fair . Meetings held In addition to meetings with the Romanian ministers of foreign trade and foreign affairs , Mr. Lahr was received for 75 minutes May 20 by Romanian Premier Ion Gheorghe Maurer . This talk , described as extremely frank , confirmed the desire of both sides to broaden commercial , cultural , and  --  to some extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm to Mr. Lahr 's cordial reception in Bucharest and to evidence that Romania intends to broaden its relations with Bonn . West German businessmen , according to Neues Deutschland and other East German press organs , were acting as agents of the West German Government to undermine Communist bloc solidarity . West Germany would hope that an exchange of West German and Romanian embassies would not be followed by a rush ' of nonaligned states to recognize East Germany . Romania , for its part , must weigh whether its tentative independence from Moscow 's control would be jeopardized by so dramatic a step as recognition of Bonn .                     