@@726369

txt The French Government , taking its disenIgagement from traditional friendship with Israel a step , further , declared today that it " is not committed in any way and on any subject " on the side of " any of the states involved " in the Middle East crisis . The declaration was issued after a Cabinet meeting presided over by President de Gaulle . Information Minister Georges Gorse , who issued the written declaration , described it as a " faithful " reflection of a statement made to the ministers by the President . The Cabinet meeting dealt principally with the Middle East . Me . Gorse indicated that France would refuse to sign a joint declaration by Western maritime powers insisting on their right to freedom of access to the Gulf of Aqaba . A draft of such a declaration was submitted to the French yesterday by the American Ambassador , Charles E. Bohlen , and Sir Patrick Reilly , his British counterpart . The two Ambassadors were received sepaately by Herve Alphand , the second highest-ranking official in the Foreign Ministry . Israelis Are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers would " not help things much " and , above all , would be outside the framework of the Big Four consultation that the French feel is the only means of coping with the IsraeliArab conflict . Israeli diplomats called the French declaration cruelly disappointing . The declaration said France took the position that all the states concerned had a " right to live " but that the " worst thing " that could happen " would be the opening of hostilities . " It warned that the country that " used arms first " would have neither French " approval I nor , for even stronger reasons , Iher support . " This was regarded primarily as a warning to Israel , whose air force is equipped with French planes and is almost completely lependent on delieveries of erench spare parts . French and Israeli planes earlier this week were reliably reported to have flown spare parts from France to Israel . Issue of Refugees Cited Israeli sources were particularly distressed by the fact that the French declaration not only did not call for a return to the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also linked this issue with that of Arab refugees and French-Arab relations in general . The Israelis want the Egyptian blockade of the gulf to end first . Only if this happens are they willing to discuss other problems , they say . The French declaration said that , if the present crisis were followed by a detente , then " the problems raised by navigation in the Gulf of Aqaba , the situation of the Palestinian refugees and the conditions of proximity of the Israeli and ' Arab states should be resolved at their root by way of international decisions . " It added that these " international decisions " would have to be preceded by an " agreement among the Big Four members of the Security Council . " France , the statement said , continues to advocate Big Four action . Vietnam May Be Factor Mr. Gorse disclosed that the French proposal had been turned down by the Soviet Union . The Soviet reply , he said , called a Soviet-American meeting inopportune at this time . Privately , French officials have been saying that the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . Mr. Gorse later added that the negative Soviet reply referred to a " meeting " only , and not to " consultation . " This was the reason the French maintained their proposal , he said . President de Gaulle adheres on all major problems to the principle that useful action is possible only if all major powers are associated with it . For the Middle East and Europe , this includes the Soviet Union . For Asia it includes Communist China . This is part of what the President calls France 's " policy of independence . " He will not take part in any initiative taken by the Western powers alone . This , according to French officials , is the basic reason for France 's rejection of the proposed declaration of maritime powers . Resentment Aroused in Israel TEL AVIV , June 2 ( Reuters ) ? The French statement aroused resentment in Israel today and heightened a feeling among informed circles that the nation may be drifting into war . Government officials declined comment on the statement , but opinion in informed quarters reflected an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's stanchest ally now seemed to be turning its back on her .                     