@@725869

txt Washington . Oct 19 ? SenateHouse conferees agreed tonight to a 60 million dollar plan to have the government finance President Johnson 's race for reelection in 1968 , and the campaign for his Republican foe . The novel plan was one of , many pieces of legislation facing tired and crochety members as Congress dragged toward adjournment . Leaders ' have made Saturday their adjournment deadline . The government-financed campaign plan is a provision of a bill which was started thru Congress to improve the tax status of foreign investors in United States properties . The bill was so loaded with amendments in the Senate members , began calling it the " grab bag " or " Christmas tree " bill . Spearheaded by Russell The idea of having the government take over the payment of the expenses of Presidential candidates was advanced by Sen. Russell B. Long D. , La. , assistant Senate Democratic leader and chairman of the Senate finance committee . Long would have every taxpayer volunteer government use of S1 of his income taxes to meet Presidential election campaign expenses . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the taxpayer could designate whether or not he was willing to have S1 of his , money used for this purpose . Altho treasury officials estimated annual contributions to the fund might run as high as i 100 million dollars , the bill I would limit the amount which I could be used for 1968 campaign expenses to 60 millions . Aid to Minorities Each major party would get up to 30 million dollars apiece if their expenses ran that high . There have been reports that the Republicans spent a little less than 20 million dollars on Sen. Barry Goldwater 's unsuccessful Presidential race . Provision is made in the bill for government aid to minor parties . The party must have had at least 11/2 million votes cast in the last election , however , before it would receive aid . " This is a good government amendment , " Long said after the conferees acted . " It will mean that the President will enter the White House under obligation only to the individual citizen and not to the wealthy contributors , corporations , or labor unions who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill an amendment offered by Sen. Douglas D. , EL and approved by the Senate which would have had ' the government help buy drugs and medicines for medicare beneficiaries . It also struck a provision which would have given persons over 65 with good incomes bigger medical expense deductions on their tax returns . Curbed Special Deductions When Congress gave the old folks medicare , it took away their special medical expense deduction . Those with good incomes will get the same medical expense deduction , which is allowed younger taxpayers . The Senate gave final approval to two end-of-the-session measures and sent them to the President . These were the socalled " truth in packaging bill , " designed to give consumer more understandable information on the outside of packages of what they are buying , and 404 million dollar appropriation to run Washington , D. C. , this year . It gave final approval to the conference committee bill providing 6.1 billion dollars for elementary schools , junior highs , and high schools . The measure was sent to the House where a fight may develop over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill , given little chance of clearing Congress this year , making 4 million Viet Nam war veterans eligible for additional government war time benefits . The House has had no hearings on the bill . OK 's Vet Benefits The House wrangled all day over a number of minor matters after voting a contempt of Congress citation against a Chicagoan . It agreed to a 613 million dollar public works authorization bill for which sponsors could ask for money next session . Late tonight , after much debate and numerous quorum calls , the House adopted by a 255 to 0 vote a resolution establishing a select committee on standards and conduct and then adjourned until tomorrow morning . The resolution was adopted only after the committee 's powers to investigate members were watered down by an amendment .                     