@@722385

txt ALGIERS , April ** thirty armed members of a commando of the Secret Army Organization were reported to have been killed today in a battle with a unit of the Algerian National Liberation Army . The Liberation Army is the nationalist force that fought Cie French for seven years . The battle took place in the mountains south of DuperrC , about fifty miles south of Algiers . The area is part of the rugged mountain region called Ouarsenis , where ten days ago a Secret Army commando unit suffered heavy losses following an attack on French Army positions and an unsuccessful attempt to rally the local Moslem population . Strongholds in the Area The Secret Army Organization , whose objective is to prevent Algerian independence by force , has several - 'strongholds and training centers in this region . Ever since the first encounter ten days ago the French Army has been pursuing Secret Army columns in the region with airborne troops and planes . At least sixty Secret Army members have been captured in the pursuit operations . Today 's battle followed an attack last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Algerian Moslems , reliable private informants said . About ten Algerians were killed . It was not known whether the Algerians were civilians or members of a // unit of the National Liberation Army . ? During the night the Algerians called in a company of the Liberation Army that was holding positions in the area under the cease-fire agreements , the sources said . The nationalists attacked the Secret Army group this morning . The battle was " extremely violent , " the sources said . They added that the casualties might well be higher than indicated in the first incomplete reports . French Army sources reported tonight only that ten members of the Secret Army Organization had been captured near Duperrd this morning . Chisitan Fouchet , the French High Commissioner in Algeria , appealed tonight to the Frenchmen of Algeria to " come out of your nightmare . " He asked them to " wake up " and to " have confidence  --  even though it may be hard . " M. Fouchet , the highest French official in Algeria , urged Frenchmen here to repudiate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of so much blood , of so many innocents murdered , even in their hospital beds  --  I defy you not to say : ' This is too much , this must not continue , ' " he said . He declared that France , in agreement with the future government of Algeria , would guarantee the " total safety " of the Frenchmen of Algeria and their possessions . All French civil servants are assured of their right to continue their careers " normally , " he said . He did not specify whether they would be able to do so in Algeria or in France . At least eight persons were killed and sixteen wounded by gunmen in the streets of Algiers today . Five of those killed were Moslems . The sixth was a French soldier who attempted to ' arrest a terrorist immediatel after he had felled his victim . Two of the killings took place at a few moments ' intervals in the Rue d'Isly , one of , the city 's two principal shopping streets . All through the day the terrorists conducted what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intimidation against various schools and professional training centers . A bomb caused heavy damage to buildings of the law department of the University of Algiers . Another bomb vas defused without exploding in the university 's physics laboratories . Another part of the science department was blown up by terrorists last Saturday . Teen-age terrorists invaded a professional training center , threatened the students and forced the principal to close the school . Youths smashed the windows of a girls ' school with rocks . Students Set Strike Later in the day student leaders of the university proclaimed a general student strike for an indefinite period . In a letter to Lucien Paye , the French Minister of Education , the student leaders demanded to know whether it was true that the Universities of Algiers , Oran and Constantine would " cease to be French as of June 30 . " The letter was published here in leaflet form today . It explained that the reason for the student strike was the students ' fear that the ? universities would be placed under the control of Algerian authorities . The Secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blow up all institutions of higher learning in Algeria rather than see them fall under Algerian control . The - labor unions of the Oran region in western Algeria today proclaimed a general strike beginning tomorrow . Also in Oran today terrorists shelled the vicinity of the barracks of the Gendarmes Mobiles , an e lite corps that has been prominent in the fight against the Secret Army Organization . Four grenades fired by grenade launchers , apparently from the balcony of an apartment building , casueed no casualties .                     