@@724814

txt Sam Homo ) Giancana 's repeated interstate telephone conversations with Miss Phyllis , a television star , may have contributed to the crime syndicate chief 's downfall , THE TRIBUNE learned yesterday . Reportedly , a justice department investigation of Giancana 's activities across state lines developed evidence of repeated phone calls between the 57 - year - old mobster and his blonde woman companion . Phone Calls Traced Some of the phone calls were from the eastern seaboard to Giancana as he enjoyed fellowship with some of his hoodlum colleagues in a Forest Park cocktail lounge . In other cases , Giancana reportedly was sharing Miss 's companionship as he talked with his hoodlum friends in Chicago . These facts were learned yesterday as Giancana 's attorneys filed a 32-page brief with the United States Court of Appeals in an effort to get an emergency hearing . The brief is intended to get Giancana out of jail on bond pending appeal of -a federal District court citation for contempt . The information learned by THE TRIBUNE is pertinent becacause Gianeana was jailed for rejecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury under the federal communications act . The FCC act covers the illicit use of telephone and telegraph lines . Richard E. Gorman , Giancana 's attorney , indicated in his brief some of the questions which the hoodlum refused to answer by using his constitutional rights against self-incrimination . Most of them deal with telephone calls . Some of Questions Asked Here are some of the questions put to Gianeana in the grand jury , according to Gorman 's legal brief : 1 . Are your home telephone numbers listed in the telephone directory ? 2 . Who pays your telephone bill ? 3 . Does ... have a telephone credit card ? 4 . Have you ever used . ' s credit card in placing toll calls , long distance calls . . . ? 5 . Have you ever placed telephone calls from .... ' s telephone number in New ' York ? 6 . Does .... call you at the Armory lounge ? Refuses to Answer Presumably , Giancana took the 5th amendment when asked all these questions . Edward V. Hanrahan , United States attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury during three appearances . Hanrahan told this . to . Chief Judge William J. Campbell of federal District court May . 27 just before Campbell sent Giancana to jail for defying the immunity grant of the jury . " There is no indication in any of these questions that the grand jury is investigating any regular scheme involving the use of telephones , " Gorman 's brief said . " At the most , the government seems concerned with a number of isolated calls . " , Claim Immunity Faulty Gorman and Thomas J. Wadden , Giancana 's legal expert retained from a Washington , D. C. firm , are contending that the immunity granted Giancana was faulty . Immunity was granted under the FCC act . The portions of the grand jury transcript quoted by Gorman in his brief also indicated the government was concerned with Giancana 's political dealings . Giancana was asked about some telephone calls in December , 1964 and whether " each of those calls or any of the calls , from Dec. 7 , 1964 to Dec. 16 , 1964 , . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ... " various congressmen ? " ... Outside the FCC Act Later , in his brief , Gorman noted : " But a scheme to influence Congressmen , unlike an interstate gambling raid , does not inherently or continually involve the use of the telephone . Thus , the only particular scheme which the government has even implied that the grand jury is investigating is clearly outside the communications act . " During three weeks of grand jury proceedings , David Schippers , head of the justice department 's organized crime unit , Sam Betar , an Assistant United States attorney , and Edward V. Hanrahan , the United States attorney for northern Illinois , questioned figures from the mob-dominated 1st ward Democratic organization . Question Humphreys This is the political group in which Giancana reportedly had a strong hand . The witnesses included Benjamin Buddy Jacobsen , a longtime political payroller ; Pat Marcy , the ward 's organization 's secretary ; and Anthony Tisci , Giancana 's son - in - law who doubles as secretary to Rep. Frank Annunzio D. , Ill . . Also questioned before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mob 's aging political fixer . Giancana remained in the county jail 's maximum security tier , where he was ordered sent last Tuesday by Judge Campbell . He went behind bars when he refused Judge Campbell 's order to testify under a cloak of immunity against prosecution . The United States Court of Appeals has indicated it will hold a hearing on Gorman 's plea to free his client on bond once the justice department answers his brief . It has given the government five days to do so . The grand jury will resume its sessions Monday with the appearance of several witnesses in the government 's inquiry into the activities of Rocco Pram* , rackets boss of Stone Park . Receives Clean Clothing Giancana , meanwhile , re ? ceived a change of underwear , sox , and handkerchiefs . A man who said he was Giancana 's nephew yesterday brought him his first new clothing since he went to jai/ . Because he is not under sentence for a crime , Giancana wears his own clothing rather than prison garb . Giancana reportedly rejected opportunities to buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read year old magazines . And , jail sources reported , Giancana has left selection of radio programs to a man facing murder charges in an adjoining cell . The radio sits on a chair within reach of the three maximum security cells on the tier in which Giancana resides . But Giancana has shunned reaching thru the bars , for the radio and seems content with the loud guitar music favored by his jail mate .                     