@@721900

txt BY ROBERT HOWARD Chicago Tribune Press Service Springfield , Ill. , June 24 ? A special legislative committee seeking to balance Gov . Kerner 's biennial budget today cut 6.7 million dollars from the Illinois Public Aid commission 's appropriation bill . It was the first sizable reduction made during a series of day and night hearings that will continue tomorrow . The careful study we are making has borne out my conviction that there is no way of avoiding the governor 's request for a half cent increase in the state 's sales tax , " Rep. Lloyd C. Harris ID. , Granite City told reporters . Tax Hike at Stake Harris is chairman both of the joint economy committee , which began its hearings Thursday , and the House appropriations committee . ' The fate of the state sales tax increase , passed by the Democratic house but opposed by Senate Republicans , depends largely on the outcome of the economy hearings . The legislative session has one week to go , and the Kerner sales tax increase is competing for attention with a bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax . President . David D. Henry and other University of Illinois officials were told at 10 p. m. that 1.7 million dollars would be cut from their appropriation bills . It was a comparatively small slash from budgeted items of approximately 150 million dollars . 52.8 Millions Asked Most of the public aid cut was made in payrolls . The commission originally asked for 52.8 million dollars for cost of administering 453 millions of grants to the unemployed , aged , dependent children , and others drawing funds from the state and federal treasuries . Harris ' group cut $400,000 from the public welfare department and $75,000 from the agriculture department . " Some , agencies are agreeing to voluntary reductions , mostly of a minor nature , but most are standing by their original requests , " Harris said . Will Decide Monday The special committee  --  five Republicans and five Democrats representing both houses ? plans to decide Monday whether ? to accept Republican suggestions for a general slash . A 25 per cent reduction in appropriation increases over the 1959 session was suggested by Senate Whip George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an across the board cut of 5 per cent advocated by Sen. W. Russell Arrington IR. , Evanston . . State Treasurer Joseph D. Lohman provided a 16 million dollar lift by telling the committee that the administration could defer repayment of 16 million dollars borrowed from a World War 11 bonus bond fund . The committee told George T. Wilkins , state superintendent of public instruction , to cut his spending by $150,000 ; Atty . Gen. William G. Clark was told the legislature would trim $74,000 from his appropriation bill .                     