@@727321

txt While Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy lost a minor Democratic national convention fight yesterday , insurgent Mississippi Dem ocr a t s appeared headed for victory in their battle to replace the state 's regular delegates at the Presidential nominating caucus next week . Both fights developed be . fore the convention credentials committee , which opened week-long hearings at the Conrad Hilton hotel on a record number of challenges to the seating of as many as 8100 delegates from 16 states . Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey , committee chairman , ruled against a motion by McCarthy forces to exclude from the convention temporary list of representatives of all state delegations whose seating has been contested . Consider Mississippi Today The credentials committee ' will vote today on whether the Mississippi Loyalists , a biracial ' coalition of civil rights , labor , and liberal groups , should be granted the convention seats now held by the regular Mississippi Democratic party , charged with racial discrimination , The Mississippi challenge was the first and only one heard by the committee yesterday in the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the credentials committee heard emotional allegations and equally emotional denials in the Mississippi case , Hughes denied a request by Joseph P. Whelton , a McCarthy-pledged delegate from Nashua , N. IL , that challenged delegates not be permitted their convention seats until the credentials committee rules on their status . No Setback Seen Thomas Reston , a McCarthy press aid , said Hughes ' ruling " was not a great setback for us . " The temporary convention list compiled by the standing credentials . subcommittee of the national committee , is used to determine which delegates may be seated when the convention begins Monday and before the report of the convention credentials committee is adopted . McCarthy 's move , apparently based on a successful " fair play " ploy used by supporters of former President Eisenhower at the 1952 Republican convention , would have backfired on McCarthy . Regular Alabama Democrats have challenged 311 McCarthy delegates from 23 states . Hughes later told reporters that he ruled Whelton 's motion out of order because , if it had been peimitted , " then we could n't have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Miss. , was the leader of the Loyalist effort , charging that racial discrimination forced by the state 's Democratic party has made Mississippi " the black spot in this country . " " All it has ever done was to deprive black and white open-minded people the right to participate , " said Evers , field director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Mississippi . " Please do n't do to us what they do , " said Evers , whose brother Medgar was slain for his voter-registration activity . " If you seat them here , you are seating your enemy . If you shut the door in our face , God help us . " Insurgents Challenged Charles Clark , representing the regular Mississippi party , argued that the Loyalists would have no standing to place the names of Democratic Presidential and Vice Presidential nominees on the bal. lot there because they have not met the state 's legal requirements to qualify as a political party . Hughes announced after the hearing that the credentials committee will vote on the Mississippi question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Loyalists , an outgrowth of a 1964 Democratic convention fight of the Mississippi Freedom part ' , part of the Loyalist coalition . A challenge of the Tennessee delegation was not heard as scheduled yesterday . Hughes indicated that the committee would base its ruling on briefs filed with the committee earlier . May Be Precedent Walter Pozen , general counsel for the committee , said his research has uncovered no previous instance in which the Democratic party has refused to seat a delegation sent to its national convention by a regular state organization of the party . Thru the week , the committee will hear other challenges by McCarthy supporters that racial bias , political discrimination , and party disloyalty ' figured in selection of delegates .                     