@@725419

txt BY CHESLY MANLY Chian Taves Press Serdati SAIGON , Viet Nam , March 19 - Despite continued disruptive agitation by Buddhist extremists , South Viet Nam 's ninemonth old military government has survived a week of crisis with all appearances of unchallengable strength . The military directorate first demonstrated its unity and stability by sacking Lt. Gen. Nguyen Chanh Thi , political ally of the troublesome Buddhists and most powerful rival of Premier Nguyen Cao Ky . Amidst tension and apprehension caused by Thi 's expulsion , the government next demonstrated its strength by executing Ta Vinh , a multimillionaire leader of the Chinese business community , who was convicted of speculating , hoarding , profiteering , and bribing government officials on a scale that threatened the nation 's economic stability . Foes Weep , Wail Liberal foes of the Ky government wept and wailed about the shooting of Ta Vinh and predicted  --  no doubt . hopefully  --  that resentment on t h e part of Chinese business men , together with the Buddhist agitation , would surely bring the government down . The only noticeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sudden exodus of Chinese and Indians from the black market in dollars . As one American embassy official remarked , the big war profiteers and other generals besides TM who might h a v-e challenged Premier Ky seemed to " get the message . " The most memorable quote of the week was attributed by Saigon newspapers to Gen. Thi , just before he boarded a plane at Tan Son Nhut airport to return to his home in Da Nang . Thi said he had been receiving treatment for a nose ailment when his superiors ordered him to Saigon . He said he abandoned the treatments and flew to Saigon because he thought " my duty was more important than my nose . " His submission to the will of the military directory suggested that he also valued his head more than his chances of becoming dictator . Thi 's removal from command of the 1st corps area , and thus automatically from the ruling 10-member military directory , was followed by Buddhist and student protest meetings in Hue and Da Nang and later in Saigon , and by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The demonstrations in the northern cities undoubtedly were incited by political appointees and followers of Gen. Thi , who was the central govetary satrap of the 1st corps area . Other Buddhist mass meetings in Saigon are scheduled . The government has not interfered with these meetings , at which speakers have been far more restrained than . at previous demonstrations before and after the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem and his brother , Ngo Dinh Nhu , in a coup d'etat on Nov. 1 , 1963 . Premier Ky has warned , however , that rioting or serious disturbances will not be tolerated . Advocated Red Deal The monk , ' Fri Quang , of Hue , who was the leading conspirator against Diem and five other governments that were toppled after Diem 's assassination , has not shown his hand publicly in the present crisis , but his associates and collaborators are in the forefront of the agitation . Tri Quang advocated a deal with the communist aggressors in North Viet Nam bef ore Diem 's assassination and escaped arrest and trial on charges of seditious activity only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge . He has kept quiet since the military directory took office last June , but in an interview with the F a r East Economic review he said , " I am against this government . " Tam Chau , head of the Buddhist institute , was one of ' Fri Quang 's collaborators in the anti-Diem conspiracy and in subsequent Buddhist political agitation . After Thi 's dismissal , Tam Chau 's Buddhist institute issued a manifesto calling for immediate elections to establish " a true democratic structure " and for the return of all exiled generals . Ironically , most of the exiled generals were banished because they were members or supporters of governments that had been toppled by the Buddhists . Thinly Veiled Attack The Buddhist manifesto was a thinly veiled attack on the military government and it was followed by mass meetings that are still going on . The Buddhist demand for elections and democratic procedures seems impertinent , for the government itself has pledged to return the country to civilian rule as soon as possible . An advisory council of distinguished citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be submitted to the people in a referendum next October . Under the constitution , if adopted by the people , elections to a national assembly will be held late next year . Gen. Thi pronounced teal professed his allegiance to the military directory of 10 generals and to Premier Ky personally after the new government took office . Privately , however , he repeatedly expressed contempt for Ky and in recent weeks he had ignored orders from Saigon , particularly in nonmilitary affairs . He was regarded as Ky 's most dangerous rival because of his duplicity , his overwhelming ambition , his political affiance with Tri , Quang , and the powerful positions of men he had placed in office . List His Backers His supporters included Gen. Pham Van Lieu , director of the national police , Gen. Le Nguyen Khang , military governor of Saigon , and ' Gen. Deng Van Quang , commander of the 4th corps area . Gen. Khang a n d Gen. Quang are members of the directory , but they voted against Thi , whether because they were afraid to oppose Ky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nhut air base was surrounded by tanks and heavily armed government troops when the generals met for their showdown with Thi . As an added precaution , however , Premier Ky , who is an air vice marshal and still commands the air force , kept his A-1 Skyraiders , armed with bombs and napalm , in orbit over the air base . Had Anxious Moments American embassy officials have had some anxious moments during the week , but they believe the government has weathered the storm . The Johnson administration is strongly committed to Ky . When Ambassador Lodge returned here last July , Ky was suspicious of him because of his previous relations with Tri Quang and the other pro-communist and neutralist Buddhists . Now , however , Lodge and Ky see each other almost every day and are on the best of terms . The liberals are against Ky because of his uncompromising anti-communism . He has said repeatedly that he will neither give representation to the socalled National Liberation front in a coalition government nor negotiate with this communist outfit for a peace settlement .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         