@@721488

txt President Eisenhower observed his seventieth birthday today , becoming the first President to do so while in office . But in a day crowded with memories he acknowledged that his thoughts were still of ' the future . The major event of the ? day was an outdoor party at which he helped to plant a commemorative red oak , heard some 6,000 " neighbors " chant " Happy birthday , dear Ike , " and exchanged hand - shaking pleasantries with citizens on the south I lawn of the White House . There were times when , I stirred emotionally , he could:not trust his voice . Serenaded by Army Band The first was when he was serenaded by the Army Band , before the start of his business day , with a softly played " Army Blue , " the West Point hymn . He bowed his head and abruptly walked back into the White House . Later , he had to pause momentarily while thanking the large crowd that attended the birthday party sponsored by the city . He was visibly moved by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come out on a seventieth birthday of mine and by your presence give me encouragement and strength for the paths that still lie ahead . " By proclamation of the District of Columbia Government , this was Dwight D. Eisenhower , Day . During the outdoor cereH mony the Presient heard himself acclaimed by Commissioner Robert E. as " one // of the greatest soldiers and statesmen of his time . " But it was his rare contact with thousands of smiling citizens as he crossed from his office to the tree-planting site that he seemed to enjoy most . He shook hands with scores of old men and women who leaned across a restraining snow fence bordering the driveway . Here and there he tweaked a youngster 's cheek . One man called out to the President : " I 'm two days older than you are . " " Then you 're an old man , " President Eisenhower shouted back with a smile . One Gift Delights Him The gift that probably delighted the President the most came from a little girl . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inscribed " World 's Greatest Golfer . " " Why you sweet thing , " the President exclaimed , patting the child on the head . " Thank you very much . " Having promised White House news photographers a birthday picture , the President invited reporters to join him . He confided at one point that " the idea of retirement is sometimes terrifying , " but lie indicated , that he had little time for such Itenifying thoughts . " I have more requests to do things after I 'm through here than I can possibly handle , " the President explained . f These mostly involved reAttests io make speeches and ! serve on the boards of various corporations and institutions ? " from people who think I wo n't have anything to do . " The President , in obvious high spirits , said he was " feeling just fine . " I The White House announced later that on Oct. 26 , two days after he returns from a 6,126-mile cross-country trip by airplane , helicopter , automobile and motor launch , the President would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birthplace of , Woodrow Wilson . The.President 's comments on his health were reinforced by the private comments of his doctors . Although he suffered three major physical setbacks in the last five years , the doctors ' only concern involves his almost chronic bronchial condition , for which they have urged him to go as often as possible to a warm , dry climate . The habit of command that enables him to dismiss a subject from his mind once a deojsion is made is credited by his doctors for the President 's continued health and vigor.                     