@@726079

txt After a solid decade of piling up annual deficits in its transactions with the rest of the world , the United States appears to be no nearer a solution for eliminating them than it was when they began . The results for 1966 , which have not yet been revealed , may give rise to complacency because the deficit has been kept from growing . But Robert V. Roosa , former Under Secretary of the Treasury , has warned against " euphoria , " pointing out that there was fresh deterioration in the balance of payments during 1966 and predicting that 1967 could be " a crucial year for the dollar . " The National Foreign Trade Council also fears that the deficit will show a substantial worsening in 1967 , which could lead to increased foreign pressure on the nation 's gold supply . These expressions of alarm may at first glance seem exaggerated . The United States possesses the most powerful economy on earth , with total output of goods and services approaching the $750-billion mark . So a balance of payments deficit of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get worried about . Furthermore , the Administration has made progress in cutting down the size of the deficit . So it an argue that once the extraordinary drain resulting from the Vietnam war ends , the problem will vanish . But the fact is that the deficit has not been erased . despite the persistent efforts and firm pledges of ' three successive Presidents . Washington has had to resort to a series of devices to stem the outflow  --  or to minimize its impact  --  yet the deficit has gone on like a nagging and chronic toothache . The United States has been able to avoid really painful or drastic measures because it has a large gold ' stock and because it has been successful in persuading most of its creditors to add to their dollar holdings . But the gold stock is declining and Mr. Roosa notes that the Europeans are no longer willing to take more dollars . Britain , France , Italy and West Germany have now agreed to cooperate with the United States in seeking to lower interest rates . But there are indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  about the true state of the American economy , questioning whether so stubborn and serious a deficit indicates some basic weakness . The American economy is rich and healthy . But both its stamina and its strength will be suspect so long as the deficit continues . Indeed , the deficit may seem small and unimportant but it could become an Achilles ' heel , exposing American influence to financial attack , unless it is eliminated . This threat to American power and to the essential stability of existing monetary arrangements can no longer be brushed aside . As Mr. Roosa sees it , closing the gap made by the deficit deserves " the highest priority " this year . He recommends reduction of military expenditures in Europe and shoring up of shortterm interest rates to keep volatile funds from flowing out . There are other approaches , including direct controls over capital , that may have to be employed . Unfortunately , the Administration has not called for setting priorities . A new approach has been its success in winning agreement on a coordinated effort to lower interest rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deficit problem in his State of the Union message and his advisers take the attitude that somehow , someday , the deficit will disappear . The last decade has shown that getting rid of the deficit is not so simple or painless a task . There may be difficulties involved in closing the gap . But an all out effort , preferably launched by a special Presidential message conveying new determination and setting forth new proposals , is called for . The deficit must be eliminated .                     