@@726722

txt A Republican " shadow cabinet " is standing in the wings , ready to take control of the House should the GOP win a majority of its 435 seats next year . Interviews with Republican ranking members and the minority staffs of the 14 major committees of the House give a foretaste of potential change for the 91st Congress . Nobody here is predicting a certain Republican win in the House . But the prospects are greater now than at any time since the party last held control in the 83d Congress 15 years ago . " There will be a marked , radical change if I become chairman , " vowed Rep. James G. Fulton of Pennsylvania , the outspoken , ranking Republican member of the House Science and Astronautics Committee . " The space program is now 95 percent plumbing , " he charged . " I would insist on more research and development . " " We would move in as fast as possible to find new places where spending can be cut , " predicted Rep. Frank T. Bow of Ohio , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We want to relieve the burden on the country 's taxpayers . " Duties considered Several members frankly admit having given careful thought to the duties they would assume following a GOP take-over . Rep. John P. Saylor of Pennsylvania , senior Republican on the House Interior and Insular Affairs Committee , is one of these . Among his Republican colleagues on the committee , he has stressed the importance of an intimate knowledge of parliamentary procedure  --  a required tool of a leadership role . When he became ranking minority member of the committee , Mr. Saylor got the Republicans on the committee together ? " particularly those who would rank on the subcommittees  --  to ask each one to be a counterpart of a subcommittee chairman . " He has thus worked up a team which is ready to move in , if and when the Republicans take power . Changes anticipated Among the changes anticipated , the Monitor survey disclosed the following : ? Rep. William B. Widnall of New Jersey , ranking GOP spokesman on the Banking and Currency Committee , forecasts House passage of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Widnall cosponsored with Sen. Charles H. Percy of Illinois . ? " I can see a complete redirection of the poverty program with more local control , " says Rep. William H. Ayres of Ohio , senior Republican on the Education and Labor Committee . ? Rep. William L. Springer of Illinois , who would head the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee in a Republican House , plans a major effort to pull together the loose ends of laws relating to the transportation and communications fields . ? On the House Judiciary Committee , Republicans are expected to be " more persistent " in promoting anticrime legislation , according to Rep. William M. McCulloch of Ohio , the committee 's " shadow chairman . " ? Rep. William C. Cramer of Florida said he would urge the Public Works Committee to revamp all " make-work " manpower projects in an effort to end duplication . But he hinted that the committee might shelve the highway beautification program altogether . ? If the House fails to pass a bipartisan election-reform bill under Democratic leadership during the 90th Congress , Rep. Glenard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a GOP chairman in the 91st Congress , he would steer me measure through his House Administration Committee . ? Rep. John W. Byrnes of Wisconsin is anxious to simplify the internal revenue code and plug some of the tax loopholes , should lie become chairman of the Ways and Means Committee . Details of GOP planning : Page 14                     