@@725038

txt An American Air Force pilot who parachuted into Vietcong territory when his plane was shot down Thursday described yesterday how a young Vietnamese boy had led him to safety . First Lieut . Gordon W. Marlowe , 27 years old , of Albuquerque , N. M. , a short trim man with closely cropped blond hair , has flown 51 combat missions since he- arrived in Vietnam in July . . He looked fit and unharmed as he told reporters in Saigon of his harrowing two-and-a half hour experience Thursday morning . Lieut . Marlowe was making a strafing pass against Communist guerrillas during a major battle along Highway One on the central Vietnamese coast about 280 miles north of Saigon when his F-100 jet fighter-bomber was hit by groundfire and the tail section burst into flames . He bailed out at about 6,000 feet over a United States Special Forces camp but a strong wind carried him across a river into Vietcong territory to the South in the same area where ' the battle was being fough . " I landed in a rice paddy outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was climbing out of the parachute harness I was ' surrounded by villagers . Most Of them were , old men , women , and kids . " " All I could do was walk up and shake hands , " he said . " So I shook a lot of hands there . " Lieutenant Marlowe said he immediately took an emergency radio out of his survival kit and , contacted the pilot of a single-engined L-19 observation plane that had followed , him during his descent . Several other , Air Force jets , and Navy fighter-bombers that had been bombarding guerrillas circled overhead to provide protective cover and the pilot ' of the observation plane instructed him to stay in the village until a helicopter could pick him up . Meanwhile , a young Vietnamese man dressed in blue shirt and shorts showed up . ' Vietminh Come ' " He was carrying a transistor radio in his hand and he kept saying ' Vietminh come ' and gesturing me to go southeast with him . . I 'd just gotten through bombing down in the southeast and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Lieut . Marlowe said . Vietminh is the name used by Communist guerrillas and Vietnamese for the Vietcong . When Lieutenant Marlowe declined to follow him , the young man went away and came back a little later with three armed men . " They were carrying those home-made rifles and maybe they could n't shoot becauses they did n't threaten me with them , " he recounted . But in the village , children urged Lieutenant Marlowe to head north toward the river . The pilot of a second observation plane also dropped him a message instructing him to walk to the river . " The four guys came back and started north ahead of me , " he said , " but when we got to a bend in a trail they pointed south again . " Guided by Child " Then this kid , about 12 years old , grabbed me by one arm , and ' headed me down a trail to the west , ' he added . With the boy leading and other friendly villagers pointing the direction , Lieutenant Marlowe and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where searchers sent by the American Special Forces were waiting in a sampan . lie was taken to a sandbar in the river where a helicopter picked hint up . It was not two and a half horn 's since he had jumped , out of his stricken plane . The boy was-afraid to return to his village bee , a4e he feared Communist reprisal , and is now staying in a Special Forces camp . Twelve American Special Forces men stationed there have promised to care for him . The Air Force is planning to parachute . cigarettes , and candy to the village wherp , , the Lieutenant landed : as . a. gesture of thanks ** villagers who were friendly .                     