@@722142

txt President Kennedy met the head of the South Korean Government today and promised him " all possible economic aid , " continued military assistance and , in the event of another Communist attack , more United States troops . The Korean leader , Gen. Chung Hee Park , received a warm welcome at the White House and at the State Department . Administration sources said the general had found interested audiences for his report on developments in Korea and the Far East generally . The 44-year-old general , whose formal title is Chairman of the Supreme Council for National Reconstruction of the Republic of Korea , led the overthrow of a democratic government last May . Today he heard praise for the progress achieved by his regime . Although no specific aid figure was mentioned in his talks here , it was clear that the Administration was determined to help enhance General Park 's standing in his own country . Many Koreans believed that the regime General Park overthrew had been ineffectual . On his second day in Washington , the general met for an hour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . General Park was then introduced to the President and leading members ; of the Administration at a White House luncheon . This afternoon he returned to the White House for a private conversation with the President that lasted one hour and fifteen minutes . A communique said President Kennedy and General Park had " reaffirmed the strong bonds of friendship " between their countries . Mr. Kennedy was said to have " welcomed " the general 's description of the situation in Korea and to have " expressed his gratification at the many indications of progress made by ' the new Government . " General Park explained the need for the military coup and subsequent steps to achieve social reform , economic stability land an expansion of foreign trade . He spoke of reform of the civil service , the Korean tax system and moves to abolish usury in rural areas , to reduce unemployment and to stimulate investment . President Kennedy was said to have been particularly satisfied by General Park 's reiteration of his pledge to return the Government to civilian hands in the summer of 1963 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the new regime last spring . That opposition was reversed largely in response to the strong pleas of Washington 's Ambassador to Seoul , Samued Berger . The promise to return power to civilions by 1963 did much to allay the Administration 's fears . Also unmentioned in the cornmuniqu6 but reported by competent sources here was General Park 's report to the President on his brief stop-over in Tokyo . The Korean leader was reported to have said that he was hopeful of a reconciliation with the Japanese . Mr. Kennedy expressed pleasure at this . Korea and Japan have long been rivals , dating to the long Japanese occupation of Korea and , more recently , to disputes over rival fishing rights , Japanese compensation payments and Japanese tariffs . United States officials had , made clear to the Koreans that they did not expect highranking visitors to Washington to ask for specific aid and commitments . However , Presiildent Kennedy showed " great ' interest " in General Park 's draft five-year plan and told him that the United States ' would do what it could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their communique the two countries ' fight against Communist attack in the Korean war . Mr. Kennedy " reaffirmed the determination of the United States to render forthwith and effectively all possible assistance " under existing defense treaties , " including the use of armed forces if there is a renewal of armed attack . "                     