@@727468

txt What the Supreme Court of the United States must decide , simply , is how far the Constitution reaches into the classrooms of publicly run schools and colleges . By a staff photographer Associate Justice Fortas . ponderS the " multitude of controversies that beset our campuses today . " Twice in a single day this week , the Supreme Court indicated it was tempted  --  but uncertainly so ? to insist on significantly greater " academic freedom . " In doing that , the tribunal brought into the open some of its internal . dispute over the continuing force of an historic 1923 decision . That case , involving Raymond Pa rpart , 10-year-old in a Lutheran parochial school in Nebraska , pow finds itself in the company of an entirely new thrust of academic activism . Raymond , certainly , never troubled his elders as do such college activists as Mark Rudd of today 's Columbia University or Mario Savio of Berkeley in the early 1960 's . Wider forums suggested But it appears that Raymond 's case , a landmark of " academic freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court as they begin dealing with the protesters of today . ? The accompanying controversy is likely to continue much more intense than anything anticipated by the justices who , 45 years ago , decided that Raymond 's teacher should be free to teach the lad to speak German . The 1923 ruling stands for broad constitutional rights for students and teachers , and the court now is wondering whether to continue to abide by that . If it does , the least that might result is a significant " freedom of inquiry " in class // *U.S . Supreme Court sifts ' academic freedom ' solutions // rooms and a widening of school and college forums to hotly controversial ideas . At most , this might even enlarge the rights of students within the campus community . Twice it:01 single day this week , the Supreme Court indicated it was tempted  --  but uncertainly so  --  to insist on significantly greater " academic freedom . " In doing that , the tribunal brought into the open some of its internal dispute over the continuing force of Raymond Pa spurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meyer v. Nebraska . Associate Justice Abe Fortas referred to the 1923 ruling as he wrote the main opinion for the court in a decision finally putting an end to state laws barring the teaching of evolution theory in public schools , " As early as 1923 , " Mr. Justice Fortas wrote , " the court did not hesitate to condemn under the 14th Amendment due-process clause ' arbitrary ' restrictions upon the freedom of teachers to teach and of students to learn . " But as quickly as he relied on the case as authority , Mr. Justice Fortas put it aside  --  temporarily , at least . " We need not take advantage of the broad premise which the court 's decision in ' Meyer ' furnishes , " he said . Later on , when the court vas listening to lawyers arguing an entirely separate case , involving an antiwar protest by high-school students in Des Moines in 1965 , Mr. Justice Fortas brought up the 1923 c ; cision again . He said that ruling presented " very serious obstacles " to school authorities insisting they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Fortas 's comments got little response from the lawyers , they did stir up one of his colleagues : Associate Justice Hugo L. Black . The elder justice , who indicated he has no doubt about school authorities ' power over what happens in school , commented tartly : " I do n't think that case the ' Meyer ' ruling has been cited approvingly in many , many years , " Mr. Justice *Black said . He noted that the court had been " very careful this morning " not to rely on it in striking down the antievolution law of Arkansas . That exchange took place as the justices began weighing the Iowa students ' case , which comes much closer to testing the constitutionality of student activism than did the Arkansas case . The National Student Association ( NSA ) , in fact , has told the Supreme Court that the Iowa students ' case is a crucial test of the position of academic authorities " that free expression on the campus is always subordinate to all general college rules and regulations . " The NSA added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of students in American universities can be attributed to denials of free expression and association , and obstinate failure by educators to undertake educational reform . " Dan Johnston , a Des Moines attorney defending the right of three high-school students to wear black armbands to protest the war without risking suspension , urged the justices during the hearing : " This is not an isolated problem . The court should strike the correct balance between the right of school authorities to operate schools and the right of students to express themselves . " This is a good case in which to deal with that . " Reply elicited The suggestion brought this reply from Associate Justice John Marshall Harlan : " That gets the Supreme Court of the United States pretty deep into the trenches of day-to-day operation of public schools . " No matter how the high court handles the Des Moines case when it brings that to a decision , late this year or early next , its new ruling in the Arkansas case already has put it fairly deep in supervision of academic life . Although Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court was not intervening in " the resolution of conflicts which arise in the daily operation of school systems , " he also wrote : " It is much too late to argue that the state may impose upon the teachers in its schools any conditions that it chooses , however restrictive they may be of constitutional guarantees . " That comment seemed to border on the board " freedom of inquiry " that the court had been urged to declare in the antievolution case . The National Education Association and the National Science Teachers As- sociation had commented that the issue now is whether " the state shall have the absolute power to decide what facts , information , and issues will be presented to the students . " Put that way , the issue is exactly as activist college students see it . Their rebellion against administrators ' sole control of curriculum and student life could be affected , and significantly , by the Supreme Court 's new and coming actions on academic freedom . In fact , until this week , the justices ' most significant decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1934 and 1943 . The 1934 ruling upheld compulsory Reserve Officers Training Corps programs for college men ? still a campus issue . The 1943 case nullified a compulsory flag salute for high-school students . Without more recent actions by the highest court , lower tribunals have been reaching mixed results . Some have permitted expulsion of students for wearing their hair long , for wearing political buttons , or for writing critical letters to the college president . Others have ruled in the dissident students ' favor . The Supreme Court 's reentry into the area , in the Arkansas ruling and in the coming Des Moines protest decision , could make the results more uniform .                     