@@721518

txt The United States would fight if Cuba should abrogate the Guantanamo Naval Base treaty and try to take over the base . This determination not to give up the naval base , which the United States has under a treaty dating from 1903 , is known on high authority to be firm Administration policy . The treaty has no clause permitting unilateral abrogation , and the United States does not regard the question of its right to maintain the base as negotiable under present circumstances . As a matter of fact , the view of high officials here is that Premier Fidel Castro , despite his belligerent tone , has no intention of abrogating the treaty for the reason that he fears United States intervention would mean the end of his regime . Evidence of Dissatisfaction While there is accumulating evidence of dissatisfaction with Premier Castro in some sections of the Cuban population , it is not generally believed here that his Government is in any immediate trouble . The real test for the Castro Government , it is believed , will come during the next two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington that any effective assault will be launched against Premier Castro comparable to the Twenty-sixth of July Movement , which he led against the former dictator , Gen. Fulgencio Batista . According to information here , several Latin-American countries were angered by the refusal of the Castro Government to have anything to do with the six-nation committee created by the foreign ministers ' conference at San Jose , Costa Rica , to look into the dispute between the United States and Cuba and determine the factual basis of the reciprocal charges . Defectors Are Scattered There is now a fairly large number of former Castro lieutenants and supporters who have turned against him and fled abroad . But this potential opposition is widely scattered . Furthermore , there is doubt that a guerrilla force could establish itself in the Sierra Maestre without having the support and protection of the local population , and there is no assurance yet that such support could be counted on . The Administration , it is known , has no plans at present to impose economic sanctions beyond the export embargo on goods except food and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , no thought is being given to seizure of any Cuban assets in the United States because these assets are negligible . Many months ago the Castro Government transferred many of its assets in the United States to Canadian banks , it is understood . On the other hand , the Administration is becoming increasingly confident that many Latin-American nations may agree before long to take collective economic action against Cuba through . the Organization of American States . The Administration discussed the export embargo with LatinAmerican countries before imposing it , and was reassured by the absence of protest . It is reported that only two of the nineteen Latin countries consulted had any doubts or reservations , and one of these simply wanted more information on the steps to be taken . Furthermore , it can be stated I on high authority that no Latin-American nation regarded the export embargo as a violation of the charter of the Organization of American States , even though the charter specifically forbids any economic action by one nation to force the sovereign will of another . It was evidently felt - that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's internal affairs , but simply a measure of protection taken by the United States economic actions of the Castro Government . Other U. S. Policies In other areas of policy-making the Administration 's position can be authoritatively stated as follows : gThe Administration does not believe that Premier Khrushchev delivered a new ultimatum to the West when he told Dr. Hans Kroll , the West German Ambassador in Moscow , Oct. 18 that the deadline for a summit conference on Berlin and a German peace treaty was next April . cThe Administration is not considering a reduction of United States overseas forces in the immediate future despite the continuing deficit in the United States balance of international payments . cThe whole question of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization atomic force ? as distinct from a United States or British atomic force within the NATO alliance ? is still under study . cit has not been decided whether President Eisenhower will go to Paris in December for the NATO ministerial meeting . If he does go , it will be merely to say a sentimental farewell as NATO 's first Commander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cThe Administration is convinced that the Soviet Union is stalling on a treaty to suspend nuclear weapons tests and believes that a deadline for a treaty must be set . After the deadline has passed , the United States would feel free to resume underground tests , but not tests in the atmosphere .                     