@@721969

txt A freak storm , with hail , strong winds , and heavy rains , pummeled the north suburbs and most of Chicago and snarled traffic at the start of the evening rush hour yesterday . Between 4:40 and 5:40 p. m. , 2.2 inches of rain , accompanied by hail up to an inch in diameter , fell on the Loyola university campus on the north side . A weather bureau employe on the northwest side reported 1.64 inches of rain there in 30 minutes . At 19th street and Damen avenue , 1.29 inches of rain fell , and 1.60 inches was recorded at the sanitary district plant in Stickney . Forms " at Random " The weather bureau said the storm formed " completely at random " . oyer the north suburbs and headed south . Weather men linked it to a " shotgun pattern , " saying it could hit anywhere . The storm broke over Wilmette , Evanston , Park Ridge , and Skokie , and moved across the north and northwest sides , thru the Loop , and into , - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ golf ball to moth ball size . Hundreds of persons reported trees or wires down and basements flooded in the north and northwest side . Storm sewers were overburdened and underpasses flooded during the storm , which hit about 4 p. m. and was spent in about three hours . Strikes Suddenly The storm struck suddenly , as gusts of cool air merged with surface heat on a ' hot , muggy afternoon . At Midway airport , where hail delayed flights up to 10 minute s , the temperature dropped 23 degrees in little more than an hour . At 5 p. m. , the temperature was 88 . At 6:17 , it was 65 . Winds hit 48 m. p. h. at 5:46 p. m. from the north . O'Hare International airport traffic was unaffected . - Two autos fell thru the pavement adjoining a pedestrian bridge at Wellington and Racine avenues when a cave-in occurred at a sewer construction site . No one was injured . A power shortage caused by fallen lines was ' reported in a thin strip bounded by Foster and Farragut avenues and running from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within an hour . " Ground Is White " " The ground was as white as snow , " said a resident in the 600 block of Greenleaf avenue in Wilmette . " The hail was the biggest I have seen in my 60 years . " Traffic lights were out of synchronization in Evanston during the storm . A pavement cave-in was reported in Emerson street , just west of Orrington avenue .                     