@@722435

txt Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower accused the Kennedy Administration today of striving for a dangerous concentration of power over Congress and the country . Addressing a news conference sponsored by the Republican Congressional leaders , General Eisenhower criticized important parts of President Kennedy 's domestic legislative program . He also noted that the Democrats were less enthusiastic about investigating potential scandals in the present Administration than they had been in his . He said Democrats in investigative positions had shown " no enthusiasm , no drive or no sense of priority " in delving into the operations of Billie Sol Estes . Mr. Estes , a Texas financier indicted for fraud , has come under national criticism for his relations with the Democratic party and the Agriculture Department . Applauds Stand on Soviet On foreign affairs , General Eisenhower applauded the " growing firmness " with which President Kennedy was " handling all our troubles with the Soviets . " Past actions in the international fled ate fair game for political criticism , he said , but the conduct of present policy is not . Echoing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harry S. Truman , General Eisenhower said that no man " can have the necessary daily intelligence and information to have any hope of enunciating foreign policy except the President himself . " Thus , General Eisenhower 's first Washington news conference since he eft the White House amounted to a mixed review on the progress of his Democratic successor . On domestic issues he found plenty to criticize and indicated the lines that he thought Republican candidates could legitimately exploit in the coming campaign . He made it clear , however , that he would lend no support to those Republicans on the Right who have been mounting an assault on the fundamental structure of foreign policy . He approved the Administration 's program of assistance to the Government of Vietnam against Communist guerrillas as " absolutely necessary . " He expressed reservations , however , about the policy of endorsing a coalition government in Laos . The creation of a coalition government , he said , was " The way we lost China . " These were his major criticisms of the Administration 's domestic policy : 41It insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 41It was engaged in " strenunuous efforts " to increase its power in the Executive Branch , and such a concentration of power created a " threat to our liberties " through " steady erosion of self-reliant citizenship . " q The Administration 's farm bill , its requests for Presidential authority to change tax rates and start public works programs without Congressional action , its proposal for a Department of Urban Affairs and its proposal to let each new President appoint a Federal Reserve Board chairman of his choice were examples . of the Executive 's efforts to accumulate more power . Mr. Eisenhower opposed all these bills . ilThe Administration bill for medical care for the elderly financed through Social Security is unsound because of its compulsory features . Calls Powers Adequate In discussing the role of Presidential power , General Eisenhower said : " The problem of the Presidency is rarely an inadequacy of power . Ordinarily , the problem is to use the already enormous power of the Presidency judiciously , temperately and wisely . " Chatting with newsmen after his news conference , the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the level of gentlemanly disagreement . His personal relationship with the President is good and his lines of communication to the White House are always open , General Eisenhower indicated . There is " no personal animus " behind his disagreements with Mr. Kennedy , he said , but only differences of principle . In all , it was not a fireeating performance by the old soldier , but a relaxed political outing . Physically , he had not changed noticeable since his last Presidential news conference , except for a thickening around the belt line . Someone asked if he would like to be back in the White House and he grinned in the old wistful way before replying . " Each of us has his portion of ego , " he said . " At least one night I dreamed that the Twenty-second Amendment had been repealed  --  and it was n't wholly a nightmare . " This is the Constitutional amendment limiting a President to two terms . The former President met with reporters in the Senate caucus room at the Capitol . There were about 200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lightly when he strolled in . He was accompanied by the Republican leaders of both houses of Congress , who flanked him on either side of the big ' oblong committee table . Mr. Eisenhower stood at the table 's front and center . The Eisenhower appearance was planned in conjunction with his visit here to discuss campaign plans ' with Republican leaders . The Republican leaders , Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois and Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , normally hold a Thursday news conference to follow President Kennedy 's on Wednesday . Undergoing Medical Check During his Washington visit General Eisenhower is also undergoing a periodic physical examination at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center . Replying to questions , General Eisenhower declined to make a statement on President Kennedy 's intervention against the recent steel - price increase . However , he subscribed to the Republican Congressional leadership 's statement of April 19 , which charged the President with " a display of naked political power never seen before in this nation . " He also questioned the constitutionality of the Administration 's literacy - test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sixth - grade education satisfactory proof of literacy for voting purposes in states that require a literacy test for voting eligibility . The bill was endorsed in the Republican platform of 1960 and is supported by Senator Dirksen . On another question , General Eisenhower dealt with a report quoting Governor Rockefeller as having said : " This country has n't had a sense of purpose and direction since Roosevelt . " He said Governor Rockefeller telephoned him last night in a " highly chagrined " mood to say that the interview had been " distorted in its reporting . " The quotation appeared in the current issue of Newsweek.                     