@@723335

txt Special Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Vienna This week 's Moscow meeting of Soviet-bloc Communist leaders may well prove as fateful for Kremlin ideas of far-reaching economic integration embracing the whole area as did the Brussels sessions earlier this year for those West Europeans who aspired to a bigger , more supernational Common Market . Its timing of the meeting which began Wednesday and is being . attended by all the leaders of national Communist parties and governments  --  including the probably none-too-enthusiastic Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej of Romania  --  suggests a wish to secure a demonstration of solidarity behind the Soviets following closure of the abortive ideological talks with the Chinese Communists . Planning Pushed But transcending this is the urgent necessity to speed action upon decisions already a year old and to establish a single planning agency for the bloc 's Council . for Mutual Economic Aid ( Comecon ) . This action thus far has been snagged by the hesitations of the lesser-developed members of the bloc , most notably Romania , which has for example been making it bluntly clear it rejects supernational planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion . This major economic problem is not unrelated to the dispute with Peking , whose theories of " socialist " countries relying mainly on " their own forces " find a sympathetic echo in Bucharest but are strongly contested by the Soviets .. It seems evident that this Comecon meeting is designed by Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev both to reassure the waverers and also to secure further majority decisions of binding force for all " loyal " members of the Soviet alliance . The importance Mr. Khrushchev attaches to the issue was brought out in the latest issue of the Soviet journal , Problems of Economics , in which it was again insisted that " there is no need . for each and every country to develop each and every type of production . " Case in Point The writer brought out a case in point  --  that the optimum value of annual output for one truckmaking factory was not less than 80,000 to 100,000 though East Germans , Poles and Czechs are each producing less than 20,000 and Romanians and ? Hungarians even fewer . The inference was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supply its trucks but that Romania insists.on going on making them itself . How far Premier Khrushchev might care to pursue the consequences in any major breach of discipline is an open question in the present sensitive state of international Communist relations . He might well , at this stage , settle for a general ' show of by-and-large solid support for his political-ideological line vis-a-vis China from those members of the bloc , i.e. , those in power on which  --  along with the Italians  --  he seemingly most relies to rally the majority of worldwide bloc opinion behind him . Ideas Retained Thus far he could count on the Romanians . But so tenaciously have the latter clung to their own ideas of economic planning  --  Including a possibly unnecessary but prestige-important immense new steel mill at Galati about the expected aid for which the Soviets have kept a significant silence  --  that one does not see them climbing down on these Comecon issues except under a threat of sanctions which would have to be very severe to be effective . Premier Khrushchev may at this stage therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a slower pace for integration  --  just as has the West  --  and any compromise to avoid another rift in bloc unity will have to be in Romania 's favor . The effect of this on East Europeans , most of whom in one way or another are already showing some inclination to use the Sino-Soviet dispute to exercise a little bit of freedom of movement and advantage for themselves , could be quite formidable and important for the future . By Robert R. Brune Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Washington If the powerful Joint Chiefs of Staff approve a partial nuclear test-ban treaty Senate opposition can be contained . This is the considered opinion of officials starting a pre ratification drive for Senate support . But the Southern senatorial bloc might play politics with the treaty , using its opposition as leverage to weaken the civil rights legislation through compromise . In Moscow , a telephone call from the Soviet Foreign office sent experts of the United States , Britain , and the Soviet Union into a hard working session Wednesday trying to complete the agreement for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still hopeful the agreement could be signed soon , but they cautioned newsmen there could be a slip , the Associated Press reports . Rusk Shows Draft It could not be learned what last-minute problem the Soviets had raised . Secretary of State Dean Rusk met with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Tuesday to show copies of the test-ban treaty draft to the senators and answer questions . The secretary discussed a possible senatorial delegation to Moscow to attend the signing of the treaty . He told the senators that a ? link between a test-ban agreement and other East-West issues is still unclear . Officials still stress that last-minute Soviet moves could delay the ban agreement . President Kennedy meets with the Joint Chiefs of Staff Wednesday to analyze the latest dispatches from W. Averell Harriman in Moscow and to discuss the treaty in detail with the top military leaders . In the background , the political debate over the treaty begins , Hosmer Doubtful Rep. Craig Hosmer ( R ) of California , said a partial test-ban treaty would weaken the United States both militarily and politically . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the ban would reduce the American ability to deter Communist aggression . Sen. John Sherman Cooper ( R ) of Kentucky thought it " very likely " that the Senate would approve such a treaty , " if it were not connected with other pacts , such as nonaggression . " But he says he will make up his mind only when all the facts about the treaty are known . Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey ( D ) of Minnesota expects President Kennedy to ask for prompt Senate action on the treaty , if it is signed . He said the Senate would act this year because " it would be a mistake to have a treaty hang fire . " Some opposition from the Joint Chiefs of Staff is still considered a real possibility . They would accept the treaty if it includes proper safeguards , still to be disclosed . One argument to be used with the Joint Chiefs of Staff is that the limited test-ban treaty probably will not slow down the nation 's massive research program to develop better ways to detect atomic explosions . Advice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its elaborate worldwide network of test detection stations which surrounds the Soviet Union . Senatorial opposition to the treaty must lean heavily on the military testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Hearings can not begin much before the end of next week . While questioning the Joint Chiefs of Staff Southern senators are expected to dig for antii.reaty arguments for later debate use . Earlier , in secret testimony , Gen. Curtis Lemay and Admiral George W. Anderson both expressed strong doubts about a treaty . But this applied to a total test ban , not to a partial ban like that tentatively agreed upon in Moscow , which r.11ows underground tests to continue . A week ago the administration began to plan how to achieve the required two-thirds Senate ratification of the test-ban treaty . At this stage the head count for a final Senate vote gives no decisive picture of the outcome .                     