@@725279

txt New Delhi Hopes and fears of 500 million Indians are centered today in their first woman Prime Minister  --  Mrs. Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi , born Nehru . Hopes are raised by her comparative youth  --  she is in her 49th year  --  her background and heritage , her forward-looking outlook , and her sincere , many times tested love of country and people . Concern arises of her inexperience , her well-known aversion to the rough and tumble of politics , and the manner in which she has been pitchforked into this first-ever contest for party leadership . Mrs. Gandhi , in the absence of her mother , acted as India 's " First Lady " for her father when he was Prime Minister . She knew his inmost thoughts and views on world and domestic affairs . Machinery mobilized She has currently responded to the call because her senior party colleagues ? party president , chief ministers , and state leaders  --  have felt , that she was the only candidate who in a straight election could thwart the challenge of former Finance Minister Morarji Desai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidently springs from the conviction that Mr. Desai may be too rigid and unbending . The entire powerful party machine was mobilized for her support against one single individual . It is asked here whether this was necessary , Wearing a shawl , togalike , with a single red rose , made famous by her father , pinned to it , Mrs. Gandhi strode to the prime ministership of the world 's most populous democracy . Not a landslide In the party election just ended she received 355 votes to her rival Morarji Desai 's 169 . This is n't considered the landslide her supporters expected after the whole party machinery had been geared to her aid . Both she and her rival emphasized in postelection speeches the need once again to close party ranks in view of the country 's immense difficulties . " This is a great , proud nation , " said the Prime Minister designate , " and I am now ordered to be its leading servant  --  a gdesh sevika , ' meaning worker for country . " She expressed confidence in " the inner strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and travail . Together with them she pledged to tread the path of peace and progress . Mr. Shastri , she added , gave his life for peace . " Let us carry his work to full fruition , " she said . Mr. Desai , promising loyalty and support , pleaded for continued fearlessness in public and private life . The vote for him , observers feel , shows he remains a considerable influence in national life . The new Prime Minister-Elect later may try to absorb this influence into her Cabinet . Support awaits In the murk of doubts created by preelection procedures and party tactics , Communists have jumped in , unasked , to her support , creating more doubts about some of her self-proclaimed followers who are said to have Communist fellow-traveler tints . Throughout the last days of intense speculation and strain , Mrs. Gandhi behaved with retraint and dignity , keeping her own counsels . In the present Cabinet and government service she will find support and expert guidance from some very experienced men . To her support openly have rallied Acting Prime Minister Gulzarilal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission chief Asoka Mehta . Awards listed Mrs. Gandhi is winner of the Mothers Award , United States 1953 ; Yale University 's Howland Memorial Prize of 1960 ; and the Isabella Deste Medal for outstanding work in the field of diplomacy ( 1965 ) . She was educated in Switzerland , India , and at Oxford . Her political reputation is that of a party left-winger but this correspondent has never known her views to be crystallized . In the past she has said she is not really interested in politics . Over many years the burden of public life has been carried by her with patient resignation but no pleasure . She is a personal friend of United States Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey and Mrs. John F. Kennedy . The mother of two sons now finishing school in the United Kingdom , she is reported to be quick , mercurial , sensitive , the civilized product of streams of East West cultures .                     