@@726426

txt Civil sights groups have accepted ' Without protest the suspension of most of the city 's major effort to integrate its schools : The program , - beguR under the threat of a schoorboycott in is the Opel ' EnkeMent plan . Undrr. it , Negro and PeertotRican papas0.01114 **28;1979;TOOLONG with7 -- tv ; tdagitti pup The " , lacle.errigitgty at the Board . of Education's* announcement that .. theRrogram would be cutback this fall illustrates a growing eplio1msis by civil rights ' leaders on . " quality " education rather than integrated schooling . The board ' said that . the program , popular with pupils and not quite so popular with parents , would be cut back because of lack of space and other problems . The program , in which 40 , - 000 Negro and Puerto Rican students have voluntarily transferred to other schools , has been halted , with some exceptions , for September at all city high schools and at the elementary and junior high schools in Manhattan and the Bronx . The purpose of Open Enrollmeat , as originally stated by the board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group students " to join educationally with the rest of our population " by switching from schools , with Negro , and Puerto Rican registrations of more than 85 per cent . However , fewer than 5 per cent of the eligible students have sogght transfers under the program  --  a process that they and their parents have had to initiate . And , since the program began , the proportion of minority group pupils in the school system has risen from 37 to 51 per cent . Assessments - of the program 's worth after seven years vary . Students who have taken part generally express approval and discount the inconvenience of long subway and bus rides , while their parents seem more its of a neighborhood vs. a dis-1 tent school , whatever the change in integration . Most teachers and administrators who have participated in the program appear to favor its continuation , although many are concerned over heightened disciplinary problems and . inadequate remedial and guidance services to aid Open . Enrollment studentt . The immediate impetus for the program was a threatened school boycott in 1960 led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church in Brooklyn . Student Gains Described Mr. Galamispn , who headed citywide demonstrations in 1964 and a sit-in at board headquarters last December , attributed the " lack of outcry " over the Open Enrollment cutback to " nationalistic voices ' in the black community " that " have more or less prevailed . " The principal of Riverdale Junior High School , Saul Sigelschiffer , feels the Open Enrollment youngster who attends the Riverdale school for several years " Is entirely different when he comes out than when he came in , " the principal said . daily " in reading , he said , and their " attention in class , work habits , quality of notebooks and attitudes improve  --  for example the kids used to wear hats in the halls and cafeteria but they do n't do that anymore . " Mr. Sigelschiffer , ? . whose highly regarded school in an upper middle-class section of the West Bronx had an almost completely ' white register before Open lEnrollent , said that the achievementm of his white students had not declined " at all " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 percent . " When you have a small percentage of . Open Enrollment pupils , " he pointed out , " they will fall into the pattern of the school and the program presents no serious problem . However the character of the school would change if the proportion grew to 25 to 40 per cent or more . " The planned cessation of Open Enrollment at Riverdale , which has 1,576 students in a building rated for 1,400 , was lamented by Mrs. ? Faye Fein , a guidance teacher who , has worked closely with the Negro youngsters . " Negro children will be missing out , " the . young , blond teacher said , " and so will white children . This area . is too white and the white children should know the city ' they live in . " . Greater skepticism of Open Enrollment was expressed by the mother of a 15 ? yeer-old Negro girl in the program at the school , which is on . West 237th Street at Independence Avenue . , The mother , who asked not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a 45-minute ride from her home on the western edge of Harlem ? on the advice of the girl 's elementary school teacher . " I firmly believe that we have just as good schools in our neighborhood , " she remarked , asserting that " there 's no real integration anyway " as a result of Open Enrollment . " It does n't do any good to push the Negro and white chit ( ken together during the school day , " she said . " My daughter leaves her neighborhood in the morning and returns in the afternoon and so do the white kids . Only the . neighborhoods are n't the same . " ' Far more enthusiastic about Open Enrollment was an East Bronx parent , Man Lillian Henderson . " I love the idea of my son going out of the neighborhood and . mixing with other child= of all standards of Hie , " she said . " Going to . Riverdale has c ed , his way of acting , g and . speaking it 's changed him a lot for the better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school administra-1 tion disclosed partial suspension of the program for next fall on May 22 , it said there was " no space available to justify thousands " of students applying for new ? transfers to predominantly white city high schools and to similar elementary and junior high schools in Manhattan and the Bronx . But it announced that students already in the Open Enrollment program could stay at the " receiving " schools they were attending and that , as long as they remained , their younger brothers and sisters could join them in the elementary and junior high schools . Despite the stress on overcrowding , however , interviews with school officials reveal that curtailment of Open Enrollment was also related to two other factors : the increasing preponderance of Negroes and Puerto Ricans in the school system end the distance and traffic conditions between schools with large concentrations of white or minority group children . In the last school year , 2,500 students destined to start predominantly Negro and Puerto Rican high schools  --  themselves overcrowded ? transferred under Open Enrollment ' to 19 schools with large white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receivingirgh schools , 11 are ? operate at more than 130 per Cent o capacity and the over-utilization is expected to jump next fall , even without Open Enrollment . And in the least crowded of the 19 schools -- such as John Jay H. S. ( 1 ( 13 per cent utilization , .54 per cent white )  --  the proportion of minority group students can not be increased very much without destroying the aim of Oven Enrollment , according to school officials . " It 's a question of exercising judment , " said Frederick H. Williams , - a Negro who is assistant superintendent in charge of the office of integration . " In the last few years the number of seats for Open Enrollment has been shrinking and , as the white population moves toward the . fringes of the city , the distance between ' sending ' and ' receiving ' schools widens . " At The elementary and junicor high school levels in the last year , 6,760 students switched schools under Open Enrollment and the board provided buses for the elementary grade children . Open enrollment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research team led by Dr. David J. Fox , an associate ' professor at- the City College School of Education . And a study of the junior highs was headed by . Dr. Robert le Thorndike , professor of psee etiology and education at Ca lumbia University 's Teachers College . Both reports for the school board , financed by Federal funds , were made under contract to the Center for Urban Education here . And together they comprise the only completed formal analyses of the program . ? . Dr. Fox 's 61-page study , which surveyed 6,000 white and minority group children in 38 schools , found that 90 per cent of the Negroes and Puerto Ricans. in the program favored Open Enrollment as did twothirds of the *schools , teachers and administratcrs . But half of the teachers felt that the general achievement level at their schools had fallen since the introduction of the program and a majority of staff cited increased disciplinary problems . The Fox study found , by matching 212 Open Enrollment students with 212 youngsters at the same previous readinglevel who remained in ghetto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of reading achievement " over an eightr month , period in 1966 . The antipathy of . some teachers in the elementary schools was similar to much feeling in the junior highs , according to Dr. Thorndike . His 25 ? page report noted that staff generally had " clearly predominantly critical and negative " opinions of Open Enrollment pupils in terms of their classroom inter ? est. success and behavior . ' Dr. Thorndike also pointed out , in regard to achievement , that students in the program " show a high incidence of unsatisfactory marks in core academic subjects , " although they are " only slightly retarded in reading , on the average , in comparison with otherpupils in their own classes and national norms .                     