@@723760

txt Paris France appears on the verge of concluding trade deals with Cuba larger than the recent sale of 400 British buses to Premier Fidel Castro 's government . A first step has been announced  --  the sale to Cuba of 300 French trucks , manufactured by the Berlict Company . to be used for transport and public works . Reportedly the Continental Tractor Company of Lyons . a major manufacturing city in southeastern France . has agreed to sell tractors to Cuba . though details have not been disclosed . These and other pending deals have been worked out by French firms in cooperation with the French Government , which , in some cases at least , reportedly will guarantee the transactions with short-term credit . Busk Warning Ignored The Berliet truck sale . for example , is said to have a total value of about S10 million . of which 20 percent will be paid on delivery , the rest within two years . French sales to Cuba developed despite the urging by Secretary of State Dean Rusk Jan , 22 that Western allies stop trading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was exporting " active terrorism " in Latin America . The trade deals also follow hard on the heels of President do Gaulle 's recognition of Corn munist China , another direct slap at United States foreign policy . This in turn followed other disagreements between General de Gaulle and the United States , including the French decision to build an independent French nuclear force , to hold French forces aloof from NATO . and to exclude Britain from the Common Market . Family Matters ' These latter disagreements , however . were " family matters " within the Western alliance . This is not true with French initiatives toward Communist China and Cuba . which involve the Communist bloc . By recognizing Peking and authorizing major French sales to Cuba , President de Gaulle ignored American . varnings that these were issues of great political and emotional sensitivity to the United States . General de Gaulle . in the American view . is taking these initiatives without the military power to back them up . should trouble develop with Communist states . particularly Communist China . Both in Burone and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is guaranteed by American nuclear strength French sources cite British and possible Spanish trade deals with Cuba as justification for French trade with the Castro government . as well as the urgent need of the French construction industry to obtain new orders .                     