@@726249

txt The cessation of trucking operations in Chicago today will shut off the flow of most cargo in+ the area and lead to a gradual paralysis of industry , union and trucking officials warned last night . If the shutdown lasts a week , as many as a million Chicago area workers could be forced off their jobs . But the strike-unless it lasts a very long time  --  would not cause a food shortage and would not affect the supplies of most items in which housewives are interested . Foott Gas Not Endangered For example , supplies of milk , , bread , meats , poultry , beer , soft drinks , and ' - canned goods will not be affected by a strike . Neither would the supply of gasoline or fuel oiL These items are transported by unions not involved ? in the strike . Some large grocery chains have their own truck fleets and , their drivers will not strike . The chains also have huge inventories in their warehouses and can wait out all but an extremely long strike . Once exhausted , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies . Fresh produce , the most perishable of foodstuffs , would be the first to disappear from store shelves . Halts Terminal Transport Typical of the cargo that would be stopped by the strike are the thousands of tons of freight moved ' each day in Chicago from eastern railroad terminals to terminals serving the western part of the United States . Also involved would be all piggy-back transportation trucks carried on railroad flat cars . General freight in this category will not be carried from railroad spurs to factories during the strike . Officials said the bulk of produce shipped to Chicago would be halted by the strike . Drivers would be prohibited from removing piggy-back refrigerator trailers from flat cars . Sees Job Loss W. Eugene McCarron , general manager of the Illinois Motor Truck Operators association , said the strike would work a hardship on industries that for reasons of economy have maintained small inventories of raw materials . " They have been saving warehouse space and money by ordering their raw materials I and having them trucked in a day or two before needed . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a few days , " McCarron said . McCarron said if the strike lasts one week , between 500,000 and one million persons will be forced out of their jobs in the Chicago area . " In two weeks the figure will be 2 million , " he said . " If it goes three weeks , 7 of every 8 persons will be involved in some way in the strike . It will affect everyone from the banker to the housewife . " Louis F. Peick , chief labor negotiator for 10 Teamster unions involved in wage negotiations said that if the strike goes on , " it will be the most crippling thing that has ever happened to this area . "                     