@@723015

txt That man-made radiation belt , formed by a nuclear test last summer , may be circling the earth for a long time . Recent estimates that it would last at most but a few years have been substantially revised . Dr. James A. Van Allen , disk coverer of the earth 's natural radiation belts and foremost among the belt 's prognosticators , now says he thinks it will persist at higher levels for at least a decade . When Dr. Van Allen reported this to a United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration conference in Washington last Friday , it seemed as though he were sharply reversing his earlier estimates that the belt would be largely gone by this summer . Reversal Indicated However , in a subsequent telephone interview , he said that he feels that his new estimates are more an outgrowth rathor than a reversal of the old estimates . To recapitulate briefly , some early estimates made shortly after the high-altitude Starfish nuclear test last July suggested the artificial radiation belt then formed would last for many years . Dr. Van Allen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then and during last fall , that the belt would not be detectable after about three years . Agreement Noted - Subsequent estimates by others tended to agree with this , although they did not go so far as Dr. Van Allen in saying that the belt would be substantially gone by next summer . Since then , satellites sent up equipped to measure the artificial belt have provided new information that has led to revision of the estimates . Dr. Van Allen explained that the new data pertain to altitudes of some 1,509 kilometers . Until they were available , the artificial belt beyond about 1,000 kilometers was virtually unknown . Thus the earlier estimates of short lifetime applied strictly to heights below that level . Dr. Van Allen said that high-altitude data gathered by the Injun ? 3 satellite , instrumented by his group and orbited Dec. 13 , indicate that high-level belt particles are decaying with a half life of about six months . This means that , in six months time , half of the particles in the belt will have disappeared . Calculated on a long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be detectable for somewhere on the order of 10 years . Uncertainty Remains Dr. Van Allen said there is some uncertainty in this estimate . But he added that he feels it is of the right order of magnitude . Data announced by others at Washington , in reports that followed his own , tend to agree with his estimate , he said , These data included some gathered by the Explorer 15 satellite sent up last fall specifically to probe the belt . Dr. Van Allen emphasized that , while the belt may be detectable for a long time , this does not mean it will remain very intense . Its intensity is decaying rapidly . There still are many energetic particles in it . But it already has shrunk to what he called " a thin region " about 500 miles thick and extending 800 miles north and south of the equator . Decay Continues He said it is conceivable that , were there to be a severe magnetic storm , the Starfish belt might suddenly be destroyed . He noted that the sun now is going through an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun-induced storms that is allowing the belt to persist , Asked if the Starfish belt is making it difficult to study natural conditions in the earth 's radiation belts , as some critics have charged , Dr. Van Allen conceded that this is the case for certain characteristics . Commenting further . on reports from Washington that he had reversed his position on the artificial belt 's lifetime , he said that his group has been working day and night for many months to get better data on that belt . It is only natural that the lifetime estimates would evolve as more data ca me in.                     