@@727389

txt The Senate prepared today for a roll-call vote Tuesday on whether to curtail debate on the nomination of Abe Fortas to be Chief Justice of the United States . Senator Mike Mansfield , Democrat of Montana , the majority leader , announced plans for the vote as the Senate completed the second day of leisurely debate on the nomination . For much or the day , the chamber was nearly empty and there were few spectators in the gallery . Opponents concentrated their criticism on the liberal record of the Supreme Court under Chief Justice Earl Warren , with Mr. Fortas as an Associate Justice since 1965 . The only formal speech in defense of the nomination was by Senator Jacob K. Javits , Republican of New York . Petition Circulated He characterized much of the attack on Justice Fortas as an attack on the Court itself . He also deplored as " shameful " the use of a filibuster to block Senate action on a nomination . Senator Mansfield began circulating a petition for closure , or curtailment of debate . He said he would file @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was decided to hold a Saturday session . In any case , he said , the vote is planned for Tuesday . " It should be our best chance to win , " said Mr. Mansfield , who favors the nomination . The petition requires 18 sig natures , a number easily available . To close debate , however , the petition must be supported by two-thirds of those voting on Tuesday 's roll-call . It is doubtful whether such a majority can be mustered . Effect of Motion Technically , the current debate is on a motion to call up the nomination . If closure should be invoked , debate on the nomination itself would be in order until closure was again invoked or the prospective filibuster was broken by wearing out the orators opposing the nomination . At times during today 's session , attendance dwindled to as few as four Senators , including the presiding officer . Senators Howard H. Baker Jr. , Republican of Tennessee , and Spessard L. Holland , Democrat of Florida , delivered the longest speeches . Mr. Baker held the floor for three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both opposed the nomination . Another opponent . Senator Jack Miller , Republican of Iowa , spoke for one hour . Senator Holland assailed // what he ' called the " ultraliberal " philosophy of " the Warren Court . " and described ultraliberal forces as " jubilant " over the Fortas nomination because they wanted to see a continuation of the ' Warren Court ' for the next 15 years or more . Most moderates and conservatives , he said , oppose the nomination . As examples of moderate-conservative opposition , he quoted from syndicated newspaper columns by David Lawrence , James Jackson Kilpatrick and William S. Buckley Jr . Javits Cites Opinions Senator Javits , in ' a 15-minute speech , cited opinions by Justice Fortas in five civil rights cases . He praised the nominee as " an outstandingly fine judge . " Those advocates of law and order who would " suffocate the demands of justice would do well to read some of these decisions , " he said . Mr. Javits said he cited the opinions to show the nominee 's " scholarship , eminent legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the preservation of civil liberties . ' Senator Baker , without explicitly favoring a filibuster to block the nomination , pointed to the Supreme Court 's " awesome responsibility , which influences the whole course of American jurisprudence : : and added : " Therefore , I believe it is right and proper that the United States Senate carefully deliberate this nomination . And while I participate today in the lengthy discussion of this question , I do not do as part of an endurance contest merely to obstruct the will of the Senate . " On any issue the majority at any given moment is not always right , and the rights of the minority must , within reason , be just as vigorously protected as those of the majority . " Mr. Baker said the President and Congress to be elected Nov. 5 " will have a sounder grasp of that which is best for the country . " " In this situation , " he argued . " under these circumstances and ' conditions , it is not desirable or wise or preferable or advisable that appointments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people in November . " Mr. Baker said that the Court " must be responsive to the sentiment of the people . " He also contended , that . Justice Fortas was nominated for Chief Justice and . Homer Thomberry , a Federal appeals court judge , for Associate Justice " because of their long-time personal relationship with the President " ' Excessive Politicking ' " The two nominations , made under these unusual circumstances , are excessive . politicking at its worst , which can only add to the increasing lack of respect for the high court , " he charged . ? Senator Miller of Iowa challenged Mr. Mansfield 's statement yesterday that the nomination had the " unequivocal endorsement " of the American Bar Association . The endorsing committee characterized Mr. Fortas as " highly acceptable from the viewpoint of professional qualifications . " Mr. Miller noted , however , that the endorsement was made before the Senate Judiciary Committee 's hearings on the nomination . " Without the facts before its members , " the - Senator said , " this bar association committee 's opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is supposed to find in the nominee himself . " Moreover , ' he said , the bar committee said nothing " about the judgment of Mr. Fortas " and " apparently is quite content to ignore the correctness or incorrectness , the sustaining or overturning of long-established rules of law and interpretations of the Federal Constitution , the wholesomeness or unwholesomeness of judgments reflected in Justice Fortas 's decisions . " " These are outside the purview of the committee 's consideration , " he said , " and are left , instead , for consideration by the confirming authority ? the United States Senate . "                     