@@721833

txt Palm Beach , May 14 ( IP ) ? A summit conference shortly between President Kennedy and Russian Premier Nikita ' thrush ' chev is being considered , it was learned tonight , with the meeting given a 60-40 chance of acI tually developing . President Kennedy , here on a vacation , was silent on the chances for the face-to-face meeting . His press secretary , Pierre Salinger , said only that " I do n't know of any present plans for such a meeting . " He refused to say whether any significance should be read into the word " present . " Comes from Moscow Nevertheless , it was learned independently that discussions definitely are under way , on the diplomatic level , at least , looking toward a distinct possibility that the President and Khrushchev will get together . The initiative for a conference was understood to have come from Moscow rather than Washington , primarily in suggestions from Khrushchev to United States Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson that the premier would like to meet the new American chief executive . Nothing has been settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week . Meeting de Gaulle The likelihood would be that President Kennedy would go on to a meeting with the Russian premier after conferring in Paris with President Charles de Gaulle of France . The President has three days of conferences set up with de Gaulle from May 31 to June 2 . A neutral European city would be the likely meeting place for President Kennedy and Khrushchev . At this stage , both Stockholm and Vienna are definite contenders . President Kennedy apparently is receptive to the idea that he and the Russian premier must get together shortly to try to form some basis for solving dangerous , urgent problems pressing at various spots in the world . Talks with Leaders There is some reason to believe the President already has sent word to Khrushchev of his interest in arranging a discus .. sion of critical cold war issues but particularly the deadlocked negotiations for a treaty banning nuclear weapons tests . The President is known to be deeply concerned about the failure of these negotiations to make any substantial progress toward agreement since he toolc office almost four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has met personally with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan of Britain and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany .                     