@@725758

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times JOHN GARSONLOUIS B. MCCAGGPittsburgh , Aug. 31 , 1966HAROLD WOLOZINROBERT ALLEN ... Letters to the Editor of The Times New Policy for Agricultural Surpluses To the Editor : The reply from Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman on Sept. 1 to Robert Kleiman 's editorial page column of Aug. 15 , " Time to Rethink Farm Policy , " exhibits the Administration 's unwillingness or inability to understand the international grains arrangement suggested at Geneva by France and the European Economic Community . It is true that the E.E.C . has adopted a policy of selfsufficiency in wheat and coarse grains and other foods . But it is false to suggest  --  as Mr. Freeman does  --  that the E.E.C . proposals " would do no more than allow the Community to increase her self-sufficiency in food . " The Common Market proposals begin with the assumption that trade negotiations on agriculture can not proceed on tariffs , but must be based on the levels of total agricultural support , envisage an upward adjustment of " world prices " on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial demand , and postulate an international noncommercial disposal program as the main equilibrator for supply and demand . Domestic Markets At the very least , the Community 's proposals represents a sophisticated attempt to place domestic grains policies in an international planning context . By contrast , the American position is the essence of simplicity . Exclusively preoccupied with maintaining American markets for wheat and feed , the Administration can do no more than propose access assurances for heavily subsidized American grains ; reiterate its claim that variable levies are and export subsidies are not proper subjects of trade negotiations , and pretend that the needs of the hungry nations can be met by an international Food for Peace program in which France would kick in her due share . It is submitted that one solution to the problem might be for the United States negotiators at Geneva to participate in the study of a worldwide approach to agricultural surpluses and the mechanics of noncommercial disposal and to spend less time demanding quota allotments for feed grain exports to the E.E.C . JOHN CARSON Cambridge , Mass. , Sept. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Krock in his Aug. 30 column about " unreasonable " demonstrations in Wisconsin appears not to have considered a significant characteristic of emerging societies , which are not nearly as concerned about the treatment their ancestors received as they are with problems they face now and their children tomorrow . However satisfactory the past has been , the present and the future are of more significance to them . Lotus B. MCCACH Pittsburgh , Aug. 31 , 1966 For Tax on Profits to Cool Boom To the Editor : You prescribe a new labor law in your Aug. 31 editorial " New Labor Law Needed . " This is due , according to you , because of the " shambles " which the air-strike settlement has made of national wage policy . I agree with you that the wage-price guidelines are in deep trouble . But a far more practicable and potent remedy , In view of booming corporate profits , would be an immediate enactment of an excess profits tax ( it could be called an " inflationary profits tax , " implying that it would be removed when inflationary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discourage speculative and marginal investments . This would both revitalize the wage-price guidelines and dampen the inflationary pressures on the economy . Such action would be , furthermore , entirely consistent with earlier Administration tax policies to stimulate business investments by tax relief . An " inflationary " profits tax would not only cool the boom off without directly depressing consumer demand , but could stabilize and perhaps even reverse rising interest rates . This could be a real boon , particularly to homeowners and the housing industry . I consider thzt such an excess profits tax wou , c1 be better than a new labor law and I suspect many groups in the economy agree with me . HAROLD WOLOZIN Professor of Economics University of Massachusetts Boston , Aug. 31 , 1966 Air Pollution Menace To the Editor : Your otherwise excellent Aug. 25 news article on airport congestion failed to mention one growing cause of delays which has also contributed to a reduction in safety margins : air pollution . The report of the Mayor 's Task Force on Air Pollution correctly warned that " air pollution is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the metropolitan area with a brackish fog . It makes a false horizon line . It reduces the safety margin for landing operations . " Shifting the small private and business planes to a general aviation runway at Kennedy or to Teterboro as suggested by the Metropolitan Airlines Committee will not affect delays due to air pollution . What is needed is an all-out drive against pollution . The Metropolitan Airlines Committee should be in the forefront of this drive . ROBERT ALLEN FOX Board of Air Pollution Control City of New York New York , Aug. 26 , 1966 U Thant 's Departure To the Editor : I have read with great interest your Sept. 2 editorial ( " U Thant 's Withdrawal " ) and am in disagreement with most of your arguments for changing his mind . U Thant is indispensable , for he represents our conscience , our ideals , our purest hopes . But has our Government ever really supported rum in his constant drive for peace ? On the surface , yes , in beautifully chosen words of " our efforts , " etc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago that some of our public officials accused him of almost being a traitor because of his position against the needless and cruel war we are waging in Vietnam . What has our Government done but escalate and escalate with all our military might , proclaiming at the same time our hopes for peace ? Mr. Thant 's words of ssisdom have been and are falling on ears that will not listen . Yet we want to sacrifice this man to our hypocrisy . We want to use his incorruptibility , Ms prestige , his tact , and his understanding for window-dressing to show the world that we are doves and sincerely desire peace . Pei haps we forget what happened to Adlai Stevenson , also a man of wisdom , but not allowed to form policies for our country or even to express his deepest beliefs . He was also " used " Mr. Thant , too , is an Individual who suffers more than most of us in his frustrated efforts to make us realize what we are doing . Why should he go on in his job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ? BESSIE LEWIS New York , Sept. 2 , 1966 War Poll Assailed To the Editor : I am disturbed by your Aug. 28 news article citing the questionnaire of Representative Charles A. Mosher as proof of sentiment against the President 's policy in Vietnam . I am amazed that you would give an inaccurate and unscientific poll such play . Many Congressmen have sent out questionnaires of this sort , myself included . All polls that require a voluntary reply are inaccurate because we have no way of determining if those who responded are typical of those queried . It is not the size of the response but its nonstatistical quality which is important . For voluntary polls of this sort emphasize the extreme positions while under-representing the middle ones . Every editor knows this and every Congressman knows this Since The Times is too capable to make this kind of mistake , I can only conclude that your critical attitude toward the President biased your judgment and caused you to emphasize such an inaccurate and unscientific poll . Not Representative The survey I conducted was similar to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientifically accurate . I would not dream of passing it off as representative of public opinion . Of the nearly 10,000 answers I received , however , a large number ( almost 48 per cent ) wanted to go all out to win . The next largest ( 28 per cent ) supported the President 's position , and the smallest ( 20 per cent ) wanted to get out of Vietnam . Four per cent did not answer What is most notable , however , is the large number of people who want peace but think an all-out military effort is the best way to achieve it . While not representative of my district , the comments written in by many respondents show that there are a great many people pressuring the President for a more vigorous military effort . I believe that we would make more progress toward peace if a larger number of Americans understood that there are three positions on Vietnam , not two , and that the President has at ' all times tried to steer a mod , erate course in regard to Vietnam . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his position too soft . Many others wrote that their main concern is for a rapid conclusion of the conflict . They want a quick and decisive conclusion , and are not concerned with the method by which it is achieved . Many of these people also desire a more vigorous prosecution of tl e war . Though my poll is not representative , I do believe that it indicates support for my view that President Johnson has avoided extremist policy on both sides in attempting to solve the Vietnamese conflict . I hope that you will be more careful about using such polls in the future . They misrepresent the people 's " opinion and may lead to false conclusions . One expects more responsibility from The New York Times . JOSEPH Y. REsN lc it Member of Congress 28th District , New York Washington , Sept. 1 , 1966 Cult of L.B. J. ? To the Editor : I recently returned from a European trip that took me to Spain , Portugal and France . Although one-man rule , to a greater or lesser degree , prevails in each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco , Salazar or de Gaulle in the airports at Madrid , Lisbon and Paris . Imagine my surprise , therefore , when the first sight to greet me upon my return to Kennedy International Airport in New York was a king-sized picture of President Johnson . Has the " cult of personality " been relocated in the United States ? DANIEL M. BERMAN Professor of Government The American University Washington , Sept. 4 , 1966 London 's Cabs To the Editor : What about a taxicab based on the passenger-oriented London taxicab ? Leaving aside technical qualifications , on which I am illadvised to judge , the advantages of this cab to the passenger are many . It has a walk-in-door , which must surely be the most elegant way to travel when wearing a long evening dress ( or a short skirt ) . There is ample room for suitcases on the floor without taking up valuable foot space and without necessitating squabbles with the driver . In addition , there is ? compartment next to the driver which will take luggage as large as a steamer trunk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many a New York cabbie , there is a glass partition between passenger and driver which , depending on one 's point of view , Is either a necessity or the very height of luxury . CHRISTINE PINCHES Jamaica , L. I. , Sept. 2 , 1966                     