@@727035

txt Exploring the Role of Health in Society WASHINGTON  --  The first explosion of an atomic bomb more than 23 years ago caught the world unprepared . In a crucial sense this unpreparedness extended even to the physicists and engineers whose work made the bomb possible . They had loosed a historychanging force and they no longer had control over its uses for peace or war , good or evil . In recent years many biologists have seen , looming from their research , another force at least as powerful and perhaps as difficult to control as that of the atom . This is the force inherent in man 's growing ability to change the conditions and quality of life , to tamper with the human body and the human mind and  --  perhaps in the more distant future  --  to tamper directly with human heredity . Will these abilities find man as unprepared as he was for the atom ? " Their potential benefits to human physical and mental health are tremendous , " said Senator Walter F. Mondale recently , " but our experience with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implications of what we do . " The Minnesota Democrat spoke at Senate hearings called to consider a resolution to set up a National Commission on Health Science and Society . Its purpose would he to explore the social and ethical issues that arise from biomedical advances . It would not legislate about them but analyze them , bring them to public attention and see what qucsdons need to be asked about such unfamiliar things as human organ transplantation ; machines , like the artificial kidney , that can preserve life ? at great cost in dollars ; and the far future implications of genetics reseatch . Senator Mondale was the resolutlon 's main author . Several years ago ? in the early days of open heart surgery ? Dr. James L. Dennis , dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Oklahoma Medical Center , was asked to decide whether an operation should be done on one patient who had a serious , probably fatal , heart defect . The patient was a mentally defective child . " My response was that had the child come to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to treat her with all of the resources at our command , " Dr. Dennis testified recently . " The operation was a success , today she is a young adult , doomed to live her life span as a ward of a state mental institution . Did we really serve this patient , her family , perhaps her future child , or our society properly ? My answer is ' no ' and , as you can see , it still bothers me , but I would feel compelled to make the same decision again . At some point in the future we may have to decide that the rights of society require priority considerations . " Senator Fred R. Harris , Democrat of Oklahoma , conducted the hearings as chairman of the Government Research Subcommittee of the : senate Governrm Operations Committee . During the past month testimony was heard from many experts concerning the present social problems and future implications that arise from bio-medica I research . Some of the expert witnesses made it clear that not all the problems are so far away . Last week , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Krech , a psychologist at the University of California at Berkeley , predicted that within 5 to 10 years science will be able to exercise a " significant degree of control " over human intellectual capacities . Animal research sugaesis this may be possible , he said , through use of drugs and manipulation of the individual 's - arty environment . The animal research in such species as mice , rats and goldfish suggests mene ; ry and learning ability can be enhanced or impaired at the will of the research worker . Although he ? mphnsized that the research has he : , i done exclusively in animals and that his prediction is an exi , apolation from mouse to man , he called it urgent that such predictions be made and contemplated . Society had better be prepared in advance with some sound Ideas on how to control the potential controllers of the human mind , he said . Nobel Prize winners , surgeons who have transplanted the human heart , high government health officials , representatives of religion , law and economics . testified . Most favored such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the idea on the ground that it would tend to hamper the progress of research and that the temptation to legislate morals in this area might arise . Spokesmen for the American Heart Association suggested that such a commission be deferred until specialist groups made their own evaluations of heart transplantation and its problems . " We do not believe that the time is ripe for a full-dress governmental inquiry into this complicated technical question . " said Dr. Jesse E. Edwards , president of the association . Dr. Joshua Lederberg , Nobel Prize winner in genetics from Stanford University , testified twice . On the first occasion he criticized the Senate resolution for asking a commission to do ton much in too little time . In his second appearance he said such a commission would prove valuable if it framed questions  --  not answers ? of a kind that will need long and balanced study by the represenatives of the people . The subjects he suggested included a broad range or topics related to the costs , availability and effectiveness of medical care ; the rights of patients in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and human health . " The public conscience often needs only the facts to produce the right answers , " he said . HAROLD VI . SG1-1.1.GIC                     