@@727764

txt Guyana will lose a queen but gain a president next Feb. 23 if Prime Minister Forbes Burnham has his way . His motion to make Guyana a republic is expected to pass the National Assembly where the Prime Minister 's People 's National Congress has a slim majority . Mr. Burnham has long advocated such a course . Indeed , the Constitution under which the longtime English colony became independent in 1966 contains provision for the change-over . Under the Burnham plan , Queen Elizabeth would cease being Queen of Guyana , and the trappings of Guyana 's British heritage would pass into history . The post of governor general  --  long occupied by an Englishman but now held by a native Guyanese  --  would be eliminated . His ceremonial duties as the Queen 's representative would fall to the new president . As head of state the president would be elected by the National Assembly . But he could use his executive authority only on ministerial advice from the Prime Minister and Cabinet . Work may soon begin on the last link of the monumental Pan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretch known as the Darien Gap has now been presented to the Organization of American States . From Chepo in southern Panama , the highway would slosh its way through the Atrato swamp , , span the Atrato River in . Colombia , wrestle its way through rugged jungle and dripping rain forest , finally connecting with an existing segment of the road at Rio Leon near Quibd6 in northwestern Colombia . . Construction will take 10 years and cost $150 million . The proposed route is rugged . But it 's the shortest of two studied in 1960 . When completed , the multibillion-dollar. highway will open through traffic from the Arctic Circle in Alaska to Tierra del Fuego at the tip of Argentina and Chile  --  and back . Trends . . . Mexico may beat the United States to the punch giving 18-year-olds the vote . The change is now under study . President Diaz Ordaz likes the idea . He says youngsters today are better prepared to vote at 18 than his generation was at 21 .. More than 58 percent of Mexico 's population is under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With youth clamoring for change , the President says , the vote could head off possible future violence . Great big Canada is courting little old Bermuda . Ever since December Canadian trade officials have been paying steady visits to the picturesque British outpost in the Atlantic , talking up trade between the two . One of the main items being touted by Canadians is heavy engineering equipment . The push for Bermuda business is one more sign of Canada 's growing interest in building up its exports throughout the Western Hemisphere . Bermuda 's pale pink beaches , tropical foliage and flowers have long proved irresistible attractions for thousands of Canadians each year . The current trade courtship is designed in part to recoup at least some of the currency so cheerfully left behind by vacationing Canadians . How and why .. . Argentina is launching a $100 million project to modernize its Navy . Lt. Gen. Juan Carlos Ongania 's military government announces it has : ? Purchased two 1,000-ton submarines . They 'll be built in Germany but assembled in Argentina . ? Ordered two frigates Irom Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The plan to put at least some of the new ships together in Argentine yards is in line with President Ongania 's plan to build up a native armaments industry . Officials of the Howaldstswerke in Kiel says it will take three years to build the submarines . Their price remains undisclosed . But sources in Buenos Aires say it is only half that of a bid tendered by a United States shipbuilder . The subs , Argentina 's first completely new warships since the 1940 's , will replace two of World War II vintage which were sold to Argentina by the United States under provisions which prohibit their use in conflicts of which Washington disapproves . . Argentina 's Navy currently consists of one aging aircraft carrier , three cruisers , a mix of destroyers , frigates , and smaller craft . The carrier is due to be replaced by a 1940 reconditioned British - built carrier now owned by the Dutch .                     