@@724366

txt Captured Nazi documents published today quoted ' , a German official as having said in 1941 that he was convinced on the basis of conversations with " well-informed persons " that Pope Pius XII was sympathetic to the Axis cause in World War II . The documents were made public simultaneously by the State Department and by the British Government in London . The statement came in a letter written in Rome Sept. 12 , 1941 , by Fritz Menshausen , then counselor of the German Embassy to the Holy See . It was addressed to Ernst von Weizsacker , State Secretary of the German Foreign Ministry . In Hamburg the German weekly news magazine Der Spiegel said newly discovered Nazi documents in Bonn indicated that Pope Pius had sought to swing the United States and Britain to Germany 's side in a common crusade against the Soviet Union , The Associated Press reported . In Rome , a high Vatican official called the Nazi charges " partisan . " Page 15 . Menshausen said that he had talked to " well-informed and in part also authoritative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time again Pope Pius XII stands on the side of the Axis powers ' ' in his heart . In his letter , Menshausen said the Holy See had ' ' spoken repeatedly in principle " against Bolshevism . He said that the Pope had not taken sides " publicly and unequivocally in the fight against Soviet Russia " on the ground that to do so would require him to take a position against tendencies hostile to Christianity in Germany as well . Among the documents was fl memorandum to the German Foreign Ministry Sept. 17 , 1941 , covering what it said was a conversation between the Pope and Bernardo Attolico , then Italian Ambassador to the Holy See . , It quoted Attolico as having said that " the Pope mentioned to me the many years he has spent in Germany and his at tachment to the Germans . " " Even here in Rome he re ceives every day at the Vatican ! all the Germans who come to see him , without even requiring ) them to kneel before him , as ' do all the others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the memorandum . The Pope was also quoted as having declared : " Oh , if Germany had only left me in peace . . . my attitude toward this war , especially at this time , would have been quite different . . . " The documents published today are expected to rekindle the controversy between those who have accused Pope Pius of undue sympathy toward the Germans and those who believe that he , while finding Bolshevism anathema , found Germany 's conduct equally reprehensible . An immense controversy was aroused last summer by a play called " The Deputy , " written by Rolf Hochhuth , a West German . The play accused Pope Pius of having refused to condemn the Nazi murders of Jews for " reasons of state . " Last June , a series of diplomatic documents released by the State Department , entitled " Foreign Relations of the United States " disclosed that the Pope had told the United States in 1943 that he could not specifically denounce Nazi atrocities without also naming those of the Communists and thus displeasing the Allied side in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Washington of a talk with the Pope by Harold H. Tittmann , then the assistant to President Franklin D. Roosevelt 's personal representative to the Vatican , Myron C. Taylor . The documents published today included a wide variety of historical items . For example , German diplomats in the United States were ordered in 1941 to try to influence American Jews toward a policy of isolationism , the records showed . The order came in a cablegram from Joachim von Ribbentrop , then German Foreign Minister , to his Embassy in the United States . Of all Americans , he said , " the Jews surely have the greatest interest in America 's not entering the war . " He said the heavy casualties that war would inflict on Americans would " bring out strikingly clear the hatred of the Jews , which is latent in the United States anyhow . " The Nazi Foreign Minister said that in the event of American involvement in the war people would soon recall that the Jews were " the principal warmongers " and that they would be made responsible for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be that one day all the Jews in America will be beaten to death , " von Ribbentrop said . The documents published today , comprising a volume 1,035 pages long , cover the period in German diplomacy between June 23 , 1941 , the day after Hitler invaded the Soviet Union , to Dec. 8 , 1941 , the day after Pearl Harbor . Since 1946 , the United States and Britain . with the assistance of France , have been compiling selected documents from the archives of the Nazi ' Foreign Ministry to establish the " Record of German Diplomacy " preceding and during World War II .                     