@@726441

txt This is the day of decision for Chicago 's expressway drivers . At 10 a. m. , the state will begin work on $3,268,000 of repairs to sections of the Dan Ryan , Kennedy , and Stevenson expressways . T h e resulting traffic snarl is expected to be terrible . The driver who gets past the repair sections before 10 a. m. is safe from a traffic tie-up only briefly . The repair work will go on , night and day , for at least 37 days . A Necessary Evil Francis S. Lorenz , state director , of public works , said there is . no avoiding it . The work must be done when the weather is right . The expressway to best bet , he said , is to accept delay calmly or to seek ' alternate routes to bypass the repair zones . In the Dan Ryan and Kennedy expressways , between 28th place and the Ohio street interchange , north-south traffic will be squeezed into two lanes in- stead of the customary four lanes . ' In the Stevenson expressway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customary six lanes of traffic will be reduced to four lanes . Cut Speed to 35 m. p . " The expressway driver must make ' up his mind he is prepared to ' accept delays , or he must be prepared to seek routes to take him around the repair zones , " Lorenz said . He warned that delays of 15 to 30 minutes can be expected by job-bound workers after the repair work is started this Morning . The speed limit will be reduced to 35 miles an hour , He advised drivers to seek other routes to work . But if you insist on driving , the expressway , and putting up with traffic jams and delays , here 's another tip from Lorenz : Keep the car windows closed in the repair zones . It will help keep dust out of the car . The inner two lanes , both north and south bound , in the Dan Ryan and Kennedy expressways will be closed to traffic from today until July 28 . The outer two lanes in each roadway will be closed July 28 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the outer two lanes in each direction will be open until July 24 . From that day to Aug. 4 only the inner and outer lanes will be open in each direction , From Aug 4 to Aug. 15 the two inner lanes in each direction will be open . On Aug. 16 everything will be open except the two inner lanes in each direction . Here 's how to avoid the repair zones if you are : I. Southbound in Kennedy  --  exit at Ohio street and follow Ohio street to Lake Shore drive ; turn south . You can turn off into Loop streets , Eisenhower expressway via Jackson blvd. , Columbus drive , and Congress , and west into Balbo drive . Or you can continue south in Lake Shore drive to the Stevenson expressway and then go west to the Dan Ryan , bypassing all the north-south repair zone . 2 . Northbound in Dan Ryan  --  take Stevenson expressway to South Lake Shore drive ; turn north . You can exit into Balbo drive , Eisenhower expressway via Balbo drive and Columbus drive , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Ohio , exit west bound and follow Ohio until you have to turn to reach Ontario street , then follow Ontario to Kennedy expressway , bypassing the repair zone . 3 . Southwest bound in Stevenson  --  use any major east-west and north-south streets that will connect with Stevenson beyond the repair zone . 4 . Northeast bound in Stevenson use major north-south streets to reach Ogden avenue , Archer avenue , or the Eisenhower expressway , any of which will take you into or near the Loop . 5 . Not going anywhere in partitular  --  stay at home , or take a train , plane , or Chicago Transit Authority bus or " L. " Lorenz advised all motorists who ordinarily use the expressways in the repair zones to spend the first two or three days this week trying out alternate routes . It might , he said , save time and frayed tempers if it becomes necessary for a driver to use such a route .                     