@@722100

txt Springfield , Oct. 19-Gov . Kerner today denounced Republican legislators who oppose major parts of his special legislative session program and said the G. 0 . P. will suffer in the 1962 election if the two parties fail to agree on congressional reapportionment . In a long statement and at a press conference , the Democratic governor accused Republicans of " playing political roulette " and using " circus clown antics . " He said he would never make a political deal but still held hope that bills could pass to redistrict the state , increase the number of Chicago judges , and increase the rates of the service occupation a n d corporation franchise taxes . Optimistic on CTA Subsidy A degree of optimism was also held for a state school transportation subsidy for the Chicago ' transit authority . The tax and CTA bills were disapproved this week by Republican dominated Senate committees . Efforts were still underway to get part of them thru the special session . The Kerner presiding at news coniference in Springfield . Kerner attack could make the job more difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't know how to be tough , " Kerner added . Some politicians have privately criticized him for being indecisive and for lacking leadership . Names Several in G. 0 . P. Under questioning , he specifically named several Republicans as deserving criticism but exempted at least one and made it clear that he was not criticizing the opposition party as a group . On reapportionment , Kerner said Democrats have been " pretty reasonable " in offering to give up one Chicago district , and by indirection he seemed to approve of a Democratic map . " Giving up a Democratic seat in Cook county and then letting a Democrat and a Republican run against each other is a pretty fair ' proposition , " he said at the press eonfer The Republican Republican party will be criticized if they block redistricting and that seems to be their intention . " Accepts a Rumor He accepted on face value a rumor , heard recently in legislative halls , that someone from Republican national headquarters has - asked that reapportionment be killed in hope that the G. 0 . P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen atlarge . This could help the party win control of the next Congress . " When 1 was elected governor , I promised the people that I would make no deals , " he said . Specifically named in an unfavorable manner were House Whip Robert ' T. l R. , Monmouth , Sen. Egbert B. Groen R. , Pekin , Sen. W. Russell Arrington R ? Evanston , and House Leader William E. Pollack ( R. , Chicago . ) . Kerner expressed a high opinion of Senate Whip George E. Drach IR. , Springfield , but criticized a Drach resolution Calling for a second special session now to take up a revision of the constitution 's article . At the same time , Kerner said he guaranteed the sincerity of Speaker Paul . Powell ED. , Vienna . Charge Incompetent it ? The Republican state committee issued a statement calling Kerner 's remarks " regrettable and unseemly . " Referring to legislatioq backed earlier in the year by the governor and Mayor Daley of Chicago , it said : " The angry and intemperate remarks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a leader of either a state administration or the Democrat party . " In the regular session , it must be remembered that it was a Kerner-Daley program for new taxes that failed . It was a Daley plan for reapportionment that failed . " Now to mask the real purpose of the special sessiontaxes - the Democrat governor hides behind the righteous cloak of reapportionment . Republicans called his bluff by giving it priority and he is angry . Point Out Cutback " Since when is protection of the public from unfair and unneeded taxes political roulette ? ' The special session has been meeting only two weeks and already the governor has reduced by 50 million dollars his estimated needs . Perhaps by Thanksgiving he will be in balance . " These are his mistakes in judgment , not ours . His attempt to hide them with invective , to reduce the high office of governor to a platform for guardhouse rhetoric , is regrettable and unseemly. "                     