@@724902

txt A White House study group is laying the groundwork for a massive attempt to revive the structure of the Negro family . This effort , in the view of those working on the problem , is the key to the next phase in the achievement of Negro equality ? a phase , they hope , that will go far beyond merely establishing the legal rights of Negroes to make them genuinely accepted and equal members of the American community . The study group is made up of about a dozen men . Some are on the White House staff , others Work for Government agencies . Their immediate aim is to plan for a White House conference in the fall , probably November , that will bring together scholars , experts , Negro leaders and Government officials to try to define the problems confronted by Negroes and suggest the broad outlines of solutions . The conference was announced by President Johnson in a speech June 4 at Howard University . He declared that legal freedom and equality were " not enough " to guarantee Negroes their full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage of the battle for Negro rights is just beginning , he said , and the goal " is to give 20 million Negroes the same chance as every other American to learn and grow , toi work and share in society , to develop their abilities  --  physical , mental and spiritual  --  and to , pursue their individual happiH ness . " Family Plight Studied One of the principal sources of Mr. Johnson 's speech was an unpublished 78-page Government study analyzing the plight of the Negro family . The study pulls together a variety of information from many sources and concludes that the United States is approaching a new crisis in race relations . This , it says , is because the expectation of b Nearoes that equality of opportunity will yield roughly equal results as compared to other groups is not going to be fulfilled  --  and will not be fulfilled for a long time unless new and special efforts are made . One reason , the study says , is that Negroes will encounter serious personal prejudice for at least another generation . Secondly , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken their toll on the Negro people . " " The harsh fact is that as a group , at the present time , in terms of ability to win out in the competitions of American life , they are not equal to most of those groups with which they will be competing , " the study declares . " Individually , Negro Americans reach the highest peaks of achievement . But collectively , in the spectrum of American ethnic and religious and regional groups , where some get plenty and some get none , Negroes are among the weakest . " Situation Held Worsening Furthermore , the study continues , the circumstances of the Negro American community in recent years have probably been getting worse , not better , and the gap between the Negro and most other groups in American society is widening . The study says that " the fundamental problem " is that of family structure . " The evidence ? not final , but powerfully persuasive ? is that the Negro family in the urban ghettos is crumbling , " it declares . " A middle-class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers of the unskilled , poorly educated city working class the fabric of conventional social relationships has all but disintegrated . " There are indications that the situation may have been arrested in the past few years , but the general postwar , trend is unmistakable . So long as this situation persists , the cycle of poverty and disadvantage will continue to repeat itself . " The study says that it is doubtful whether the establishment of equal rights and the kinds of general Government programs set up so far ? manpower retraining and the antipoverty program , for example ? will do much more than make opportunity available . " They can not insure the outcome , " the study states . " The principal challenge of the next phase of the Negro revolution is to make certain that equality of results will now follow . If we do not , there will be no social peace in the United States for generations . " The study declares that the fundamental source of weakness of the Negro community is the deterioration of the Negro family . It recommends that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national goal . The study notes that the role of the family in shaping character and ability is so pervasive as to be easily overlooked . " There is considerable evidence that the Negro community is in fact dividing between a stable middle-class group that is steadily growing stronger and more successful , and an increasingly disorganized and disadvantaged lower-class group , " it says . The study cites the following statistics to support its thesis : 9Nearly a quarter of the Negro women living in cities who have ever married are divorced , separated or are living apart from their husbands . The percentage among white women is 7.9. 9Between 1940 and 1963 , the illegitimacy rate among Negroes rose from 16.8 to 23.6 per cent ; for whites , from 2 to 3.07 per cent . 9In 1940 , both groups had a divorce rate of 2.2 per cent . By 1964 , the white rate was 3.6 per cent , the Negro rate 5.1 per cent . 41111 1950 , 18 per cent of all Negro families and 9 per cent of all white families were headed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families was still 9 per cent but for Negro families had risen to 21 per cent . 9Currently , 14 per cent of all Negro children are receiving aid to dependent children , compared to 2 per cent of white children . About 56 per cent of Negro children receive such assistance at some time , compared to 8 per cent of white children . 9Until 1952 , fluctuations in the number of Negro children receiving aid to dependent children paralleled the rise and fall in the unemployment rate for Negro men . Since then , the number of aid cases opened has been going up despite the fact ' that the unemployment rate has been going down . 9Negoes , who accounted for 1 in 10 in the population in 1950 , will account for 1 in 8 by 1970 if present population trends continue . Meets With Experts The study group has been meeting with distinguished psychologists and sociologists such as Talcott Parsons , Eric Erickson and Kenneth Clark to explore the dimensions of the problem . Later , it will meet with a number of economists and experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work out firm proposals for legislation . Its members , however , have been devoting a good deal of time , for example , to the psychological impact on children of the lack of a strong father figure in many Negro families . The question has been raised whether , through legislation and other means , steps can not he taken to remedy this . One small step , some members of the group believe , would be to end the practice in some states of denying welfare aid to families with an able-bodied man in the house . This has the effect of forcing men to desert their families so the families ' can get public assistance . The group is also exploring ' whether the traditional tools used to attack poverty can work for many Negroes . It is asking , for example , whether more education is the answer when children go from the classroom back into the slum and the broken home . Members of the group are convinced that a broad consensus favoring establishment of basic legal rights for Negroes , exists among white middle-class Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consensus exists that it is necessary to go beyond this , so they are looking into steps that may be taken to in- ' crease public comprehension of ; the problem . The process by which the Administration 's proposals to aid the Negro community are being evolved is not the usual one . Ordinarily , legislative proposals are put forward by pressure groups and the Government acts as sort of a broker working out a politically feasible compromise between these groups . In the present situation , the initiative so far has come . largely from the Administration , which is convinced that the problem and the need for fast action are so great that it must take the lead .                     