@@722502

txt Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg continued yesterday his efforts to head off a strike against Trans World Airlines set for 2 P. M. today . The strike was scheduled Sunday by the Flight Engineers International Association in defiance of President Kennedy 's admonition to find a peaceful lway of settling its dispute with T. W. A. , Eastern Air Lines and ' Pan American World Airways . The union has exempted Eastern and Pan American from the strike call . In New York , the Trans'I port Workers Union declared Monday that 10,000 ground employes of American Airlines would strike Friday at 1 midnight . The threat , which surprised the company , is expected to set in motion machinery of the National Rail ; way Labor Act that would defer the walkout for at least ninety days . Dispute on Jet Crews The principal issue in the ' flight engineers ' dispute is ' whether the union or the Air Line Pilots Association will eventually represent the third man in the jet cockpit after ' , crews are reduced from four ; men to three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. W. A. vice presi- ' dent for industrial relations ; H. S. Dietrich , chairman of the flight engineers ' T. W. A. chapter ; Asher W. Schwartz , , flight engineers ' attorney ; Russell G. Dericksoh , chairman of the T. W. A. Master Executive Council of the pilots ' union , and Barney Rawlings , chairman of the pilots ' T. W. A. negotiating c. , , mmittee . The meeting was adjourned at 12:30 A. M. until 8 A. M .. but there were no indications . of progress . Milestone for Goldberg Even if Mr. Goldberg 's mediation effort fails , it is still : something of a milestone . Offi- ' cials of the two unions had not met to discuss their problems for more than six months although they were the chief contenders . Mr. Goldberg was aided by W. Willard Wirtz , Under Secretary of Labor ; Prof. Nathan P. Feinsinger of the University : ' of Wisconsin Law School and Francis A. O'Neill Jr . of the National Mediation Board . On the Senate floor yesterday , Senator Stuart Symington said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry out its strike threat after President , Kennedy and Mr. Goldberg had proposed that the issues be sub- ; mitted to arbitration by a neu-1 tral panel . The union rejected ' // the proposal . The airlines accepted it . Mr. Symington , Democrat of Missouri , termed the dispute essentially jurisdictional between two unions . He declared that , if the engineers ' union did strike , " congress will have to give speedy attention to how to solve problems of this character in the public interest . " T. W. A. has its principal maintenance base at Kansas City in Mr. Symington 's home state . About a third of T.W.A. 's 20,000 employes work there , making it the largest private employer in Kansas City . Ronald A. Brown , flight engineers ' president , responded to Senator Symington 's statement with the accusation that T.W.A. , " in its anxious haste to help the pilot 's union steal our jobs , has attempted to water down the experience level of the flight engineer , with a resultant lessening of safety " The four-man jet crews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is agreement that only three men are necessary . The training and qualifications to be required of the third man will determine which union will represent him . As recommended by several Government boards , presently employed flight engineers would either remain on the payroll or receive substantial severence pay . But personnel newly hired to fill the third seat would be pilot-trained . That would mean the eventual dissolution of the flight engineers ' union . T. W. A. is one of the nation 's major transcontinental carriers . It serves seventy cities in the United States and fifteen abroad , primarily in Western Europe . It has 153 planes , of which forty-four are jets . It employs 1,300 pilots and 615 flight engineers . T. W. U. Threatens Strike The Transport Workers Union declared yesterday that 10,000 ground employes of American Airlines would strike Friday at midnight . However , the threat was expected to set into operation machinery of the National Railwway Labor Act that would defer the walkout for at least sixty days . This would be the appointment by President Kennedy of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear the facts in the dispute and to make a report . For thirty days after that neither the union nor the company could make any changes in the status quo . The union 's strike threat was issued by Michael J. Quill , presi-. dent . and James F. Horst , heed of the Air Transport Division . It apparently caught the company , the country 's most heavily traveled line , by surprise . Negotiations as late as last , week had led management to anticipate an early settlement . The old contract expired May 1 , but negotiations had begun in February . Late in March , C. Robert Roadley , a member of the National Mediation Board . intervened . With these steps out of the way , the union announced itself legally free to strike yesterday . The employes represented by the union include inspection , mechanical maintenance and stores personnel . cargo handlers. ground service workers , plant maintainers and stock record clerks . They work in company installations from coast to coast . The main bases are in New York , Tulsa asd Los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's operations for eleven days by a strike . The union plans to picket tomorrow at company facilities in fifty-six cities . In New York the union will demonstrate at company terminals at La Guardia , New York International and Newark- Airports and at the T. W. A. ticket office at Park Avenue and Forty-second Street . According to the union , the issues in dispute include wages , hours , welfare benefits and a job security guarantee because of the proposed emrger between American and Eastern Air Lines .                     