@@723665

txt Speetal to The New York Ttmes . PARIS , Dec. ** United States has begun a review of its position on disarmament in preparation for resumption of the 17-nation conference in Geneva on Jan. 21 , an American official disclosed today . The review was begun in the hope , which the official considered faint , that the Soviet Union was prepared to modify its position on disarmament to a point where useful discussions could begin on the first phase of the three-stage United States disarmament plan . This phase calls for a reduction of 30 per cent in armaments . It also provides for inspection and verification of this reduction , and the source emphasized that there was no sign Moscow would agree to this . The Administration 's review is to be completed by the middle of next month . It will then be circulated among the members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Negotiations Preferred The Administration puts more faith in long and tedious negotiations on disarmament at Geneva than in suggestions that the United States , ? Britain and the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in military budgets as a step toward disarmament . The American official declared that it was impossible to compare Soviet and United States arms budgets because so much Soviet spending on defense was hidden in expenditures outside the purely military field . He expected that on this point the Geneva meeting would produce only " purely technical " discussion of arms budgets without any substantive negotiation . The official pointed out that any agreement on budget cuts would require verification and that Moscow adamantly opposed this . The Administration 's willingness to review its position on disarmament and to consider any Soviet proposals indicates that this is one area where Washington sees at least a possibility of movement in ' EastWest relations . Another , the official said , is in the relationship between Western Europe and the Communist states of Eastern Europe . The establishment of bilateral agreements covering trade , travel and culture is viewed , he said , as a means of developing understanding between the two groups . The West German Government 's establishment of trade missions in Eastern Europe was cited by this source as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The United States position on the ideological and economic clash between the Soviet Union and Communist China apparently is influenced by the slightly greater willingness of the Russians to reach limited agreements . The official cited Moscow 's signature on the treaty for a Partial nuclear test ban and Peking 's refusal to sign . He also pointed out that the Russians had given far more support to the Geneva agreement on Laos then had the Chinese Communists and the North Vietnamese . The deduction of allied diplomats is that Washington recognizes that the Soviet position offers slightly more opportunity for negotiated settlements and a peaceful world than does that of China . The United States takes the view that if the two Communist giants reconcile their differences , it will be " bad news for the free world . " As far as the conflict between the two Communist powers is concerned , the United States is not taking sides , the official insisted . This has prompted ' the question , " why not ? " from diplomats whose countries have greater flexibility but less responsibility in foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the American official is that this is the same Soviet Union that promoted crises in Berlin in 1961 and in Cuba in 1962 , and that recently tried to halt military traffic on the autobahn connecting Berlin with West Germany . Still , the source said , in the conflict between Chinese militancy and the Russians ' peaceful coexistence , it is in the Atlantic alliance 's interest that latter policy get the upper hand even though it is not ideal . Communist China , the United States official said , is conducting a policy of hostility , belligerence and militancy toward the United States , exerting pressure in Laos and South Vietnam , and venturing into Africa and Latin America .                     