@@727065

txt President Johnson returned to his ranch near here this eve'ning after a three-day journey to Hawaii to reassure his Pacific allies that their interests and counsel would be respected ' during any negotiations with North Vietnam . Mr. Johnson used his encounter in Honolulu with President Chung Hee Park of South Korea to express his confidence that the United States would con- , I tinue to help defend and develop friendly Asian nations no matter who succeeded him in the White House . Noncommittal on Meeting He said his approach toward negotiations with Hanoi involved no reduction in American commitments and promised full consultation at every stage . The President was noncommittal , however , about the need for an early meeting of the allied heads of Government . Such a meeting has been discussed , but not formally proposed , by officials of South Vietnam . This morning , Mr. Johnson stopped at March Air Force Base near Riverside , Calif . He slept aboard his jetliner until a Marine helicopter brought former President Eisenhower , for a two-hour breakfast conference . General Eisenhower lives at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the winter . The two men spent about half an hour in private conversation before and after briefings of the former President by Mr. Johnson 's aides . These covered recent military and diplomatic developments in and about Vietnam , the conversations with the South Koreans and the future tasks of Adm . John S. McCain , who will replace Adm . U. S. Grant Sharp as commander of Pacific forces on July 2 . In conversation with report . ers on the flight from California to Texas , the President said that he did not know whether he would get a public or private response when he decided on March 31 to curtail the bombing of North Vietnam and to announce his decision not to seek another term . There had been some 30 private contacts of various kinds with North Vietnam over the years , the President said , and in building up to the announcement " we searched our minds to be sure we were not being too inflexible or too rigid , that we were opening our minds to all possible avenues . " The March 31 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with many persons both in and out of Government . Asked whether he thought the speech had brought new support from foreign critics , Mr. Johnson replied : " I think it hid a good deal of the desired effect . It has helped accomplish the-things I wanted to gain . " 4 10 Sites Announced The President decided earlier today to let the State Department announce the 10 new sites that the United States would regard as suitable for preliminary contacts with North Vietnam , bringing to 15 the number of places listed as acceptable to Washington . The Administration has objected to the two sites proposed by HanoiPnompenh , Cambodia , and Warsaw . Mr. Johnson said there were four requirements ? adequate communications , which Cambodia ; lacks ; an atmosphere in which neither side would feel at a psychological disadvantage . free access for news coverage by . all nations , and the possibility for other interested governments , such as South Vietnam and South Korea , to be represented . Poland does not recognize those Governments . When asked about the idea of an allied summit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President said it was " very important we maintain close contacts . " But he left the impression that he regarded contacts as already quite good and observed that several of the allied leaders were scheduled to visit Washington soon . Gorton and Thieu to Visit Visits are being arranged for Prime Minister John G .. Gorton of Australia and President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam . Mr. Johnson described his one-day conference with President Park as " very friendly , very cordial and I thought very helpful to both . " They discussed all aspects of the Vietnam situation and President Park 's fears of North Korean harassment and incursions into South Korea . Mr. Johnson also reviewed South Korea 's requests for additional military hid , the details of which are to be discussed at a meeting of defense ministers in Washington next month . The President explained that he regarded the value of his withdrawal from politics as removing some of the partisan debate about the war in Vietnam . Mr. Johnson 's statement at a Honolulu reception last night that United States policy would not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed by President Park and other Asian leaders .                     