@@723479

txt Bonn The 10-day visit to the United States by West German Foreign Minister Dr. Gerhard Schrader is believed to be mainly for information . He wishes to discover for himself whether East-West developments after the nucleartest-ban treaty offer possibilities for progress toward understanding on Berlin and German reunification . Dr. Schrader is said to have no concrete proposals regarding the relaxation of tension between East and West . In many quarters in Bonn some weeks ago reports were heard concerning a new revised version of the earlier plan of former Secretary of State Christian A. Herter . But these now are silent , understandably , since that plan linked further steps toward a detente with the Soviet Union and progress in German questions and other partners obviously think the present time is inappropriate for such an advance . Shift Wanted But this does not mean that the Bonn Government is content with the status quo . Bonn wants a policy movement since it is convinced that prospects for an agreement with the Soviet Union , however small , are better in the atmosphere of a detente . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement as long as the Western allies support German aims , according . to informed opinion here . But this must be accompanied by circumspection , particularly in regard to proper assessment of the Soviet attitude even after the Moscow nuclear-test-ban treaty talks . This attitude applies , for example , to the recent suggestion that control posts against surprise attacks be established on both sides of the Iron Curtain . If these also were placed in East Germany would that enhance its status ? Outposts Suggested Another suggestion that such control posts be operated through existing military missions of the former occupation powers would remove this difficulty since Moscow would be responsible for control posts in East Germany . But , on the other hand , this would mean greater prestige for the former occupation powers . That is something the ( West ) German Federal Republic does not want to see , either . The Bonn government 's best hope momentarily in this issue appears to be that NATO Council discussions on the military value of such a scheme hitherto have not been unanimous . Dr. SchrOder 's one-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Mu ? - ville , his French opposite number . They appear to have agreed that the East-West status quo is unsatisfactory if not dangerous . There arc differences between their standpoints , however , regarding methods for the next developments , Neither appears to have any suggestions regarding improvement of the status quo.                     