@@724544

txt Pittsburgh , Feb. 9 liB  --  Incum bent President David J. Mc Donald held a slight lead in early and unofficial returns tonight as the AFL-CIO United Steelworkers voted coast to coast in an election that could have an impact on the national economy . Returns reported from 1,210 locals of the union 's 3,092 in this country and Canada gave 79,381 votes , to 76,848 for I. W. Abel , the USW 's secretary-treasurer . Abel has helped guide the union 's fortunes for the past 12 years but now seeks to oust him . The unofficial returns were compiled separately from the headquarters in Pittsburgh and the Abel camp in Chicago where each had its man ahead . Some Hold Up Counting A large percentage of the total votes from all three sources came from small locals . Some of the larger ones said they would n't count their ballots until tomorrow . The discrepancy in counts from Abel and apparently meant that each was getting the fastest returns from locals favorable to him . Each man also was running well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visited his Pittsburgh headquarters in a jovial , relaxed mood and stayed for a couple of hours before going home to his sick wife . He said she had the flu . Shaking hands with admirers and staff workers , commented that he would have preferred " negotiating with the steel industry and aluminum and can industries instead of having to campaign . " " I Head the Union " Asked if he would still lead negotiations for a new contract with basic steel currently suspended pending outcome of the election  --  he said : " My job is as head of the United Steelworkers of America until June 1 and at least for four years after that . " If elected , it would be 's fourth term as head of the nearly ** - member union , the nation 's third largest . Abel was not available for a statement early in the evening . He was reported to be at home sleeping . voted earlier in the day at his home local in Pittsburgh . Abel - voted in Canton , 0. , then returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election for the steelworkers and the toughest in their 32-year history . It also is safe to assume that it is being carried on under the watchful eyes of the White House , Wall Street , and the myriad industries which u s e steel . Earlier this year the President 's Council of Economic Advisers reported that uncertainty in the steel industry  --  generated largely by the election  --  was the " chief threat to prospects for steady economic expansion in 1965 . " Whoever wins this election is sure to have a strong voice in bargaining with basic steel when talks resume , hopefully within two weeks . All locals inust ? have their vote totals mailed to international headquarters in Pittsburgh within 10 days . Locals must be apprised of the outcome by May 1 . View of Industry Steel industry officials , mindful that the union could strike May 1 under contract provisions which allowed reopening of the current agreement , were hopeful of a decisive election . A close vote could result in time consuming court battles . , 62 , and president since 1952 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his record as a negotiator and promised the best contract ever . Abel , 56 , campaigned on a promise to return control of the union to the rank and file . Running on the two major tickets were : slate Howard le . Hague , incumbent for vice president ; AI Whitehouse , Cincinnati , district director , for secretary-treasurer . Abel slate Joseph P. Molony , Buffalo , N. Y. , district director , for vice president ; Walter J. Burke , Milwaukee district director , for secretarytreasurer.                     