@@726134

txt The demise of the latest Vietnam peace-feeler cycle was expected by many knowledgeable UN diplomats long before the latest bombing pause abruptly ended . These professionals saw both Washington and Hanoi as unwilling to make any military concession . The White House , they felt , was unwilling to budge for two basic reasons : 1 . Election timing ? Peace talks are likely to be 4. long , tediously fought process . If President Johnson enters them now with no military concession from the other side he runs the risk that by campaign time next year the electorate might be soured and impatient with the way things turn out . On the other hand , the President now knows that he can start talks by halting the bombing . Therefore , these analysts reason , he would rather wait until closer to campaign time . At that time he might have a greater military advantage . And the talks would seem fresher and more hopeful to the public if just started . This factor is known here as " avoid another Panmunjom " ( the Korean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Peking-Moscow relations  --  Many delegates feel Washington strategists count on China to squeeze off Soviet overland aid to Hanoi to the point where existing Kremlin qualms about depending on the vulnerable sea route to Haiphong become decisive . Hanoi 's unwillingness to concede the military slowdown demanded by United States Secretary of State Dean Rusk is seen as stemming from an opposite view of the same two factors : First , North Vietnam and the Viet Cong are believed to be still confident that they can hold their own until ' the 1968 campaign period forces what they hope will be a solution by accommodation . Second , Hanoi is believed to look on recent peace feelers as a test of the Moscow theory that Washington could be pressed into a bombing halt leading to talks . Now that the effort has failed , Hanoi is understood to count on the Kremlin to find ways of continuing its military aid . And the North Vietnamese leaders still assert that as a last resort they will turn to Peking , however reluctantly , to supply troops if the situation becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the unknown when they base their strategy on the outcome of the Moscow-Peking split . One European diplomat points out that Chinese revocation of Soviet consular visa privileges is likely to mean a bottleneck for Soviet shipments to Hanoi . But another European with direct contact in Peking says that it is risky for Washington to proceed on the assumption that Moscow will therefore presure Hanoi to quit . He credits Hanoi 's fall-back position of calling in Chinese troops as too serious a possibility to be taken lightly even at this time of turmoil in Peking . Meanwhile , even those diplomats who said " I told you so " when the bombing resumed Monday express regrets that another period of peace activity has expired . One of the more melancholy incidents , from the point of view of UN influence on Asian affairs , was the 11th-hour appeal by Secretary-General U Thant to prolong the bombing pause . As it turned out , Mr. Thant 's words were issued as the bombing began again . It was an llthhour appeal at the 12th hour . What the Secretary-General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a wise move . If it means cessation of bombing , then I believe that mean ? ingful talks will take place within a feW weeks . "                     