@@727751

txt The list of dignitaries at the opening of the ninth congress of the Chinese Communist party yesterday indicates that , in the next few years , China will be ruled by a coalition of " leftists " and " moderates , " with the army exercising considerable influence . The congress  --  a major event in the political life of China ? opened yesterday afternoon in Peking with speeches by Mao Tse-tung , the 75-year-old party chairman , and his chosen political heir , Defense Minister Lin Piao , 61 . The Peking radio said last night that the Congress would " break down into groups " to discuss a political report given by Mr. Lin and , presumably , that is what the 1,512 delegates were doing today . No New Disclosures The Chinese radio and press agency carried no further news of the congress after making the original announcement last night . Texts of the speeches by Mr. Mao and Mr. Lin have not been made public . If the congress follows the form of previous gatherings , it will continue in session for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women to a temporary presidium to direct the work of the congress , with Mr. Mao the chairman , Mr : Lin the vice chairman and Premier Chou En-lai the general secretary . Few Surprises in List The list of presidium members , and the all-important ranking of precedence it indicates , disclosed few surprises . No less than two-thirds of the old 90-man Central Committee of the Communist party were absent , reflecting their disgrace and loss of position during the Cultural Revolution , the purge that Chairman Mao initiated in 1966 . However , almost all of these people have long been known to be in disgrace . The purge reached its peak in a period from late 1966 to mid-1967 when most of its victims fell from power . The leading members of the congress presidium were by and large the same people who have been with Chairman Mao on public occasions since May Day last year , with only minor variations in ranking . One task of the congress will be to elect aJ new Central Committee , which , in turn , will select a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eighth party congress , which convened first in 1956 and again in 1958 , most of the persons chosen to be on the congress presidium were later elected full or alternate delegates of the Central Committee . Western analysts here speculated that much the same procedure would be followed at the present congress . Analysts and journalists searched reference material today in an attempt to identify all of the 176 presidium members , but at least 38 of the names were unknown to Western experts . Military Men Identified These people , it was believed , were probably student Red Guard delegates representatives of pro-Mao " mass revolutionary organs " and lowranking delegates from the army . At least 60 delegates were readily identifiable as important military officers or political commissars of military units , sources said . Many of these men hold considerable civil power today in their roles as chairmen or vice chairman of Revolutionary Committees , the administrative bodies that came into being in 1967 and 1968 to replace the former party committees that once controlled the nation 's prov inces , major cities and largest ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it did call into question whether Chairman Mao would be able to use the congress to reduce the great power put into the hands of the army during the chaos of the Cultural Revolution , or indeed if he intended to try to reduce its power . Before the purge the Politburo , the ruling body , had a membership of about 25 people . Most , it not all , of the top names on the presidium elected yesterday may end up on a new Politburo . In the presidium list , Mr. Mao and Mr. Lin ranked first and second , respectively . They were followed by Premier Chou , who is regarded by many foreign observers as essentially a pragmatic " moderate " desiring to resore calm and order . In fourth and fifth places were Chen Po-ta , Mr. Mao 's former political secretary , and Kang Sheng , a security expert land ideologist . These men are Maoists and had been only alternate members of the Politburo before 1966 . In sixth place was Mr. Mao 's wife , Chiang Ching , a highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband . She was a patron of the Red Guards when they rampaged early in the purge . Chang Chun-chiao and Yao Wen-yuan , two Shanghai leaders closely identified with Miss Chiang , were listed in seventh and eight places . Neither was on the old Central Committee . " There 's not much excitement in the list , " said , one China specialist here today . " It 's the same group that survived the Cultural Revolution 's early stages . " Chou 's Role Inconclusive It was difficult for Western observers to draw clear conclusions as to the balance of power in the group . Premier Chou , who has an established talent for survival , holds a high place and his election as secretary general of the Presidium may mean that he will eventually control a new party secretariat that would run the party on a day-to-day basis . However , many of his oldI " moderate " allies are missing ; , only five members of the large , pre-1966 cabinet , the State Council , were listed as present at the congress , and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chou in his role as the only vice chairman of the party . A balance of forces between left and right did seem to exist . It was noted that several highly militant " leftists , " such as Chi Pen-yu and Wang Li , purged in 1967 and early 1968 , were also missing , despite their former ties to Chairman Mao 's wife . Moreover , such military figures as Huang Yung-sheng , the Chief of Staff , listed 10th in precedence , have shown an ability to oppose excesses of the Cultural Revolution while remaining in Chairman Mao 's favor .                     