@@721853

txt WASHINGTON , May 26 ? President Kennedy is expected to tell Premier Khrushchev next week that hopes for disarmament and retention of a Soviet veto over international inspection are incompatible . High American officials said tonight this would be among the main points the President hopes can be clarified in his talks in Vienna with the Soviet leader . These sources said the President could also be expected to present the United States position in a manner that would leave no room for an underestimation of this nation 's devotion to freedom . In Geneva , the Soviet Union declared it would never sign an agreement on nuclear testing that did not ban all nuclear explosions for all time . Would Cut Through Fog Officials here said the President and his Administration looked forward to the Vienna meetings with the Soviet leader as a chance to cut through the fog of propaganda that surrounds public statements of Moscow 's position . They hope the Kennedy-Khrushchev meetings will move United StatesSoviet relations to a new plane of understanding based on reality . Administre ! on sources said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiating on specific issues . Rather they looked on the coming talks as a chance to exchange views and ideas and to seek clarification of the other side 's positions . The assumption here is that disarmament will occupy a central position in the Vienna ' talks . This will include consideration of the nuclear test ban talks now going on in Geneva . In the nuclear talks , Moscow 's representatives have insisted that the Communist bloc retain a veto over control machinery . Veto Issue Persistent This is viewed in Washington as the primary obstacle to achievement of agreement on ending nuclear testing . The same stand has emerged in the conference on Laos , with the Russians suggesting similar control over machinery for supervising Laotian neutrality . To officials in Washington , the idea of a Soviet veto and hopes for any kind of effective disarmament can not be reconciled . Bilateral talks between the United States and the Soviet Union on the make-up of a disarmament conference are to begin here late in June . There is tentative agreement to begin a disarmament conference July 31 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a veto over controls and inspection will make any disarmament talks fruitless . President Kennedy will leave Washington tomorrow night for a brief rest at Hyannisport , Mass. , before traveling to Europe . He will leave Tuesday for Paris and a series of conferences with President de Gaulle . He will meet Mr. Khrushchev ; in Vienna June 3 and 4 . The de Gaulle-Kennedy talks1 are expected to range over the world , with consideration of , every major policy problem facing the two countries . Of . parH Ocular interest here will be the talks on North Atlantic Treaty Organization problems , including the matter of sharing nuclear weapons . It is agreed among officials here that the talks with President de Gaulle will be far more extensive and detailed than those with Premier Khrushchev . It is also expected that the conversations in Paris will be far more likely to produce positive results than those in Vienna . No Accords Expected Nonetheless , the focus of attention here and elsewhere is more on the meeting of the United States and Soviet heads of Government than on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements to come from the Vienna sessions . They insist , moreover , that President Kennedy will not undertake to negotiate any issues in which other countries have an obvious interest . There is an eager effort here to get away from words like " summit " and " negotiation . " Officials say they misrepresent the purpose of the Vienna meetings . Sources here said there was no intention to make meetings of heads of government a permanent fixture of international relations . Nor was the idea being ruled out . The possibility of a multinational summit session , of four or more leaders , was said not to be under serious consideration . There is no fixed agenda for the Vienna meetings with Mr. Khrushchev . Officials said their forecast of subjects was based , first , on the Administration 's interests and , second , on a reading of Moscow 's desires from published material and informal hints . On that basis , it is assumed the talks will cover the following : the nuclear test ban talks ; the Laos conference and the future of Southeast Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin problem and Germany ; cooperation in outer . space exploration ; mutual efforts to control disease , and others . Whether a new round of negotiations on the Berlin question - and Moscow 's demand for an early peace treaty with Germany might come soon was unknown . Officials look to the Vienna talks for a hint on Moscow 's attitude . In any case , it is widely believed that some kind of new pressure against Berlin by the Soviet side will occur this summer or early fall . Here , too , it will be President Kennedy 's purpose to urge that the Soviet leader not misjudge this country 's determination and that of its allies to stand by the people of free West Berlin , officials said .                     