@@726053

txt The Conflict between zealous supporters of Mao Tse-tung 's " cultural revolution " and Communist officials and workers who view it as a threat to their power and welfare continued in China today . Much of the conflict was political in nature and was carried out through exhortation and ? maneuver , but there was probably some public disorder and even violence , political analysts said . The official press and radio dropped hints to the effect that strikes , evidently to protest excesses of the cultural revolution , were still under way in Shanghai and in the southeastern port of Foochow . Some form of tension seemed to prevail in such other cities as Chengtu , in the southwest , Tienstine on the east coast , and Canton , in the south . The phrase " cultural revolution " is used to describe an extremely complex ideological movement  --  and political fight ? carried on by Mr. Mao , Chairman of the Chinese Communist party ; his chosen successor , Defense Minister Lin Piao , and leaders allied with them . Apparently Chou En-lai , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to moderate the cultural revolution while carefully avoiding a repudiation of Mr. Mao 's line , reports from Peking indicated . Japanese journalists reported that Red Guard wall posters said Mr. Chou told a rally of Red Guards Sunday that they should stop individual or personal denunciations of President Liu Shao-chi and the party General Secretary , Teng Hsiao-ping . The correspondent of Asahi of Tokyo reported that the poster quoted Mr. Chou as having said he was speaking on " behalf of Mr. Mao " and adding , " Chairman Mao does not want you to go to excess . " Premier Chou , it was reported , said that the " bourgeois reactionary " political line of which Mr. Liu and Mr. Teng have been accused of following should be denounced and smashed but that individual attacks were inappropriate . Still in the Politiburo The Premier explained , according to the reports , that the August plenary session of the party 's Central Committee had criticized Mr. Liu and Mr. Teng but had retained them as Politburo members . This point had been unclear since they came under savage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at creating the climate for their purge or dismissal . One important feature of the cultural revolution is to unleash " mass revolutionary " groups and to let them make " uninterrupted revolution all their lives " by criticizing and even overthrowing party officials at various levels who have lost their enthusiasm for the thoughts of Mr. Mao and become " bourgeois reactionaries " or other adverse elements . It is this feature that sometimes seems almost paranoiac . A. great many party officials at the national , provincial and local levels have viewed with dismay and indignation the inevitable excesses of the attempt to " trust " the masses and to assert that they have a mystical Associated Press Premier Chou En-lai is reported trying to moderate the cultural revolution . collective wisdom superior to that of party officials . By hardening what was already fairly widespread opposition to the more militant ideas of Mr. Mao and to the personality of Mr. Lin , and by apparently forcing both sides to take increasingly drastic steps for self-preservation , the cultural revolution has provoked a serious political crisis , Hong Kong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .71,1 pnri flicting aspects . One is that Mr. Liu and Mr. Teng have been denounced , apparently in absentia ? several times at huge Peking rallies and constantly in wall poster . Mr. Chou apparently was the target only last week . Mr. Chou came under , wall poster attack again today , but the isolated attacks are not yet believed to mean any serious political difficulty for the Premier . The intense campaign could hardly have taken place without the approval of Chairman Mao 's close associate , Chen Po-ta , and the Chairman 's wife , Chiang Ching , analysts here said . They are , respectively , leader and first deputy leader of the group directing the cultural revolution and the largest Red Guard unit in the capital . Whether , as the wall posters ' account indicated , Mr. Mao now regretted and was canceling attacks on Mr. Liu , his former heir apparent , and Mr. Teng was also unclear . Mr. Chou was also reported to have urged the students at the Sunday rally to cease putting up denunciations of six Cabinet ministers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He listed Foreign Minister Chen Yi ; the chairman of the State ( economic ; Planning Commission , Li Fu-chun , the newest member of the Politburo ; Finance Minister Li Hsien-nien ; Public Security Minisier Hsieh Fu-chin ; Petroleum Minister Yu Chiu-li , and and an economic expert , Tan Chen-11 . The role of the army and the public security forces would be crucial if fighting broke out on a major scale . The analysts here find it difficult to assess thei likelihood of such an event . Although Mr. Lin is Defense Minister and an old-line combat general , some regional commanders and units in the army have been harmoniously associated with the very provincial party officials whom he is attacking . Worse Problems May Be Feared ' The analysts also suggested that some Officials may deplore the breakdown of orderly government and the even worse troubles that the Mao-Lin faction might ultimately cause by trying to take back private plots from peasants or some other ' militant policy . Speculation on the outcome of the struggle is becoming increasingly hazardous , some China watchers feel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you do n't speculate these days , you , are out of business . " Other observers noted that the Mao-Lin faction had been taking offensive measures , such as the announced policy of spreading the cultural revolution into factories and pernaps farms , rather than defensive ones . It was this decision and a related move to establish socalled Red Rebel worker organizations to supplement the student Red Guards in imple. menting it that was probably the immediate case of trouble in such centers as Shanghai and Foochow , most of the analysts believed . The difficult but revealing rhetoric of the official press also gave clues that it was intemperate actions that forced officials and workers to defend themselves with strikes and , in some cases , violence . Whether a " revolt " was under way by provincial officials was open to question , although many analysts did not discount the possibility of a full-scale uprising if disruptions continued . Real information on the extent and natur ' of the conflicts in provincial areas was scanty . The provincial radio in Foochow , monitored in Bong Kong , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the cultural revolution and that some workers had struck and " left their equipment . " An article transmitted abroaa by Hsinhua , the official press agency , indicated that a strike reported in Shanghai last week might still be under way . It gave no clue to the extent of the stoppage , but an unconfirmed report in Hong Kong was that industry was seriously disrupted . The Hsinhua report said that a " large number " of workers at the No. 17 textile mill had " deserted " their posts after being " taken in " by anti-Mao elements . It indicated a continuing stoppage by quoting ProMao workers as saying : " The workers who deserted their posts are our class brothers , so we are eager to welcome them back . " The article also identified Chengtu , Tientsin and Peking as cities in which " revolutionary , " or pro-Mao , workers had held meetings to rejoice at the correct stand of comrades in Shanghai and at the chairman 's support for them . Persistent reports of unrest in Canton have reached Hong Kong . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that a number of people were killed or injured in a clash between Red Guards and a group described simply an " workers . " Touching the heart of one ideological problem the article accused opponents of saying that " stimulating production " was more important than political reorientation of the masses . In effect , increasing output has been China 's economic policy since 1959 , after Mr. Mao 's Great Leap Forward had collapsed . Hsinhua carried another dispatch saying that revolutionary workers in Shanghai wanted to assure Chairman Mao that they had spurned the " sugar-coated bullets " of material and monetary incentives offered by opposition leaders . The dispatch , quoting a letter from the staffs cf two rewspapere recently " taken over " fee Red Rebel groups , said workers would aveld encl. " bail . " Melee at Party Offices Another throng of Red Guards was reported to have stormed the party headquarters in the capital city in an attempt to seize Mr. Liu and Mr. Tong . A Japanese dispatch said that the maurading youths were persuaded by security policemen to disperse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered the third-ranking figure in the hierarchy , were taken by the Japanese correspondents from wall posters put up by the Red Guards in Peking . " We must thoroughly smash the bourgeois reactionary line represented by Liu and Teng , but it should be distinguished from excessive individual attacks against them , " Mr. Chou was quoted as having said . According to a Japanese translation , he said : " We arc all in complete agreement to defend the present proletarian revolution headed by Chairman Mao Tse-tung at the cost of our lives , but the question is how to carry it out . " There is a clear distinction between the two slogans . One slogan is to criticize bitterly and thoroughly the bourgeois reactionary line as represented by Liu and Teng . This must be done thoroughly to the last . " Another slogan is that those two persons are still members of the Central Committee based on the decision on the 11th convention . I represent the party and your action to take them out of the cabinet office puts me in a difficult position . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these two persons as you like , but you can not take them out of the office and subject them to an attack face to face . "                     