@@722617

txt Each work day . morning , 31 sanitary district workers assigned to the surveying department gather at the far southwest corner of the huge GolfMill shopping center parking lot in Niles , there to start out on their jobs . Time sheets call for a work day from 8 a. m. to 4:30 p. m. , but arrival and departure times of the workers vary greatly . Their work methods were described to THE TRIBUNE by a former member of the unit as " almost unbelievable . " He said any workers in the unit spend most of their day in taverns and told how shaft the day is when they do work . Long Day Impossible An investigation of the surveying crews by THE TRIBUNE and the Better Government association found that under the present system it is impossible for any member of the unit to put in a full work day . Surveillance of the crews brought out that many put in no more than four hours a day . George Mahin , executive director of the B. G. A. , a taxpayers watchdog group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an operation which guarantees that . the taxpayers will get the least return for their money and which merits the boondoggling award for 1962 . " Reporter Views Scene On Aug. 6 , a TRIBUNE reporter spent the day at the Golf-Mill parking lot to watch the activities of the surveyors . Some arrived for work in their private automobiles and others in five black sanitary district station wagons assigned to the surveying unit . Many of the men failed to arrive for work until after 9 a. m. , one hour after their official starting time . Many left the parking area to drive to their survey assignments well after 10 a. m . Almost all were back at the parking lot and left the parking area by 3:30 p. m. , one hour before the official quitting time . The next day , the reporter watched the workers again and saw many drive up at least one hour after their starting time . Others drove to a restaurant in the shopping center and ate breakfast and talked until about 10 a. m . Talk About ' Spy ' System @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district recently hiring private detectives to spy on workers in district plants . One worker laughingly accused another of being a " private eye " assigned to the surveying unit . District workers detailed to the engineering department told THE TRIBUNE that district men with " good political clouts " have little to fear from being found loafing , because their political sponsors are able to get them out of almost any difficulties . " We do n't have a Furlong in engineering or anybody else who is going to challenge the politicians , " a district civil engineer said . He referred to Philip Furlong , chief of maintenance and operations , who has led a fight to force politically sponsored loafers to put in a full day of work . Altho most of the major surveys for future constructior have been on the far south enc of the county , district officals said , the workers must as semble each morning at Golf . Mill , near the extreme north end of the district . Follow Station Wagon On Aug. 10. a TRIBUNE reporter and a B. G. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wagon numbered 9797 ? which had been making surveys in the vicinity of 122d street and Ridgeland avenue . This crew was selected because it had the reputation of being one of the " best and hardest working " of the survey units . Burton A. Scheidt , chief engineer , said the 9797 , crew is " one of my best . " Station wagon 9797 was first of the five to leave the parking area , at 3:27 a. m . The driver proceeded south on the Illinois toliway and during the drive the three passengers appeared to be sleeping most of the time . The vehicle left the tollway at 95th street . The four men entered the Koffee Kup restaurant on 95th street near Laramie avenue in Oak Lawn at 9:08 a. m . Leisurely Breakfast About 40 minutes later , after a breakfast of fried eggs and potatoes , toast , and coffee , the men left the restaurant . They drove the station wagon in route 83 to a point east of Ridgeland avenue and began unloading it at 10 a. m . The men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tree next to a corn field at various times , had an hour lunch period and left the work area at 3:05 p. m . At 4:04 p. m .. they arrived at the Golf-Mill parking lot and left four minutes later . Their time on the job was about four hours . B. G. A investigators said that during the work day of the survey unit they saw survey men in various stores of the shopping center . An informant who had worked with the unit told B. G. A. officials that most of the crews spent an afternoon a week doing their shopping in the shopping plaza . William Beseke , an assistant civil engineer in charge of the surveying , said most of his men are excused from duty and sent home whenever it rains because they are unable to do any work during inclement . weather . He said his men have been doing " an outstanding jab " . Learn They Are Followed Beseke said that the men in station wagon 9797 learned they were under observation when a truck driver spotted " spies " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time when they were in the Oak Lawn restaurant . He said it was n't practical to have the men report for work directly to their assignment posts because it might necessitate giving one or more of them a car allowance of 8 cents a mile . Most of the workers in the engineering department have sought assignments in the construction department because the private contractors " take care of them in money , drinks , food , and entertainment , " according to the former survey department worker . He said the surveying department was a good place to work because the work was easy .                     