@@725347

txt Police Commissioner Vincent L. Broderick charged yesterday that " the patronage officer " for Mayor Lindsay had " apparently I summoned " him last month " to I discuss the organizational setup in the Police Department . " Mr. Broderick called the request an " intrusion " and said he had not met with the Lindsay aide , Constantine SidamonEristoff . The Commissioner appealed for public support of the man who will succeed him next Monday , Howard R. Leary , " when Constantine Sidamon-Eristoff or anyone else id City Hall attempts to suggest to him that he interview someone for a particular position . " The Mayor said Mr. Broderick 's statements " were " nonsense . " He denied that Mr. Eristoff , who is one of his special assistants , had interfered in matters of police personnel . No ' Patronage Dispenser ' " We do n't have any such thing as a patronage dispenser , " Mr. Lindsay declared at a City Hall news conference soon after Mr. Broderick made his stateIments to reporters on leaving the weekly " cabinet " meeting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince , said in a telephone interview that his secretary , Betsy Booth , had telephoned Police Headquarters to ask Mr. Broderick to comei to his office at 4:30 P.M. on Jan. 24 . Mr. Eristoff , whose job is to sift job applications for the Lindsay . administration , said the request was part of a " blanket invitation to all commissioners to come on down here and chat and go over what applications I might have at the moment . " , Mr. Leary , in a telephone in // terview in Philadelphia , said he had never heard of Mr. , Eristoff , and that Lindsay Administration had riot suggested that he appoint any specific persons to posts in the Police Department . He , denied considering " at this time " the appointment of Paul Weissman , a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune , as Deputy Police Commissioner in Charge of Community Relations . There have been reports that the post has been offered to Mr. Weissman . Mr. Weissman was presented to Mr. Leary after the new conference last Tuesday at which the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner . It was uncertain who- had made the introduction . Mr. Leary said : " I think , but am not positive , it was Woody Klein . " Mr. Klein , the Mayor 's press secretary , said in a telephone interview that " to the best of my recollection " he had not made ' the introduction . But he noted that his duties obliged him to introduce many reporters to Mr. Leary . When asked about the reported job offer , Mr. Klein said : " I flatly deny that if Mr. Weissman was offered a job that I had any knowledge of it and that I had anything to do with it . " Deputy Mayor Robert Price , who was seen escorting Mr. Weissman into the Mayor 's chambers soon after the news conference , declined to comment , Mr. Weissman has referred inquiries to Mr. Leary . Chief Inspector Discussed Mr. Leary also denied reports that Assistant Chief Inspector Sanford D. Garelik was in line to succeed Chief Inspector John F. Shanley . " I have n't made any decision relative as to who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief Shanley could not be reached for comment , but friends said he had no immediate plans to retire from his post . Chief Garelik declined to comment on the reports , which he said were only " rumors . " Asked about his reported visits to City Hall , he said : " Official business his taken me to City Hall prior to the change in administration and subsequently . " High Liberal party officials said yesterday . that Chief Garelik was " just one of many top police officials that labor leaders know in town . " It was disclosed that another high police official , Deputy Commissioner Jacob Katz , who is 65 years old , had withdrawn his application for retirement on Sunday after 37 years of service . Mr. Katz 's prospective chief , Mr. Leary , said he planned to come to New York over the weekend , and to stay in a hotel until he found permanent quarters . He has said that he and his wife plan to live in Manhattan . His first major task will be to oversee police security arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit was announced yesterday . Friends of Mr. Broderick said he planned to be present Monday when the Mayor swears in Mr. Leary . Then he is to take his family for a skiing holiday . Yesterday Mr. Broderick also accused Mr. Lindsay of misusng crime statistics during the ; he mayoral campaign . An aide ; o Mr. Lindsay said he did not mow the statistics to which he Commissioner referred . Mr. Broderick made the ; large after appointing 30 women school-crossing guards . le said the appointments were ' my last public official act . "                     