@@726471

txt Out of the ashes Two New England researchers have discovered an entire Greek city they date to 1500 B.C. Their diggings ( above ) on the island of Thera , just north of Crete , are expected to reveal significant new clues to the Minoan civilization which preceded Greek civilization as dominant in the Mediterranean . Story : Page 3 Possible Atlantis site dug up Under flourishing vineyards on a tiny island north of Crete , a team of Greek and American archaeologists have found a 3,5* year-old city . It is intact . Buildings still stand . Jars , still unbroken , hold oil and wine pressed in 1500 B.C. All are encapsuled in volcanic ash and pumice . This has preserved them since part of the island of Thera disappeared in a vol. canic eruption 3,500 years ago . Discovery of this settlement adds credence to the theory that Thera was at that time the site of fabled " lost " Atlantis . Importance stressed Announcing the discovery at Boston 's Museum of Fine Arts , two of the expedition scientists said it may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made in decades . Prof. Emily Vermeule of Wellesley College , a research fellow at the museum , said it may be at least as important as the discovery of the palace at Knossos on Crete by Sir Arthur Evans . Working from 1901 to 1936 , Evans uncovered important evidence of the ancient Minoan civilization that once dominated the Mediterranian . Now , on Thera , another Minoan settlement has been found in near-perfect preservation . James W. Mayor Jr . of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute , who joined Mrs. Vermeule in the announcement , said he thinks there probably are several other settlements buried under volcani ? debris on the island . Major naval base This , he said , is what one would expect if Thera was , as believed , an important part of the Minoan empire . It may well have been a major naval base for those seafaring people . It is also in keeping with what you would expect if the Minoans were the people of Atlantis , as Mr. Mayor and some others suspect . The clearest description of legendary Atlantis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and " Timaeus . " Plato apparently regarded the story as history rather than fancy . In recent years , Prof. Angelus Galanopoulos of the University of Athens has advanced the theory that Plato may have been right . Many scholars have thought the legendary location of Atlantis to be in the Atlantic . Dr. Galanopoulos says it more likely was in the Aegean Sea . Dimensions checked out Plato reported sizes and dates as handed down to him . These indicated Atlantis was hundreds of miles in size and that it sank into the sea 9,000 years before Plato 's time . Dr. Galanopoulos points out there is a systematic error in the figures that makes them 10 times too large . Taking this into account , he notes that the dimensions of Atlantis are comparable to those of the Crete-Thera island complex . Thera , itself , might well have been the site of the metropolis or religious center . Also , the date of Atlantis ' destruction would fit the time of the eruption . He suggests that the Atlantean civilization was what we now call the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was destroyed catastrophically , at the height of its flowering , some 3,500 years ago . The destruction of part of Thera in a volcanic eruption would account for this decline .. Part of the 11-mile-diameter island , which was the top of the volcano , collapsed cataclysmically . This is what happened when Crater Lake was formed in Oregon and when the Island of Krakatau in the East Indies exploded violently in 1883 . Volcanic prelude likely About half the island was obliterated in the Krakatau blast . A tidal wave nearly 100 feet high drowned 86,000 people in nearby Java and Sumatra . The eruption at Thera is believed to have been some five times more powerful than this . It easily could have destroyed Minoan power , much of which was believed based on Crete and perhaps on Thera . Mr Mayor , a marine geologist , nas been studying the Thera area for several years . He points out that the eruption , while sudden , would have been predicted by volcanic activity . He envisions an initial eruption in which pumice and ash was spewed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet period . Finally there would have been more activity and then the final violent collapse . All of this may have taken place over a period of , say 50 years . Animal remains found This would account for the buildup of ash and pumice that is many feet deep in places on the island . It would explain why the newly found settlement was not destroyed in the final catastrophe and why no human remains have yet been seen in it . The people would have had plenty of warning and time in which to leave the island . Mrs. Vermeule said that no gold . was found in the sites studied so far . This may indicate that they took their gold with them . But they did not apparently take their animals in their small boats . Remains of pigs , goats , dogs and other domestic animals are plentiful . The ash and pumice falling down on the settlement over years filled the houses in every cranny . When the final shocks came , this packing protected the buildings and their contents . The eruption and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that now the archaeologists involved are going to try something that has never been done before . They are going to try to uncover the buildings and their contents by developing mining techniques which will leave the ground surface untouched . They hope to build an underground museum . In this , you eventually would be able to walk about , see the houses , and go inside them . The ground overhead would be artificially supported , allowing the vineyards above to continue to flourish . New techniqueS needed Such a museum calls for developing the needed mining techniques , for building a road and harbor  --  and of course for money . So far very little has been uncovered . The team working from last May 22 to June 30 dug out only enough to realize that they had a major find on their hands and lacked the means to excavate it properly . They did uncover enough to indicate that there is over half a square mile to the site and that it includes a large complex of two-and three-story buildings . Some 30,000 or more people may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , found on the upper floor of a few of these buildings , suggest there may be a wealth of wall paintings as well as other art treasures . The excavations were carried out by a team from the Archaeological Society of Greece , Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute , Wellesley College , the Museum of Fine Arts , and the University of Pennsylvania . Titanium Metals Corporation of America supplied a geological and mining consultant . Prof. Spyridon Marinatos of the University of Athens directed the expedition .                     