@@723620

txt An arbitration board set up by Congress ruled today that 90 per cent of the diesel locomotive firemen 's jobs in freight ' and yard service were unnecessary and eventually could be eliminated . The two unions representing firemen immediately announced that they would attack in United States District Court here the award and the legislation under which it . was rendered . Even if the . award is sustained by the court , it does not mean that 90 per cent of the affected firemen will be laid off . Effective for 2 Years The board drew a sharp distinction between the jobs that it said could be eliminated and the men who occupy them . The great nrajority of the 40,000 men involved must be retained as firemen by the terms of the award until they quit , die , retire or are dismissed for cause , or are offered a comparable job by the railroad employing them . The award is effective for only two years . This means that its terms will be subject to renegotiation long before the men who occupy most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignations , deaths , retirements and discharges runs ' about 5.5 per cent a year on the railroads . Other Issue Remanded The board sent the other issue.before it , involving the numbin* of trainmen needed in various train operations , back to the individual carriers and the unions involved for local negotiations . Pending settlements , however , it prescribed an arbitration procedure to settle disputes over the size of some train crews and specified the crews subject to the procedure . The arbitration was the first to be imposed by Congress in a peacetime labor dispute . Congress acted Aug. 28 , on the eve of a national railroad strike , to bar the walkout and to refer the two principal issues in the four-year-old railroad work rules dispute to the arbitration board it created . The three neutral members of the board were joined in their award by the two members representing the railroads . Both union members dissented . The three unions representing train crews nave not decided whether to attack the award in court . Their presidents will make the determination Monday when they meet here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the award and its implications . ? Congress hoped that once the two key issues had been ruled on by the arbitration board , the secondary issues could be resolved through collective bargaining . These involve the carriers ' demands for extension of existing runs by train crews beyond present railroad division lines , greater flexibility in using road crews for yard work , the manning of self-propelled vehicles and revision of the complicated railroad pay structure , which is based on a combination of time worked and miles traveled . Negotiations on these questions will resume Dec. 4 . If they are not resolved by Feb. 24 , the unions will be free again to strike over the secondary issues . Both sides indicated today that they hoped the secondary issues could be resolved amicably . But informed sources ' indicated that a settlement was by no means certain and that the entire dispute might wind up in the lap of Congress again . Members of Board Today 's award , unless it is set aside by the courts , will become effective Jan. 25 . It will continue hi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is amended by agreement between the railroads and the unions . The three neutral members of the board were the chairman , Ralph T. Seward , of Washington a professional arbitrator ; Benjamin Aaron , director of the Institute of Industrial Relations of the University of California at Los Angeles , and James J. Healy , professor of industrial relations at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration . The union members were H. E. Gilbert , president of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Fire ! men : and Enginemen ; , and R. H. , ' vice . president- of the Brotherhood of Railroad'Trainmen . The engine service union Involved in the dispute ; in addition to Mr. Gilbert 's , is the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers . The three train service unions are the B. R. T. , the Order of Railway Conductors and Brakemen and theiSwitchmen 's Union of North America . The five unions represent about 200,000 of the nation 's 700,000 railroad workers . The two management members of the board were J. E. Wolfe , chairman of the National Railway Labor Conference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Railroad . The dispute formally began on Nov. 2 , 1959 , when most of the nation 's railroads served notice on the unions that they wanted sweeping changes in work rules to allow them to eliminate thousands of jobs that they contended were unneeded . Result of Conversion The railroads also opened a national publicity campaign to enlist public support in their fight against what they for years have called " featherbedding " ? a term , infuriating , to rail unions and workers , meaning a requirement that employers hire unneeded workers . The dispute has become the classic modern example of the difficulty of adapting to technological . change in the face of shrinking employment . Although there have been many innovations in railroading , the principal one has been the conversion from coal-fired steam to diesel locomotives . The diesels can pull longer trains faster and need less maintenance . Under the impact of the diesels , other new machines and dwindling business , railroad employment has been cut since the end *of World War II from 1 , - 400,000 to 700,000 . The unions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elimination f still more jobs . The symbol of the fighf is the diesel fireman in freight and yard service . The'railroads have argued that he is. , not necessary ; the ' engine-service unions , . that he is . The board ruled for the railroads . Neutrals ' Reasoning The neutral . members , in a separate opinion accompanying the board majority 's award ; said that the lookout function now assigned to the fireman was performed by the head brakeman , who also sits in the cab with the engineer in road freight service , and by all members of the train crew , in ' yard service . The railroads have never . demanded that firemen on passenger trains , where there is no head brakeman in the cab with the engineer , be eliminated . The neutral members also said that most of the mechanical duties now performed by the fireman were not absolutely essential to the safety and efficiency of road freight and yard operations . Such duties as are essential can be performed by the engineer while the locomotive is operating and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engineer is incapacitated while a freight train is moving , the head brakeman can take over , the neutral member said . Yard locomotives must be equipped with a dead-man control before they can operate without a fireman , the board decided . The board conceded that there might be some cases where foremen might be needed on freight or yard crews for safe and efficient operation and to prevent an undue burden from falling on other workers . Here is the procedure it set forth for the elimination of firemen 's jobs : Within a week from the date the board 's award is effective , the railroads will hand the unions lists of engine crews on which the railroads say firemen are not needed . The unions will have the right to insist that firemen be retained on 10 per cent of these crews . They will indicate which ones within 30 days after getting the railroads ' lists and their judgment will be final . The process will be ' : ' repeated every three months to ' allow for the fact that the total number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail business . But the railroads Will not immediately be , able to stop assigning firemen to 90 ? per ' eent of the freight and yard crews . The board said that working firemen ' with 10 or more years ' service ? an estimated total of 26,000 of the 40,000 firemen involved  --  must be provided with firemen 's jobs until they quit , die , retire or , are dismissed for cause . Other Rulings Given . Those with : more . than two years ' seniority , but less than 10 years , . about 10,500 .. men , will continue as firemen unless offered comparable employment by the railroad* on which ' they work . The , offer of another job will carry with it relocation expenses , the continuation of accumulated seniority . rights toward vacation and other fringe benefits and guaranteed annual earnings equal to the total earnings of the employe in the year prior to transfer . The pay guarantee applies for up to five years . Several remaining groups , with less than two year 's seniority or an irregular attachment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay of varying amounts . About 3,500 men are estimated to be in this group . The board also ordered the carriers and the two engineservice unions to establish a joint board , with two members representing the unions and two the railroads , to make the continuing study of the experience under the award and to report to those they represent within three ' months before the award runs ; out . With respect to tratn-service crews , the board ruled that they should stay the same size in , road service , unless changed by mutual agreement , in cases where they are made up of one conductor and two aides , such as brakemen , flagmen or ticket ' collectors . In branch line and yard service or in road service where other than three-man crews are being used , either side may propose changes . If . they can not agree , the issues will be decided by arbitration . The board set forth certain guidelines , such as safety , avoidance of unreasonable burden and volume of rail traffic in the area , . to guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs could be subject to review under these procedures . Even counting three-man crews , the railroads , never proposed eliminating more than 19,000 employes in this category and more recently cut the number to 12,000 . Even if the award is sustained by the courts , the railroads will not be able to eliminate jobs they otherwise might in 17 states that have so-called full-crew laws or regulations requiring crews of minimum sizes on trains that run inside their boundaries . Battle in the State One effect of today 's award is expected to be to sharpen the battle over these laws at the state level , with the railroads trying to get rid of them where they exist and the unions trying to have them enacted where they do not . The neutral members , in their opinion , expressed their regret that the railroads and- the unions were not able to agree on resolving their differences . Noting that never before in peacetime had Congress imposed arbitration In a labor dispute , the neutrals said : " The great virtue of arbitration as it has developed in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a volun- ' tary procedure , created and shaped by the disputing companies and unions themselves and thus responsive to their peculiar problems , values and needs . " It is unfortunate that the parties in this case , though finally agreeing in principle to arbitration , failed . to agree upon the terms and procedures of an arbitration agreement and thereby abandoned to Congressan opportunity and responsibility that should rightly have been theirs . " Little Effect in New York The New York State Association of Railroads said yesterday that the arbitration award would probably have little effect in the state because of minimum crew laws enacted in 1913 . ? An association spokesman ' said the state laws required a fireman on freight trains and yard engines and on " trains other than freight trains of five cars or more . " The state laws also require a fireman on all diesel locomotives .                     