@@724124

txt WASHINGTON , July 22 ? The Economist of London , in the issue of July 18 , has wisely reminded the British press , which among other voices in the United Kingdom is raging against the nomination of Senator Goldwater , of a fundamental fact . This is , that the choice of the next President is " America 's own affair . . . It is not for us in Europe to lecture or hector the Americans " ; that this can only serve the interest of those who would weaken the Western Alliance . The proof was promptly supplied yesterday at Warsaw in the attacks on Goldwater by Khrushchev and Gomulka . The British have a vital stake in this nation 's foreign policy ; and in its " conduct , " which is the exclusive authority of the President under the Constitution . But , conversely , Americans have a vital stake in British foreign policy and its management ; also in the economic policies of a nation where American capital has made a very large investment . And this autumn there is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether fundamental changes will be made in both its foreign and domestic policies . However , the American media of public information practice a restraint in commenting on , and an objectivity in reporting the news of , the electoral campaigns in other allied nations that are almost totally absent in the daily British press in its Goldwater man-hunt . And these American standards are being observed as British voters go about their own business of deciding whether to replace a party generally in step with the United States with a party whose policies conflict with ours in major particulars . Wilson 's Divisive Positions If , as the indices of British political preference foreshadow , the Labor party will come to power in October , with Harold Wilson as Prime Minister , these policy conflicts will be transmuted into divisive political action . For examples : 1 . Wilson favors the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the company of the nuclear powers , and on July 3 , 1964 , opposed " any proposal to arm the Germans with nuclear weapons . " Washington is uncertain whether this means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formation of the multilateral force ( MLF ) , a nuclear naval deterrent proposed by the United States in which West Germans will be included . If so , British nuclear policy will operate in double reverse to that of the Administration . 2 . A year ago Wilson proposed an arrangement with the U.S.S.R. for military disengagement in Europe , and a top priority in East-West negotiations for the establishment of nuclear free zones . This proposal generally conforms to one advanced by the U.S.S.R. , and lacks the safeguards without which it is wholly unacceptable to the United States . 3 . With respect to the nationalization of industry on the Socialist model Wilson has shifted ground in the last few years from his insistence that nationalization include defense industries , those based on community-sponsored scientific research , machine-tool plants and urban building programs . But he is committed to the re-nationalization of the steel industry as a core principle of Socialism , despite the disastrous failure of the past attempt . And he opposes the acquirement by any American company of control of its British subsidiary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.N . with no further conditions than that it append its discredited signature to the Charter . All these positions would justify an American press barrage against the accession of the Labor party to power if it were to emulate the virulent outcry of the British daily press against the Republican party 's exercise of its right to choose Goldwater as its 1964 Presidential nominee . And by the same practice the American press would retort to British taunts of discrimination here by critical reminders such as these : Although parliamentary government had existed for centuries , onehalf of the House of Commons was still being chosen by 3 per cent of the adult British males late in the reign of Queen Victoria . Not until 1871 could a Catholic enter Parliament . And the Crown , the Prime Ministry and the post of Lord Chancellor still are barred to British Catholics .                     