@@727658

txt The Communists , and not the Western allies , have begun to cave in on the tense issue of West German presidential elections in West Berlin . Clearly the Soviet Union wants no serious crisis in the divided . city at the beginning of President Nixon 's administration . This is the apparent meaning of two extraordinary weekend meetings between West German Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger and Semyon K. Tsarapkin , Soviet Ambassador to Bonn . Mr. Tsarapkin- told the Chancellor a West German decision to hold its March 5 elections elsewhere than Berlin would tend to improve relations between the Soviet Union and West Germany . To this end the Soviet envoy reportedly offered a renewed Berlin pass agreement , allowing West Berliners to visit their relatives to the east . Dr. Kiesinger is said to have // *West Berlin issue defused by Communists ? // stressed that a one-shot pass deal , covering only Easter , would not suffice . Permanent arrangements must be established for visits between Berliners , he said . Bonn also may demand that Communist East Germany abolish a series of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin . Within the past year East Germany has barred overland transit to senior officials of the West German Government and to all members of the right-wing National Democratic Party of Germany . It also has required all West German citizens to buy an East German transit visa for travel from West Germany to West Berlin . The city lies 110 miles inside East German territory . Site might change For some or all of these concessions , West Germany might bow to Communist desires and elect its next federal president in a city other than Berlin . West Germany thus would be giving up an established right . The last three presidential elections have been held in West Berlin . But this is a right of little practical importance . Eighty percent of West Germans recently polled did not consider it essential to hold the election in West Berlin . Concessions granted by the Communists , on the other hand , would be substantive and would ease the burden of separation among Berliners . Negotiations toward a compromise now will be taken . up by the West Berlin Senate ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the normal channel of communication , where Berlin is concerned . Threats fail Prime mover in the new situation almost certainly is the Soviet Union . Communist threats , including rumblings about military maneuvers , had failed to budge Bonn and its Western allies . This foreshadowed a possibly dangerous confrontation during the first week of March , one week after President Nixon had visited the divided city . Mr. Nixon is due in Berlin Feb. 27 . The Soviets apparently are willing to pay a price  --  or to force East Germany to pay the price  --  to ease tensions that might block Soviet-American negotiations on other subject 's . Everyone , in fact , will welcome getting off the Berlin hook . West German officials had made clear their willingness to consider changing the election site , if the Communists came up with concessions . The Communist orchestration included not only the Kiesinger-Tsarapkin talks but a letter from Walter Ulbricht , East German chief of state , to West German Foreign Minister Willy Brandt . Party channel used The letter was written in Mr. Ulbricht 's capacity as First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Brandt as chairman of the West German Social Democratic Party . The device conformed to the East German position that the West German Government has no jurisdiction over West Berlin , which the Communists regard as a separate political entity . For several years East Germany and the West Berlin Senate negotiated Berlin wall pass agreements at Christmas , New Year 's , Easter , and other holidays . In 1966 the East Germans slammed the door on further pass agreements .                     