@@724635

txt What 's ahead ... Shrieks , gasps , tears , and probing searchlights will mix with glamorous gold lame , and it will be Oscar time again . Academy Awards will be handed out April 5 for the best screen works of 1964 . Millions will watch on television . Most years one or two films usually run off with the major awards . This year will be no exception . Two frothy musicals , " Mary Poppins " and " My Fair Lady , " and one historical drama , " Becket , " lead the pack with 37 nominations between them . They will be the stars of a very emotional night . The United States Federal Communications Commission is about to take a knife to television programing . Commission members meet March 15 to take the first step to curb the power of the three big national networks to decide what the public sees . The FCC wants advertisers and independent producers to have half a say . The FCC plan would outlaw networks from owning more than 50 percent of the shows they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent and wield almost total power over what stays on and what does n't . Commissioners hope to improve programing quality . But their crackdown is loaded with controversy , questions , and doubt . It will trigger a fight that may last for months . World War II is about to break out all over again ? on the screen . Moviegoers will be shelled in 1965 by a barrage of war films unmatched since the conflict itself . At least two are already running . Still ahead are seven this summer and four next fall . And there may be more before Christmas . Burt Lancaster , Paul Scofield , and Jeanne Moreau , for instance , are arriving in " The Train . " John Wayne and Kirk Douglas will show up " In Harm 's Way . " Marlon Brando and Yul Brynner will be along in " Morituri . " And for year-end relief , this ambush with Alec Guinness : " Situation Hopeless ? But Not Serious . " Trends ... Religious drama faces revolution on one front and revival on another . The revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Certain Protestant churches in the United States now go less and less for old-style liturgical and Biblical drama . Instead , they are trying new forms . A few are pioneering avant-garde drama on controversial social subjects . A favorite theme is race relations . The revival , still only potential , is on the secular stage . It is harder to pin down . it is more a feeling . But Peter Hall , director of Britain 's Royal Shakespeare Company , has suggested the next important era in drama may center on religious subjects . He says one of the theater 's most urgent needs may be a play about Jesus . Arts are becoming an affair of the states . Some 20 states now have art councils or commissions in some stage of development . Most are still on paper . But three ? in New York , California , and North Carolina  --  have passed the paper phase . With Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller 's support and $50,000 in its pocket , a New York council pioneered the field in 1960 . Live opera , ballet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tour where they had never gone before . The council 's budget has now swollen to $650,000 . North Carolina recently spearheaded a venture unique in states-arts movements . It launched plans for a state-supported school of the performing arts . How and why ... President Johnson has proposed a $10 million federal-aid program for the arts and humanities . And the Rockefeller Brothers Fund has declared the performing arts " in trouble " and rung the alarm for aid on many levels . These two events fell within two days of each other . Together they have rammed powerful new momentum into the drive for large scale federal aid to the arts . If the President 's program passes and if the Rockefeller report is implemented , they would propel the arts to unprecedented status in the United States . They would make government perhaps the largest single patron of the arts .. And they would upgrade the arts into a national-civic necessity instead of a luxury .                     