@@726924

txt The busing committee of the board of education decided yesterday to hold city-wide hearings on the school busing issue at 7 p. m . Feb. 26 and 27 in Jones Commercial High school , 606 S. State st . The committee , which reached its decision during a meeting in the Sherman House , said the same rules will apply to the city-wide hearings as applied to the neighborhood hearings . Three-Minute Talks However , speakers , at the hearings have been asked to limit talks to three minutes rather than the five minutes that were allowed during the neighborhood meetings . " We ask them to do this because of the additional task these hearings will place on the committee and because we learned from the neighborhood meetings that most persons can present their views in three minutes , " said Mrs. Lydon Wild , committee chairman . One representative from any interested established com community organization will be heard except for groups from school districts 4 , 17 , and 21-where hearings already have been held . Must Ask Permission Mrs. Wild said those wishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with copies of their prepared statements to Mrs. Margaret Collins , board secretary , room 810 , board of education , 228 N. La Salle st . All requests must be postmarked no later than midnight Tuesday . The committee decided on the city-wide hearings because of the interest shown in the busing proposal which involves the entire city , said Mrs. Wild . Earlier in the day , the board of education , meeting in the Sherman House , voted unanimously to place a 15-cent property ? tax increase referendum before the voters at the June 11. primary election . List New Tax Rate If approved , the educational tax rate would be raised from 51.86 to $2.01 for each $100 of assessed valuation . The action was the board 's first move to raise the 31 million dollars needed to finance the wage and fringe benefits agreement with the Chicago Teachers union . The tax increase would provide 15 million dollars more revenue , and the board hopes to get the other 16 millions needed from the state legislature . Before the board meeting , the group named the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a new union of inner city teachers and other school employes and wants to be their sole collective bargaining agent . May Join Teamsters The substitute teachers , who staged a two-week strike last month to support demands for automatic certification , said the tentative name for the new group is Inner-City Schools union . Their proposal calls for affiliation with " a strong international union " such ' as the International Teamsters union . " The Chicago Teachers union is not doing its job , " said James , spokesman for the substitute teachers . said the substitute teachers hope to form a second group called the Association for the Improvement of Inner-City schools . Several hundred demonstrators picketed the She r man House , where the board held its meeting , in protest against Redmond 's pupil busing proposals                     