@@724355

txt Austin , Tex. , Nov. 14 ? A decision to move ahead with a crash program to deal with the national problem of 500,000 American youths who will be unable to enter college or find jobs in 1965 was reached today in conferences between President Johnson and his secretaries of labor and health , education and welfare . Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz said after meeting with the President at his Texas ranch the intensified youth education and job training program of the federal government must accomplish its aims by late next summer if it is to be effective . " Starting on the first of January , " Wirtz told a press conference hi Austin after leaving the President 's ranch , " we have about an eight-month countdown period to make good on our obligations to about half a million boys and girls in this country . Call it ' operation birthright ' Increase of Million The labor secretary reported that next year , 3 1/2 million American boys and girls will become 18 years of age an increase of 1 million in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the age at which most youths either go on to college from high school or enter the work force looking for jobs . Wirtz said that unless effective and immediate action is taken thru expansion of present government programs and enactment of new legislation , one of every seven of those 31/2 million youths " is going to have a door slammed in his or her face . . . either a job door or it is going to be a college door . " Colleges Are Crowded He estimated that 200,000 of the half million youths the government will try to help will not be able to enter college because there will be no room for them next year . He noted that this academic year , the University of Illinois was obliged to turn away 5,200 applicants . He went on to say that the other 300,000 of the half million entering the national work force will be unable to find jobs . The labor secretary tied this prot , lem in with the school drop-out problem . citing " the close connection between poverty , ignorance , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and private ? to deal with the over-all problem of educating or finding jobs for youths in 1965 must be a crash program . He said the basic programs already are in effect , but it will be necessary to ask Congress to enact new legislation when it convenes . Fears Strike Crisis Wirtz said he reported during the LBJ ranch conferences he and Anthony J. Celebreeze , health , education and welfare secretary , had with President Johnson yesterday and today that a serious situation is facing the nation with regard to labor strikes or major collective bargaining disputes . He mentioned prospec , s for labor troubles in the months ahead in the railroad , steel , shipping , and pulp and paper industries . Celebreeze , who also held a news conference in Austin today after his meetings with the President , reported that the projected spending budget for the department of health , education and welfare in the 1966 fiscal year starting next July 1 is 7.9 billion dollars , compared with 7.1 billion in the current 1965 fiscal year ? nd 3.9 billion in fiscal 1961 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Celebrezze said the Johnson administration will renew its efforts when Congress convenes in January to obtain passage of its program of medical care for the aged financed thru social security system . The medicare program died in the last Congress . Celebrezze said he is confident the program will be approved by the new Congress . Celebrezze said the administration also will renew its efforts to increase social security benefits . He said the increases to be proposed " will be within the range " of the 5 per cent raise approved by the House in the last session of Congress and the flat $7 monthly boost voted by the Senate .                     