@@723122

txt Letters to The Times pg . 36 Letters to The Times City Tax Program Opposed Savings Held Possible in Vital Services Without Their Impairment To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The budget hearings before the Board of Estimate and the City Council demonstrated that many informed spokesmen for the city 's business and civic organizations are deeply disturbed about the administration 's fiscal policies . It is clear that the Mayor 's tax package was conceived in a politically charged atmosphere . The Citizens Budget Commission has characterized the tax package as disastrous and has also proposed a program representing the best remaining alternative to the Mayor 's tax program , The conventional reaction of the city administration , which has been more or less standard for upward of three decades , is to single out the most essential expenses such as welfare , police , fire , education , health and hospitals , debt service , etc. , and to point out that the balance of the budget , amounting to not more than 13 per cent of the whole , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course this defense is thoroughly fallacious , because it ignores the probability that substantial savings may be made in so-called vital services without in any degree impairing them . Indeed , the scrutiny we suggest might well bring actual improvement . This point is traditionally overlooked when the annual defense of the budget is put forth by a city administration . Specific Economies The alternative to increased taxation , presented on behalf of the Citizens Budget Commission by its counsel , Harold Riegelman , at the recent hearing before the Board or Estimate , penetrates this fallacy . It demonstrates , with line and verse , a total of $94,800,000 of specific economies , calculated on a most conservative basis . In the storm of recriminations that occurred during Mr. Riegelman 's two-and-ahalf hour presentation , no figure was successfully challenged . The avoidance of new taxes was based not only on these economies , but on additional measures proposed on behalf of the commission . These were : A proposed city economy program to be carried out by city staff during 1963-64 to effectuate additional economies ; A proposed extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ key city officials , to provide advice and policy backing for the 1963-64 economy program and to set long-range expenditure and revenue goals . It would have been easier to meet this year 's problem if such a corn , . mission had been set up last year , as recommended by the Citizens Budget Commission . It is doubly urgent now , both as a means for resolving the present crisis and , just as important , for avoiding the otherwise inevitable recurrence of similar crises in the future . PETER GRIMM . New York , May 6 , 1963 . Sweepstake No Solution To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The editorial reaction of The Times and the article by Arthur Krock regarding the New Hampshire Sweepstakes were disappointing . I had hoped for more perceptive comment . Our state aid to education ranks lowest in the nation . Virtually no one denies that new revenues are needed . But the issue is how they are to be raised . New Hampshire has been postponing year after year the basic question of a fair and equitable broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state sales tax or state income tax . Our property taxes and inventory taxes are notoriously inequitable and out of date . And at the same time many potential sources of tax revenue go untouched . Ours is a poor state ? at least in many areas . Being involved with the Cheshire County Health and Welfare Council , I am keenly aware of the fact that our welfare services are severely handicapped as it is . So this issue of another potentially highly regressive tax ( justly pointed out in your May 2 editorial ) is more important than one would at first realize . Many of our families know only a carping poverty ( affluent society aside ) and are sorely tempted by the lure of making a big killing on the " Sweeps . " It is therefore very likely that a state-sponsored and therefore publicly approved and readily acceptable lottery will only aggravate an already difficult sit . nation . Mr. Krock leaves me with the distinct impression that there is something quaint and attractive about this New Hampshire lottery ? part of our assertion for independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of slavery . RICHARD W. BAUER . Keene , N. H. , May 2 , 1963 . Gains for Communism Seen Senator Fulbright 's Support for Coexistence Policy Queried TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was deeply disturbed by the implications of your lead editorial on May 6 , " What Kind of a Victory ? " Advocacy of the policies lauded by Senator Fulbright has permitted Communist subversion , revolution and invasion to make vast gains in the years since World War IL In the light of these gains , ( and our losses ) , it is surprising that anyone would advocate similar policies for the future . We have existed with Communism for almost two generations , but who has gained and who has lost ? From any objective viewpoint we see an appalling loss of peoples , nations , territory and influence . In determining whether basic Communism has changed its modus operandi , some pertinent rhetorical questions are : Have we seen an end to Communist-inspired revolutions ? , Is subversion continuing ? Have the Red Chinese sought " coexistence " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy ? Are we prepared to forsake forever millions of enslaved peoples ? Would Ulf dualism you advocate have succeed ed in containing Hitler ? I do not believe that any Western power truly desires a " total war , " and perhaps no Communist power does either , so long as its aims are achievable by other methods . Thus far these other methods have succeeded , and we have found ourselves being slowly garroted by own own one-sided coexistence policy . Our ideas have been freely available during this period of history , but they have foundered in the face of Communism . Even in this battle for men 's minds we have lost ignominiously . True , no one can presently " win " a nuclear war , but surely we must be prepared to wage one if , as has appeared , other methods continue to fail . You may eschew the " total victory " of the two world wars , but how would the world appear to . day without it ? And ; one should ask himself , how will the world appear 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle ? I. ROBERT ROZEN . New York , May 7 , 1963 . Courses on Foreign Affairs TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The comment of Walt W. Rostow , chairman of the State Department 's Policy and Planning Council , that it would be " difficult and unwise to mix up the highly professional and sensitive courses required by Government officials with the kind of courses one might mount for private citizens " in a future freedom academy or national academy of foreign affairs , is a further illustration of the growing gap between the individual and his government , and the patronizing attitude being assumed by this Administration toward the private citizen . Having had the privilege while in Government of taking such courses , I can attest to their value for the private citizen . There is absolutely no reason why a limited number of selected persons in private life could not be admitted to the future " Foreign Service Academy " after proper security clear , once . On the contrary , such procedure could go a long way in bringing the citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of confidence among those in the private sector regarding those who guide our foreign affairs . ROLAND I. PERUSSE . Bethesda , Md. , May 2 , 1963 . Care for Laboratory Animals To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A bill that would effectively reduce cruelty to animals in laboratories ( Randall bill , H. R. 4856 ) has been introduced in Congress and should be supported by all Americans . It establishes standards of care for laboratory animals and requires adherence to those standards . It would do away with unnecessary and inexcusable suffering ? repetitious work done in 9,000 laboratories employing 200,000 people , and using more than 175 million animals a year . Humane control of the use of ant . mals in research can be achieved only by Federal law . It is the least we can do for these poor defenseless creatures . EDITH FASTNACHT . Brooklyn , May 7 , 1963.                     