@@723730

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. ** of the more preposterous machines of the day is the super-supersonic jet airliner for which the Government has just received several tons of preliminary designs . No one knows how Is This much the thing will Plane finally cost . It is Necessary ? vaguely discussed as " a billion - dollar project , " which is an old Washington euphemism for " hold onto your shirts . " But whatever the cost , the Government will pay most of it . And what will we get for our money ? A machine that can travel at from 1,500 to 2,000 miles an hour . This is not good enough . For the kind of money this is going to cost we are entitled to an airplane that can fly at 5,000 miles an hour at least . ( Nobody need trouble about the aircraft industry 's reply that it can not produce a 5,000 m.p.h. airliner . As soon as the 1,500 m.p.h. model is finished , the aircraft industry will be right here in Washington demanding money for the 5,000 m.p.h. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the slower plane . Consider the problems in a cross-country trip . It would take about two hours of flight , which would mean that the passenger would have all the problems encountered in the present five-hour trip , and have less time to cope with them . He would have to resist chewing gum , display a buckled seat belt , listen to a chat from his captain , buy a drink , bolt an in-flight meal , reject an in-flight magazine  --  why do airline meals and magazines seem to be chosen for prefabricated people ? ? and observe the no smoking sign twice . Allowing for ground The time at both cities , a Ultimate trip between New Commuter York and Los Angeles would still take five to six hours , depending on street traffic conditions and the breaks at the luggage rack . Only with a plane in the 5,000 m.p.h. class does supersonic travel begin to make sense . At this speed the continent can be crossed in 30 minutes . Gum , drink , meal , magazine and captain 's chat are out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could go from Fifth Avenue to Sunset Boulevard in three and a , half hours , have lunch , close a deal , play eighteen , holes and be back in Manhattan the same evening for a nightcap . At this speed the illusion of progress becomes reality . One could commute to Madison Avenue from San Francisco , or nip over to London for lunch and pick up a bottle of strega at Rome on the way home to dinner . But the slower plane changes nothing . Why does n't the industry proceed directly to build the 5,000 m.p.h. jet ? People who understand machines say it is because machines , like people , come in generations . These people say it is as unthinkable to skip from the 700 m.p.h. jet to the 5,000 m.p.h. jet as it is for a man to sire a grandson . The main duty Progress of the 1,500 m.p.h . Coming jetliner will be to With a Bang break public resistance to the noise of supersonic flight . In flight , the plane will lay a " boom carpet " from 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acute cases may crack the parlor chandelier or rouse the sleeping with a sound as of heavy artillery on the lawn . It is anticipated that there will be the usual doomed but tenacious resistance to progress by people who are unwilling to tolerate a little noise so that the expense-account set can keep moving ahead . The job of the slow generation of supersonic jets will be to wear down and dispirit this opposition , so that the country will accept the really intolerable . noise to come from the big babies doing 5,000 m.p.h . By that time , presumably , we will have learned to route these jets over the same kind of communities that now have superhighways built through them . Effective progress fighters are rare in such neighborhoods . They have learned that when the drinking classes want to move fast , progress fighters had better stand aside for the concrete mixers . RuSqELL BAKER .                     