@@723812

txt The Supreme Court held today that Texas 's Congressional districts must be redrawn , but hinted that the task could be put off until after this year 's election . In a brief order , the Justices summarily affirmed a lower court ruling that population disparities among the districts violated the Constitution . The vote was 7 to 2 . The ruling applied the Court 's landmark decision of two weeks ago in a Georgia case that Congressional districts must be substantially equal in population . The new element today was the hint of some leeway on timing . Specifically , the Court said that Texas officials could have until April 1 toi ask the trial court for relief from the latter 's judgment . This was that all 23 seats must be filled at-large unless new districts were drawn . The trial court , today 's order suggested , should consider the problem " in the light of the present ' circumstances , including the imminence of the forthcoming election and the operation of the election machinery Of Texas . " This was a reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing Congressional seats in Texas . Filings closed on Feb. 3 , and 2the primary will be held May . Most lawyers read the order as a broad suggestion to the trial court to withhold its hand now because the election machinery had already started to roll . Looking beyond Texas , the ruling carries the implication that the Supreme Court will not press for immediate redistricting in any state where the Congressional election process has started to operate . Since many states have already closed the books for Congressional candidates , the effect is to ease the impact of the Georgia ruling . The big changes in the House can now be expected to come in the election of 1966 . Texas officials and members of Congress were pleased at the way the Court handled the matter , In Austin , Gov . John B. Connally Jr. , said the Court had " recognized the difficulties " in the way of action in 1964 . Representative Wright Patman , a Democrat who is dean of the Texas delegation in the House , hailed the decision as " giving us another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he wanted to make It " absolutely clear that nobody is resisting redistricting . " Previous efforts to realign the districts have been stopped by political squabbles , but action is now expected at the next regular session of the Legislature in 1965 . The Texas districts are among the nation 's most disparate in , population . They range from 951,527 in the Dallas district to 216,371 in a rural district next door . Five Texas voters challenged this imbalance . Last October a Federal district court , anticipating the Georgia decision of the Supreme Court , held the districts invalid by a 2-to-1 vote . That ruling was stayed pending review in the Supreme Court . The stay will now continue until the district court considers the state 's application for delay , as suggested by the Supreme Court today . The six Justices who agreed to the " one person , one vote " opinion in the Georgia case joined in today 's unsigned order . Justice Torn C. Clark went along on the basis of his view rejecting the strict population standard but agreeing that Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Potter Stewart dissented , as they did in the Georgia case . It might have been possible in Texas to cancel the scheduled primaries , call the Legislature into special session to redraw the Congressional districts and set a new primary date . But the Supreme Court evidently felt that such haste would be unseemly and unnecessary , in the long view of history , , to carry out the principle of equal representation in the House . Maryland is now urgently debating its Congressional districts , with a special session expected . And just today a threejudge Federal district court in Detroit indicated a new Michigan Congressional districting statute might be unconstitutional . In b Georgia , the districts were redrawn by the Legislature within a week of the Supreme Court 's decision in that case .                     