@@726316

txt Syria is gripped by a new crisis in politics and religion . Damascus says the United States Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) instigated it . Some violence apparently erupted May 7 and 8 in Damascus , Hama , and Latakia when " red guard " workers and militiamen tried to open shops closed by merchants in protest over an atheistic magazine article . An official Syrian Government statement said the CIA was behind the article , which appeared in the weekly Al Jaish al Shaabi , organ of the Chinese-style civilian " people 's army . " The article said that " God and religion , like feudalism , capitalism and imperialism , as well as all the values which had prevailed under the old society , are dummies in the wax museum of history . " Effect immediate Such statements are incendiary in a predominantly religious society like Syria . Even extreme leftist governments have never dared directly attack religious faith . The article was signed Ibrahim Khalas , whose name means " salvation . " The Damascus radio proclamation which said the CIA had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ashawi . He was called " military governor . " This reminded Syrians that martial law has been in effect in the country since 1961 , when Syria broke away from the 1958 union with Egypt in the United Arab Republic . Damascus radio interrupted programs May 8 to read cables of support from " armed workers " in the seaport of Latakia , from national guardsmen , and from provincial sections of the ruling Baath ( Arab socialist ) Party . The antireligious article appeared May 4 . Sheik Hassan Habanakeh , chief of the Syrian League of Mama , or religious notables , ex- horted Moslems in a sermon May 5 " to defend their religion at all costs . " Sheik Habanakeh , several other ulamas , and members of the magazine 's staff were then reported arrested . On May 6 Greek Catholic ( Melkite ) Archbishop Yussef Tawil and Syriac Orthodox Archbishop Staiti , who had been preparing to celebrate the Syriac Orthodox Easter May 7 , interceded personally with Colonel Ashawi . The two Christian bishops asked for release of the Moslem dignitaries . Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two bishops , and 10 other Christian clergymen , were arrested by Army squads after they attacked the government in Sunday sermons .                     