@@727725

txt Student unrest and violence hit three Chicago area colleges yesterday , closing one for part of the day , causing all classes to be canceled at another , and sending police to the third school . The Y. M. C. A. college at 211 W. Wacker dr. was closed from 11 a , m. to 5:30. p. m. after a student announcement in the morning on the school 's public address system that a sit-in would be held and all classes canceled : At Chicago State college , 6800 Stewart ay. , Dr. Milton Byrd , college president , called off all classes after a Negro co-ed allegedly was sprayed with a can of chemical by a white student in the cafeteria . 12 Invade Lounge About 12 Negroes , only a few of them identified as college students , invaded the student lounge at Prairie State college 's North campus , 196th and Halsted streets , Chicago Heights , and overturned chairs and tables , smashed three windows and a jukebox , and fought white students . They left the campus in three cars shortly before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Y. M. C. A. college was barricaded with lumber , brooms , and garbage cans , and students manned a lumber barricade at the rear door . About 400 Negro and white students attended a rally in The Dugout , a student lounge in the basement . Talks are Halted The student action disrupted the college 's Careers day conferences which were under way on the 14th floor of the 18-story building . Counselors representing business and industry were permitted to leave thru a rear door for lunch but were not permitted to return . Students came in thru the back door with musical instruments such as drums , saxaphones , and guitars . Ald. Fred Hubbard 2d and F. R. Carver Nixon , both trustees of the college , conferred with students and Dr. Donald K. Canar , college president , and then with John Root , executive director of the Metropolitan Y. M. C. A. Hubbard met last night with about 25 student leaders in the school and told them he had been asked and agreed to act as liaison man between the students and the Y. M. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of education as soon as possible . " Hubbard said the students agreed they would not call for any more demonstrations until after he addressed members of the student body this morning and again tomorrow morning . Reports Called False Canar said the reports that the college was not renewing the contracts of two teachers and planned to drop 260 students from the work-study program were untrue . He said two faculty members who had not been assigned to full-time teaching had heard from Dean John Bouseman that he wanted to discuss their returning to full-time teaching jobs . As for the work-study program , Canar said the college planned to request more funds from the federal government . Canar said there were incorrect reports among students that the college faced loss of accreditation . He said the college had never been accredited and was seeking accreditation . At Chicago State college , which was temporarily closed March 14 by an outbreak of violence , about 500 students attended a special meeting before the cafeteria incident in which the black co-ed reportedly was sprayed and classes called off . Police questioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Byrd said Chicago State planned to resume classes today . At Prairie State college 's North campus , part of which lies in Chicago Heights and part in an unincorporated area north of Chicago Heights , Richard Jones , dean or students , reported the invasion of the student lounge by the blacks came without any warning and without any explanation . Jones said the disturbance was over so quickly that the blacks were able to drive safely away before sheriff 's police arrived from the Homewood district station . The lounge is in one of six portable buildings on the north campus . The college lies entirely in Bloom township , where the Bloom Township High school was closed Monday after a fight between black and white students in which 11 students were injured . The school will be reopened on Monday .                     