@@722322

txt Reno , Nev. , March 4 GP ? Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller , who has to remain until March 15 in Nevada before she can divorce the New York governor , is making an obvious effort to convert her required six week divorce stay into a pleasant vacation . She goes horseback riding every day the weather permits at a modest but comfortable guest ranch 10 miles west of Reno in the Sierra foothills . She hikes the mile or more to the rural postoffice in Verdi , a small U. S. highway 40 town on the California border . She has tried the gaming tables and dropped a few coins in a slot machine at Harrah 's Lake Tahoe casino . She dines out occasionally . " She Looks Great " " She looks great , " was the way a resident of the Donner Trail ranch summed it up . " She 's really enjoying herself . " This was in sharp contrast to her arrival Feb. 1 when she refused to step outside her ranch quarters and when the ranch owner described her as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bothered . " Those who talk with her describe her with words such as " friendly " and " down to earth . " In the Trinity Episcopal church , the Rev. John Ledger said he was n't even aware she had been attending services altho she has missed only one or two Sundays there . Fond of Area Those few who will talk with reporters about Mrs. Rockefeller say she has become fond of the Reno area and its scenic Sierra backdrop . Mrs. Rockefeller 's attorney , William Woodburn , has said nothing since he announced she was in Nevada to divorce the governor . He has declined to disclose what day she will file her complaint . Governor Wo n't Comment Gov . Rockefeller , 53 , has had only a " no comment " since his wife 's arrival in Reno became known . Mrs. Rockefeller , 54 , can file for divorce in District court no sooner than March 15 , probably on the usual Nevada divorce grounds  --  extreme cruelty . To sue for divorce here , she must qualify as a Nevadan ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've been here six weeks . Ask Three Questions In addition , she will be asked three questions ? if things go their normal way : . " When you arrived , was it your intention to live here indefinitely and make Nevada your home ? " " Has that intention abided with you until the present day ? " " Is it still your present injention ? " She must answer yes to all ' three . Gov . Rockefeller will have to have a , lawyer representing him in court the day she files a lawyer who wo n't contest the divorce . If the court schedule breaks right and the lawyers are prompt , the Rockefellers ' 31 year marriage could be dissolved within five minutes .                     