@@727983

txt James Forman , the black militant leader , has made few visible gains in his quest for " reparations " to blacks from American churches , but he has succeeded in spurring a struggle for power between blacks and whites in the country 's predominantly white Protestant institutions . The struggle has potentially far-reaching implications because blacks , who represent about one out of every four American Protestants , have thus far exercised little influence within these institutions . The increased militancy of Negro churchmen is being felt in all of the major Protestant denominations , and especially in the National Council of Churches , which represents most major Protestant and Orthodox churches in the country . The estimated total of one million Negroes in predomi ? nantly white churches and the 11 million members of all-black churches make up more than a quarter of the council 's 42 million constituents . Public controversy over the Issue of " reparations " to blacks for injustices resulting from slavery began May 4 , when Mr. Forman and six associates disrupted services James Forman at Manhattan 's Riverside Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from correspondents of The New York Times in eight major cities indicate that the subsequent wave of sit-ins and other demonstrations across the country had the following effects : gMembers of local congregations have virtually unanimously rejected Mr. Forman 's demand for reparations and vigorously condemned his tactics and the revolutionary rhetoric of his " Black Manifesto . " As a result , he has been able to raise only 518. - 000 of the $3-billion that he seeks from white churches and synagogue.i . ( National leaders of the major denominations and the church council , however , have been seriously divided over how to respond to the black demands . Some fear that this polarization will se- riously impair the future functioning of the council on social matters . Black churchmen in various denominations have been unified in support of Mr. Forman and the Black Economic Development Conference , the budding organization for which he is the chief fund raiser . ) The central issue has shifted in recent weeks away from reparations and the tactics of confrontation . Instead , the key question in current discussions is whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of decisionmaking authority to blacks within their ranks . " As long as everyone was talking simply about money , we were missing the real point , " said the Rev. Charles S. Spivey Jr. , a black who is director of the Department of Social Justice of the National Council of Churches . " The overriding issue is now redistribution of power . " The current crisis arose in late April when Mr. Forman , a veteran civil rights activist and former national chairman of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee , read his I " manifesto " to the National Black Economic Development Conference in Detroit . The meeting had been organized by the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization , an ecumenical agency that channels church funds to organizations of poor people . The " manifesto " called for $500-million of reparations ? later raised to $3-billion ? for projects such as a Southern land bank , black publishing and television facilities and a black university . It also called for the building of a socialist society run by blacks and urged radical steps against existing social and economic institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " but no oppressed people ever gained their liberation until they were ready to fight , to use whatever means necessary , including the use of force and power of the gun to bring down the colonizer . " At the present time the status of the Black Economic Development Conference that emerged from the Detroit meeting is still in flux. , The organization has no off ice or full-time staff , and Mr. Forman has operated largely out of the offices of black staff members of the National Council of Churches . Last week he Pach Bros . Rev. Charles S. Spivey Jr . " As long as everyone was tallzing simply about ntoney , we were missing the real point . " reportedly left for a vacation in the Caribbean . The conference has a 24-member Steering Committee that includes several representatives of the National Welfare Rights Organization and prominent members of the National Committee of Black Churchmen , an ecumenical group founded three years ago . Among the board members are Julian Bond , the Georgia legislator , and the Rev. M. L. Wilson , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elected Two weeks ago the committee elected as its chairman the Rev. Calvin B. Marshall 3d , 37-year-old pastor of the Varick A.M.E. Zion Church in Brooklyn . " We 're in the organizing stage now , " he said in an interview . " The important thing is to develop our regional representatives , give out assignments and organize grass roots support . " In general , predominently white churches across the country have consistently rejected any suggestion that they owe reparations to present-day blacks for the sins of their fathers . There has also been a visceral reaction to the anticapitalistic rhetoric and revolutionary ideology of the " Black Manifesto . " When the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization failed to denounce United Press International Rev. Gayrod S. Wilmore Jr . " ln crisis . . power that is supposedly resident in our offices simply is not operative . " has prompted numerous Protestant groups to initiate new programs in ' the area of black economic development . Thus far , however , virtually all of them have circumvented direct involvement with Mr. Forman and his group . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S.A. , whose general assembly heard Mr. Forman speak and voted grants of $100,000 to the Interreligious Foundation . It also authorized planning for a $50-million fund-raising program for general antipoverty work . Major Changes Seen The Rev. J. Edward Carothers , head of national missions for the United Methodist Church , said that the Forman controversy has " unglued our bureaucracies . " " The demonstrations have made it possible for us to shift priorities away from traditional projects like elementary schools and concentrate on community organization and other work with the disadvantaged , " he said . In St. Louis , a Presbyterian congregation that was visited by demonstrators responded by setting aside $200,000 for lowincome housing . Such programs , however , have not obscured deep division among religious leaders , especially at the national level , over how to deal with the race issue . The most seriously divided have been the leaders of the National Council of Churches , whose 27 - member executive committee has been unable to agree on any action either for or against the economic conference . The pro-Forman camp has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of today 's racial situation and sought to maintain the council 's traditional role as a leader on social ' issues . Others , however , have cited threats they have received to withold funds if the council endorsed Mr. Forman , including some from pastors who have avidly supported such controversial civil rights activity as the council 's voter registration drive and other work among blacks in Mississippi . One high official of the council predicted that endorsement of the black conference would lead member denominations to impose new strictures on the council 's freedom of action and would cause some of them to reconsider their methods of selecting delegates . Many also agreed with Dr. Carothers that " even if the council urged us to support the Forman group , our denominations probably would n't come up with the money . " While the demonstrations have polarized white groups to the point of inaction , however , they have hastened a movement toward black unity that began with the formation of the National Committee of Black Churchmen . " There 's no doubt that Jim Forman 's actions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said the Rev. J. Metz Rollins , executive director of the group . The reasons for this new solidarity are complex . Partly it results from a new sophistication regarding the allegedly " racist " nature of predominantly white churches , especially in their role as major economic institutions . Also involved is increased sensitivity to what leading black churchmen term their " powerlessness " in the predominantly white ecclesiastical structures . Those with relatively high positions repeatedly asserted in interviews that while they are increasingly consulted by white officials and thus have grown in influence , they still have relatively little authority in decision-making . Several pointed out , for instance , that when officials of the Interchurch Center , the headquarters of numerous religious groups at Riverside Drive and 120th Street , and its principal tenants voted to seek a court injunction barring further sit-ins , ? no black was involved in the decision . " I would have hoped that in such a situation white leaders would have taken the advice of some of us who have been around for a long time and understand the black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a black who. is head of race relations work for the United Presbyterians . " But in crisis situations somehow the controls shift to manual , and the power that is supposedly resident in our offices ' is simply not operative . " Role in Decision-Making It is for this reason that the focus of attention among churchmen has shifted in recent weeks from the demonstrations to the role of blacks in the decision-making process . " The fact is that black and white church officials have unequal voices when they speak , " said the Rev. Robert C. Chapman . a black Episcopalian on the staff of the council . " I , myself , would be willing to table the Forman issue for the time being if blacks and whites in the churches would seriously confront this problem . " Some major white leaders have also come to similar conclusions in recent weeks . " The issue is no longer reparations or the B.E.D.C. It 's whether we are prepared to follow more closely the advice of blacks , in our denominations , " said William P. Thompson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if a transfer of power to blacks becomes a priority item , however , the problems are considerable . Within the National Council of Churches , for instance , some officials have suggested that the funds should go to leaders of the allblack churches rather than to the more militant blacks in the predominantly white denominations whose numbers are considerably smaller but who have forced the issue . Another problem is whether blacks should give priority to taking over positions now filled by whites or to the setting up of new all-black bureaucratic structures in fields such as urban missions . This is a matter on which black strategists are in considerable disagreement . A major unanswered quesII tion is also the viability of the alliance between blacks in the churches and Mr. Forman and his associates outside them . Although the ultimate ambitions of Mr. Forman and the black economic conference ex ' tend far beyond what could be funded by religious bodies , the two groups have thus far been able to smooth over tensions and work closely together . Pressure Used The black churchmen have been content to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of keeping pressure on the churches in which they are trying to gain greater power . In turn , they have provided the only reliable constituency and power base that Mr. Forman has thus far developed . Despite the many problems posed by the conflicts in the churches in the last three months , there have been some recent signs that both blacks and whites are softening their positions . In an interview , Mr. Thompson , who was known for his hard line against Mr. Forman , stated that he would be willing to see Presbyterian funds channeled to the conference " if the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization approved the manner in which the money is to be held and administered . " Black churchmen , in turn , presumably in consultation with Mr. Forman , have begun to state privately that they are willing to abandon the fight for recognition of the black conference ' by white church groups as long as funds are made available for projects like the land bank and other items envisioned by the " Black Manifesto . " One close adviser of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent boards that would be funded by the churches yet work in close collaboration with leaders of the Black Economic Development Conference . He expressed some optimism that this would happen even though the Interreligious Foundation , one such project already established by the churches themselves , has not received any new funds as a result of the Forman controversy . " The important thing is to get the funding , " he said , " and it does n't make much difference whether it is over , under or around the table . " the document that emerged from its conference , for instance , the American Jewish Committee withdrew from its board . Leaders of the Roman Catholic Church in the country , which has about 600,000 blacks as parishioners , hut only one Negro bishop , have denounced the manifesto and refused to accede to any of its demands . Despite this general hostility to the document , however , numerous national and local religious groups have also acknowledged that the demonstrators raised valid issues that had otherwise gone unattended . " My people were incensed at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifth Presbyterian Church in Atlanta was a target of demonstrators . ' " But almost without exception they faced the fact that this kind of movement has sensitized them to the needs of the poor Negro . " The Rev. Ernest T. Campbell , senior minister at Riverside , and the first clergyman to feel the brunt of demonstrators , preached a sermon two weeks ago on " The Case for Reparations . " In it he decried the manifesto 's talk of revolution but stated , " Rather than be grudge reparations , I should think that we would rejoice that our sin , in part , is reparationable . " As a result of such attitudes , the wave of demonstrations l he New York limes Rev. Calvin B. Marshall 3d " The important thing is to develop our regional representatives . . . organize grass roots support . "                     