@@722752

txt Mayor Wagner announced 22 new arrests yesterday on charges of rent-control violation . At the same time , he accused Governor Rockefeller of seeking to " whitewash " abuses of the law when it was administered by the state . The new arrests brought the total to more than 50 in the city investigation of the state 's supervision of rent control prior to last May 1 , when the city took it over . Fifteen of the new arrests involved landlords and seven involved suppliers of household equipment . In some previous cases the city bas charged that landlords had based their claims for higher rents on padded bills received from the suppliers . Unwarranted rent increases have resulted , the city has asserted . Those arrested yesterday were charged with conspiracy , forgery in the third degree and with acting in concert to defraud tenants . In a bitter attack on Governor Rockefeller , Mayor Wagner charged that the Governor had " frantically sought to cover up the scandals of four years of landlord-minded administration of the rent control law . " He also criticized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent control situation . The city , the Mayor said , had been " handicapped by the studled , deliberate and concerted obstruction offered our efforts by officials of the Rockefeller administration , including State Rent Administrator Robert E. Herman . " " The scandal-ridden Rockefeller administration is going to be exposed , " Mayor Wagner said . " The false cloak of honesty and respectability is going to be torn from those who have thus far sought to hide their sins of omission and commission behind it . " The attack on Governor Rockefeller over rent control was joined last night by Robert M. Morgenthau , the Democratic candidate for Governor . Mr. Morgenthau said he was " appalled " by yesterday 's arrests " in the growing scandal of the state 's administration of rent control . " " Clearly , " Mr. Morgenthau said , my first duty as Governor will be to launch a thorough , top-to-bottom state investigation of the way rent control was administered under Rockefeller . The Morgenthau statement was ridiculed later by William L. Pfeiffer , Republican state campaign manager . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is talking about . He 's only parroting the intemperate , inaccurate statements prepared for him by Mayor Wagner 's ghost writers . " Mayor Wagner said he had complained to Mr. Rockefeller as early as Jan. 31 , 1961 , in a letter that " payoffs have been made by contractors to Rent Commission personnel to secure , approval of work which the commission had ordered performed . " More Cuts Expected Mayor Wagner asserted that " we have already started and shall continue to track down every case , and we will roll back every rent increase which was improperly awarded . " He added that " hundreds of rent rollbacks are in the works as soon as the proper evidence has been gathered . " In a television broadcast over WNBC , the Mayor repeated his charge that Mr. Rockefeller had " tried to whitewash " alleged rent-control scandals . On the same program , Jacob S. Potofsky , president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America , praised Mr. Morgenthan as " a man who shares our ideals . " The Governor last night characterized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state had turned over all its files to the city , including cases state officials had been investigating before the city took over rent control . He noted that only one state inspector had been indicted since the city began its investigation several months ago . At the instruction of Investig-ation Commissioner Louis I. Kaplan , City Rent Administrator Hortense W. Gable announced yesterday that she had dismissed Frank Ehrlich , 54 years old , of 91-99 Payson Avenue . He has been a $4,976-ayear rent inspector in the Bronx Afice of the rent agency . Mrs. Gabel said that Mr. Ehrlich , described as " one of the inspectors who approved padded bills while previously employed by the State of New York , " had refused to appear for questioning by Mr. Kaplan on Oct. 25 . On Thursday , Lawrence Handel , 61 , of 98-14 74th Street , Forest Hills , Queens , a former senior rent inspector for the Temporary State Housing Rent Commission , was one of three persons indicted in Brooklyn in the rent-control inquiry . The seven suppliers of household equipment were described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its inception , as officers and employes of a kitchen supply concern . They were accused of conspiring with landlords to defraud tenants by furnishing inflated bills for filing with the State Rent Commission covering stoves , kitchen cabinets and other items . Landlords Accused Of those arrested , the landlords accused of offenses committed in Manhattan were : Abraham Parkoff of 249 Pennsylvania Avenue , Brooklyn . Emanuel Hilders of 163 Elm Drive East , Levittown , L. I. Edward Keschinger of 102-28 93d Avenue , Ozone Park , Queens . Henry Moskowitz of 180 Riverside Drive . Hugo Sternlight of 124 East 84th Street . Those landlords accused of offenses committed in the Bronx were : Anne Ganton Rich of 101-23 Avenue J , Brooklyn . Alan Brothers of 143-15 Neponsit Avenue , Neponsit , Queens . James Schembri of 2269 Hampden Avenue , the Bronx , Albert Shannm of 38 Midchester Avenue , White Plains . Jack Teichler of 110 West 86th Street . Raphael Cohen of 314 Reid Avenue , Yonkers . Eli Hannes of 139-19 31st Road , Flushing , Queens . Those landlords accused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3020 Nostrand Avenue , Brooklyn . Hyman Silverman of 211 East 39th Street , Brooklyn . Frances Silverman of 211 East 39th Street , Brooklyn . The suppliers arrested , described by Mr. Kaplan as officers and employes of Julian Hess , Inc. , " one of the largest dealers in kitchen supplies in the country , " were : Alvin Hess , president of the company , and his wife , Gloria , chairman of the board , both of 101 Fredricks Place , Mount Vernon , N. Y. Herman Levine , 2175 Lacombe Avenue , the Bronx . Nancy Paolucci , 1147 Croes Avenue , the Bronx . Larry Newman , Serpentine Lane , Searington , L. I. Kay Marino , 1953 Davidson Avenue , the Bronx . Ruth Berkowitz , 701 West 189th Street , The five landlords arrested in connection with Manhattan charges and all seven kitchen supply officials and employes appeared before Criminal Court Judge Reuben Levy and were paroled for hearings on Monday . The seven Bronx defendants were paroled for hearings Nov. 30 after being arraigned in Criminal Court , the Bronx , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alleging forgery and conspiracy . The remaining defendants were scheduled for arraignment in Queens . Mr , Kaplan said earlier yesterday that 77 buildings with 4,700 apartments were involved in the arrests , He estimated that overcharges totaled more than $250,000                     