@@726004

txt Account of Assassination Is Reported to Charge Neglect by Guards By HURRAY SCHUMACH Many examples of alleged incompetence or neglect among those who guarded President Kennedy the day he was killed are said to be contained in detail in William Manchester 's book , " The Death of a President . " A man who now has the 1,300-page manuscript said yesterday that the book gives names of allegedly derelict Dallas policemen , agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Secret Service men in appraising the assassination in Dallas , Nov. 22 , 1963 . Also in the book , he said , are stories about factionalism in the Secret Service after the assassination , friction between President Johnson and Robert F. Kennedy about when the President should deliver his first message to a joint session of Congress and heated bickering about whether President Kennedy should be buried in Massachusetts or at Arlington National Cemetery . The man who has the manuscript is in the publishing business , but is not involved in the suit brought by Mrs. John F. Kennedy to block the publication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in March or April , and a four-part serial by Look magazine scheduled to begin Jan. 10 . " This book , " said // the man who asked to remain unidentified , " is full of the ineptitude of those who were supposed to protect the President . " " It shows that the F.B.I . men were too busy looking for places in the parade , " he said . " He names everybody and has the quotes to back it up . " The source describes the book 's account of the split in the Secret Service as follows : It broke out shortly after the assassination . Some of the men were convinced their obligation was to the murdered President . Others were equally certain their first duty was to his successor . It was one of these Secret Service groups that ordered Mr. Johnson aboard Air Force One , where he was sworn in as President and flown , along with the widow , the body of her husband and Presidential aides , to Washington . The friction between Robert Kennedy and President Johnson in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the inability to establish direct communication . The two men were constantly using intermediaries to make arrangements that ranged from the routine to the crucial . Two examples assertedly cited in the book were the desire of the new President to use space in the secretarial offices of his predecessor and his wish to set a date to deliver a message before Congress . The source continued his report of the book as follows : President Johnson had held back from moving into the White House , remaining in the Vice-Presidential offices at the Executive Office Building . His attempt to get space for some of his aides in the offices that had been used by President Kennedy 's workers was seized upon by the Kennedy contingent as an illustration of Mr. Johnson 's boorishness . Then when President Johnson conveyed to Robert Kennedy that he was planning to address a joint session of Congress on Tuesday , four days after the assassination , because he was eager to show that there was no disruption of Government operations , another disagreement arose . President Kennedy 's brother , then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just another example of Mr. Johnson 's desire to seize every vestige of power and trappings that went with the title of President , without concern for good taste . Mr. Kennedy raised strong objections and suggested Wednesday instead . Mr. Johnson agreed and on Wednesday he paid tribute to President Kennedy at a joint session in which he made his famous plea for the " earliest possible passage " of a civil rights program to remove " every trace of discrimination and oppression . " Mr. Manchester is known to have said that in his account of the behavior of Mr. Johnson , he had tried to be fair , but that those who disliked Mr. Johnson and those who liked him would find material to support their points of view . Burial Disputed Where to bury President Kennedy became a matter of heated bickering , according to this account of the book . Most of the Kennedy faction thought he should be buried in Massachusetts . Almost alone , however , in his insistence that the President be interred in Arlington was Secretary of Defense Robert S. . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arlington , and others bowed to her decision . This strength on the part of Mrs. Kennedy , after the day of the assassination is one of the important themes of the book , the man said . " The book shows Mrs. Kennedy as making 90 per cent of the decisions about the funeral and behaving with incredible courage , " the source said .                     