@@720990

txt Senator John F. Kennedy made it official today . He told a news conference that he was a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination and was convinced that he could win both the nomination and the election . At the same time Democratic leaders who believe that his following can be consolidated beSenator John F. Kennedy at his news conference yesterday hind the Democratic ticket if lir Kennedy is given the VicePresidential nomination Nt'ere given a sober warning . If he is rejected for top place on the ticket , the Senator said , he will refuse to accept the Vice-Presidential nomination " under any condition . " ' Not subject to Change ' This decision , he added , " will not be subject to change tinder any condition . " The 12-year-old Massachusetts Democrat , first . serious Doman Catholic contender for the Presidency since Alfred E , Smith ran in 192S , delivered his long-exp2eted announcement to a crowded news conference in the Senate Caucus Room . Of the many Democratic contenders . Senator Hubert H. litimphrey of Minnesota is the only other who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1214 ; ion , Mr. Kennedy said : " I would think that there is only one issue involved in the whole question of a candidate 's religion  --  that is , does a , candidate believe in the Constitution . does he believe in the Mist Amendment , does he behove in the separation of church and state . When the candida.ti gives his views on that question , and I think I have given my . views fully . I think the subject is exhausted . " Audience Applauds An audience of about 300 ' supporters and friends ap'plauded various answers to the reporters , giving the session the flavor of a political rally . Mrs. Kennedy also attended the con.ferenee . Mr. Kennedy has been openly . campaigning for the Democratic nomination for months . Thus today 's ceremonial announcement came as no surprise . At present the Senator is the acknowledged front-runner in the crowded field of Democratic contenders . But the large number of serious candidates and favorite sons threatens to prevent him from building a strong lead . Part of the Kennedy strategy is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Presidential primaries . As expected , he announced that he would enter the New Hampshire primary of March 8 . He will announce his intentions about other primaries ? in Wisconsin , Oregon , Nebraska , Indiana , Maryland , Ohio , Florida and California  --  within the next six weeks , he said . He also issued a challenge to Senator Stuart Symington , who is playing a waiting game , to contest with him in the primaries . Seeks Competition Asked whether he was challenging the Missouri Democrat " to come in and get his feet wet " in the primaries , Senator Kennedy replied that any man who expected to be considered a serious candidate at the convention " should enter some representative primaries . " Mr. Humphrey formally entered the race Wednesday . The Minnesotan , forecasting " an uphill fight " to realize his own ambitions , plans to enter primaries in Wisconsin April 5 , the District of Columbia May 3 , Oregon May 20 and South Dakota June 7 . Senator Kennedy is unlikely to have opposition in the New Hampshire primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showdowns will presumably come between him and Senator Humphrey in Wisconsin and Oregon , There is wide speculation within the party that no candidate will be able to win a clear majority of delegates b.:lore the July convention in Los Angeles and that , after a deadlock develops , the delegates will turn to a compromise nominee . Kennedy Doubts Theory Those most frequently mentioned as compromise choices are Senator Symington , Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas and Adlai E. Stevenson , twice the standard bearer against General Eisenhower . Senator Kennedy today took Issue with this theory . " My opinion is that by April or May we will have a pretty good idea of who is going to get nominated in July , " he said . " I think when the primaries are through we are going to have a pretty clear idea as to who is going to be the nominee . " I do n't believe there is going to be a deadlocked convention . I do n't agree with that concept at all . I would think that even before the convention the pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Senator said that the President during the next four years would have to make " the most Trucial decisions of this century . " Issues Listed These , he listed as follows : 1 9 " How to end or alter the burdensome arms race . " q " How to maintain freedom ' and order in the newly emerging nations . " q " How to rebuild the stature of American science and edu- 1 Gallon . " el " How to prevent the col- 1 lapse of our farm economy and the decay of our cities . " 11 " How to achieve without : further inflation or unemployment expanded economic growth . " q " How to give direction to ' our traditional moral purpose , , awakening every American to the dangers and opportunities that confront us . " Praises Humphrey Senator Kennedy declined to rate the comparative strength of his opponents for the nomination , There were no " substantive ' differences " between himself and Senator Humphrey , he said . ' Their voting records are " quite comparable " and both are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think Senator Humphrey would be a good nominee and 5 would support him wholeseartedly . " Questioned about Governor Rockefeller 's withdrawal from contention for the Republican nomination , Mr. Kennedy said that he had been surprised . " In some ways I think it makes Mr. : Nixon 's problem more diffi- ' cult , " he said . He did not elaborate although many Democrats are trying to use the Rockefeller withdrawal 1 in depict Vice President Nixon as the candidate of the Republican bosses . What attracted the most attention here today , however , I was the firmness with which Mr. Kennedy rejected the possibility of the Vice-Presidential nomination . Statements of this I type are a standard feature of I every announcement of condi- I . dacy , but Mr. Kennedy 's Cate-gorical notice that he would not be available was considered unusual . " I am a candidate for the Presidency , " he said , " and if I I fail to achieve that nomination , then I shall return to the Senate . " The duties of the VicePresidency are limited , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in case of ties in Senatorial roll-calls " and to watching the health of the President . "                     