@@723988

txt Chicago One week not long ago , two new prisoners arrived at a United States penitentiary . Their offenses were the same : dealing in narcotics . One was a pharmacist , a college graduate . He had smuggled in more than SI million worth of heroin . The other , according to the warden , was " an addict-peddler who probably never had 550 in his pocket . " The college graduate got five years . He " had very good defense lawyers . " The addict got 60 years in prison and no eligibility for parole . He can not get out until he is 97 . This is an admittedly dramatic instance of the disparity in sentencing which still prevails in many parts of the United States . Penal officials say things are improving , but they still see much room for improvement . In recent years , federal judges have been conducting seminars and institutes on sentencing . Congress passed legislation establishing these sessions . In some judicial districts , committees of judges have been meeting informally to discuss pending sentences . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which cases merit confinement behind bars and which deserve other kinds of treatment . These informal exchanges , says a federal probation officer , are " an extension of the old practice of a judge 's going across the hall to ask the opinion of another judge . " Less Divergence The net result , says Ben S. Meeker , chief United States probation officer in Chicago , is " less divergence and more standardization in sentencing . " Two of these judicial experiments are being conducted in Chicago and Detroit , according to Mr. Meeker . So far , sentencing seminars have been largely confined to federal judges . State and municipal judges are generally not involved in such legislation . It is in their courts that disparities in sentences often occur . The purpose of institutes and seminars on sentencing is not to try to equate sentences , according to James V. Bennett , director of the United States Bureau of Prisons . " We arc trying to get judges In follow some fundamental philosophy of judging , " he explained during a recent visit to Chicago . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilty credit for that and give him a lesser sentence if he stands trial ? " What is a judge 's philosophy with regard to the value of deterrence ' ? . What kind of crimes can you deter by a stiff sentence , and what by probation instead of commitment ? " Many judges , " Mr. Bennett continued , " feel it is necessary to jail a man for income-tax evasion or fraud because jailing him will strike the fear of Cod into other people . Other judges take the position that they arc not going to use the judicial process to enforce the income-tax law . " Or take the case of sex deviates . Some judges feel homosexuals are extremely dangerous to the community and should be committed . Others feel that if they confine their activities to consenting parties , they are not committing a crime . " In these and other cases . said Mr. Bennett , judges should work toward a common approach . The federal prison official was in Chicago to address the annual meeting of the John Howard Association . Prison wardens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The association is a private prisoners-aid agency . Parole Problem Disparities in sentencing are not the only inexplicable decisions that trouble prison wardens . Several pointed to parole decisions . " In many cases , " related T. Wade Markley. warden of the United States Penitentiary at Terre Haute , Incl. , " we do n't have the slightest idea in the world why a man does n't make parole . We sec no reason . He goes up with excellent Prospects and he comes back denied . " A lot of these guys just drop and go downhill . " the warden said . " It 's awfully hard to get them back up , " Parole boards , by policy , generally give no reasons for their decisions , several wardens explained . Piet u re I m p roves Wardens are also irritated that people generally der not realize the correctional system encompasses far more than jails and penitentiaries . " Too often , " charged Warden Markley , " people look at , us and say . ' Look at what your failures pre . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is done long before a man reaches prison . Some judges , for example . he said , " publicly shame people in front of their families . We get many men who come in bitter because the judge gives them a lecture To top it off , they did n't get adequate defense from the court-appointed attorney . " Despite these instances . the assembled wardens agreed the correctional picture is steadily improving . " The most important fact , " said Glenn C. Petty , assistant chief of probation , " is that . all of its in corrections  --  the institutions , probation people . the indgcs  --  arc working together toward the same goals . " Second of three articles                     