@@727152

txt Property insurers are on tenterhooks awaiting the outcome of proposed federal reinsurance legislation . With warm summer months already rounding the corner , insurance officials worry that they may again suffer heavy losses if urban riots develop . Federal reinsurance could help soften the blow . By buying such reinsurance , insurance companies would at least share with Washington the risk of writing policies in ghetto areas . A new agency would be set up under the pending bill . It would be self-supporting through premiums paid by insurers  --  at least over a period of years . In addition , the measure would assist states and insurers to set up statewide plans to give all property owners fair access to insurance coverage . e Washington is rigging up a new kind of " no dumping " sign . The outcome should be a much-needed speedup in determining whether dumping is really going on . This pesky problem involves foreign firms selling goods in the United States at prices lower than they charge at home . To combat the practice , Washington at present has a cumbersome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then by the Tariff Commission . Penalties are slapped on the importer only if both agencies believe the dumping damages the American industry in question . This procedure is being scrapped . As of July 1 , both agencies will begin their investigations simultaneously and have only three months to come up with conclusions . The change is important to international trade relations . In the past , the United States has drawn sharp criticism from trading partners for dragging out dumping investigations while importers ' goods languished at the docks . e - The communications industry  --  never at a loss for words  --  may soon have some explaining to do . Trustbusters in their stalking togs think they can detect diminishing competition between media ( such as wire services and broadcasting companies ) and the firms which support them ( such as telephone companies who own transmission lines and the makers of communication equipment ) . The Department of Justice tipped its hand the other day when retiring antitrust chief Donald F. Turner suggested that the 1956 consent decree which placed a limit on American Telephone &; Telegraph 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may not have gone far enough . There are no signs that the Justice Department will move to break up AT &T; and Western . But even the suggestion sets the communications industry buzzing . What it does mean is that the Justice Department is candidly searching for ways to prevent concentration in the hands of a few of the industry 's firms . Trends ... Long-range planning continues to spread among corporations . Even commercial banks  --  at least the biggest ones  --  now are spelling out plans for expansion , profits , and activities for the years ahead . Up to two or three years ago , most bankers figured planning would n't work for them . Too many uncertainties , they thought  --  monetary policy , demand for business loans , and so on . However , George A. Murphy , chairman of Irving Trust Company , says he 's been pleased to see how close his bank has performed to its planning goals . Irving established a " plan " about 11/2 years ago . Like most corporate plans , Irving 's is a five-year plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Communist countries . However , whereas the market place is a major factor in determining the success of a company in reaching its goals , it is less of an element in Communist planning . A plan , Mr. Murphy finds , tends to be self-fulfilling . Managers are under considerable psychological pressure to reach the plan goals . Furthermore , it enables a bank to better decide where to put its financial resources in order to obtain the highest return . How and why ... The Netherlands has a new instant Girl Friday service for tourists and visiting businessmen . Stenographers , translators , and interpreters fluent in European languages are available on short notice from a group called International Secretaries which employs some 30 women . Hotels in the Netherlands say they find these highly skilled workers an asset to trade and tourism . Their rates : $6 an hour .                     