@@723020

txt Washington Congress is now considering one of its touchiest farm problems  --  how to reduce the $500 , - 000,000 a year cost of the dairy program . In other words , whether or not to control dairy production . Actually , it has never been done . The government has price-supported milk , butter , and cheese for many years without controls over production . When Congress was asked by the administration to approve mandatory quotas on individual dairy farmers last year , it replied with an emphatic " no . " No action at all was taken with respect to the dairy program . Legislation Asked This year , with surpluses still piling up in refrigerator plants , the President in his farm message asked for new dairy legislation in the form of voluntary controls over production . He suggested a program under which dairy farmers who voluntarily marketed less milk would receive higher price supports than those who did not join the program . Administration authorities said such a program would boost dairy income , discourage overproduction , and possibly reduce the retail cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But no administration bill to ce " ry out this plan has been introduced in Congress as yet . Secretary of Agriculture Orville L. Freeman has said he would support any bill promising to improve incomes of dairy farmers , reduce the cost of the program to taxpayers , and curb the rise in government stocks of dairy products . Disparity Appears Both the Senate and House Agriculture Committees now meeting to discuss posed legislation . The Senate committee is considering three bills which would modify the present pricing systems for fluid milk and milk which is used for manufactured products , One bill would set the price of surplus milk at a far lower figure than the others . The disparity in views on the committee and among witnesses became immediately apparent . Sen. George McGovern ( D ) of South Dakota and George D. Aiken ( R ) of Vermont feel there is overemphasis on the cost of the program . Senator McGovern said much of the cost should be charged to welfare and aid programs which receive dairy surpluses . Cost Averaged There arc also those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in law , as production and consumption come into balance . After the present hearings are concluded the committees will report to Mr. Freeman who will later come up with his own report and recommendations . For many years the cost of the dairy program averaged about $300,000,000 or less a year . Its rising cost has numerous causes , including shifting price supports , a decline in milk consumption , and an increase in milk production . In 1961 , the cost of the program rose to more than $600,000,000 . It has declined somewhat since then . Dairy products , under the present law , are supported at a rate between 75 and 90 percent of parity , to be set by the Secretary of Agriculture .                     