@@722917

txt " Dave today is a greater labor leader than he has ever been . He has a far better understanding of the situation In steel and a far greater grasp of what is best for the men . " This paean to the president of the United Steelworkers of America comes from a steel company executive whose opinion of Mr. three years ago could n't have been printed . His change of mind is not unusual . It mirrors a new atmosphere in steel labor relations created largely by an industry-USW group called the Human Relations Committee . Some company and union sources  --  with the understood agreement of U.S. Labor Secretary tz ? even are suggesting that similar committees might help industries other than steel to settle labor disputes without strikes or heavy pressure from the Federal Government . The committee was set up by the contract that ended one of the greatest labor battles in history  --  the 116-day steel strike of 1959 . Since early 1960 it has brought together about SO industry and steel union experts on a fairly continuous basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , medical insurance and job classifications . The aim : To prepare for peaceful contract settlements by trying to resolve these problems through detailed study and informal discussions in advance of actual bargaining . Rapport Yes , Drama No Operating in this fashion , the committee has produced none of the drama  --  and little of the publicity ? of formal wage negotiations . For that very reason , however , it has been steadily building rapport among negotiators who once saw each other principally as adversaries arguing set positions under the pressure of a strike deadline . Last year , as a result , the committee came up with a solution for plant-seniority problems that could have become explosive if tossed into formal bargaining sessions . Its accomplishment played no small part in enabling the USW and 11 major steel companies to sign a new contract last March ? an unprecedented three months ahead of the old pact 's expiration . Now , two Human Relations subcommittees are trying to solve before May 1 problems relating to medical insurance and vacations . On that date the union can reopen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 days later . The union 's 34-man executive board today is concluding a two-day meeting in Miami Beach at which it has been considering a report on the committee 's progress . Delayed Reopening ? No union decision on reopening is expected now , and there 's a growing feeling among labor experts that any reopening may be delayed beyond the May 1 date . But most guessing is that the union will reopen eventually to seek job security benefits and possibly an extended vacation plan of the type it recently won from major can companies , though perhaps not to seek wage boosts . If so , there could be trouble . Steel executives , who last year watched industry profits fall below $800 million for the first time in a , decade , say they 'll take a stern stand if the pact is reopened . For all ' the amity on the Human Relations Committee , says one steel negotiator , the USW still has n't learned " that there are times when it should be thought no sacrifice for a union to ask little or nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , is spreading optimism in steel centers that there wo n't be a strike even if the pact is reopened . And at worst , no one in steel seems to expect anything remotely resembling a repeat of the 1959 strike marathon . One reason : The Human Relations Committee has taken the heat out of some issues that inflamed emotions in that battle by providing detailed information that was lacking then . Time Data Needed The major issue in 1959 was whether work rules in mills fostered inefficiency ; both sides took passionate stands with little data . Another fight developed over how much insurance benefits were costing the industry . " We had a lot of argument , " says one bargainer , " and there was a realizatiork we did n't know enough about these problems , or have enough time to really probe them . The severe shock of that episode made both sides realize we had to find a better way . " The committee accordingly was set up to study " and recommend solutions " of a variety of non-wage issues . Its key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject at any time . No statement made by a member can be brought up to embarrass him in later formal bargaining . No local grievances can be aired . This approach is practically the reverse of formal bargaining , where , as one steel man says , " if you make a slip of the tongue you 're stuck with it forever . " In the committee , a member sometimes brings up for discussion an idea he himself argues against . " I think this promotes a mutual search for solutions , instead of an atmosphere in which the union develops demands and the company defends against them , " says one steel negotiator . At any rate , the committee has been confounding skeptics who at first expected it to dissolve in bickering or produce only empty generalities . Experts on its medical care subcommittee by now have agreed on a precise figure for the cost of medical insurance to the steel companies ; the figure is adjusted monthly . Thus , that particular 1959 battle could n't be fought again . The seniority agreement , members say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many steel mills granted workers seniority t fights only within z igidly defined " departments " If a department had to be shut down , the workers could n't be switched to other jobs . they had to be laid off " Hearings " and Conipr lllll With demand tut rang spotty . this meant workers with 25 or 30 years ' service often were idled while new workers were hired to man other departments that can full blast The USW demanded plant-rule seniority to stop this practice Company men fear ed this would kill efficiency by putting ill-qualified men in unfamiliar jobs A Human Relations subcommittee tackled the potentially explosive issue through detailed studies , and eventually " hearings " tot local union and management officials at six key plants The result was a compromise broadening seniority units considerably -- though not to include whole plants  --  and providing for some transfers of idle workers from one mill to another At the Republic Steel Cup mill in Gadsden . Ala .. the compromise soon is expected to replace 219 present seniority units with no more than four At other mills It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculates that the 11 biggest steel companies now are hiring new workers at a combined rate of only 300 a year , against 15,000 in 1961 : lagging steel demand , of course , has helped cut the hiring rate . The committee also has put new life in the contract machinery for settling worker grievances Last year this machinery was bogging down because local union officials and plant foremen had gotten into a habit of passing disputes to a higher authority rather than trying to settle them . Many grievances took months to settle , arbitration expenses were mounting for both sides , and USW leaders were running into serious political difficulties in some locals because of the mounting backlog of cases Pre.sure on 1.04 ? 111% A Human Relations subcommittee came up with a new system combining the first two steps of the grievance procedure and eliminating much paperwork Also , it got company and union leaders to put joint pressure on local mill officials to solve grievances at the loner levels The president of a USW local at one U S. Steel Corp mill figures these reforms have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculates they have reduced the number of grievances about 10r% industry-wide . Besides these specific achievements , committee members say their discussions have gi ? en each side a better feel for the other 's problem , one steel official notes the union now is suppoiting industry complaints to the Government about alleged " dumping " of foreign steel in the U S In 1959. a top USW leader branded as " disgusting " the industry 's contention that imports were threatening U.S. steel sales and jobs " I believe that both sides have found it hard to debate and to research a subject over a period of time without realizing that not everything is as simple as was first thought , with only one 's own viewpoint in mind , " says one negotiator " One ca n't engage in this kind of discussion without changing some of his views . " All this amity has led to some speculation that the Human Relations Committee one day might write a full contract , which could then be signed in a short " bargaining " session . Though the contract setting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also empowered the members to discuss any " other problems " they wish which in theory would include wages And the key members of the committee are also the leaders of the union and industry bargaining teams In practice . however , committee members say they have n't discussed wages and doubt they ever will They point out that company managements and the union Wage Policy Committee have given them no authority to conduct actual negotiations , whose outcome would be a binding agreement , and quite likely would be highly displeased if the committee members undertook such negotiations on their own .                     