@@726641

txt BY FRED M. HECHINGER IN . Y. Times-Chicago Trilmose Serticel AN AMERICAN YOUNGSTER , after attending a Moscow school for a few months this year . asked her parents in genuine puzzlement : " Why do I suddenly want to learn so much ? " The answer is rooted In the tever tor Knowledge and study that the soviet educational system inspires . In the 50th year since the communist seizure of power in 1917 , soviet education had impressive triumphs to its credit . Geared to mass manufacture competent , highly specialized conformist young people , the system faced urgent demands to train a new generation of citizens with greater capacity for independent thought and a labor force of greater adaptability . But after 50 years of communist tinkering , the officials at the controls seemed confused about how to shift the gears . Calls Curriculum Too Rigid " THE NUMBER OF SCHOOL HOURS devoted to compulsory subjects is too great and our curriculum is too rigid , " said Prof. Mikhail A. Prokofiev , minister of education of the Russian republic , largest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no scope for reasonable initiative . " Prof. Vyacheslav P. Yelyutin. the national minister for higher education , in an interview , criticized the status quo . " I would like to see students develop the ability to use their knowledge better , " he said . " The modern engineer must also know the basic humanities . " Ever since 1917 , soviet education has been an arena of controversy and cross-currents . Today it is rife with questioning . A powerful tug o ' war is on between forces of progress , which include strong governmental , economic , and intellectual factions , and forces of conservatism , which include many professional educators and the Communist party . Quality Varies Widely exist MOST MODERN AND THE MOST obsolete teaching 1 exist side by side . The ideal of the classless society is everywhere blocked by a class-conscious people and by the rapid rise of an education-conscious new class , preferring education rather than material advantages . Higher education is free , but elite universities , such as Moscow and Leningrad , have a more select upper-middle-class urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry has become so forbidding that programs in special boarding schools have been set up to help rural youngsters . The programs are similar to projects for Negro youngsters in the United States . In theory , the Soviet Union is committed to the proposition that all pupils are created equal and that , with good teaching , all will benefit from the same curriculum . In practice , more and more able students are syphoned off into the most fashionable schools  --  the specialized schools in which intensive instruction in one field , such as a foreign language , mathematirc a science or history . is offered . Education-conscious parents  --  the equivalent of those who in America push their children into good private schools  --  leave no stone unturned to get their children into the special schools . ' The accomplishments of the education system are remarkable . When they came to power in 1917 the soviets inherited from the czars an uneducated peasantry with an estimated illiteracy rate of 75 per cent . Today 's enrollment in elementary and secondary schools is 50 million , not including 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 4 million in higher education . Half the latter total represents part-time evening and correspondence courses . American public school enrollment currently stands at about 44 million , and the combined full-time enrollment of all institution of higher learning is a little more than 6 million . Private elementary and secondary schools would add 7 million more . 6.5 Million College Graduates The soviet institutions of higher learning have graduated 6.5 million since the revolution , the lower-level technicums 10.5 million . Education is compulsory from the 1st grade which children enter at age 7 thru the 8th grade . School is organized into four years of elementary and four years of " incomplete secondary " school , followed by an as yet not compulsory two years of secondary school . A newly proclaimed educational policy will make the 10-year school compulsory by 1970 , with options to continue either in the academic high school or to switch to vocational schools after the 8th grade . Soviet educators concede that this goal is not likely to be attained on schedule , except perhaps in the leading cities . Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashioned , is usually competent . The relationship between students and teachers is one of mutual respect , devoid of the hostile formality often found in French or German schools . After hours , chatty groups of youngsters and their teachers populate the corridors . Like much of Russian life , the schools are flavored by a kind of family atmosphere  --  with mutual understanding often punctuated by exaggerated scolding or exuberant praise . Pride in the " group , " that is the class or the school , with most of the basic maintenance and cleaning up done by the youngsters , creates an atmosphere conducive to learning . It was this aspect that inspired the American youngster with her sudden eagerness to learn . Parents Under Pressure The urge to learn is reinforced by the schools ' constant appeal to the parents . If pupils ' efforts lag , the parents are lectured . When parents as a group periodically meet with their children 's classroom teachers , the accomplishments and failings of all pupils are openly dissected . But the lion 's share of the credit for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devotion they bring to the job , the system generates steady pressure for diligent performance . Each school 's principal has sweeping powers for hiring and dismissal , limited only by the veto of the seven-member council of the teachers ' union , members of the school 's own faculty . The 43-year-old principal of Moscow 's school 84 has a faculty of 50 for an enrollment of 1,000 from grade 1 thru 10 . He has four assistants  --  two for academic affairs and two for administration . Together , they keep close check on teachers ' performance . " This year , I am dismissing two teachers , " the principal said . Asked how he arrived at such drastic action , he said that , apart from personal classroom supervision , he judged teachers by their ability to get graduates accepted by the universities or by the students ' performance in national academic competitions . The basic salary of 100 to 135 rubles a month , or about $110 to 5150 , for 18 hours of classroom teaching a week , is pegged so low that most teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus alleviating the teacher shortage . Waiters Can Earn More Many schools still operate on double shift . Still , a hardworking waiter may make 50 per cent more than a high school teacher and a skilled factory worker twice as much . The soviet schools ' basic curriculum , with 24 periods a week in elementary and 30 to 34 periods in secondary school , is standardized and demanding . Mathematics , the heart and                     