@@724594

txt Dean Acheson wrote in 1962 that he could think of " no one in our time remotely comparable " to Felix Frankfurter in terms of his influence on men . On this the late justice 's friends and critics agree . He was one of the most influential men of the 20th century . At the height of the New Deal , Professor Frankfurter 's proteges were everywhere in the federal government . He was in close touch with all of them . Thus he was often described as the controlling figure of that period of social reform . Later , as Mr. Justice Frankfurter , his decisions on the Supreme Court showed him to be far more conservative . Some of the critics ate their words . A A A If Felix Frankfurter was a mainspring of social action for half a century , what about the institution from which he sprang : the Harvard Law School ? A case may be made that  --  more than any other educational institution in the United States  --  it has shaped the men and governments , the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the ancient British universities were to their society , what the Ecule Polytechnique was to France , the Harvard Law School may well be to 20th-century America . Moreover , it is not a compact ideological influence . The Harvard Law School 's faculty and graduates include men of all viewpoints . It has had its radicals and its conservatives , but its most distinguishing and typical voice has been that of the moderate reformer . If Felix Frankfurter was the liveliest graduate and professor of this enormously influential institution , he was far from alone . Justice Holmes and Justice Brandeis before him helped shape the modern role of judicial interpretation in the United States . The force of their combined viewpoints went a long way toward ultimately making the court , rather than the executive or the legislative branches , the most decisive power for change in American government . But Harvard Law School teachers were , and are , interested and authoritative in all sorts of subjects . Dean Roscoe Pound was a profound guider and shaper of judicial processes : Zechariah Chaffee clarified a wide range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , and individual ; Paul Freund today is the great constitutional authority ; Dean Erwin Griswold is a conservative who stands uprightly for moderate reform . The list could go on very long . A A Another influence , that of Henry L. Stimson , also relates to the Harvard Law School , from which he graduated , but has touched government profoundly from the first decade of this century to the present . Mr. Stimson started Felix Frankfurter on his road of public service . As Secretary of War in World War II , he had as his last assistant McGeorge Bundy , who now advises President Johnson on security problems . The Stimsonian principles of unshakable rectitude in the service of people and government are among the most noble in living American memory . To catalogue the manifold ways in which the Harvard Law School 's intellectual powerhouse affects national affairs would take a volume . It is a period in which judicial power and the extension of legal analysis into all sorts of social problems is significant in ways which have little parallel in history . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals whose social consciences have led them into nearly every area of concern . Their friendship , fraternity , knowledge of men and talents , and ability of intellectual analysis make them leaders  --  not always unsung .                     