@@722169

txt Management changes . Research reviews . Cost-cutting . Mergers . Developments such as these are rapidly imparting a new look to the once glamorgilded electronics components business . To a lesser extent they describe upheavals in some companies in other sectors of the electronics industry . now increasingly feeling the bite of tough competition . In an industry accustomed to great growth ? dollar volume jumped 275% between 1950 and 1960 ? excess production capacity now is driving down prices of many electronics goods . While production of semiconductors , tiny devices that control the flow of electrical current , has almost doubled this year , prices have fallen by an average of 43,4 This helps to explain a sharp slowdown in the growth of industry dollar sales Electronics Industries A , , sociation. a trade group , estimates industry sales this year will rise only 4% to a ' total of $10,150,000,000 . IBM , GE Add Products At the same time , many of the industry 's biggest companies are broadening their product lines , cutting the quantities of components they purchase from smaller electronics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division to make some of the transistors used in its computers . In September , General Electric Co. broadened its line of diodes . Both transistors and diodes are semiconductors . These developments have forced electronics executives into intensive examinations of their operations . The reassessments are proceeding with particular urgency in the components field . Many companies manufacture only parts , such as semiconductors , and these producers have been hit hardest by the increased competition and declining prices . But Warren B. Hayes , vice president of Cleveland 's Thompson Ramo Wooldridge , Inc. , stresses that the problem is broader than that ? " The competitive forces whidli have caused the present difficulties of the semiconductor industry are identical with forces now operating in less dramatic fashion within the entire electronics industry . " Management changes in the industry are affecting both men and methods . Transitron Electronics Corp . of Wakefield , Mass. , has moved to decentralize its management as part of an effort to reverse a $1,451,792 loss in its past fiscal year ended June 24 . Four product divisions have been set up , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and profit responsibility . At the same time , the company 's work force has been cut to 3,500 since June . a reduction of 1,200 . To limit losses from inventory obsolescence , a major worry in the fast-changing semiconductor field:sunsold goods now are counted monthly instead of quarterly ; production thus is geared more closely to sales . Transitron 's efforts may be beginning to pay off . The company reported a profit of $204,653 in the quarter ended Sept. 23 . Five Divisions Set Up Another company that has decentralized is Eitel-McCullough , Inc. , a San Carlos , Calif. , maker of power tubes . The company has been split into five product divisions , with four of the divisions ' managers newly hired . Each division handles its own research and marketing , as well as manufacturing . Previously , Eitel-McCullough had one research and development division , one marketing division and one manufacturing division , each with an interest in all the company 's products . " We were diluting responsibility for performance in the market place , " says J. A. McCullough , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Semiconductor-Components division into two new divisions : Transistor Products division and Components division . This move is intended to give marketing of components such as rectifiers and resistors equal emphasis with transistors , a spokesman says . At the same time , the Dallas-based company has established a new post , executive vice president , to oversee all division operations . Moving on an opposite tack is Ampex Corp. , Redwood City , Calif. , producer of data storage units and tape recorders , as well as electronic components . After recording a loss of 83.930,000 in the fiscal year ended April 30 , the company on Aug. 1 brought in a new president , Charles E. Roberts , former executive vice president of Chicago 's Bell &; Howell Co. ? and moved to centralize its operations . Divisions of Ampex were cut from seven to five , and accounting , product planning , industrial relations , marketing and research functions were pulled out of individual divisions and , combined in units serving sit the company 's divisions . This reorganization will save " around $350,000 , " mostly in wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who expects greater savings in later years . For this fiscal year , the new Ampex president figures the company will be back in the black , with a profit of around $2 million . Hoffman Closes Plant The Semiconductor division of Hoffman Electronics Corp . last July closed its Evanston , Ill. , plant and concentrated all operations at its El Monte , Calif. , facility . Reductions in wage and other costs will result in an annual saving of $1 million , according to T. S. Hoffman , the division 's general manager . Hoffman expects its , profit in the current quarter to equal 27 cents a share ; the company earned only 23 cents a share in the first nine months of 1961 . Thompson Ramo Wooldridge also is consolidating electronics operations . Last month it merged two subsidiaries , TRW Components Co. and Pacific Semiconductors , Inc . " This is the beginning of a long-range intention to put together an organization which instead of just supplying semi-conductors will he able to provide anything it takes to make a circuit walk , " says Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Boston 's Laboratory for Electronics , Inc when it r ecently acquired Tracerlab , Inc of Boston , a producer of radioisotopes for industi tat , mill . Wry , medical and scientific applications A similar motive underlay the recent merger agreement between two New York City companies , Loral Electronics Col p and Arco Electronics , Inc . Loral , which will be the surviving concern , makes military electronics equipment . while Arco makes Lapacitios , trans. formers and connectors Some companies primarily known as parts makers are trying to lessen their reliance on components alone . Texas Instruments has developed a " microminiature " computer as an experimental device for the Air Force This computer can be used for missile guidance . among other things , the company sass Changes In Research It is in research and development , the source of the industry 's past growth , that some of the sharpest changes , are under way . It is not that these outlays often are being curbed ; on the contrary . Increases are more common . But research projects are being subjected to ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very easy to dissipate a lot of money on research for things that do n't have a market , " says Mr. McCullough of Eitel-McCullough . " Too many companies have pursued iresearch projects Just to come up with a good piece of engineering which may not suit the customers ' needs , " says R. L. Ashley , president of Silicon Transistor Corp .. a New York concern . Without decreasing its research budget , Hoffman Electronics ' Semiconductor division a few months ago cut its number of research projects ' ' close to 10 times , " says Mr Hoffman " We are gearing our projects to market considerations rather than trying to advance everyone 's technical baby , " he says . Ampex ascribes a major part of its lose in its past fiscal year to products which were pushed on the market too soon in an effort to meet sales goals . The company increased its research and development budget this year to $10 million from $7 5 million and will " reengineer " several products whose quality proved sub-standard , says John Lathier , Ampex controller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least 200 more scientists and engineers , " Value engineering " programs , designed to cut costs of design and production , are coming into widespread use throughout  --  the industry . In value engineering each step of a process is examined to determine whether it is the least expensive method . " We have value engineering teams working with our people right at the drawing board stage where savings should begin , " says Martin Schilling . vice president of engineering and research for Raytheon Co. , Lexington , Mass . Purchasing Is Overhauled Purchasing policies are being overhauled at many companies . Raytheon , which makes transistors and electronics equipment , claims It is saving $1.7 million a year by mechanizing purchasing procedures and channeling buying through a central office . Buying a standard type of lock nut for all divisions , for example , resulted in a 310,000 annual saving , the company says . Hughes Aircraft Co. ' s Semiconductor division set a computer to monitoring its parts stocks and found it was able to reduce purchases by 31 million annually , says Charles B. HuesUs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s Semiconductor division last month started to manufacture hydrogen , nitrogen and oxygen for use at its Phoenix , Ariz. , plant . By making its own . Motorola expects to cut gas costs by 50% , says Virden Scranton , assistant general manager at Phoenix . Marketing is getting its share of attention , too . A new sales manager at Hoffman Electronics ' Semiconductor division has been working to eliminate the " defeatist attitude " of some salesmen that " the only way you can sell is to cut prices , " says Mr. Hoffman , International Resistance Co. of Philadel ? phis , a components manufacturer , has turned to a computer order-processing system to speed deliveries to customers . " The improvement varies widely according to the product and customer , " says Walter W. Slocum , president , " but If the delivery cycle was three weeks it is now about half that time , and if it was three days it 's now one day on the average . " Many companies are striving to increase overseas sales Laboratory for Electronics this year acquired an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start manufacturing electronics equipment in Japan . " You must think world-wide to survive , " says Richard E. Krafve , president of Raytheon . Posh for Efficiency Most companies are redoubling efforts to squeeze out more efficiency from production lines , an area sometimes overlooked in past years of rapidly expanding business . " We 've all been talking a good many years about the importance of research and development but we 've tended to play down the importance of products moving out the back door and bringing home profits , " says George H. Bruns , Jr .. president of Syatron-Donner Corp. , a Concord . Calif maker of electronics equipment . Mr. Bruns credits a major manufacturing automation program , together with other production efficiency moves , with a big part in Systron-Donner 's 23% profit increase in its fiscal year ended July 3i , as compared with the previous year . Within the past six months Litton Systems , a division of Litton Industries , Inc , has put " tremendous additional emphasis " on improving manufacturing methods , says George T. Scharffenberger , . executive vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SR million for the second year in a row to mechanize production processes . " This is a major cost reduction factor , " says an official . Radio Corp . of America expects soon to have a computer figuring out the best production processes for semiconductor manufacturing . At present , for each semiconductor device the company can determine the bent baking and etching processes only through a timeconsuming trial-and-error method : it 's figured that a computer can rapidly examine varlet 's techniques and arrive at optimum processes . thus speeding production runs and lowering reject rates . In an effort to cut down the number of Improperly assembled products , Hughes Aircraft 's Semiconductor division has tape recorded assembly instructions which workers listen to on earphones while piecing together tiny semiconductors . At International Resistance 's Boone , N C. , plant , production employes gather periodically to hear pep talks on the importance of their work .                     