@@725221

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times 20 Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . Britain 's Pre-1939 Policy To the Editor : I consider the parallel drawn in a letter by K. H. Hecht published Dec. 29 between United States Vietnam policy and that of pre-World War II Great Britain toward Germany a misleading one . There was everything to admire in those Englishmen who , like Winston Churchill , favored nonappeasement of the Hitlerian menace , who felt special bonds of sympathetic allegiance for neighboring countries , and who sensed the imminent danger of Luftwaffe air-strikes across the English Channel . There is nothing to admire in an American administration which does not make every effort to implement the 1954 Geneva accords , which does not use its power to help bring into Vietnam an international patrol to guarantee free elections and which tends to rationalize its engagement by assuming that it is fighting a small war to prevent a big one . Faulty Parallel There are undoubtedly many in England today who , while upholding English nonappeasement in the late thirties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hecht 's parallel seems especially faulty when it is seen that the ideology of Nazi Germany is scarcely commensurate with the variegated ideologies of Moscow , Peking and Hanoi ; and that where Germany was guilty of some glaring examples of treaty-breaking as well as startling acts of aggression , the Vietnam issue is in no way clear cut , with the result that Americans may themselves now be the unwitting aggressors . DAVID LAWSON New York , Dec. 29 , 1965 M.D. 's Traffic Woes To the Editor : I have just finished reading your Jan. 3 editorial entitled " The Big Crush . " In referring to the threat of " total paralysis " which might result from the transit strike and the inflow of cars , you state " such paralysis would block the movement of fire engines , ambulances , and police cars ; it would throttle all commerce ; the passage through the streets of food , fuel ' and other essentials would become impossible . " In this enumeration you have left out the movement of doctors to hospitals , offices and in making emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss traffic problems . I would like to remind you that the services of physicians in New York City are at least of equal importance to the functioning of this great city as those enumerated . New York physicians daily look after more emergencies threatening the health and life of our citizens than do , for instance . the police . It seems high time that this fact were publicly recognized and respected and given more consideration than it has received in the past . Traffic and parking regulations contain woefully few realistic provisions to make it easier for doctors to carry out their important tasks . A. DAVID GUREW1TSC11 , M.D. Clinical Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons New York , Jan. 3 , 1966 ? T. A. Arrest Order To the Editor : In your editorial of Jan. 4 " Trial by Ordeal " you refer to " State Supreme Court Justice Abraham N. Geller , . , ordering the T.W.U. president and eight other strike . leaders jailed if they do not end their contemptuous assault on the city by 11 A.M. today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date ( Page 8 ) it is stated that : " The contempt citation enabled the Transit Authority to arrest the union leaders through the sheriff 's office if they failed to end the strike . It was up to the authority to go ahead with the arrests , if it so desired . That was what the authority did and the nine union leaders went to jail . " If the latter means anything , it clearly means that the court did not order the union leaders jailed , but only authorized the Transit Authority to have it done if it so desired . As the dispatch stated , the initiative was left with the authority . The inference is clear that the court did not regard its honor and dignity involved in the violation of the injunction . The whole point is of some importance since the separate question is arguable as to whether the authority was well advised to take an action that it was apparently free to decline , when such action could have the result of unifying the city 's labor organizations behind the T.W.U. WiNTiiRoe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pan Am Heliport To the Editor : Those who are thrill-seeking and stout of heart would do well to peer at the rooftop of the Pan Am Building . Now that the age of progress is upon us they will see monstrously large helicopters hopefully descend to the tiny rooftop pad , and then bravely rise again , diagonally over the city streets and buildings below , with their thousands of innocent and unconcerned people . Somewhere there was a promise that these machines would rise straight up to a height from which they could safely glide to the river , or drop down to the roof , if failure occurred . But not these brave monsters ! You need not a pilot 's license to tell that failure on these lift-offs could plummet tons of metal into Grand Central Terminal . But what a thrill ! And what a relief that he has made it ! This time and a thousand times there will be a successful landing and another successful takeoff . But what excitement to know that one time a rotor blade will break or a pilot will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an incredible exercise in public irresponsiWlity . With available heliport sites at the East River , which helicopters can approach over water rather than people , it is shocking that our city would permit this activity in a place where the inevitable accident ? vill kill a thousand people . S. KREINDLER New York , Dec. 29 , 1965 ? To Retain Special High Schools To the Editor : It is surprising and disappointing to learn that the Board of Education is considering the abolition of the city 's specialized high schools . There is no justifiable reason for such action . The four schools in question have such high standards of teaching and achievement that they can and do serve as models for other schools . Although perhaps more expensive to operate , much money is already devoted to special programs for the retarded , slow learners and the underprivileged . Should not the very able students in the city , those who will in the future contribute the most to society , also be given special training ? The elimination of these schools for equalitarian or financial reasons might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families might enroll their children in private schools or move from the city to the suburbs . They would thus deprive the city of tax revenues and underprivileged children of exposure to students whose attitudes toward education they must some day learn to accept . What New York needs Is more special schools , not fewer . PETER ZORACII GEORGE VIOLIN New York , Dec. 30 , 1965                     