@@725812

txt The Arab-bloc nations decided yesterday to boycott a Sinner-dance Mayor Lindsay will hold next Monday in honor of the chiefs of mission attending the United Nations General Assembly meeting . The decision was taken at a meeting at the United Nations headquarters by representatives of 12 Islamic nations in protest against Mayor Lindsay 's snub last June of King Faisal of Saudi Arabia . In announcing the decision , Dr. Burhan Hammad , secretary of the Arab group , said no plans had been made to send the city administration a collective notification . " I am sure they will find out in due course , " he said with a chuckle . The Lindsay administration 's first reaction was one of surprise and dismay . The social affair planned at the New York State Theater is intended to honor the 118 United Nations members and create closer friendship between the diplomats and the staff of the international organization and the city . Regret Expressed " Certainly the last thing we want is to revive last June 's controversy , " Woody Klein , the Mayor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person invited can not come and we certainly hope they will reconsider and join us . " Mrs. John J. Loeb , the city 's Commissioner to the United Nations , called the proposed Arab boycott " unfortunate and illadvised . " " We feel very friendly toward the Arab delegations and attend their functions and I see no reason why they are taking this attitude , " Mrs. Loeb said in an interview last night . " We certainly will make every effort to make them change their minds . " Other city officials said they felt that the Arab delegations were deliberately trying to revive the controversy in the hope of making American relations with Israel an issue in the coming elections . Although Arab delegates have insisted that their protest was directed exclusively at the Mayor , and not against the Federal Government , they have traditionally attacked Zionism as a factor in Washington 's policies . The Arab criticism of Mr. Lindsay stemmed from his cancellation of an official dinner for King Faisal last June 23 because the Saudi Arabian monarch had said that he considered friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller also canceled an appointment with the King as a result of the remark . While the Mayor contended that the King 's statement had been offensive to democratic concepts and to many citizens of New York , not just to Jewish supporters of Israel , many Arab spokesmen sharply attacked the gesture as calculated to win popularity among the city 's large Jewish population . The controversy flared up again yesterday whin 12 Arab bloc nations held a ' private meeting at the United Nations headquarters to consider the Mayor 's invitation . Only Tunisia and Pakistan were absent . Even though King Faisal 's pro-Western and conservative policies have created sharp divisions within the bloc , especially with the revolutionary regimes of the United Arab Republic and Syria , the meeting voted unanimously- to refuse the invitation out of solidarity with Saudi Arabia . The countries that agreed not to attend he Mayor 's function were Algeria , Morocco , Libya , the United Arab Republic , Sudan , Jordan , Lebanon , Syria , Iraq Kuwait , Saudi Arabia and Yemen . Dr. Hammad indicated after the meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the action was likely to set a precedent for all future official functions of the Lindsay administration , at least for the duration of the present General Assembly . " The boycott of the supperdance , " he said , " was in consequence of the decision by Mayor Lindsay regarding the cancellation of the dinner for King Faisal . We expect that our policy in this respect will be continued toward other events unless the circumstances that caused this precedent are changed . Changes Not Detailed Mr. Hammed did not clarify just what changes in the Mayor 's policy would lead to a change of the Arab position . But other Arab diplomats indicated that he was referring to an official apology by Mayor Lindsay to King Faisal . The City 's Commissioner of Public Events , John S. ( Bud ) Palmer , who was reported by close friends to have been cool toward the cancellation of the dinner for King Faisal , was unavailable for comment yesterday . His office professed no knowledge of the proposed boycott . " This is news to me , " a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Palmer 's assistants , indicated that it would be up to Mrs. Loeb to soothe Arab delegations . " It was her office that prepared the guest list and we expect she will have to straighten things out now , " he said . Mrs. Loeb , a prominent New York hostess , said that it was " the Commissioner of Public Events and not I " who issued the invitations . But , Mrs. Loeb said , she would " very gladly " undertake the delicate diplomatic mission . The Commissioner said that about 900 persons had been invited to the supper-dance , including United Nations Secretary General U Thant and 200 " very distinguished Americans " and that she still hoped that " every one of our guests will come . " While the attitude of the Arab delegates caused consternation in the city administration , it hardly surprised the diplomatic community . According to informed diplomats , the top consular officials of the Arab nations have made a point of staying away from formal city functions ever since the incident with King Faisal .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        