@@722153

txt Lincoln by Lincoln weight of eviWas the dence was the derhankfuneir than k f ulle s t President , though Franklin D. Roosevelt with his twelve successive Novembers in office issued the greatest number of Thanksgiving proclamations . And while F. D. It provoked screams of disapproval by setting the 1939 observance a week early , on Nov. 23 , Lincoln 's timing for his initial national Thanksgiving Day , Nov. 26 , 1863 , brought upon him at least equal wrath and fury . He was morally obtuse and vindictive  --  this from the snipers at anything he might do ? because he called for thanks to God in a time of distress and ear1nage . His perversity has endured , nevertheless for ninety-eight years . The most quoted of Seward all Thanksgiving procWas the ! mations probably was " Ghost " this one of . 1863 , in the midst of " a Civil War of unequaled magnitude " * * yet a year " filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies . " It went on to acknowledge that " no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out these great things . " These may well be the most famous of all of Lincoln 's words that he never wrote . Their author was Secretary William H. Seward , to whom the overworked President assigned the chore ; this on the authority of Carl Sandburg . But Lincoln signed it and made it official . In this instance he was acting under persuasion from a tireless lady journalist , Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale , the editor of " Godey 's Lady 's Book . " For nearly twenty years the magazine had been insisting upon a national Thanksgiving Day . In September , 1863 , Mrs. Hale wrote to Lincoln about it and got action , Thanksgiving Day In New was already an anAmsterdam , cient landmark , of 1644 course . The Plymouth Colony 's Governor Bradford set the precedent in 1621 , turkey and all , and New England rapidly took up the observance as its own . Even Dutch New Amsterdam in 1644 fell into line . The Continental Congress during the Revolution recommended annual Thanksgivings , mid at the request of Congress George Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thank God for the adoption of the Constitution . Again in 1815 , on the return of peace , President . Madison proclaimed a Thanksgiving Day . President Lincoln Three set a record by three Feast Days different official calls in 1863 for thanksgiving in the one year 1863 . First came Aug. 6 . The President on July 15 had set this day for thanksgiving on account of Gettysburg , in spite of his disappointment over the Confederate Army 's escape , and equally for the fall of Vicksburg . It was a day " to render the homage due to the Divine Majesty for the wonderful things He has done in the nation 's behalf . " This call , authentically in Lincoln 's own words , ran into the grim coincidence of being issued on the final day of the New York Draft Riots , one of the blackest incidents of the war . Next during the year came the principal or " Godey 's Lady 's - Book " Thanksgiving Day . The third was Dec. 7 , after the expulsion of the Confederate armies from East Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " Con- the depth of their templation " thanks according to II the sharpness of their reminders . Charles Lamb noted this weakness in his essay on " Grace Before Meat , " observing how " the heats of epicurism put out the gentle flame of devotion . " The frequency of Lincoln 's expressions of public thanksgiving came , no doubt , from his experience of disasters almost fatal and of escapes by the narrowest margin . This degree of brinkmanship remains without counterpart . Yet President Kennedy , this year urging not merely a holiday from labors but " a day of contemplation , " pointed out that " awesome perils remain to be faced . " Looking backward , and upward into the sky , at the perils of 1961 , one can find abundant reminders for including contemplation and thankfulness along with the day 's heats of epicurism.                     