@@724804

txt Santo Domingo , Dominican Republic The name of Antonio Guzman continues to crop up in discussions here of a new Dominican government . These discussions , being carried on behind a smoke screen of secrecy by a top-level United States team , have reached a point of climax . It is generally expected here that a provisional government is about to be named . Such a government would be headed by Mr. Guzman , Agriculture Minister during the administration of ousted President Juan Domingo Bosch , and would be aimed at providing a solution to the month-old Dominican- crisis . There are still snags to be overcome . But they are not seen as significant stumbling blocks . Criticism forecast Following a week of fast legwork on the part of the United States team , this much seems clear : ? The new government would generally be pro-Bosch in orientation but would not include the former President . ? At the same time , it would exclude also leaders of the two major factions contending here  --  rebel chieftain Col. Francisco Caamafio DefiO and junta leader Brig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a Guzman government would publicly express a posture of anticommunism . This would be aimed at heading off criticism of the new government , bound to arise since the government would include elements considered in some circles as soft on communism . OAS moves in These developments , emerging over a weekend studded with considerable political crossfire , were in part overshadowed by the ceremony Sunday in which the Organization of American States ( OAS ) peace-keeping force took charge here . That ceremony , viewed as historic , saw a United States force here ? totaling more than 30,000 ? placed under OAS command . This command includes a Brazilian unit to eventually total 1,200 men , plus smaller units from Costa Rica , Honduras , and Nicaragua . Underlying establishment of the OAS force is tacit acceptance of the idea that foreign occupation of the island republic will last a considerable time . No cutoff date for removal of the OAS force , much less that of the United States force , has been set . But it most certainly will be several years away . Interestingly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that of Communist threat ? is being soft-pedaled by United States spokesmen here . It is still being discussed to be sure . However , the threat is not seen a s , , looming so large as it did three and four weeks ago . Rebel link This is not to suggest that United States officials have changed their opinions about the presence of Communist elements within the rebel movement during its opening days . They may view the issue as overplayed , but they are quick to add that the threat did exist . Nevertheless , establishment of a Guzman government , if indeed it does take place in the next few days , would constitute a significant change of position for the United States . Several individuals under discussion for Cabinet posts have had association with the rebel movement . Most have lent their support to the rebel cause in one way or another . Settlement outlined Thus a Guzman government amounts to acceptance by the United States of principles underlying the rebel movement ? that a constitutional government deriving its raison d'etre from the ousted Bosch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Imbert junta , which calls itself the government of national reconstruction . A Guzman government would not , however , run counter to what is regarded here as a consensus of national opinion which is opposed to the junta . Discussions leading to the formation of a Guzman government have been going on for the past week . The United States team , headed by President Johnson 's Special Assistant for National Security Affairs , McGeorge Bundy , has worked quietly with Colonel Caamaiio and General Imbert . The rebel leader has agreed in principle , but the junta leader has balked on many turns . The United States is calling the shots , and even stanch opposition by General Imbert is not expected to stand in the way of settlement .                     