@@727249

txt A poll of the Senate by The Christian Science Monitor shows that the tide is running strongly in favor of approval of the nomination of Abe Fortas as chief justice . Sixty senators have responded to a questionnaire asking if they would approve such an appointment . Thirty-nine answered " yes . " Nineteen said " no . " And two said they were " undecided . " Within this response lies enough dissent , of course , to launch a filibuster in the waning days of Congress . But White House pressure now is being exerted , and this resistance may fade . With adjournment of Congress nearing , Senate delay has become the chief obstacle to confirmation . What the opponents to confirmation will do remains the imponderable . Among some Republican leaders in both the Senate and House there is considerable unhappiness over the fight against confirmation that was launched by GOP Sen. Robert P. Griffin of Michigan . He and 18 other Republicans formed a bloc to prevent what they saw to be a " lame-duck appointment . " Changes indicated But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Morton , a member of the 19 , has changed his position , now favoring a Fortas confirmation . Senate minority leader Everett McKinley Dirksen also has indicated support of the Fortas nomination . Behind the scenes several GOP leaders have passed the word that the GOP resistance to Associate Justice Fortas has become an embarrassment to the party . Said one leader : " The Republican Party has been making A Monitor survey considerable progress with the Jewish community . But this GOP opposition to Fortas is going to hurt us with that group . " The GOP opposition to a Fortas ( and . Judge Homer Thornberry ) appointment was detailed in an answer from Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr . of Tennessee : " I believe that positions on the Supreme Court are of such significance that when coupled with the certainty that there will be a new administration in January , the new administration , whether Republican or Democrat , should have the opportunity to designate the new chief justice and the new associate justice of the Supreme Court . " Politics questioned Sen. A. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appointments , had this to say on his questionnaire : " I think this assumption that presidential powers end six or seven months before his term expires is repugnant to the office of the presidency and to the Constitution . " Opposing the appointment , Sen. Len B. Jordan ( R ) of Idaho takes this position : " The question is whether it is wise policy for the Senate to confirm a new chief justice and an associate justice , who presumably will serve for life , when the people are in the midSt of choosing a new president and a new government . " I expect to vote against both confirmations  --  not so much as a protest against the persons whose names have been sent up to the Senate by the President , but as a matter of principle and a protest against the system . "                     