@@725819

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times BENJAMIN H. EISENSTEVEN KOTICKW . STANLEY RYCROFTJAMES R BOEHLER pg . 42 Letters to the Editor of Th o Times . Blight of City 's Elevated Structures To the Editor : The Oct. 2 news article concerning the Mayor 's Study Group on Housing and Neighborhood Improvement ? report and your editorial of the same date describing the conclusions of this . group as " tough , candid and uncompromising , " may well constitute a long overdue beginning ' toward some kind ? of meaningful action . ' No previous ' report , commit . ' tee , investigation , etc. ? of which there have ' been hundreds  --  lies examined the situation in such depth , pointed up the enormity of the problem and had the courage to outline such harsh and realistic guidelines . The editorial is on unassailable . ground in concluding that " A sound city depends on a sound environment . The path from deterioration to blight to riot has . become tragically clear . " However , while the editorial examines the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? quite properly , that " nothing short of city action and state law can reverse the city 's physical , economic and human erosion , " it fails to recognize , or at least touch upon , the fact that newt construction and rehabilitation programs are worthless in some areas . Yet these are areaN ' of the city which must ' be .. saved if the city is to be rejuvenated . But , as far as is known , - no agency or report , including this last one , has commented on this . aspect of the ? situation . ' Immediate Demolition ? Aslong ago as May 27 , 1965 , The Times averred , editorially , that " We would think . by now that New.York City would have learned the frightful cost . in . blight that goes with any elevated train or highway structure . " No plan , that of the Mayor 's group or any other , will ' do the job in the nbsence a . recommendation , ' for immediate - demolition ' of ' all elevated structures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas would constitute sheer , irresponsibility : The Mayor 's group . recommends that government should plan with civic organizations such as the Central- Brooklyn , Coordinating Council . This is an excellent proposal . There exists a. committee of U-CARE ( University-Clinton Hill Area - Renewal Effort ) , which hats been advocating demolition of the. ; Myrtie ; Avenue el in its area . The Central Brooklyn Coordinating Council and such other organizations as ' Long Island University , Pratt Institute , the Urban League of Brooklyn , St. Joseph 's College for Women and some forty tenants ' associations , block associations , churches , landlord groups , settlement houses , etc. have joined this committee , of which the writer is chairman . The Transit Committee , the City Planning Commission and the New York City . Council are all aware of the community 's pleas for removal of the el . This is a rare opportunity for early ' and significant action of immeasurable benefit in human values ? at ' minimal cost . As a matter of fact , experience following removal of Manhattan elevated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequent tax benefits to the city . But beyond economics here is one step which , again quoting your recent editorial , can start " to reverse the city 's .. . human erosion " without even waiting for the rest of the program to get into action . BENJAMIN H. EISEN Brooklyn , Oct. 3 , 1966 ? Weltner Action Praised To the Editor : An American politician has now proved that moral conviction need not always be subservient to political expediency . When Charles Longstreet Weltner announced that rather than support Lester Maddox for the governorship of Georgia he would withdraw from the race ' for , Congress , he continued along the path of courage and conviction that he had followed ' since his election . We who followed his career as a Representative of the " New South " mourn his : , - ntiv- ilratim : from the political scene  --  sad in the loss of this Congressman when moderation is so badly needed , but secure in the hope that he will soon return to the political scene . A man with the courage of his convictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charles Weltner 's return Editorial Oct. 4 . STEVEN KOTICK Brooklyn , Oct. 4 , 1966 ? Against State Aid to Parochial Schools To the Editor : Governor Rockefeller 's statement on Oct. 5 at Schenectady favoring " some way of giving more state money to parochial school children " is shocking indeed . One would expect the Governor to uphold the Constitution of the state he governs  --  not to speak of the Federal Constitution . None of us is against parochial schools , but state or Federal aid to them directly or indirectly is unconstitutional . Device to Foster Aid We are in a period of our history when subtle ways are being devised to circumvent both the First Amendment to the Federal Constitution , and in the . case of New York , its very explicit provisions against direct or indirect aid ' to religious schools . These assaults on the wall of separation of church and state are made in the name of the children . After all , who can be against ' the children ? The " child-benefit theory " ? and this is really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device to circumvent the principle of separation of church and state , while seeming to still uphold it . Public funds to meet almost any educational needs of institutions can be represented ( or is it misrepresented ? ) as " only aiding the children , " when everybody who can still think knows that it is just a way of aiding religious institutions , and that is unconstitutional . In 1961 Presidential candida ' .. e John F. Kennedy , a Roman Catholic , took a strong position in favor of church-state separation , and he was against Federal aid to religious schools . Undoubtedly , this ' Stand gained him many Protestant votes , including my own . Tie to Politics President Johnson , a Protestant , has opened the floodgates for Federal funds to be used in aiding religious schools by the legislation he has presented , to Congress , especially the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 . That was political also  --  and now we have Governor Rockefeller , a Proteatant , favoring " some way of giving more state money to . parochial school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John F. Kennedy stands out a being faithful to the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States . W. STANLEY RYCE01 . ' T Commission on Ecumenical Mission and Relations The United Presbyterian Church in the United States of America New York , Oct. .7 , 1966 ? Krock 's Retirement . To the Editor : It was with regret that I read of the retirement of Arthur Krock from his position - as columnist with The Times . I was introduced to his writings by an English professor while a sophomore in college and have been a steady reader of his column over the five years since that time . Rather than espouse some abstract political or philosophical theory , ' Mr. Krock 's commentaries viewed events and suggested answers to , problems On the basin of common.sense ? an approach which might bring foreign and domestic problems nearer solution if employed by our national leaders . JAMES R. BOEHLER New York , Oct. 5 , 1966                     