@@722522

txt Letters to The Times ERNEST R. ANDERSON , President , Greater New York Committee Opposed to Fluorida ... Letters to The Times Fluoridation Opposed Policy of Caution Pursued by City Is Declared Justified TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tans : Your July 9 editorial " The Mayor and Fluoridation " focuses attention on the reluctance of Mayor Wagner and other New York City officials to move to fluoridate the city 's water supply . The policy of caution adopted after the 1957 hearing at City Hall has been amply justified . Fcllowing the hearing , the Medical-Dental Committee on Evaluation of Fluoridation ( now numbering some 1,600 physicians , dentists and scientists ) presented a report to the Mayor of an analysis of the American Medical Association 's restudy of the fluoridation problem . The committee reported that , far from establishing the safety of fluoridation , the A. M. A. 's scientific councils have established that it is not safe . Statements to the public by the New York State Health Department that fluoridation has been proved safe are without foundation . The studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incidental to the Newburgh experiment , never materialized . Nor have studies of possible fluoride involvement in a number of important diseases ever been made . The many unanswered questions remain unanswered . Review of ' Facts ' Your editorial mentions the 1955 New York City Board of Health report . This report contains " facts " which need to be reviewed in the light of more recent research , particularly with regard to fluoride accumulation in the soft tissues of the body . Only recently the United States Public Health Service stated studies are needed of the water drinking habits of the younger children . The unwarranted pollution of our public drinking water ( with fifteen tons daily of fluoride chemical to deliver three pounds to the children involved ) is pointed up by the now generally recognized fact " that children up to the age of 4 tend to drink very little water . . . the period during which the foundation is laid for permanent teeth . " It is manifest fluoridation is not the answer . During this period , as desired or indicated , flouride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the same manner as she has been entrusted to administer to her child to prevent rickets , for example . Concern Voiced Since the 1957 hearing more and more distinguished scientists , including some of Nobel award stature for their work in the field of the body 's enzyme chemistry , have voiced their concern . The highest court of Sweden recently unanimously recognized the contention of the opponents that fluoridation could involve health hazards . Your editorial speaks of endorsements . Is it any wonder that the ardor of many public officials for fluoridation may have cooled when the " enthusiastic " endorsement of such an organization as the Ameriican Medical Association proves a weak reed on which to lean ? The A. M. A. 's latest declaration is that it " does not engage in the approval , endorsement , guarantee or acceptance of unfluoridated water or fluoridated water . " Normally , summer is quiet on the fluoridation front . But the rumblings in Congress sparked by Congressman Walter S. Baring 's leadership ? with an aroused public opinion , expressed in almost universal rejection at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panic , of the promoting agencies to overcome public and official reluctance . ERNEST R. ANDERSON , President , Greater New York Committee Opposed to Fluoridation , Inc . New York , July 9 , 1962 . Support for Measure Reported TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your July 9 editorial advocating fluoridation of New York City 's water supply publicly revives an issue of great import to the public . The same edition of The Times further invigorates the issue by pointing out , in a column by Charles G. Bennett , how the fluoridation proposal has been pigeonholed at City Hall because of fear of political reprisal from the vociferous and militant opponents of this thoroughly proven public health measure . To those who accept the formidable scientific evidence in favor of fluoridation and who deplore the economic waste and human suffering that fluoridation could prevent , the time is long overdue for the nation 's greatest city to confer these public health benefits upon the citizenry . Nearly six years ago  --  on July 28 , 1956  --  a Times editorial on Leaders of Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We wish to commend The Times for its unswerving support for legislation requiring voluntary hospitals to bargain collectively with unions of their workers ' choice . As leaders of the Negro and Puerto Rican communities , we believe that the hospital strikes symbolize in most dramatic form the second-class citizenship status and sweatshop wages of all minority group workers in our city . The hospitals ' refusal to agree to such a simple request as a secret ballot election and the elementary right of union representation is unreasonable , unjust and cruel . Such refusal constitutes nothing less than a determination to perpetuate involuntary servitude among minority group workers at the bottom of the economic ladder . It is grossly unfair to permit a situation whereby hospital deficits are subsidized by human misery . The public can no longer tolerate a condition in which community-supported institutions are controlled by a group of self-perpetuating trustees whose archaic and outmoded labor policies result in hardships to the patients , the employes and the public at large . The time is long overdue for a drastic change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there be any misunderstanding , we believe that both parties share equal responsibility for permitting this outrageous situation to develop . Repeated requests to Governor Rockefeller from all sections of the public for corrective legislation have fallen on deaf ears . A. bill designed to achieve a similar result lies dormant in the City Council controlled by the Democratic party . We want also to protest strongly the continued persecution of Local 1199 president Leon J. Davis for his valiant leadership in seeking to bring a measure of dignity and selfrespect to these terribly victimized workers . We believe that all fair-minded citizens share our earnest desire to secure justice and fair play for the voluntary hospital workers . A. PHILIP RANDOLPH , JOSEPH MONSERRAT , JAMES BALDWIN . New York , July 3 , 1962 . Presidential Inability City Bar Supports Constitutional Amendment to Resolve Problem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I Your June 26 editorial on " The Presidential Succession " was correct in noting recent endorsement by the Association of the Bar of the City of New York of a Federal constitutional amendment to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not fitted to serve but is unwilling to relinquish the powers and duties of his office . " We are happy to note The Times ' interest in a constitutional resolution of this important problem . Your editorial was incorrect , however , in suggesting that the association supported New York State Supreme Court Justice Hofstadter 's proposal ( May 31 letter in The Times ) for the appointment by the President at the beginning of each Administration of a nine-man commission empowered to certify the President 's inability , and , in due course , his ability to resume the powers and duties of his office . One of the difficulties in securing action in this field has arisen from the many divergent and detailed suggested solutions which have been advanced , including Justice Hofstadter 's , and the consequent difficulty in getting a consensus on what should be done . The association supports a proposed amendment which would simply empower Congress to determine when inability commences and terminates . The solution by such a constitutional amendment empowering Congress to provide a mechanism for determining when Presidential inability begins and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York State Bar Association and the American Bar Association . Congressional Enactment As pointed out in the report on the problem prepared by the association 's Committee on Federal Legislation ( Vol. 1 , No. 2 , Bulletins of the Association , May 1962 , p. 57 ) , the establishment of the procedure for determining when inability commences and the system of restoration would best be left to enactment by Congress and the President . Constitutional amendments should not be overly detailed . It is hoped that early hearings on the problem and the proposal will be held by the Subcommittee on Constitutional Admendments under the chairmanship of Senator Estes Kefauver . As noted in the report of the Committee on Federal Legislation ( p. 68 ) , " The Republic can not afford , in the present age of global and national problems of great complexity and vital importance , to allow the constitutional problem of possible Presidential inability to remain in its present unsatisfactory state . " EDWIN L. GASPERINI , Chairman , Committee on Federal Legislation , The Association of the Bar of the City of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Plants Here Welcomed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : President Kennedy 's invitation to Japanese and West Europeans to establish plants in this country is creative statesmanship . It furthers practical partnership instead of cut-throat competition . Clearances as already shown in the European Payments Union should economize the use of gold and do away with much of the evils of foreign exchange speculation . The disturbing balance of our international payments could be placed on a more easily borne level . Some of the overseas investment in plant might well be located in our chronically depressed areas . We have fine , fast roads and adequate water . Economic imperialism should give way to free , fair enterprise for all associates . The William James ' concept of a moral equivalent for war could well be on the way . HERMAN M. BUGGELN . Salem , N. Y. , July 8 , 1962. this subject noted , " The city is years late . " As your current editorial points out , the Board of Estimate as now composed might be expected to take a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and welfare agency that has been active in the fluoridation struggle for many years . We can assure the members of the Board of Estimate that there is enorMous support for fluoridation among the people , so many of whom would benefit so greatly from it . GORDON E. BROWN , Executive Director , State Charities Aid Association . - New York , July 11 , 1962 . Hospital Strike Backed Bringing Religion Into Policy 1U 1 ZDITOR OF IHE 1NEW YORK TIMES : The Governors are all " het up " about the Supreme Court decision regarding prayers in the public schools . Evidently they consider it good politics to be highly religious on a matter which will not make a hairbreadth 's difference in our policy as a nation among nations . If they are really religious let them wrestle with some of the extremely embarrassing teachings of Jesus as to how people should deal with their enemies  --  such commands of his as , " When a man hits you on the cheek offer him the other , too . " ( I quote the New English Bible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old Testament , how about the dictum , " If thine enemy be hungry , give him bread to eat . " The Hebrew puts it even more strongly than does our English translation : " If he that hateth thee be hungry , give him bread to eat . " These are principles that today have a direct bearing on what our policy should be toward Russia and China and Cuba . HENRY S. HUNTINGTON . Philadelphia , July 4 , 1962 . Studying Communism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES For American schools to consider setting up " special classes on communism " is a new high in academic stupidity . How silly are we to allow our country to look to the rest of the world ? Has anyone heard of Soviet schools wasting time on courses on the " menace of capitalism " ? We are a strange and amazing people . We rise in a First Amendment fury to protect our school children against indoctrination by morning prayer and open the door through classes like these to a daily baptism in cold war fears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? MARY HAYS WEIK . New York , July 4 , 1962 . To Clean City Beaches To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Myron Steger 's letter in your issue of July 2 suggests that New York City 's idle teen-agers be employed to clean up Central Park . Of equal importance to the public are the city 's beaches , which are littered with trash . I am sure that many young people would willingly work a few hours a day cleaning beaches in exchange for a few dollars to spend there . LION HARVEY . New York , July 2 , 1962.                     