@@726216

txt A horde of sunburned college students here for the Easter holidays went on a rampage today , looting delivery trucks , attacking a crowded bus , and battling police with a barrage of plundered fruit . One witness estimated that 3,000 students took part in the melee . Itching for action after a morning of sun , sand , and beer , thousands of students poured off the beaches into the main thorofare . Girls in sweatshirts and bikinis cheered while muscular fraternity men with bleached hair and peeling noses , picked up an empty Volkswagen and ran back and forth down the nalm-lined street . 30 Students Arrested " No one was hurt seriously and helmeted riot squads from four area police departments pushed the students back onto the white beaches within an hour . Thirty students , 25 boys and 5 girls , were arrested on charges ranging from inciting to riot to disturbing the peace . The students were still being booked as the city 's churches opened their doors for Good Friday services . A special court session to bear the cases was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were canceled tonight and patroling officers kept the students moving . They said the situation was well under control . The rioting began shortly be/ fore a scheduled peace march up Las Olas boulevard . The march , protesting the war in Viet Nam , was canceled . Walk Over Cars Police said the outbreak was touched off by a small group of boys who stopped a passing bakery truck and began taking cakes and bread . A soft drink truck then was looted and bottles and their contents were hurled at onlookers . Gaining strength as they went , the students began marching north , up the street that parallels the ocean . They walked over cars , commandeered vehicles occupied by girls , and vented their fury on a city bus occupied by 12 persons , including a mother and infant . Witnesses said the occupants scrambled for safety as the students violently rocked the bus , nearly ? causing it to overturn . They then climbed aboard and broke windows and harrassed the frightened driver . Overhead , a plane towed a sky sign saying : " Welcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mob moved off the main street into a side street where they plundered a fruit and vegetable cart and pelted onlookers and arriving police . Several Are Injured Several students were injured oy broken glass and police reported one girl was gashed badly on her forehead when struck by a soft drink bottle . Doe policeman received a slight cut . Beer pamrs along the beach were closed during the outbreak and city officials said the taverns would remain shut down . overnight . The manager of an ocean front hotel estimated 3,000 students took part in the melee . Police said some 10,000 students were on the beach when the incident occurred . Over all , some 18,000 students crowded the city . Hans Hoven , manager of the Marlin hotel , said many elderly persons sought refuge in his hotel during the height of the melee . He said the hotel porch was briefly overrun by students who made an unsuccessful bid to rip down a large decorative marlin above the porch . First Major Incident The fracas was nowhere near as severe as the rioting of 1962 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first major incident since the students began pouring into Fort Lauderdale and Daytona Beach last week . In Daytona Beach , which gets more sun worshippers than Fort Lauderdale. police patrols strictly enforced an ordinance banning beer on the beach . " Daytona 's dehd. " said an 18-year-old University of Tennessee co-ed.                     