@@727946

txt As they confront the approaching general election , Mayor Lindsay and the city 's liberals and moderates ? regardless of party label  --  have but one responsible course of action . It is to get together . The city 's welfare requires it . Both State Senator Marchi , who defeated Mr. Lindsay narrowly in the Republican primary and is running also as the Conservative candidate , and City Controller Procaccino , winner of the five-way Democratic primary , represent generally those elements in their respective parties that stretch from right of center to far right . While Mr. Marchi has no chance of election , Mr. Procaccino does , as the Democrats enjoy a threeto-one edge in registration . Neither , however , has shown the understanding , the sympathy , the outlook or basic capacity for handling what is doubtless the nation 's second most demanding elective office , second only to the Presidency itself . Mr. Marchi and Mr. Procaccino offer only further divisiveness and simplistic answers to immensely complicated problems . Mayor Lindsay , in contrast , has support among the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courageously to give all New Yorkers a sense of participation in municipal affairs and involvement in the shaping of public policies . He has turned the city around in important respects , reorganizing city government , improving its fiscal position and getting a start on the rebuilding of many aspects of civic life . For moderate and liberal Democrats now to nominate their own candidate , as some have proposed doing , would be only to split the moderate and liberal vote . This candidate would inevitably be cast in the role of " spoiler , " reducing Mayor Lindsay 's chances of success to near-zero and in the process virtually assuring Mr. Procaccino 's election . A disaster for the city , such an outcome would also be a disaster for the Democratic party . It would elevate to positions of power the very forces of reaction and bossism that the liberal reformers have been fighting so fiercely in recent years . Moderate and liberal Democrats , then , have good reason for rallying to Mayor Lindsay 's fusion candidacy . And the Mayor , for his part , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his cause . As a fusion candidate , as well as the Liberal party nominee , it is entirely proper for him to assure outstanding Democrats , such as Robert Abrams running for the borough presidency of the Bronx , a spot on the fusion ticket and to assure the moderate and liberal Democratic leaders a high place in his advisory councils . As the incumbent Mayor , he must run on his record but he would do well to listen to those modern-minded Democrats who have sound advice to offer in respect to improving existing policies and programs . Many of their positions , touching on such practical , mundane matters as street cleaning , air pollution , housing and tenants ' rights , the Mayor surely could accept . Meaningful progress in the city depends on the ability of Mayor Lindsay and the moderate and liberal Democrats to work out an effective coalition . The Mayor will need perhaps 500,000 Democratic votes to win in November . He must listen to Democrats now . The Democrats must submerge their own partisanship and petty and personal factionalism within the reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage not only of convenience but also of necessity in the context of New York City 's troubled situation today . It is important that both sides get on with it .                     