@@724601

txt Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin declared today that unless the United States halted its " aggressive actions , " the war in Vietnam would " inevitably transcend its original boundaries , " His declaration was interpreted by diplomatic observers here as an implied warning that the Soviet Union as well as Communist China would be drawn into the conflict if the United States carried the war into North Vietnam . The Premier reviewed previous Soviet calls for a withdrawal of American forces from South Vietnam and South Korea . He indicated that the Soviet Government felt that a resumption of American air attacks on North Vietnam would destroy whatever chances existed for negotiation of a peaceful settlement . " First and foremost , " he said.1 American " aggressive actions " have to cease in order to " create conditions for the exploration of avenues leading to the normalization of the situation in Indochina . " This appeared to bear // out reports from Paris that the Soviet Government had dropped its insistence on an American withdrawal from South Vietnam as a condition that had to be fulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a televised report to the nation on his recent trip to North Vietnam , North Korea and Communist China . He was grIm  --  faced , and his statements sounddd tough . The toughness was not , directed at the States alone for he had blunt words about the Chinese-Soviet conflict . Taft Termed Vied " Naturally , the difftetilties and differences which haVa developed in. the Mternatfonal Communist movement can not be resolved right away , " he said . His talks with the Chinese were " useful " and " helped clarify the possibilities of strengthening relations " between the two regimes , he added without showing any , visible warmth . He spoke three days before the opening in Moscow of a Kremlin-sponsored conference of Communist parties that is expected to be boycotted by the Chinese . A preview of Soviet strategy at the conference was contained in an article in the latest issue of Kommunist , the monthly ideological journal of the Soviet party . The Soviet Government and the Communist party have recently taken " a number of new steps " to improve relations with China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Tass . Action Against ' Imperialism ' The Soviet Union has sought to " activate " Government relations between the two countries and believes that " co-ordinated action " and a " broad exchange of information on foreign policy " would render the joint struggle against imperialism more effective , the article said . It added that the Soviet Union was in favor of increased trade with China and had made " concrete proposals " for greater economic , scientific and technical cooperation . The article appeared to confirm predictions by Western specialists that the Russians would use next week 's conference to achieve a tactical accommodation between the two Communist camps in the Interest of more effective opposition to American policies in Vietnam . This theme was stressed by Mr. Kosygin in his address . The most important result of his trip to the Far East , he said , was an agreement between the Soviet Union , North Vietnam and North Korea to strengthen the solidarity of the Communist camp and to tighten the " united front against imperialism . " , Observers noted that Commu ! fist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacts Alleged Discussing Vietnam , Premier Kosygin charged that the United States had " unleashed the war " there , had " crudely violated " the Geneva agreements of 1954 , sabotaged free elections and imposed an unpopular regime in Saigon . Although " propped up by American bayonets , " the Saigon regime is on the brink of bankruptcy and the United States is therefore seeking to widen the conflict , he said . In this situation , he declared , it is the duty of " all peaceloving nations ' to come to the aid of the North Vietnamese . The Soviet leader added a single conciliatory note . While Moscow will do everything for the unity of the Communist camp , he said , its policy is " not directed against any country . " The Soviet Union is prepared to work with " all the peoples of the world , " including those of the United States , Britain and France , for a relaxation of tension and for general disarm lament , he added . Raul Castro , Vice Premier and Armed Forces Minister , arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cuba 's participation had previously been in doubt . In addition to the Chinese party , six of the 25 foreign parties that have been invited are expected to stay away ? the North Korean , North Vietnamese , Indonesian , Japanese , Albanian and Rumanian.                     