@@721953

txt Washington , July 24 ( Special ? The state department today dispatched a note to the Cuban government by way of the Swiss embassy in Havana demanding the return of a hijacked Eastern Airlines plane , but apparently no ? other action had been taken . The pilot of the plane was forced by an unidentified gunman to fly to Havana from Miami earlier in the day . The 33 passengers and crew of five were reportedly being held in a hotel near the Havana airport . Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro said tonight the passengers and crew are free to leave Cuba at any time . Herb Kaplow , a National Broadcasting company newsman , said in a broadcast from Havana that Castro has expressed willingness to help any of them return to this country . Wants to Exchange Castro was quoted as saying the dispute over the plane itself has not yet been decided and intimated that he intends to try to make an exchange for a Cuban plane among those being held in the United States in connection with a civil court litigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orleans and Dallas , veered off its course shortly after departure from Miami at 9:05 a. m . The plane 's pilot , Capt . W. E. Buchanan , radioed , " I am proceeding to Havana at pistol point . " Thereafter the plane 's radio was silent . The turbo prop Electr a landed at Jose Marti airport in Havana at 11:25 a. m . Passengers and crew were questioned by Cuban authorities . Demand Is Undelivered The state department 's demand , addressed to the Swiss embassy , that the plane and its passengers be released was not delivered to the Cuban government . An official of the Swiss embassy in Havana reported he was unable to reach the proper Cuban authorities because of the furor over the arrival in Havana of Yuri Gagarin , Russian astronaut . Castro had announced previously that he would confiscate any United States plane that landed in Cuban territory . In the face of this declaration , the White House 's only comment about the hijacking was : " We were informed about it . " Pierre Salinger , Presidential press secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all reports to the White House had come from the federal aviation agency , and ' that the White House had not been in touch with the air defense command about the incident . The Cuban foreign relations ministry told all news agencies that an official statement would be issued concerning the plane , and that no agency should fila any stories from Havana until one was issued . There was no indication when it might be issued . The airport tower in Havana said by telephone it could not make any statements about the fate of the plane and its passengers until an official announcement came from the foreign ministry . An air force fighter plane , piloted by Capt . W. G. Hayes , accompanied the hij a eked plane to . within 3 miles of Cuba in an unsuccessful effort to turn it back . It was learned that upon arrival in Cuba , the plane 's passengers were detained in waiting rooms at the airport . Federal authorities in Miami went over the passenger list seeking a , clew to who might have hijacked the air liner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destination , eight were bound for Tampa , and seven for New Orleans . One of the passengers was reported to be Luis Rodriguez , No. 1 contender for the world welterweight boxing championship . He was en route to Dallas for a fight Thursday night with Curtis Cokes . Watched by Radar Eastern identified the other crew members as J. Yandell , co-pilot ; P. A. Knudson , flight engineer ; Joan Jones , stewardess , and Robert Reese , flight attendant . All were stationed at Miami . The first indication that something had happened to the Electra came when the 3,3 million dollar aircraft made a sharp turn off course on the radarscope operated by the federal aviation agency at Tampa . This occurred as the plane was about 20 miles southwest of Pahokee , Fla . Then it swerved directly toward Havana . An FAA report that the Electra had left its pattern was picked up by the North American air defense command NORADI at Colorado Springs , Colo. , and an immediate order went to the Homestead , Fla. , air force base to send up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of the 482d fighter interceptor squadron at Seymour - Johnson air force base , N. C. , took off and picked up the plane south of Miami . Hayes is on temporary duty at Homestead . Hayes waggled his wings at the air liner in a futile effort to Jura it back . The Electra was the second American air liner to be hijacked and flown into Cuba . Kin Wait by Phones Miami , July 24 t4 ' ? Relatives fidgeted impatiently and stuck close to telephones tonight in hopes of hearing from passengers who made an involuntary trip to Havana aboard a hijacked Eastern Airlines plane . Eastern officials said late tonight they have been unable to get a call thru to the plane 's crew . A spokesman said the line still did not know who hijacked the plane , how it was done , or any other detail of the incident .                     