@@727202

txt The Interstate Commerce Commission told Congress today that " significant segments " of long-distance and medium-distance rail passenger service would disappear in a few years unless the law was changed under which the carriers are allowed to drop money-losing trains . The commission , which proposed several changes in the Interstate Commerce Act , also recommended in a 100-page report that a r comprehensive ( study be made of the need for a national railroad passenger system . This study , the agency stipulated , should include the methods for developing a modern rail network , if such a system is desirable . The commission ' suggested that the study bell made either by a Congressional ' committee or by the Department of Transportation with the ' assistance of the I.C.C . The proposed study , the commission suggested , should determine the existing capacity of all passenger modes and their anticipated expansion by 1975 . The commission also asked that the study point out the " ability and costs of resources to meet such needs , and the proper role of carriers and governmental bodies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . " " We pledge our full cooperation in such a venture , " the commission said . Its report was presented by the chairman , Paul J. Tierney , to Senator Warren G. Magnuson , Democrat of Washington , who is chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee , and Representative Harley 0 . Staggers , Democrat , of West Virginia , chairman of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce . The commission , which has been under increasingly sharp criticism recently for not having formulated its own minArmy Paul J. Tierney , head of the interstate trade panel . imum standards for railroad passenger ' service , has long urged revisions in section 13A of the Interstate ' Commerce Act . It is section 13A that specifies the conditions under which the commission can authorize the elimination of passenger train service . Section 13A was made part of the Interstate Commerce Act in 1958 , when the financial status of the nation 's railroads was so critical that it was feared that as many as two dozen systems might lurch into receivership . Revisions Proposed The section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulatory agency finds that the particular train service " is required by the public convenience and necessity and will not unduly burden interstate and foreign commerce . " Among the revisions the commission recommended in section 13A was one that would require the railroad seeking to get out of a particular train service to give its patrons 60 days advance notice instead of the present 30 days . It also recommended that the period of suspension the commission can order before allowing a discontinuance be extended , to seven months from the present ? four months . This additional time , it explained , would permit a " more adequate investigation and consideration by the I.C.C . " The regulatory body also proposed that it be authorized to provide special rules to keep trains operating for two years before granting a railroad 's request to discontinue its last remaining interstate service between two points . The most critical problem it Aas encountered in handling train discontinuance applications , the commission said , is the trend of the railroads to end the last service between major cities . This is the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission , without mentioning the railroad by name , was refering , among others , to the Southern Pacific Company . That road wants to discontinue the Sunset , the last remaining passenger train operating between New Orleans and Los Angeles . This spring , before the Southern Pacific filed its discontinuance application for the Sunset , a commission examiner conducted an exhaustive investigation asked for by California , New Mexico , Arizona , Texas and Louisiana . The examiner found that the railroad had violated the Interstate Commerce Ace by collecting special fares on the train without providing patrons with " special services . " The report acknowledged the joint program of the Government and the Penn Central and New Haven Railroads to conduct high-speed train demonstrations over the next several years between Washington , New York and Boston . It also noted that there had been general acceptance by both the public and Government  --  Federal , state and local ? that in many areas rail commuter service was the most economic public method of getting people in and out of crowded cities . However , the report repeatedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It said that the lack of Government promotion encouraged the railroads to continue to allow the quality and quantity of their passenger service to deteriorate .                     