@@727917

txt Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau 's campaign for Canadian unity seems to be paying its first tangible dividends . They have appeared recently in two sensitive areas . At his latest conference with the 10 provincial governments Mr. Trudeau held that definite progress was made in the long struggle to redistribute the nation 's revenues on a fair basis . The premiers of the provinces generally agreed and ended the conference in a mood of new optimism . To satisfy them the federal government proposed that they enter the field of , indirect taxation ; until now an exclusive federal preserve . Quebec Premier speaks out As a second-and even ' more daring innovation Mr. Trudeau promised that his government would not undertake any more costly national services affecting the provinCes without their approval . These two principles , never accepted until now , will be worked out in definite formulas at later federal-provincial conferences . Eventually , it is hoped , they will be installed in a new Canadian constitution . Meanwhile , Mr. Trudeau was hearing good news from his native Quebec , where grievances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? - After last week 's constitutional conference Jean-Jacques Bertrand , Premier of Quebec , suddenly disclosed his strong support for Mr. Trudeau 's broad objectives . As he sought the permanent leadership of his own provincial party , the Union Nationale , at a convention this week , Mr. Bertrand flatly repudiated any thought of sepa , - rating Quebec from Canada . Ottawa delighted In the French-speaking city of Hull , a suburb , of Ottawa , he amazed English-speaking Canadians everywhere by asking , " When are we going to learn , to write in our hearts , that French Quebecers and English Quebecers are all Quebecers and Canadians together and the luckiest people in the world ? We must turn our backs on the narrow-minded nationalists and racists who try to tell us different , for they are preaching a doctrine of destruction of both our beautiful province and our belOVed country . " This statement surpriSed the public and delighted the federal government because it came from a proVincial government histori- tally nationalist and antagonistic to the English-speaking majority of Canada . Mr. Trudeau 's ally in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal Mr. Bertrand 's dramatic plea for unity among all Canadians . It followed both the successful conference of the 11 governments and the assured passage of an official-languages act in Parliament . This statute gives French-Canadians the right to use their own language in dealing with the federal government wherever they form 10 percent of the local population . The same right is guaranteed for English-speakers in Quebec . Mr. Trudeau regards it as the first truly fundamental reform in what he bills as " just society . " But while , it commands majority support in . Parliament and . the nation at large its legality will be challenged in the courts by the Province of Manitoba and perhaps others in the west . The federal government is sure that its legislation is constitutional but deeply regrets a court argument which is likely to be prolonged and abrasive .                     