@@727562

txt The Johnson Administration intends to leave substantive action on the Soviet Union 's latest Middle East peace proposals for the incoming Nixon Administration . Government officials said today that Mr. Johnson , nonetheless , would reply to the Soviet note of Dec. 30 , which was addressed to him . The text of the note became available here today . " When the Soviet Union addresses a note personally to the President of the United States , " said one aide , " he answers it . " It was stressed , however , that the United States response would merely " keep the ball rolling " ? in the diplomatic sense  --  and would not commit the United States to any course of action . Informal Talks Planned The Johnson Administration , with eight working days left , will discuss the Soviet text informally with Britain , France , Israel and certain Arab countries and others that have interests in the Mediterranean-Middle East region , officials here said . However , there will be more exchanges of views on matters of mutual interest , Government informants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response on a matter of major international import . Informants pointed out that the lame-duck Johnson Administration would not have the time to consult other interested nations and prepare the sort of reply required by the circumstances . Such a reply , they noted , will require careful analysis of the diplomatic nuances of the Soviet text . Collaboration Suggested Some informants suggested that Moscow was trying to draw the Johnson Administration into a substantive discussion of its proposals so as to commit the Nixon Administration in advance . Others suggested that Moscow was seeking , also , to win added prestige among the Arabs by posing as their champion . The Russians ' plan , In general , suggests United StatesSoviet collaboration in forwarding through Dr. Gunnar V. Jarring of Sweden , the United Nations envoy in the Middle East , a proposal for a " just and lasting peace , " in accordance with the Security Council resolution of Nov. 22 , 1967 . It envisages initial Israeli // withdrawal from all territories seized from the Arabs in 1967 , a United Nations buffer force and the deposit with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ document ending the state of war that has existed since 1948 . " It 's not up to the United States , anyway , to do anything , " one senior Administration aide commented . " Our role is to assist , in so far as we can , the Jarring mission . The Russians appear to be moving in the same direction  --  so we 're mildly pleased . " Dr. Jarring has been relaying peace proposals-betvveen Israel and various Arab - capitals for the last year on behalf of Secretary General Thant . Administration spokesmen characterized as generally accurate the text of the Soviet note printed today in the . Lebanese newspaper Al Anwar . Officially , they declined comment . Privately , however , qualified informants described the Soviet proposal as " not a basis for settlement in the Middle East but a move in the right direction . " They noted , for instance , that Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union visited Cairo on Dec. 19 , and this they said , suggested that the Moscow proposal had United Arab Republic backing . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been urging privately for weeks that the Jarring mission be given every assistance to continue . " We 're still a long way from home but I 'm mildly cheered , " said one informant . " The Soviets seem genuinely worried about the constant escalation in ArabIsraeli fighting and they have an obsession about getting dragged into situations beyond their control . " United States and other Western diplomatic sources tended to sympathize with Israel 's vociferous objections to the Soviet 's proposals . Israeli diplomats have characterized the plan as intended to force Israel , under the threat of international censure , to withdraw her forces from occupied Arab territories in return for vague pledges of peace . They fear that acceptance of the Soviet proposals by the United States , Britain and France and their substitution for a negotiated settlement between Israel and the Arab countries would serve to perpetuate rather than end the Middle East crisis .                     