@@728237

txt The Nixon Administration was understood today to be planning to appoint a chief negotiator at the Vietnam peace talks in Paris in the immediate future to succeed Henry Cabot Lodge . The Administration is known to feel that it is , vital to maintain a top - level negotiating team in Paris ? so that it will not be accused of having missed any opportunity to discuss a peace settlement . In Paris , Mr. Lodge said Wednesday , after a negotiating session Of the peace talks , that he was willing to meet privately with the North Vietnamese delegation to discuss a coalition government for South Vietnam . But he drew a distinction betwen " talking " on this issue and " negotiating " with the Hanoi representatives . The plans to name a successor soon to Mr. Lodge , whose resignation was announced last Thursday ; fit into the Administration 's long-range conviction that meaningful negotiations with North Vietnam must not be ruled out despite what is regarded here as , Hanoi 's present antagonistic stand . On the day the resignation was announced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his departure could he interpreted as a signal to Hanoi that if substantial bargaining did not begin soon in Paris , the negotiations would assume less importance in White House efforts to achieve peace . Mr. Lodge 's resignation becomes effective Dec. 8 . Mr. Lodge 's resignation hadj been interpreted in some quarters as meaning that the United States wished to underline its feeling of frustration over the Paris stalemate with a downgrading of its delegation . Suggestions were made that Mr. Lodge would not be replaced in the forseeahle future . . But the Administration is known to be desirous of balancing the pessimism over the present situation in Paris with a broader , and in a sense more hopeful , assessment of prospects for fruitful negotiations to follow the current stage of unproductive discussions . Coinciding with the word of the Administration 's plans to replace Mr. Lodge as soon as possible was a report here today that Edmund A. Gullion , former Ambassador to the Congo and now dean of the Fletcher School of Diplomacy and Law at Tufts University , was among those being considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informants said Mr. Gullion might be named either chief delegate or deputy delegate . The latter position has been held by Lawrence E. Walsh , a New York lawyer , who resigned at the same time as Mr. Lodge . Informants said that President Nixon might choose to name someone politically prominent to head the Paris delegation , with Mr. Gullion serving as the ranking professional diplomat . Mr. Gullion , who is 56 years old , became dean at the Fletcher School in 1964 after his service in the Congo . He is closely acquainted with Vietnamese affairs , having served as deputy chief of mission at the United States Embassy in Saigon from 1949 to 1953 . Hanoi Shift Awaited A Democrat , he visited Vietnam last August with a nineman delegation of the Citizens ' Committee for Peace and Freedom in Vietnam . The group has supported the Vietnam policies of former President Lyndon B. Johnson and of Mr. Nixon . Reached at his home in Medford , Mass. , tonight , Mr. Gullion said he had not been approached by the Administration in. connection with a possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vietnam situation was understood to be that Hanoi may well decide to enter into serious negotiations ? though no progress has been made in Paris in many months ? when it has concluded that it has extracted maximum advantage militarily and politically from the war . The United States ' willingness to resume private meetings with the Hanoi delegates at any time was reaffirmed tonight by Secretary of State William P. Rogers in remarks on the National Educational Television network 's program " The President 's Men . " Mr. Rogers said , " Ambassador Lodge has been willing , for some time , and clearly indicated to the North Vietnamese , that we were wiling to talk to them about military and political matters at the same time . " " We always did say , though , that in the final analysis a political solution had to be decided upon and determined by the people in South Vietnam , " he declared . " But we are perfectly willing to talk about it . In fact , we did have private talks about both military and political matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               