@@726361

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times To Aid Arabs Rebuild Economies To the Editor : I read with dismay the June 10 news accounts of spectacular individual donations to the Israel Emergency Fund . While applauding this display of personal generosity , I feel that these donations are not being sent where they are most needed , and that they are unlikely to contribute to the future stability of the Middle East . This short war has demonstrated the self-sufficiency of the Israelis and their ability to retain economic solvency in spite of the burdens of large defense expenditures . As a result of the war her future is brighter than ever because her trade routes are open and the Arab military threat has been considerably reduced . Israel has no desperate need of donations from the United States at the present time , The U.A.R. faces a quite different situation . Aside from the direct costs of the war and the loss of canal revenue , the burden of political instability has been added to an already tottering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.A.R. 's cotton crop , has little incentive to be of immediate assistance . Immediate Relief The World Bank can hardly justify a long-term loan to a country whose leaders seem more intent upon avenging historical grievances by denying Israel her right to exist than upon raising the Egyptian standard of living . The Egyptians , unlike the Israelis , are clearly in need of immediate help . And the Palestine refugees and the Arabs captured by Israel are in even more desperate need of relief than the Egyptians . Sending money to Israel may be good for the soul , but it can not be justified as an efficient means of relieving human suffering . The United States is going to have to help out with the immediate problem , and the aid will have to be deftly administered for a long time to come if the U.A.R. is ever going to stop coveting Israeli prosperity and property . Clearly , the efforts of the United States to appear relatively neutral and to work toward a long-range solution of the Middle Eastern problem can only be impeded by ostentatious display @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Star of David shines brightly today , but adding to its luster will only increase the painful glare in Arab eyes and add to the chances of its future extinction by Arab armies . DAVID PRITCHARD Cambridge , Mass. , June 10 , 1967 ? Stecher for Civil Court Judge To the Editor : Ability and integrity , not politics , should determine the composition of our courts . To advance this goal we strongly support the principle long ago advanced by the American Bar Association  --  and now in effect in an increasing number of states , as well as in the City of New York in the case of appointive judges ? that judges should be appointed from a list prepared by an independent nonpolitical committee . In recent years a number of Democratic Reform clubs in this city have decided to apply the same principle to the nomination of elective judges . While we believe all judges should be appointed from such a list , we consider that as long as the elective system remains this is an important step forward which deserves the support of all citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible from politics . For these reasons we support Martin B. Stecher 's candidacy for Judge of the Civil Court in the Fifth Municipal Court District , Manhattan , in the forthcoming primary election . An impartial panel of outstanding lawyers and civic leaders carefully screened five candidates for this Democratic nomination and found Mr. Stecher to be " the best qualified candidate to be a judge . " Mr. Stecher is opposed in the primary by a candidate who refused to submit his qualifications to this or any other independent judiciary panel . He relied on the outdated system of political clubhouse selection . We have applauded other recent efforts in New York County  --  such as the nominations of Civil Court Judges Greenfield and Birns  --  to place judicial selection above party dictates . We deplore political efforts to frustrate such reforms . We believe it incumbent upon us to continue to support popular demand for reform of judicial selection , as well as the judicial candidacies of highly qualified men . We do both in supporting the candidacy of Martin B. Stecher for Judge of the Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHANLER MERRELL E. CLARK Jr . GEORGE H. P. DWIGHT THOMAS K. FINLETTER FRANCIS H. HORAN R. KEITH KANE HORACE S. MANGES TELFORD TAYLOR New York , June 7 , 1967 ? Squeeze on Tenants To the Editor : The settlement of the apartment house strike adds to Mayor Lindsay 's track record in labor disputes . They are always settled at the public 's expense . Your June 5 editorial ( " The Tenants ' Torture Ends " ) rightly pointed out that the landlords had hoped to use the strike as a lever for ending rent controls . However , the editorial missed a vital point when agreeing that the 1 to 21/2 per cent rent increase formula arrived at for a settlement was an equable one . Many tenants ' groups around the city , our own included , have fought a long , time-consuming battle to prevent any increase in rents to landlords who have failed to maintain houses properly and have provided the kind of minimal service that was barely diminished by the strike when it reached nothing at all . Now all this quite legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is lost by default . The landlords , heartened by what has happened when they took the law into their own hands , are n't likely to remain satisfied for very long , either . The landlords ' action in the strike was a squeeze play that put the tenants in the middle . And that 's exactly where Mayor Lindsay 's solution has left them . NED SCIINURMAN Chairman , Christopher-Barrow Tenants Association New York , June 6 , 1967 ? Quick Passage of Draft Law To the Editor : One can indeed agree with Prof. Orest Ranum ( letter June 4 ) that the capricious debate on Selective Service legislation in the House of Representatives will undermine the confidence of the young . But it would be unfortunate if we were to limit our concern to the young men who are " bright and idealistic , " as Ranum did . Surely the not-so-bright or skeptical need only be literate to read about the affair , and barely capable of reason to infer a discrepancy between a life and death matter and its shoddy consideration by those who claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again conclude that they are powerless in affecting the processes of decision . To ignore them by some plutocratic stratification of concern is to reinforce this feeling , and to reinforce it by the very same disregard which Ranum . PETER MCHUGH condemns . Assistant Professor of Sociology Columbia University New York , June ? 8 , 1967                     