@@725456

txt President Johnson , looking relaxed and genial , attended Easter services today with his family and his neighbors at St. Barnabas Episcopal Church here . It was a perfect Easter Sunday , with sunny skies , a warm breeze and the buttercups and blue bonnets blooming in the fields . The President drove the family 's white ranch wagon the 15 miles from the LBJ Ranch to Fredericksburg . With him were Mrs. Johnson ; their daughters Luci and Lynda ; Luci 's fianc ? , Airman Patrick J. Nugent ; Lynda 's boy friend , George Hamilton , the actor ; Mrs. Gerard Nugent of San Diego , Airman Nugent 's sisterin-law . Also , Arthur Krim Of New York , president of United Artists Corporation , who is a Democratic party fund-raiser ; Mrs. Krim ; Jesse Kellam , manager of the Johnson family 's radio and television interests in Austin , and members of Mr. Johnson 's staff . Dressed For Occasion Luci and her fiance " left the small shingle-and-stone church midway through the services to attend services at St. Mary 's Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed in their Easter finery . Mrs. Johnson wore a black princess-style dress with a beige coat and a beige straw hat with rolled-up brim . Luci wore a pastel pink linenand-silk ensemble , and Lynda a tan and cream checked dress and jacket . Mr. Johnson had on a dark blue suit with a vest . After the services , the President chatted with his neighbors and other well-wishers , then went Into a small separate chapel on the church grounds where he was given a 3-by-2-foot scale model of his ranch house by Ralph L. Doppler of Fredericksburg . Mr. Doppler , who makes models as a hobby , constructed one of the chapel two years ago for Mrs. Johnson . At the time . Mr. Johnson said he would like one of his ranch home . Eventually , the model will be on display at the Johnson Library , which is to be constructed on the University of Texas campus at Austin . ' Darling , Is n't it delightful , " Mrs. Johnson said to her husband as she spied the model . It was Mr. Hamilton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a big hit with teen-age girl parishioners . One mother whose daughter shook hands with both Mr. Johnson and the actor declared : " She 's more excited about George Hamilton . " Mr. Hamilton left the ranch before dinner to return to Hollywood . A small boy gave Easter eggs to the Johnsons  --  a purple one for Mrs. Johnson , a green one for the President . As he was about to get back into his car , Mr. Johnson saw N. T. Sheth of Bombay , who is studying for a doctorate in mathematics at Rice University . They chatted about the recent visit of the Indian Prime Minister , Mrs. Indira Gandhi . " I enjoyed the visit very much , " the President told Mr. Sheth . " She is a very lovely lady . " Back at the ranch , the Johnsons and their guests watched a rebroadcast of a television show about Washington narrated by Mrs. Johnson . The President drove his white Lincoln Continental around the ranch observing the livestock ? one of his favorite relaxations ? then went into his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a while at his desk . Later , he joined his family and guests on the patio of the pool for some sun and conversation . In the early evening , the group went into the dining room for an Easter dinner of steak , frozen corn grown on the ranch , green salad , strawberries from south Texas and angelfood cake . The White House announced that the President had asked Vice President Humphrey to throw out the first ball at the American League season 's opener tomorrow in Washington between the Senators and the Cleveland Indians ; It will be the first time since 1959 that a President has not thrown out the first ball . The President 's decision not to return to Washington to perform the ceremonial chore may indicate that he intends to remain here through the week .                     