@@722473

txt Premier Khrushchev declared today that a miscalculation in Soviet economic planning had compelled the increase in food prices ordered yesterday . Speaking in a tone of regret at a Soviet-Cuban youth meeting here , Mr. Khrushchev said the Soviet leadership had decided to tell " the whole truth " about the 30 per cent mark-up in the price of meat and the 25 per cent increase in the price of butter . The Premier said the mistake had been made in increasing wages and pensions quickly so that people had more money than ever before , He explained that agricultural production had not kept pace with the resultant rise in spending and queues of consumers had appeared in food shops . Tonight , following Mr. Khrushchev 's speech , the Moscow radio announced that a top-level conference of the Economic Mutual Assistance Council , which is known as Comecon , would meet in Moscow Wednesday to discuss questions of economic cooperation . The meeting will be attended by heads of government and first secretaries of Communist parties . Speculation on Meeting Comecon is the Moscowdirected organization that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Europe . Its members are Bulgaria , Czechoslovakia , Rumania , Hungary , Poland , East Germany and the Soviet Union . Albania is a nominal member but has not participated in Comecon meetings since her ideological break late last year with the Soviet Union . The Asian Communist nations usually send observers to the meetings . There was speculation here that Mr. Khrushchev might be seeking ways at the coming meeting to cut back on Soviet expenditures so as to ease the strain on his country 's resources . Moscow has so far not demonstrated any intention to reduce spending on projects of political and military significance . Soviet resources apparently have been overcommitted in such priority sectors as armaments , heavy industry , space exploration and aid to the un // der-developed countries of Asia . and Africa . When serious deficiencies requiring new large-scale investi ments appeared in agriculture ! last year , Mr. Khrushchev was ! not able to find the necessary funds . After aplenary meet --  ; P ing on agriculture last March ! of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party , al @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently was decided that extra : investment funds would have to ' be obtained through higher food prices . Mr. Khrushchev assured the Soviet people tay that their increased payments for food would be used to provide ad ) ied incentives for collective farmers and to increase the production of fertilizers and machinery to spur agricultural production . The Soviet leader predicted that eventually there would be an abundance of foodstuffs . " In one or two years you will see that as a result of this decision agriculture will rise as if on yeast , " he said . Excerpts from the speech were broadcast by the Moscow radio as the rise in prices remained the main topic of conversation among the Soviet people . In an allusion to the Western powers , Mr. Khrushchev asserted that the " enemies of socialism " would have preferred that he reduce defense spending . " This would create conditions for which our enemies have been waiting a long time , " he declared , adding : " This will never be . " . Mr. Khrushchev contended that the Western powers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases and the propaganda statements , that have followed have maintained that defense cuts are impossible because the United States and its allies are threatening the Soviet Union with war . Premier Khrushchev declared : " Not a single politically conscious worker , not a single politically conscious farmer or intellectual would agree to the Soviet Union 's curtailment , in the present conditions , of expenditures on defense . " Decision Termed Hard Conceding that the price increases were an unpleasant , shock for consumers , Mr. ' Khrushchev said : " It would have been much easier for me as Chairman of ' the Council of Ministers to give everything to everybody , to be generous . It was very hard for me to take such a decision to raise prices , but I know the people understand it in a correct way . " He appealed to the majority of the people , who he said , understood the necessity of the Government 's measures , to explain that necessity to those who did not . Mr. Khrushchev compared his decision with that taken by Lenin in adopting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policy was a temporary reversion to  --  a policy of allowing a limited amount of private enterprise with the aim of - stimulating-  trade and industry . Peasants were permitted to sell a larger share of their output on the free market as an incentive toward greater agricultural production . Premier Khrushchev attempted to draw for the Soviet people a favorable comparison between their standards of living and those in capitalist countries . Although the Soviet Union is suffering from a shortage of butter , he said , the per capita production of butter is higher in the Soviet Union than in the United States . Asserting that there was considerable poverty and hunger in the capitalist countries , ? Mr. Khrushchev said there were 5,500,000 unemployed in the United States . ( The latest official figures in the United States put the number at 3,719,000 . ) In attempting ' to justify the raising of prices , Mr. Khrushchev repeatedly declared throughout his speech : " There was no other way out . " Diplomats Assess Meeting By ARTHUR J. OLSEN Special to New Yoi k Times . WARSAW , June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems would be high on the agenda of the meeting of Communist officials beginning Wednesday in Moscow . A review of international Communist policy was also expected . In connection with economic issues , these quarters drew attention to Mr. Khrushchev 's speech in Moscow this week in which he suggested the formation of a new international trade organization to foster world commerce . This proposal was regarded as the first concrete response of the Soviet leader to the rapid evolution of a powerful economic force in ) the European Economic Cornai styt e. rn European countries , , particularly Poland and Czecho- ' slovakia , have been watching ; with growing concern the ' emergence of the Common Market . These countries are already ; ! feeling the gradual weakening of their competitive position in Western European markets . One senior official , here said this week that Mr. Khrushchev 's new trade orgari-j ization proposal was " very welcome  --  very necessary . " In the international political , field possibly the most signifi ; cant recent development is the Soviet Union 's new effort to achieve a reconciliation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago that Moscow and Belgrade were now almost as one in foreign policy . He indicated that their ideological differences had become less sharp as a result of Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko 's recent visit to Belgrade . From the Communist party standpoint a drawing together of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia carries implications of delicate readjustments for all other Communist-governed countries . They would need guidance not only on state relations with Yugoslavia , but also on party contacts with the Yugoslav Communists . Poland , for example , is maintaining easy and expanding cultural and - economic relations with Yugoslavia , but Communist party exchanges remain minimal .                     