@@725858

txt Hiring of 350 temporary postal I workers this week to help reduce a huge backlog of mail accumulated in Chicago was announced yesterday by Henry W. , acting Chicago post- ; Master . and others said the backlog has not been increasing . They expressed hope the I backlog would be substantially reduced during the week-end as mail volume drops . Further , said 400 postal employes have volunteered to work during the week-end , taking their days off during the I week , to aid 5,000 regular Saturday and Sunday employes in attacking the backlog . 8 Million Pieces to Handle He said that postal employes yesterday sorted and distributed nearly 750,000 pieces of back-1 log 3d class mail , leaving near- , ly 8 million pieces to be processed . " I think we will be in a bet " ter position on Monday , " said William Hartigan , deputy assistant postmaster general for transportation , who was sent here 10 days ago to help speed the mail flow . Hartigan is returning to Washington for the week-end to report directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The city is regarded as the most important mail processing point ' in the nation , normally handling 15 million pieces of mail daily . High Absenteeism Told Hartigan has blamed the backlog on an unusually heavy volume of pre-Christmas advertising mail and a " very high rate of absenteeism " at the Chicago postoffice . He has denied there is a relationship between the backlog and a recent order from Washington sharply reducing overtime for postal employes . Officials here said they had no information on a report from Washington that overtime payments will begin today . No Proof of Slowdown In Washington , a postoffice spokesman said he has no proof of any slowdown or deliberate attempt by employes to impede the flow of mail . The spokesman added that the department has been in touch with unions representing clerks , carriers , and mail handlers the last 10 days and " they have expressed willingness to cooperate all along . " Altho Chicago postal authorities say 1st class mail is " current " and not affected by the pile-up , citizens have told THE TRIBUNE that mail sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six days . Hartigan said no date has been set to start destroying some undelivered 3d class circulars , those for sales that have already been held . Employes are continuing to sort thru the backlog , setting aside the outdated advertising , Hartigan said . " Much Confusion " on That He added that there was such confusion " resulting from his announcement on the unprecedented move to destroy such mail . No mail will be destroyed without permission of the senders , who will receive postage refunds , Hartigan said .                     