@@726867

txt Linda Corral has lost her 18 year tight for life , but not before she won quite a few battles . Chief among them were heading the 1967 leukemia fund drive in Hoffman Estates from her wheel chair , and being graduated with honors last June from James B. Conant High school in the suburb without having attended a single class . Linda , 18 , was a victim of a rare congenital disease that affected her . lymph glands and blood Vessels . She died early Saturday in Lutheran Deaconess hospital of a massive hemorrhage . Copes with Problems " Linda was never one to let her problems bother her or anyone else , " recalled Mrs. Buddy Hughes , 513 Hawthorne lane , Roselle , who tutored the girl at home almost daily from 6th grade thru high school . " Her parents let her try almost anything she wanted to , and that was good . " Mrs. Hughes said Linda used to toss a football with neighbor children from her wheel chair , and even took part in a dance at an 8th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " an excellent creative writer " who had equal facility in poetry or prose . The girl had been attending Harper college , Elk Grove Village , since SePtember and hoped to . become an English teacher , Mrs. Hughes said . Mrs. Hughes ' daughter , Joyce , 18 , served as assign . ment runner between Linda and Conant high school teachers , and wheeled Linda to her classes at Harper college . " She was an open , vivacious , and friendly girl , " . Joyce recalled . " She made friends easily , and once you got to know her you 'd forget she was in a wheel chair . " Linda 's brother , Michael , 15 , remembered her as " someone I could go to and really talk to . She helped me in my school work and a lot of other things , " he said . Makes No Complaints " She never once complained of pain , " Michael said . ' Funeral mass for Linda will be said at 10 a. m. ' tomorrow in St. Hubert 's Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . by the Rev. Francis Ciezadlo , assistant pastor of St. Ailbe 's Catholic church , 9015 Harper ay. , who baptized and confirmed her. , Burial will be in St. Michael 's cemetery . Surviving are her mother , Mrs. Jean Corral , and two sisters , Judith , 17 , and Candace , 8 , of 141 N. Olive st. , Hoffman Estates : and her father , George Corral , and brother , Michael , and another sister , Lori Ann , 3 months , of 2505 Fulle rd. , Rolling Meadows .                     