@@727096

txt " The cherubs of yesterday are the revolutionaries of today . . . . " It was a hand-painted sign , unevenly scrawled in red and ending in a mild obscenity . The holder was a Columbia University student . He stood on the crowded steps in front of Low Library listening to student speakers urge continuation of a campus-wide strike that has cracked the foundations of this Ivy League school , nearly ended formal classes in the undergraduate school , and touched off similar protests on campuses across the United States . A few hundred yards away at Havemeyer Hall , a five-man fact-finding commission , led by former Solicitor General of the United States Archibald Cox , was holding its first meeting to determine the causes of the student " mutiny " against the administration , a " mutiny " which saw student demonstrators take over five campus buildings until they were routed at night by the police . More than 700 arrests were made . And even though a relative calm has settled over this urban campus , the accompanying tension springs from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the university . " All we want is a hand in shaping the environment that is going to shape us , " said Andy Dolan , a first-year law student . " Personally I think we ought to bury the hatchet now . Columbia has the chance to set the precedent for major universities through this institutional catharsis . I 'm not interested in seeing anybody punished . " Originally the anti-gymnasium demonstration which prompted the massive takeover of buildings was led by Students for a Democratic Society ( SDS ) and the Student Afro-American Society ( SAAS ) . But // *Restructuring at Columbia tension beneath the calm // following the police " bust , " during which many students were hurt . support has broadened to include nearly all student groups and the faculties . There was a demand by student groups for the resignation of Columbia 's president , Dr. Grayson Kirk , but it was later withdrawn . And reports that SDS carefully planned the overall strike and seizure of the buildings months ago can not be substantiated . " It was spontaneous , " said a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned except the effort to test the ban on indoor demonstrations Dr. Kirk had banned them as a result of demonstrations against military and industrial recruiters . Of course every student involved had it in mind that we could take over the university , but as for planning the whole thing  --  no . " Liberation classes ' held Estimates of the effectiveness of the strike against formal classes range from 50 to 80 percent . While the graduate schools of engineering , law , and business report about 80 percent attendance , students say the undergraduate general-studies segment of the campus is " effectively crippled . " A policy statement by the strike steering committee said that " any class held inside a building will be considered a strike-breaking class . " Instead " liberation classes " are being held in campus apartments , on the lawns , and elsewhere . " This approach to classes , " said a student , " has told us that what is happening at a university is between the faculty and the students . We are now aware that a university can exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are teaching  --  the liberation classes . " One of the best things to come out of this strike , " said a graduate student , " is that it has brought the faculty and students together , not only the undergraduate radicals but the graduate radicals as well . They discovered each other . In the past it seemed like the faculty was only interested in tenure or publishing . " Currently four committees are at work on the university 's troubles : ? An Executive Committee of the Joint Faculties , set up by senior faculty members . Its job : to return the university to normal conditions and suggest basic changes in organization . ? The five-man Cox commission , set up by the Executive Committee of the Joint Faculties . The commission will investigate the chronology of events that led to the outbreak and attempt to discover the causes of student unrest . ? A five-man subcommittee of the university 's board of trustees . This group will study and recommend changes in structure and will receive proposals from the joint-faculties committee . Session attended ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Students for a Democratic Society and other radical groups but now has representatives from many campus organizations . Dan Pellegione , president of the student council , attended the first session of the fact-finding commission and later told of the difficulties of his organization . " We were supposed to be the only viable , clean-shaven , responsible student group recognized by the administration , " he said . " We passed a resolution asking for a part in long-range policymaking decisions , and for years the council has been against the construction of the gym . But I 've only talked with the vice-president David B. Truman twice , and I 've never talked with Kirk . Truman said he would talk to the council this semester , but nothing ever came of it . " The 55-member council operates with a budget of about S4,000 . " At Stanford , " said Mr. Pellegione , " the student council has a budget of about $100,000 . In reality we are just about powerless . " Student demands include a termination of the gymnasium construction , severing the university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban on indoor demonstrations , dropping all charges against the demonstrators , and the establishment of a permanent student-faculty committee to participate in restructuring the university and eventually to help create university policy . Meeting boycotted On Tuesday the five-member subcommittee of the board of trustees announced that the deans of all faculties could hold elections of student representatives to begin work with the committee " to provide a clear sense of the views and proposals of students in each school . " At the fact-finding meeting , Professor Cox expressed regret that Mark Rudd , chairman of the SDS , was not in attendance but said " maybe he 'll come later . " Other SDS members explained that they had boycotted the meeting because they had had no say in selecting the commission members . Many students express concern that the summer vacation will serve as a softening influence in achieving their demands . " I have no doubt now that we will get a gradual restructuring of the university , " said one student involved in the demonstrations . " I was impassioned just a few days ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much a matter of individual conscience now as to just how you are going to support the strike . " " I do n't think it was malicious indifference on the part of the administration , " said Andy Dolan . " What they do n't understand is that students come to college now with much more sophistication and social awareness than ever before . I was n't here when the police action took place . In a way I 'm glad I was n't or I might have done something stupid . But I think the conflict was sadly necessary . Now it is desperately irrelevant to yell and scream at Kirk and Truman when we have the chance to forge a unique faculty-student bloc of power to bring about a meaningful sense of education . "                     