@@723272

txt Letters to The Times HERBERT WECHSLER , Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law , Columbi ... Letters to The Times Basis for Rights Law Administration Proposal Endorsed as Against Cooper-Dodd Bill To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In Arthur Krock 's column of July 4 he expresses the opinion that there is " a better foundation for judicial aedeptance " of the Cooper-Dodd antidiscrimination bill than there is for the Administration proposal . To a student of constitutional law this is an amazing proposition . The Cooper-Dodd bill would forbid racial discrimination in privately owned facilities of public accommodation if and only if they are licensed by the state or local government . Congressional power to enact it thus must rest upon the view that the discriminatory action of the licensed owner is discrimination by the state , for only state action is forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment , which the bill undertakes to enforce . One need not be a lawyer to perceive that the fact that a state requires a lunchroom to obtain a license as a means of protecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Are all private corporations to be viewed as organs of the state because their corporate existence is conferred by their state charters ? It puts the matter with excessive charity to say that this is a submission which is most unlikely to persuade the Supreme Court and , what is more important , should not do so . In the entire history of the judicial interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment , only Justice Douglas has accorded the position color of support in an opinion . Regulatory Authority Against this , the Administration bill would draw upon the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce , the power which has sustained the great regulatory measures of the recent past , including most relevantly the National Labor Relations Act , the Taft-Hartley Act , the Fair Labor Standards Act and much of the agricultural program . Ever since the thirties a unanimous Supreme Court has sustained the broad reach of the power over commerce , including not only the direct regulation of practices in commerce , but also the control of conduct or conditions which affect commerce . There has been no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to affect commerce is beyond the regulatory . authority that the Constitution has explicitly conferred . In this state of the constitutional text and its judicial interpretation , there is not the slightest doubt but that the commerce clause provides the " better foundation for judicial acceptance " of a Federal measure forbidding private racial discrimination . It is , moreover , a foundation which , as the Attorney General has urged , will certainly ' sustain an application of the measure broad enough to accomplish a large part of its objective . Commerce Power Mr. Krock also suggests that the fact that the commerce power is not all-embracing somehow vitiates the moral principle of the proposal by implying the legitimacy of discrimination if interstate , commerce is not affected . This too is an amazing proposition . Has Congress implied the legitimacy of local prostitution by confining the White Slave Traffic Act to cases where state lines are crossed ? Has it endorsed fraud by limiting Federal prohibition to cases where the mails are used ? Congress endorses nothing by confining its action to the areas committed to its governance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law , Columbia University . New . York , July 4 , 1963 . To Pursue a Policy of Peace To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Whatever the shortcomings of General de Gaulle , he is to be commended for his intelligent recognition that the Soviet Union does not have the slightest intention of launching a military attack upon Western Europe . As Walter Lippmann , who ought to be United States Secretary of State , put it in his syndicated column of June 25 , the French " are entirely certain that there is no real danger of Soviet military aggression against Western Europe . That is the missing key to the Gaullist policy which seems so destructive and so reckless . The French do not believe that NATO will be needed . That is why they are pulling it apart . " Applying de Gaulle 's common sense realistically and retroactively , we can see that the Soviet Governmeet and the Soviet people have always desired to have peaceful relations with Western Europe , and indeed with the entire world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe because the facts are finally catching up with the follies of American foreign policy since the death of President Franklin D. Rqosevelt . And it becomes clearer than ever that our enormous expenditures on armaments , our reckless buildup of nuclear weapons and our intricate system of military alliances with both democracies and dictatorships have all been a complete waste of effort and money . It is high time , then , for President Kennedy to acknowledge these truths writ large on the international scene and to utilize them in his foreign policy , especially in negotiations for enduring peace with Soviet Russia and for drastic disarmament agreements . CORLISS LAMONT . New York , July 1 , 1963 . Diem 's Rule Criticized Failure to Rally His People to War Against Communists Pointed Out To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorials during June with regard to the situation in Vietnam should offer serious food for thought to responsible and thinking Americans and Vietnamese alike . Granted that when Ngo Dinh Diem returned to take over in 1954 , Vietnam was on the verge of collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granted that Mr. Diem had done a good job in keeping Vietnam from Communist control . The fact remains that after nine years under his administration and billions of American dollars in various forms of aid and assistance , Mr. Diem has totally failed to rally his own people in the crucial fight against the Communists . During the last four years as Mr. Diem 's political influence deteriorated he has retreated further and further into his mandarin tower . He has never seemed to care how his people feel about the struggle against the Communists . Now he relies more and more on the presence of the 12,000 American military advisers and instructors in Vietnam . In his current personal squabble with the Buddhists , Mr. Diem seems not even to care whether the majority of the Vietnamese participate in this grim struggle . His attitude makes American efforts in Vietnam more hazardous , and he also does a disservice to true Catholics and other Christians . It is time to remind Mr. Diem that the war against the Communists in Vietnam is not a war that can be fought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular faith . It is rather a Vietnamese national war that can be won only if the majority of the Vietnamese people wholeheartedly support it . The first step toward a meaningful victory must be to win over the minds of the people who cherish a just and free government enough to sacrifice their lives in the common struggle . I agree when you suggest in your July 2 editorial that our new Ambassador to Vietnam , Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , can help to alleviate the present situation in Vietnam . The sooner he comes to Saigon the better . NGUYEN DUC THAN II , Flushing , L. I. , July 5 , 1963 . Streets Not for Parking To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This refers to the letter from your correspondent Dan Wallack which was published in The Times of July 5 . Mr. Wallack 's predicament is quite simple . Apparently , he simply can not afford to own an automobile . Part of owning an automobile is providing shelter for it . All of us would like to own steam yachts , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dock and other facilities are necessary if one is to own a steam yacht , we simply can not afford it . The common law basis against parking in streets , as all of us know , depends upon the dictum of an English judge some two hundred years ago that " The King 's highway is not a stable . " The streets are not established for the parking of private vehicles , either . I know personally hundreds of people who park their cars in the street , but I do not know more than a handful who really need their cars . If they were required to pay all of the expense of operating a private vehicle they simply would n't own one . Preventing overnight parking in the city would solve most if not all of our traffic problems . JAMES ANDREWS . New York , July 5 , 1963 . Selecting Judges Need for Basic Change Declared Illustrated by Kaplan Case To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your July 4 editorial concerning the Kaplan appointment does not go far enough . Whatever Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more important issues . The Mayor has appointed Mr. Kaplan , and by making his desires in the matter obvious has obtained Mr. Kaplan 's nomination for election in November . Whether he ao.i lively solicited that nomination is irrelevant in view of his position and his strong feelings in the matter . This is closer to the central question of who selects our judges and how and on what criteria . The answer at almost any level in the nation except the Supreme Court is that the choice is usually that of local leaders of a dominant political party ( whoever the nominal appointing or electing authority may be ) , and that party regularity is far more valuable than legal acumen in obtaining a post . Those familiar with Pennsylvania politics know that a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit has been unfilled for a year now , due to the pulling and hauling between Democratic powers-that-be for and against each other 's candidates . At the city and state level this process is usually less overt and therefore more insidious . Usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the people . That is what the charters and constitutions say , but it is obvious that the electorate as a whole knows little and probably cares less about the qualifications of judicial candidates , and that they are elected by party-line voting . Thus the party 's selection process is the truly critical factor . Several studies have shown that party regularity or , worse , a large party contribution RS a quid pro quo is the prime requirement in addition to admission to the bar . Insuring Competence The advice of bar association committees on qualifications has been inserted into this process at many levels as a device to insure competence on the bench . There is no other such device in our present judicial selection system except the conscience of the appointing or nominating authority , and that conscience is usually uninformed on the abilities of lawyers beyond what can be learned by friendship , an often misleading guide . The purpose of a bar association committee is to inform that conscience . Of course , as the Mayor says , the final choice under the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a panel is a throwback to the outworn and , one lied hoped , discredited methods of the past . If such controversies as this one demonstrate anything , it is that bar association committees are not enough , that they are a. stopgap , and that a basic change in judicial selection processes is needed . If the Kaplan affair can focus attention on this underlying problem , rather than on superficial issues of personalities and party politics , it may have beneficial effects . So far it has tended to be a partyline squabble over a judicial office . And such a squabble merely , intensifies the basic problem of political selection of judges . THOMAS LUMBARD , New York , July 5 , 1963 . Negro Bank Hailed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : News in your June 30 issue of the move to form a national bank . under New York Negro leadership , is most welcome and significant . This observer , a member of the Harlem community , regards the move as long overdue . It means , in no uncertain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is approaching , and that Negroes themselves realize that rights without an economic stake are nonexistent , Let 's hope this action triggers more of the same . The opening of Freedom National Bank in Harlem should underscore the fact that freedom in a democracy carries with it the obligation to produce as well as protest . JOHN D. SIL'VERA , New York , June 30 , 1963 . New York 's Noisy Fourth To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK Two After having listened for the past 36 hours to the cacophony of firecrackers , one wonders what our fine city would sound like were they not outlawed . ERNEST M. SELKIMANN . Brooklyn , July 4 , 1963.                     