@@721082

txt The Justice Department today sent to Congress a new version of its voting referee bill . The ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee , Representative William M. McCulloch of Ohio , said he would offer this draft as the official Administration plan . In all probability , therefore , it will be the focus of the civil rights debate in the House . The revised bill includes a number of substantial changes designed to assure the effective-1 ness of the referee proposal to advance Negro voting . The changes go a long way toward the position of some civil rights advocates who feared they had , seen loopholes in the original draft . Bill Goes to Floor The House Rules Committee , meanwhile , formally cleared civil rights legislation for floor action by a vote of 7 to 4 , The debate is expected to begin around March 10 . In the Senate the Southerners continued to hold the floor and denounce the proposals on Negro voting . But they conceded they were talking in a vacuum because of the leader-. ship 's plan to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan was disclosed on Jan. 26 by the Attorney General , William P. Rogers . It calls for the Federal courts to appoint referees to qualify Negro voters in areas where they face discrimination by state officials , and then to make sure the Negroes actually can vote . Some of the civil rights forces were uneasy about the Rogers proposal because it did not detail how the referees would op- erate . The concern was that they would have formal adversary proceedings , like a court , and that this would scare away most potential Negro registrants . The new draft deals with this problem at great length . It says that Negroes shall appear before the referee alone , without opposing witnesses and without being subject to cross-examination by state officials . The draft also says explicitly that the Negro applicant should not have to do anything more to show his voting qualifications than a white person must do before the state registrars . That would imply a brief , simple proceeding . The referee plan would begin with a Justice Department suit under the Civil Rights Act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The department would then ask the judge to find that there had been a " pattern or practice " of discrimination . A provision of the new draft says that at that point  --  once the judge makes the finding ? every other Negro ih the " affected area " shall be legally entitled to a Federal court order qualifying him to vote if he meets state requirements of residence and literacy . The judge could issue such orders himself , or he could appoint referees to interview the Negro applicants . Vote is 7 to 4 If a referee qualified a list of Negroes , the state would then have a right to challenge his findings before the judge . But the new draft bill says any Negro 's literacy shall be determined solely on the basis of his answers to the referee , meaning that state officials could not question him in court . The revised bill also gives the judge the power to issue temporary orders allowing Negroes to vote at forthcoming elections while their qualifications are under dispute in court . The long-expected action in the Rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of the civil rights legislation were Democrats Ray J. Madden of Indiana , James J. Delaney of Queens and Thomas P. - O'Neill of Massachusetts and /Republicans Leo E , Allen of Illinois , Clarence J. Brown of Ohio , Hamer H. Budge of Idaho and B. Carroll Reece of Tennessee . Opposed were the four committee Southerners ? Chairman Howard W. Smith of Virginia William M. Colmer of Missis sippi , James W. Trimble o Arkansas and Homer Thorn berry of Texas . A strong civi rights advocate , Representative Richard Bolling , Missouri Demo crat , was absent . The committee allowed fif teen hours of general debate This is an exceptionally longtime allowance , and under House rules it can be stretchec out to cover many days . South erners can be expected to do al the stretching possible . A Southern motion to pro ? hibit amendments to the bill or the House floor was beaten it the Rules Committee . . This wa significant because the bill not of only a few relatively minor civil rights matters , and the referee plan will be offered as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , maneuvers confirmed yesterday 's report that Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas , the majority leader , would wait until the bill came over from the House to press for action . Until then the Senate will just talk about civil rights , presumably stopping once in a while to let other business be carried on . The Southerners ' chief strategist , Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , conceded to reporters that the , floor talk now was a waste of time . He said " we have to use scattergun tactics until we find out what dish we have to swallow and what poison they will administer . " He spoke after a strategy conference of eighteen Southern Senators . Texas and Tennessee were not represented . Senator Herman E. Talmadge , Democrat of Georgia , held the floor for five hours and fifty-five minutes . He and Senator Jacob K. Javits , New York Republican , engaged in several sharp exchanges , Senator Talmadge said at one point that if Congress took a ecret ballot on civil rights measures " they would not reeive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Southern Senators hat Northerners and others upporting the rights bills were ' just politicians , looking for otes . " He accused the Southrners of " bidding for a lot more votes proportionately than we are . "                     