@@723709

txt A comprehensive program for extensive social , economic , and public improvements was outlined yesterday by Mayor Daley as Chicago 's " patterns , for the future . " The mayor , in an address before the annual meeting of the . State Street council , predicted that " genuine progress " will be achieved in civil rights , which he termed the city 's " greatest challenge . " 500 Attend Luncheon Besides the civil rights question , Daley touched upon virtually every phase of the city and its problems at the luncheon session in the Palmer House attended by more than 500 civic and business leaders and public officials . The subjects of his talk ranged from immediate plans for major improvements of Lake Shore drive , on both the north and south sides , to longerrange goals such as attracting more industry to the city and solving t h e unemployment problem . Tells Loop ' L Plans The mayor also indorsed the proposed construction of a new sports arena , altho he said such a project should be financed thru a revenue bond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goals " for the future , the mayor called for the elimination of the Loop elevated structure , the consolidation of downtown railroad passenger terminals , the construction of a new subway under Wells street , and continual improvements and expansion of the mass transportation system . In urban renewal , Daley reported that Chicago now lacks the money to start new large projects and expansive conservation programs . Meanwhile , pending a decision by the public thru further bond issues to finance large projects , the mayor said the city will concentrate on improving neighborhoods a block at a time , including blocks of " deteriorated " shopping areas . The mayor prefaced his outline of Chicago 's future needs by explaining that " we must always keep in mind the basic objectives of our programs  --  to make better neighborhoods for our families to live in , to provide greater economic opportunity-for all our residents , and to make certain that the people get full value for their tax dollar and that these taxes are held to a minimum . " Highlights of Program Highlighting the mayor 's outline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects and proposals : 1 . Major improvements in 1964 for North Lake Shore drive for the five miles between Oak 1000 north and Ainslie 4900 north streets . Included will be the complete resurfacing of this stretch of Lake Shore drive , the construction of auto refuge bays every 500 feet , the installation of improved lighting , and the elimination of the hydraulic traffic lane separators between Belmont avenue and Fullerton parkway to end the exceptionally high maintenance cost . The curve of Lake Shore drive at the south approach of the North avenue overpass also will be straightened by swinging traffic lanes slightly to the east . 2 . Extensive improvements to South Shore drive between 47th and 61st streets , including the construction in 1964 of grade separated traffic interchanges at 55th and 59th streets . To the south of 47th , the drive will be realigned to eliminate sharp turns . Also to be improved will be Columbia and Cornell drives in Jackson park to 67th street and Stony Island avenue . The improvement of these park drives , in the vicinity of the Science museum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interchanges for Lake Shore drive . Stony Island Work 3 . Major improvements to be started in 1964 for Stony Island avenue between Jackson park at 67th street and this major thorof are 's connection at 95th street with the Calumet expressway network . Primarily thru widening , the Stony Island improvement will be designed to permit four moving lanes of traffic in the rush hour direction , with three lanes of traffic at other times . 4 . In his indorsement of the proposal to building a new sports arena or center for Chicago , the mayor commented : " I am for this project , but may I say that I for one do not believe the taxpayers of Chicago should pay for such a facility , but that it should be financed by revenue bonds . Further , before a new sports stadium is located anywhere on our lake front , we must be absolutely certain that it does not in any way adversely affect this beautiful asset of ours . " 5 . An announcement that the opening this year of the new central district filtration plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago a new lakefront park . The mayor explained that the west end of the filtration plant island will be opened to the public as a park , with one attraction being five large pools with " jet fountains " to be spotted with colored lights at night . Daley said plans also call for building an observation platform overlooking the lakeshore and for providing boating facilities in the basin areas at the west end of the filtration plant site . Mass Transit Plan 6 . A disclosure by Daley that plans are being made to install mass transportation facilities in the near future in the median strips of the Kennedy northwest and Dan Ryan south expressways . THE TRIBUNE learned that , instead of installing rapid transit routes as originally planned for these two expressways , the city 's transportation experts now are considering the p a v i n g of the median strips of the Kennedy and Ryan expressways for express bus service by the Chicago transit authority . 7 . An appeal ' to industry , labor and civic groups and churches to take advantage of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government for the construction , as not-for-profit or limited dividend plans , new housing designed especially for middle income families . Mayor Daley also devoted a large portion of his talk to the work of his Committee for Economic and Cultural Development , headed by David Kennedy , banker . " Another vital area for our program in the future is to create conditions which will encourage the expansion of industry and direct new industry to our city , for nothing is more important to all of our citizens than jobs , " Daley emphasized . " In 1963 , some of the industrial patterns of the future were revealed . Industry invested in new construction , additions and alterations at a total of 40 million dollars , as compared with 26 million in 1962 . Business and mercantile establishments invested 91 million dollars in 1963 , as compared with 52 million in 1962 . " Get Federal Contracts Daley reported that the Committee for Economic and Cultural Development also has been especially active in helping Chicago companies obtain and is attempting to induce the federal government contracts National Aero Space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aid of major business organizations and foundations , this committee , the mayor explained , also contracted with the Research institute of Illinois Institute of Technology for a " unique study on the impact of technology and automation on Chicago industry for the next 10 to 20 years . " Daley said the results of this important study are to be made public in April . In addition , the mayor said the committee is making a special study aimed at creating a cultural center and a repertoire theater in Chicago .                     