@@726288

txt The country 's first commercial plant for extracting oil from the rich Western oil shale lands will be ready for production in 1970 , Congress was told today . The Oil Shale Corporation announced that by 1970 a plant would be processing 58,000 barrels of shale oil a day . The process has been developed and the plant has been designed , the corporation said . The oil would . come from land owned by the . corporation in Colorado in the midst of what is regarded as the richest oil reserve in the world . The announcement came as a surprise to Government oil officials , who had not expected the announcement of a commercial process and plant so soon . It came as Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall defended his program for developing a private oil shale Stewart L. Udall , , Secretary of the Interior , tells Congress shadow of Teapot Dome scandal aids him in protecting public interest . // industry on the Western public domain , including the - leasing of public land for development and eventual commercial pro . duction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopoly , a panel of the Senate Judiciary Committee , that he expected to propose within a few days the procedures by which individual private companies or a combination of companies might apply for provisional leases to use the public land to develop commercial and economic processes to *extract the oil in the shale lands of Colorado , Wyoming and Utah . If such development is successful , he said , companies or groups will get leases for larger acreages to enable commercial production . Mr. Udall 's plan has been sharply criticized by opponents of leasing as a possible " giveaway " of a public asset . But he has said that cooperative public and private development is possible . The Government owns about 80 per cent of the oil shale lands . Claims filed by prospectors over more than 25 years and by oil companies and others in recent years have clouded titles to some of the public land . - These titles must be cleared legally , Mr. Udall said , before widespread commercial development is possible . Plant Cost $130-Million Morton M. Winston , executive vice president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the Senate subcommittee that the commercial plant planned by his company was estimated to cost $130-million . It is based , he said , on operations tested by TOSCO . The corporation joined with the Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company and Standard Oil of Ohio in 1964 to establish the feasibility and economics of a TOSCOdeveloped system for oil shale production . This system involves mining the shale and putting it through a heat retorting system to extract the oil . The shale is discarded . More than 480,000 tons of the oil-bearing shale have been mined by the corporation to date , Mr. Winston said . The commercial plant , he said , will have a capacity for handling 66,000 tons of shale a day to extract 58,000 barrels of oil . Mr. Winston said that the mining , retorting and related technologies , known as the TOSCO 2 system , would be available to other groups under licensing arrangements . The oil in the shale lands is estimated to be worth more than five thousand billion dollars at today 's market prices . The reserve is said to be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . Whether the process announced by the Oil Shale Corporation could produce oil in economic conipetition with crude from wells under present methods was not known . . Federal officials said some oil companies experts had said the shale oil could compete with conventional crude , but no figures were available . The mining of shale involves ripping the earth apart and creating debris . This is a problem Mr. Udall has pointed up . It calls for intense conservation to preserve the landscape , he reiterated today . He also said that problems of water supply and water and air pollution would be raised by commercial operations . In his earlier testimony before the subcommittee , Mr. Udall said the Teapot Dome Lary of the Interior Albert B. Fall , under President Warrenl G. Harding , was convicted of taking a bribe in connection scandal of the nineteen-twenties had been a spur to protection of the public interest . Defending his program for developing a private oil shale industry on Western public lands , he observed : " You have your dome on the Capitol , but I live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those things that help us do our jobs better . " Mr. Udall 's reference was to the scandal during which Secrewith the *leasing of the Elk Hills , Calif. , naval ml reserve to an oil company headed by H. F. Sinclair . Mr. Sinclair was acquitted of a conspiracy in the leasing of Teapot Dome , a naval oil reserve in Wyoming . Mr. Udall noted that he had been Criticized by oil interests for " moving too slowly " to bring an oil shale industry into being , but he emphasized ' the need to " illuminate the landscape . " He described his job as " the most dangerous " in the Cabinet and recalled that Fall had been sent to jail .                     