@@721744

txt Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski and Wiadyslaw Gomidka entered into open conflict - tonight over the relationship of the Roman Catholic Church and the state in Poland . M. Gomulka , first secretary of the Polish Communist party , launched the national election campaign with a sharp attack on the leaders of the Roman Catholic Church . The souls of the church leaders , he said , belong not to Poland , but to Rome . ' Two hours later , Cardinal Wyszynski , the Primate of Poland , declared the church 's defiance . " When we at last have learned to have freedom , woe to all who wish to take it away , " Cardinal Wyszynski said . Avowal of Freedom " We will hide from them , " he said . " Man , in defense of his personality and human dignity , will go into the catacombs ? he will enter into some kind of conspiratorial existence against the outside world . " The Cardinal declared the spirit of man was eternally in rebellion against " slavery and falsehood . " The two protagonists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took their stands by coincidence at almost the same moment . M. Gomulka addressed an election rally of the Polish United Workers ( Communist ) party in the tower-like Palace of Culture , a Soviet gift to Poland . A mile away , in the Romanesque St. Joseph 's Church of the Carmelite Order , the // Cardinal presided over the clos- ' ing of a Lenten retreat fork teachers . M. Gomulka said the Polish ' Government sought a relationship of tolerance with both ; believers and nonbelievers . The ! Vatican , the seat of the Roman ; Catholic Church , is " hostile to ! the people 's state , " the Commu-i nist chief said , and it is seeking ' " oPrsecution and - martyrdom " : in Poland . M. Gomulka denied that the : church was being persecuted Poland . He demanded that the ; church 's behavior be " charac-I terized by loyalty to the state ' and the people 's authority . " The Cardinal bluntly refused ' submission to the people 's au-i , thority that now governs Poland. ! " A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not administer in the same way the human conscience , " he said . Moral Values Cited There exist moral values , which have nothing to do with political system , the Cardinal said , and they exist independent of regimes and pressures . " You must have the feeling of inner freedom , " he told his congregation . " If you once had the taste of freedom , the desire is awakened for all others , civil and social freedoms . " There are countries where no one tasks about freedom . but where everyone is free . he said , On the other hand , there are countries full of the talk of freedom where the people do not feel free . Noting that Polish representatives had recently signed the United Nations Convention on Human Rights , the Cardinal said it did not necessarily follow that countries that signed the convention observed it in practice . He told his listeners that the lot of the faithful Catholics was likely to be hard in Poland . " There can come terrible defeats and very difficult times , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only*the determinist has no hope . " The stands of the two dominant personalities in Poland appeared to commit church and state to a new round of open conflict . There had been persistent reports of attempts to reach an understanding prior to next month 's elections . On April 16 the Polish nation will elect a new national Parliament and local governing councils . The Cardinal summoned the Polish Bishops here on Thursday to discuss church-state relations . His sermon tonight appeared to reflect a decision to take an uncompromising stand . In his speech , M. Gomulka sought to establish a distinction between the Vatican-dominated hierarchy and the ordinary Polish faithful . He tried also to draw a parallel . between the status of the Catholic Church in Poland and in the United States . " In the United States , in accordance with their Constitution , the division between church and state is rigorously observed , and on this principle President Kennedy refused subsidies to these parochial schools , " M. Gomulka said . " The division between the state and the church is also in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to repeated church complaints against the exclusion of religious instruction from Polish public schools last year . Public schools should not be subjected to " religious fanaticism , " because this impedes proper education , he said . The elimination of religious instruction from the schools was not an aggressive act against the church , he insisted , but only a step forward in the " building of socialism . " The Cardinal recently defined the church attitude on relations with the state . He told the Polish clergy it was bound to obey " just " laws and to serve the Polish nation . But he warned priests against offering support to political parties or government policies . This stubborn refusal to endorse Poland 's Communist regime is at the heart of the church 's present difficulties .                     