@@725302

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 38 Letters to the Editor of The Times Philadelphia 's Civilian Review Board To the Editor : I have watched with great interest ( and with the restraint of an outsider ) the consideration by New York City of the creation of a civilian review board for the Police Department . I can no longer remain silent , however , in the face of Commissioner Broderick 's description of the idea as a " cruel hoax . " Philadelphia has had a police advisory board composed solely of civilians since 1958 . It receives complaints directly from citizens of any type of police misconduct . Its operation has not been flawless , and it clearly has not been a panacea . But considerable evidence indicates its existence has eased policecommunity tensions in Philadelphia . The Philadelphia police advisory board does not lower police morale . On the contrary , it serves to enhance that morale by assisting in curbing and eliminating practices by a few policemen which are an embarrassment to any self-respecting officer . It serves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it serves frequently to explain necessary police procedures to naive citizens . I hope New York will not base its decision on the emotions of such expletives as those attributed to Commissioner Broderick . MERCER D. TATE Chairman Police Advisory Board Philadelphia , Feb. 10 , 1966 ? Legal Drinking Age To the Editor : Regrettably , your Jan. 25 editorial ( " The Out-of-Step State " ) does nothing to clarify or strengthen the rather foggy argument presented in The Times editorials of last January through March on the subject of raising the New York State minimum drinking age from 18 to 21 . Instead , your editorial proceeds to set up some strawman defenses and then to state that scores of young people from Bordering states become casualties in drinking-and-driving accidents because of the lure of gew York 's lower drinking age . the out-of-step villain you suggest . Your editorial summarily disregards many important issues at stake , including the possibility that the New York statute may have merits in the selfeducation of its young people toward a more mature acceptance . of the reality of alcohol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may contribute to the responsible use of alcohol during a period when other responsibilities are becoming very real indeed ( including the notso-trivial consideration that young men at age 18 may be asked to fight for our country ) , and the possibility that the neighboring states ' laws may themselves be all too arbitrary when contrasted to the New York statute 's impact on the responsible use of beer and liquor from age 18 on . The points mentioned in the Jan , 25 editorial are worthy but overly simplified and tangential . This is a complex problem , calling for a sophisticated analysis of the laws of many states . Responsibility for Decision By concentrating on the presumed evil of New York 's law while neglecting the need for self-examination by the neighboring states , your editorial 's argument sidesteps the real issues . We should , rather , consider whether ? by withholding the privilege and responsibility of the decision of whether to drink from the 18-to-21-year-oldsNew York 's neighbors are perhaps bringing this problem upon themselves , with the sometimestragic consequences of state-line accidents . Having been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the past eight years with college students in New York , New Hampshire , Massachusetts and New Jersey , I have witnessed ( among college and noncollege people of the 18-to-21 age range ) a reassuring affirmation of the premise that , if given a proper degree of responsibility for decision-making of this sort , the persuasively large majority of young people will act responsibly . WILLIAM S. MACNAlieuToN Director of Counseling West College Princeton University Princeton , N. J. , Jan. 25 , 1966 Bargain ' Investments in Brazil 1'o the Editor : At the moment Brazil is badly in need of new investment to get in motion again the process of economic development , virtually suspended for the last three or four years . The present regime is more than anxious to have foreign enterprises establish new industries in the country . As yet , however , there is little indication of any wave of foreign capital coming hero to establish new factories or other enterprises . However , there is a distressing tendency on the part of some foreign firms , and particularly some from the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years ago a sizable bank was bought out by a large United States financial institution . A large oil company has announced its intention of taking over one of the largest Brazilian paint and chemical firms . The publishing and broadcasting industry of Sao Paulo has recently denounced the tendency of United States firms to buy radio stations , newspapers and magazines . No Aid to Economy All of this is much resented in Brazil . It is widely felt that powerful foreign firms are taking advantage of a weak moment in the Brazilian economy to obtain at relatively . ... low prices enterprises which - haVe ? been built up by Brazilians . Foreign companies which do this make no new contribution to the Brazilian economy-Lana such a contribution is , in the eyes of most thinking Brazilians , the only thing which justifies foreign investment , here at all . The United States firms which do this are being politically stupid . They are hurting the position of the United States in general in Brazilian public opinion and the position of foreign investors who have made a contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middle and long run such companies will certainly suffer themselves . This unproductive type of foreign investment is helping to pave the way for a vio ; erit anti-Yankee and generally antiforeign reaction in Brazil in the foreseeable future . When political conditions become such as to give room for the free expression of the Brazilian people 's feelings on these matters ; the firms which have " bought into " the Brazilian economy without really contributing anything to it will suffer severely . Unfortunately , so will ' a ' lot of enterprises which have given ' genuine assistance to the ecdnomic development of Brazil . ROBERT J. ALExANDER Professor of Economics Rutgers University Leblon , Brazil , Feb. 4 , 1966 Power of Destruction To the Editor : In 1962 we had 10,000 troops in Vietnam . Today they number 200,000 . In two years our power : . to destroy has escalated geornelrically , and so have our diffi7-culties . Whatever has happened to , our power to create ? JOHN 0 . CRANE Woods Hole , Mass. , Feb. 50966 Kerns of State 's Statute  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          