@@721101

txt Four " urgent needs " of the police department were outlined to members of the city 's new police board by Supt. Orlando W. Wilson Friday at an initial meeting after Wilson and the five board members took office . Wilson made it clear that there would be other needs later  --  and d ; closed that the task of ascertaining just what they are will be a costly one for the city . Needs Are Listed For the moment , the lanky new superintendent explained , the police force needs an expansion of its etimmunications sytem , additional motor vehicles , renovation of the headquarters building at 1121 S. State st. , reallocation of space to units based there , and modernization of its record system . Such record modernization , he said , must include revisions of the crime reporting system . During the meeting , the police board voted unanimous approval of its first resolution ? a measure apparently aimed at preventing any future meddling with police department functions by police board members on an individual basis . Statement on Policy Introduced by Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who an hour earlier had been elected board chairman , the resolution said : " Board policy , rule , and practice will be to deal with the police department solely thru the superintendent , and requests by individual members of the board for police service , or any recommendations or suggestions must be approved by the board . Any information or orders transmitted to Members of the department by the board will be only thru the superintendent . " By vote , board members also directed the superintendent to prepare efficiency reports on all 10,500 members of the force for submission each December , and further directed Wilson to recommend a policy.on the ticklish question of whether police . men should be allowed to accept rewards or presents tendered for police work . Allow " Hero " Award But Kreml , at this point , made it clear that police would be allowed to continue acceptance of THE TRIBUNE 'S monthly " hero " award of $100 , presented to police or firemen for outstanding bravery . Kreml termed this " a legitimate and proper award . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that two surveys now are under way by independent organizations to discover other needs and changes which should be made . Survey Under Way Ile said the Public Administration Service , 1313 E. 69th st. , a consultant firm , is making an administrative survey covering the organizational structure for staff services , operations of the superintendent 's office , department financial operations , and operation of the physical plant and motorized equipment . At the same time , experts from the International . Association of Chiefs of Police are studying the department 's organizational structure , the make up of the intelligence unit , the system of reporting on conduct of force members , detention facilities for prisoners , vehicle needs , the communications system , and the police training program . Substantial a p p r o prialions will be needed for what is outlined , " said Wilson , referring both to the immediate needs and to the changes which may be recommended . He said the survey being made by the Police Chiefs association will cost the city $40,000 or $50,000 under a contract , r.nd the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not estimate how many months would be needed for the survey . Wilson said that specialists may be required in some phases of each survey . If so , the estimated sums could be exceeded , he explained . Present Rules Adopted Board members , at the suggestion of Corporation Counsel John C. Melaniphy , voted to adopt all present rules of the police department until it sees fit to order changes in individual rules . It also instructed Melaniphy to prepare a three year contract for Wilson at the already decided annual salary of $30,000 . The board , voted to meet the second Monday of each month beginning in April , but ga " e Kreml the power to call emergency meetings at any time .                     