@@726030

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times ROWLAND A. ROBBINSMARGARET W. PATTERSONR1CHARD J. HOGANRUFO LOPEZ-FRESQUETANN ... Letters to the Editor of The Times Success of Mutual Fund Plans To the Editor : Your Dec. 27 editorial " Mutual Fund Reform ( cont 'd ) " surprisingly displays the same absence of in-depth investigation of the pros and cons relating to contractual plans which characterizes the Securities and Exchange Commission report itself . It is one thing for the S.E.C. deliberately to disregard the economic and social consequences of outlawing this part of the securities industry after a quarter-century of specific Congressional approval , but it is quite another matter for The Times to do so in formulating editorial policy . You refer to our business as " fast-growing ? and profitable ? " meaning profitable for the Industry . The ' report does cite information indicating a high degree of public acceptance of contractual plans . It ignores our statistics relating to substantial profits realized byplan investors . But where have you found any information about industry profits ? The S.E.C. never looked into this question for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " like this is the main weakness in the entire report , as M. J. Rossant pointed out in his Dec. 7 column . It is simply not a thorough enough job to justify legislation on the strength of it . Even if the S.E.C. declines to do so ( report , page 244 ) , should n't The Times take into account at all the demonstrated financial success of the large majority of planholders in the past , before denying the opportunity for such profits to the public in the future ? Income Ceilings To outlaw the business would be like throwing out the baby with the bath water . Similarly , is it appropriate to reduce statutory ceilings on the income of a legitimate business without a moment 's investigation into the cost of the services rendered in earning that income ? Under our system , that is n't even done to a public utility . Rate regulation must be based on economic realities . How can the S.E.C. , let alone The Times , responsibly conclude that the front-end load " penalizes , " without reference to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may well be developed to reduce what you call " special " risks inherent in this investment medium , and our industry is cooperating with the S.E.C. by searching for them . While perhaps appealing in Its simplicity , however , the approach of wiping out a respectable industry with the single stroke of a pen is neither in the public interest nor consistent with any standard of responsible government . ROWLAND A. ROBBINS President Association of Mutual Fund Plan Sponsors , Inc . New York , Jan. 4 , 1967 Cardinal Praised To the Editor : To my mind The New York Times editorial of Dec. 29 failed to give recognition to the essential worth of Cardinal Spellman 's Christmas message to our troops . For the Cardinal , through his profound goodness and his deep understanding of their hard task and unselfish purpose , has touched the hearts of our soldiers . These men are up against not only a war but also a persistent babel of tongues encouraged by Communist leadership . Throughout the world it tries to gain credence for mislabeling Americans as " aggressors " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false labeling sets men at each other 's throats end fires the fighting zeal of the Vietcong . On our side it . tends to cause confusion Which would mean faltering and death on the battlefield . But the Cardinal , a man of peace , has refuted the doubletalk of this evil leadership . He states plainly that our forces are " defending the cause of righteousness , the cause of civilization and God 's cause . " In such a crusade anything " less than victory is inconceivable . " Full victory , to the Cardinal 's rabid , would include a change of heart on the part of the Vietcong  --  a revelation that , for the sake of freedom and a life of goodwill with their neighbors , the Vietcong can accept our proposal of peace guaranteed on both sides . Cardinal Spellman 's clear thinking is an example to the nation . He gives his gentle and powerful support to all who share the task of throwing back Communist power . Our soldiers in South Vietnam , knowing they may be killed at any moment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MARGARET W. PATTERSON ( Mrs. Robert P. Patterson ) New York , Jan. 6 , 1967 Police Strength To the Editor : Jonathan Eisen in his letter published Jan. 6 demonstrates a basic misunderstanding of the crime rate and its relationship to the police . The reason that more crime seems to take place when the police force is larger is that the added policemen report crimes which would otherwise go unnoticed . In the language of criminologists , the variation is in crime prevalence , not actual incidence . The true incidence of crime can never be determined accurately , but when more police and clerks are on duty the rate of prevalence rises . Still , the solution to Commissioner Howard Leary 's problem probably lies in maximizing the effectiveness of the policemen already on the force , rather than adding more men . RICHARD J. HOGAN Forest Hills , L. I. , Jan. 6 , 1967 Castro 's Blunders To the Editor : Herbert Matthews 's anniversary review Jan. 2 of the Cuban revolution is a masterpiece of precise journalism . As expected from such a reputable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance and drama . But eight years of such blundering upheaval are too much to be contained in a newspaper column . Castroism has changed teams many times . The one that came into power eight years ago is no longer there . We have been witnessing a continuous deterioration of the quality of government personnel . Castro himself does not seem to improve with the passing of time . It Is true , for instance , that educational facilities have been expanded , but the substance of education has declined remarkably . Because of this the new technicians are not capable of replacing those who left Cuba or those demoted , imprisoned or assassinated there . Blunders have not been only economic ones . They have been made constantly in every field , including the army and the police . ( As we all know from the Batista times , the strength of an army is not based solely on its size ) . Mr. Matthews keenly observed that political indoctrination has not stuck ; the original motivation is thinning out and Castro is unable to provide new excuses for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down " process is the only achievement of Castroism . Castroism has not cured the poverty that prevailed over the great masses of the Cuban people but , as Oscar Lewis would say , it has destroyed their " culture of poverty . " Castroism has ended their isolation from the affairs of the country and has given them a sense of pride and belonging . This is the only explanation for the popularity that Castro still retains . But how much longer will the masses be content with only that ? People are becoming more and more concerned with the scarcities they are suffering now . RUFO LOPEZ-FRESQUET Minister of the Treasury of Cuba Jan. 8 , 1959 , to March 17 , 1960 San Juan , P. a , Jan. 3 , 1967 Poor Readers To the Eastor : In response to the letter of the Rev. Milton A. Galamison published Dec. 29 : When the statement is made that the New York City public schoolchildren are two years behind the average , it seems only fair and truthful to point out one obvious extenuating circumstance . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish-speaking children , the unusual problem of teaching them to read in English is enormous . ANNE ANDREWS New York , Dec. 29 , 1966 No Storm King Plant To the Editor : A letter writer in your Dec. 26 issue comments on the view from the east bank of the Hudson River across to Cornwall . He says " a power plant on Storm Bing Mountain would in no way improve this rugged natural gorge . Surely an alternative site or method must be found . " Apparently the writer is not familiar with the fact that there will be no power plant on Storm King Mountain . The power plant would be constructed underground along the waterfront north of Storm King and would not be visible . All excavation for the plant will be carried on by tunneling . The writer does not mention that the view from Breakneck Ridge presently includes old sunken barges , dilapidated factories , rundown buildings and a burned out pier . As a part of the Cornwall project Con Edison would replace these eyesores with an attractive mile-long riverfront park . Certainly this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area . C. E. DILE Chairman of the Board Consolidated Edison Co. of New York , Inc , New York , Jan. 3 , 1967 Highway Threat to Dartmouth To the Editor : Back in June 1953 President Eisenhower visited the small community of Hanover , and said of Dartmouth College , " This is what a college ought to look like . " It is ironic that the Interstate Highway Program , one of the great landmarks of the Eisenhower Administration , now threatens the character of the Dartmouth campus . Your editorial of Nov. 20 " Highways vs . People " pointed out that " most Federal and state highway officials are alike in their basic indifference to community values , natural re ? sources or esthetics . " While this has not been entirely so in the decision to locate an interchange in Norwich on Interstate Highway 91 just across the Connecticut River from Dartmouth College , the fact that its proposed location happens to be in Vermont , while Dartmouth is in New Hampsire , has resulted in a classic example of the " buckpasser 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campus This interchange , just about to go out for construction bids , would pour heavy traffic of monstrous proportions across the Ledyard Bridge , along West Wheelock Street and through the heart of the Dartmouth campus  --  one of the most beautiful campuses in the country . Once the interchange were built , geography would make it all but impossible to divert this traffic around the campus . Tile tragedy of the proposed Norwich interchange is that it would be uneconomical , unwanted and unnecessary . There are six other accesses to the Interstate Highway system with . in five miles of Hanover . A new bridge across the Connecticut River north of the present Ledyard Bridge is a virtual certainty in the near future . But the Interchange does satisfy the bureaucratic buckpasser 's dream . WILLIAM H. TIMBERS New Haven , Conn. , Jan. 3 , 1967 The writer , a Dartmouth alumnus , is Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut and iv , * held court Irons time to time by designation in the District of Vermont .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         