@@723945

txt How does a U.S. businessman get a look-in , let alone a voice , in the crucial dollars-and-cents decisions to be made by tariff negotiators at the big Free-World trade conference which began yesterday in Geneva . Strictly speaking , he does n't ? at least directly . Negotiators from 40 or more countries will be re-making the world of trade in months of haggling under conditions approximating war-time security . No private interests , as such , will be sitting in . All the give-and-take will be solely in the hands of public officials whose interests and concerns may often collide with those of private U.S. industry . But indirectly the influence of the U.S. public in general , and U.S. business in particular , on the forthcoming trade talks will be larger than at any previous international trade conference , - U.S. officials claim . Because the parley is likely to have greater impact on American commerce than any earlier ones , and because there may be loud squawks when the results are made public , perhaps two years from now , the Johnson Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. industry , labor and agriculture at almost every important step along the way . The most striking move in this direction : Quiet recruitment of a " roster " of " several hundred " technical advisers drawn from trade associations , labor unions and farm groups . These unpaid counselors are to be on tap for quick consultation to guide negotiators on , the implications , both at home and abroad , of a particular trade concession the U.S. may be offering or demanding from a foreign land . Invitations From Herter Invitations to serve on this private panel of tariff consultants are just now going out from the office of the President 's special representative for trade negotiations , one-time Secretary of State Christian Herter , who is boss of the U.S. negotiating team . Already there are indications that U.S. business interest is intense . The aluminum industry has nominated one spokesman for the industry as a whole and four more to speak for smelters , extruders , diecasters and distributors . Steel-makers are proposing a top U.S. Steel Corp . official , Administrative Vice President Marcus Chapman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourbon makers and producers of anti-friction roller bearings . All told Mr. Herter 's aides expect their roster may include as many as 200 industry representatives . ? These advisers will not meet as a body or journey to Geneva to form an on-the-spot lobby ? though individuals may be summoned to the conference site for speedy consultation when the talks seem likely to center for some time on a trade item of special interest to a particular industry . Mostly , however , consultation with Geneva will be by cable , and telephone , via a permanent offiCe set up in Washington for just this purpose . Even without this arrangement , the U.S. negotiating team would hardly be suffering from lack of advice . Both the U.S. Tariff Commission , a permanent body , and the Tariff Information Committee , an inter-agency body set up especially for the trade talks , have held weeks of hearings and collected an estimated 17 filing cabinets full of testimony from business , labor , and farm groups . The TIC alone has received 2,000 briefs , and a 20-man crew is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiators at Geneva . Arguments Are Heated Included are heated arguments from protection-minded U.S. industries against any tampering with American tariff walls . Chief among these objectors are manufacturers of shoes , steel , textiles , cement , hats , gloves and toys . But also on file are urgings for the Government to negotiate away foreign impediments to U.S. exports . Leading the trade expansionists are auto makers , manufacturers of heavy electrical machinery and bourbon distillers . In some instances , the negotiators must cope with sharply conflicting counsel . Airlines , for instance , are urging cuts in duties for imports of airplanes , but domestic aircraft manufacturers naturally want the levies left alone . - With all this guidance already on hand , what more can the private consultants provide ? . One answer is simply that some of the material already furnished is five months old , and the talks may drag on into 1966 . So the U.S. bargainers may need swift updating of information on the impact of a specific import on domestic industry , on changes in marketing conditions abroad , on new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor is it intended that the consultants play a passive role . " This is to be a two-way street , " says one official . " If some industry wants to bring something to our attention , this will provide a communications channel . " One difficulty officials already foresee may be how to let panel members in on the Geneva doings sufficiently to enable them to give detailed advice , without violating security . Because the deliberations can have such profound effect on trade , every effort is made not to tip the results in advance . U.S. officials hope they can get around this by posing " iffy , " hypothetical questions to the advisers in terms that wo n't reveal the actual negotiating trend . Another worry for some officials is that the counselors may seek to exert too much pressure . " The trick will be to give them a sense of participation without having them try to run the show , " says one Herter aide . However the negotiators strike this balance , they concede in advance that the panel approach , even at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a big part in the proceedings , or end all anxieties that the Government may be injuring domestic interests in the negotiations . " What industry really wants is to do the negotiating themselves , " says one veteran trade man . But Mr. Herter and his lieutenants give every indication of seeking to satisfy industry 's demand for getting at least a word in edgewise at Geneva , and not the least of their reasons is practical politics . The Trade Expansion Act , which gives the Government sweeping authority to trim tariffs by as much as 50% , was enacted two years ago only after a bruising battle ; and Congress took pains to write into the legislation three separate directives to the Government to seek the widest possible advice of private interests in the tariff bargaining . One result was the creation of the Trade Information Committee , whose three months of hearings gave the U.S. public a wider opportunity for presenting its views than that afforded by the Tariff Commission ; the latter is largely pre-occupied with pleas for tariff protection , rather than overseas trading opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions or tax provisions which serve to impede trade . The Administration also established a 40-member Public Advisory Committee on the trade negotiations , composed of top men in business , labor , agriculture and the professions . This group , recently assembled with much fanfare in the White House rose garden for a Presidential pep talk , is supposed to give the Government broad guidance on trade policy . Ultimately some of the members may be included in a planned 12-man delegation which , together with four Congressional figures , will be incorporated into the negotiating team and take an active part in the Geneva proceedings . But these public representatives , officials emphasize , will be called on to advise as individuals , rather than as spokesmen for any special interest . It 's the latter role that 's intended for the roster of consultants now being recruited .                     