@@722474

txt Prime Minister Macmillan arrived here today to discuss with President de Gaulle the problems raised by Britain 's projected entry into the European Economic Community . The French President and Mme. de Gaulle greeted the British leader and his wife , Lady Dorothy Macmillan , at the eighteenth-century Chateau de champs , twelve miles east of , Paris . Tonight and tomorrow , with ) nly a minimum of staff assistance , the two men will discuss the broad political aspects of the difficult technical and economic negotiations on Britain 's application for membership in the six-nation Common Market . At the heart of their discussions will be the mutual suspicions of motive that overlay and complicate the actual detailed negotiations at Brussels . On the part of France there is the suspicion that Britain does not intend to make a full commitment to Europe but will seek to keep one foot securely planted on her special relationship with the United States and with the British Commonwealth . In General de Gaulle 's vitv , there can be no such divided loyalty within the European community . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States should be that of loyal and coequal allies . In such an arrangement there could be no place for a special British-United States relationship , he holds . There exists the reciprocal British suspicion that France does not want Britain in the Continental community , as a potent rival for political leadership'of it , at any price . This feeling persists in spite of frequent denials by responsible French officials and equally frequent statements by official Britons that they have detected no such attitude on the part of the French . What is certainly true , reiterated today in official French circles , is that neither France , nor her five continental part- , ners in the European Economic Community ? Italy , West Germany , the Netherlands , Bel- ; gium oand Luxembourg ? will , accept Britain with the Com- ; monwealth attached as a ' member . They are willing to make adjustments and transitional ar rangements to make the cutting loose of the Commonwealth ' as painless as possible . But the severance of special economic ties inconsistent with the Comman Market 's aims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probing these potential areas of misunderstanding , President de Gaulle and Prime Minister Macmillan are expected to review the general state of East-West relations , with particular emphasis on current United States soundings of Soviet intentions on the Berlin problem . The two leaders began their conversations , accompanied only by an interpreter , shortly after Mr. Macmillan 's arrival at 5:25 P. M. by air from London . The talks were to continue at dinner , with Andre Malraux , French Minister for Cultural Affairs , the only outside guest . Tomorrow Premier Georges Pompidou , Foreign Minister Maurice Couve de Murville and Sir Pierson Dixon and Geoffroy Chodron de Courcel , respectively British Ambassador in Paris and French Ambassador in London , will join the talks in mid-morning and lunch with the two leaders . The British party will fly back to London tomorrow afternoon . Minister Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium , leader of the opposition to General de Gaulle 's concept of a West European confederation . Cattani Heads Pact Group Ambassador Cattani is chairman of the committee of the six Common Market countries charged with drafting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with General de Gaulle makes clear that the French President has not abandoned his ideas but has agreed to mark time pending the outcome of the negotiations between Britain and the Common Market . The changed French attitude has created a feeling of relief among West German officials who saw their country being squeezed more and more sharply between the conflicting viewpoints on European political unity . The hope here is that Britain 's negotiation 's for Common Mar- ; ket membership now can be freed of the pressure that the drive for swift agreement on political unity was exerting . If the negotiations are successful , Britain 's resulting partnership with the Continent will shape the kind of political union , to be established , observers here are convinced . The union would then follow more or less along the confederal lines envisaged by General de Gaulle and bitterly opposed by Belgium and the Netherlands so long as Britain is not present as a counter to French and German strength . With Britain in , the Germans expect , the French idea of establishing Western Europe as a kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union would have to be revised . This would free the Germans from the fear of having to make a choice between the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or France and the Continent . Nothing in the available accounts of the de Gaulle-Cattani or Spaak-Couve de Murville talks indicated any lessening of the determination to impose strict conditions for British ; membership in the Common Market . One reported reaction to the ! easing of French pressure for quick agreement on political union has been stronger sup-1 port by France 's partners for the conditions surrounding any ; accommodation to be made to Britain 's economic relationship with the Commonwealth . Goodwill Held Bought In other words , President de Gaulle appears to have bought some goodwill from his partners by making what at least is a gesture of acknowledgement to their opposition to his political plans . As a result of the new French attitude , it now is unlikely that either the six Common Market heads of government or their foreign ministers will meet as originally scheduled in Rome next month to discuss a political treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Market capitals , Signor Cattani suggested that the meeting go ahead to draft a treaty that could be submitted for comment to the British before being signed by the six . M. Spaak agreed to this procedure but proposed changes , in the French draft text whose , supranational features are , clearly unacceptable to the , French . M. Spaak was willing to meet General de Gaulle 's ideas for regular summit meetings of the Common Market heads of government and for the establishment of permanent commissions on foreign affairs , defense and culture . However , M. Spaak urged ma-I jority rather than unanimous ' decisions on defense matters and called for representatives of the Common Market 's present economic institutions to attend , whenever the heads of government discussed economic problems . Rather than get bogged down in a futile discussion of these ' issues of supranationalism , Gen-1 eral de Gaulle was reported tol have said in effect that it would be better to await the decision on Britain before trying to go ahead on political unity . Shift Is Seen by Bonn By SYDNEY GRUSON Special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ BONN . Germany , June 2 ? President de Gaulle has apparently drawn back from the swift pace he was trying to push for a political union of the six countries of the European Economic Community . This is the interpretation being placed here on recent comments by French leaders , including General de Gaulle , to their Common Market parners . The effect of the new French attitude will be to await a decision on Britain 's application to join the Common Market before going ahead with plans for political integration . The French have made no public announcement of their changed attitude , but it was made clear , according to reliable sources , in conversations between , President de Gaulle and Anibassador Atilio Cattani of Italy and between the French Foreign Minister , Maurice Couve de Murville , and Foreign                     