@@727892

txt How one welfare doctor receives kickbacks ' from drug stores , overcharges for medications , and prescribes unnecessary drugs was related to THE TRIBUNE , yesterday by- a receptionist who worked for ? the physician for 15 years . Many of the doctors who treat welfare patients under medicaid are . doing . their best to bring- medical . care to . slum . dwellers , but some of them are providing inadequate care and are being paid hundreds of thousands of dollars , an investigation of doctors has shown . Other Abuses Cited ? A study of some of these highvolume doctors , which was sponsored by the Hospital Planning Council . of Metropolitan Chicago and the Illinois depart- ment ? of public health , has also documented a n umber of abuses in the medicaid program . The receptionist , who asked that her name be withheld , said she quit the doctor 's office after finally becoming " fed up " with his practice . According to a list compiled by the Illinois department of public aid , this physician last year made between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices in a slum area , splits drug profits with a pharmacy owner nearby . He sells the pharmacist free drug samples he received from manufacturers andr-then prescribes these drugs for Ms patients . Prescribes 5 Medications The doctor prescribes unnessary drugs , sometimes as Many as five medications for one patient , she said . The hospital council study found some welfare doctors made a practice of prescribing higher than normal numbers of drugs . One doctor prescribed two to three drugs for every patient , the study said . One of the favorite practices of a few of these doctors is to prescribe drugs without making an examination , the council charged . Residents of a Chicago housing authority senior citizen project at 3916 Washington blvd. said in interviews that some of the welfare doctors they see prescribe medications without even taking their blood pressure . The doctor limits his time to two minutes a patient , they said . Ask for Test The receptionist said that when patients asked for physical examinations they were told to come back later and make an appointment . When they did come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available , she asserted . She said that patients asking to have their blood pressure taken are told the instrument for taking the pressure does n't work but the patient is given a prescription for a drug for high blood pressure . Other charges made by the receptionist were : 1 . Some patients , requiring certain drugs such as penicillin , are told the drugs are not covered by medicaid . They are told they will have to pay cash for these medications , altho the state actually pays for them , she said . 2 . When medicaid went into effect in 1966 , the doctor dropped all of his medicare patients because he was able to get faster payment for patients he treated under medicaid . Medicaid is a federal-state matching program to provide medical care for welfare and medically indigent patients . Before medicaid , the state paid for most of this care . 3 . Emergency cases requiring stitches or other surgical procedures are refused by the physician , who instead sends the patient to the nearest hospital . Patients Abuse Program On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Harold 0 . Swank , IDPA director . Some patients have learned what symptoms to describe so that a doctor will prescribe amphetamines pep pills , he said . They then visit a number of doctors and collect a large batch of pep pills which they will then sell , he charged . Other public aid recipients will sell their green medicaid cards to persons who are not eligible for welfare medicine , Swank reported . Pierre de Vise , a De Paul university sociologist who headed the hospital council 's study on " slum medicine , " said it found one doctor who treated his welfare patients in Chicago after being inducted into military service . Long Distance Practice The doctor was stationed in Arkansas but thru the use of the long distance telephone and week-end passes he was able to treat more than 1,200 welfare patients in a three-month period , de Vise found . Two other incidents were disclosed in the study . In one case a doctor who saw a patient who required treatment for ulcers said that if the patient could pay for it he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to County hospital .                     