@@728017

txt Attorney General John N. Mitchell has informed both of New York 's Senators in Washington that United States Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau will be replaced by Whitney North Seymour Jr. , a Republican lawyer and an old friend of Mayor Lindsay . The change is scheduled to take place not long after the mayoral election in November . Sources here and in Washington said yesterday that the replacement of Mr. Morgenthau , a Democrat , had been delayed because the Nixon Administration had decided not to jeopardize. or give the appearance of jeopardizing , Mayor Lindsay 's position with the city 's Reform Democrats . The Reform Democrats have obtained expressions of support for Mr. Morgenthau from Mayor Lindsay as a condition for their own endorsement of the Mayor , a Republican who is seeking reelection as a Liberal and independent . In a statement Issued by his office yesterday , however , Mr. Morgenthau reiterated his unwillingness to bow to custom and to submit his resignation simply because President Nixon , was of a different political party . " I have no plans to resign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many times in the past , 1 I have important , investigae tions under way and cases pending , which I have responsibility and obligations to coni plete . " Despite Mr. Morgenthau 's position , sources who have spoken to him recently said that he was not as determined as he was a month or so ago to fight the Nixon Administration 's efforts to replace him . These sources said that Mr. Morgenthau was now preoccupied with the illness of his wife and might eventually decide to leave his post quietly for " personal reasons . " Other sources confirmed that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had already ' completed a required security check of Mr. Seymour as a prelude to his being named United States attorney . Suit Would Be Necessary If Mr. Morgenthau decides to attempt to stay in office , legal authorities say , he would file a suit naming the United States Attorney General as defendant and arguing that it is not the President 's prerogative to replace him before his term expires in 1971 . Such a case probably would go to the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-year terms that run concurrently with the President 's . When a new Chief Executive is inaugurated , the United States ' Attorneys , as a matter of protocol , submit their resignations , to be accepted or rejected . Mr. Morgenthau 's case is complicated , however . He was appointed by President John Kennedy in 1961 , but he resigned m 1962 to run for Governor against Nelson A. Rockefeller . After losing that race , Mr. Morgenthau was reappointed by President Kennedy to a new four-year term , which began in June , 1963 . He was reappointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967 . No Official Comment The Department of Justice declined to comment upon any facet of the matter yesterday , and neither Mr. ' Morgenthau nor Mr. Seymour , both of whom are vacationing in New England , were available . Mr. Seymour , who served two terms as a State Senator before he became the first Republican in 30 years to lose in a Congressional race in the so-called " Silk Stocking " District on Manhattan 's East Side , 17 ? 71111.3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Lindsay and Vincent Albano Jr. , Manhattan Republican leader ? if Mr. Morgenthau was to be replaced . Governor Rockefeller and the Republican State ? Committee , on the other hand , favored Paul J. Curran , chairman of the State Investigation Commission .. Both Mr. Seymour 's and Mr. Curran 's name were submitted to the Department of Justice for consideration , but sometime in June or early July , sources in Washington say , Mr. Curran 's name was dropped . Republican sources in Washington said that among the reasons Mr. Curran was out of the running was that he already had a good job and that he had become the chairman of the investigation commission only last March . The name of Frederic S. Nathan , the city 's first assistant corporation counsel , was ' also said , to have been under consideration by the Depart-1 ment of Justice , but Republican sources said consideration of him was ended some weeks ago . The post of United States Attorney for the Southern District  --  which covers Manhattan , the Bronx , Westchester and eight upstate counties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . For one thing , it handles almost all Federal cases involving so-called Wall Street crimes  --  securities frauds , violations and other associated cases in which prominent corporation executives sometimes ' come under investigation .                     