@@723696

txt The Securities and Exchange Commission , which for months has been tight-lipped about its intentions toward the recommendations of its big 1963 stock market study , is finally breaking its silence . Yesterday the stock market policemen announced they 're ready to adopt the first of the 175 recommendations : A requirement that the New York Stock Exchange and all other securities exchanges notify the SEC of proposed changes in their constitutions , rules and bylaws three weeks before the exchanges themselves act on them . This subtle but potent regulation will subject future changes in exchanges ' trading mechanisms to much closer Government scrutiny and control ; the SEC will have more chance to order alterations . Yesterday 's announcement followed two months of SEC discussions , some of them heated , with Big Board officials . Says an SEC insider : " This changes the whole relationship between the commission and the New York Exchange . " Behind closed doors the commissioners and key staffers have been working overtime shaping other actions , too . They 've given the New York Exchange a March 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to ban " floor trading " ? trading by exchange members for their own accounts . " Floor trading . . . is a vestige of the former ' private club ' character of stock exchanges and should not be permitted to continue , " the study declared . The SEC seems determined to outlaw floor trading . Oil Scandal Impact Officials have given new priority ? as a result of the collapse of Big Board member Ira Haupt &; Co. in the still unfolding salad oil scandal  --  to the recommendations concerning financial responsibility of brokerage firms . The staff proposals , written long before the scandal broke in November , would require brokerage concerns , among other things , to maintain a cash cushion to protect customers who leave their money and securities with the broker . The Ira Haupt case has given these recommendations " new prominence , there 's no question of it , " declares an SEC official . The commissioners and their staff have been working with the National Association of Securities Dealers , which polices the overthe-counter market ( trading outside of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NASD rules designed to prevent " highpressure selling . " There would be a closer watch on " irresponsible " market letters sent to customers . The revision , which probably will come out this month , will mean a " very notable advance " in over-the-counter sales controls , a commission aide contends . And officials have been pressing the Big Board to automate a good deal more of its operations than the exchange had been planning . The aim , according to staff recommendations : To improve exchange and Government surveillance of data on Big Board trading . The quiet that , so far as the public is concerned , fell over the SEC after the big noise of Aug. 8 , when the final instalment of the huge staff study was unveiled , has apparently resulted from two considerations . One is the fact that a bill growing out of the study is pending on Capitol Hill . It would extend the financial disclosure requirements that now affect exchange-listed companies to those whose securities are traded over-the-counter , and the SEC presumably feared that bold new Administration action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal leaning of SEC . Chairman William L. Cary . Exprofessor Cary has vowed there would be nothing " flamboyant " in handling of the stock market study . Let Industry Have Say Consequently , there have been many unannounced meetings between the SEC and its staff and officials of the Big Board and other securities ' exchanges , plus NASD or other industry groups . These conferences reflect the Cary approach : Let the securities industry have its say on the practicality of the 175 reforms that can be made without new legislation before proceeding to adopt any . Chairman Cary 's predilections have prompted Richard H. Paul , the former top legal officer of the now-disbanded 65-man special study staff , to accuse the SEC of timidity . He has asserted that the commission 's silence and its " rush to industry leaders for consultation " could mean " appeasement " of the industry . Mr. Cary has denied the charge , and the list of staff recommendations on which the commission is prepared to act in the weeks ahead bears him out . The SEC seems bent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forcing NASD to make narrower the bid-ask spread in the over-thecounter price quotations it supplies to newspapers and the public , even though the bulk of overthe-counter dealers have rowed to take a " firm stand " against the move . But even if the commission plows ahead in the near future on these and some other plans , President Kennedy 's death has injected some uncertainty into the fate of the rest of the 175 recommendations which , Big Board President Keith Funston has said , " could have a severe impact " on the stock markets . Because of the number of recommendations and the complexity of many , the commission can not possibly act on all of them for at least a year . Meantime , the make-up of the SEC will change , though how drastically remains to be seen . One vacancy on the five-man panel exists now and another term will expire in June . President Johnson is expected to appoint more conservative men than the tough Kennedy appointees . True , the Kennedy men will remain in the SEC majority , barring unexpected resignations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any new conservatives some of the staff recommendations could be buried . Anyway , yesterday 's announcement seems a prelude to action in many controversial areas . The new rule proposal , requiring exchanges to give the SEC three weeps ' advance notice of new exchange rules , does not go as far as the study staff recommended . It proposed the advance notice plus a law that would give the SEC specific authority to disapprove any exchange proposal . But the lack of the law change probably wo n't make too much difference . Under present law , the SEC can order an exchange to " alter or supplement " exchange rules in a long list of strategic areas , including financial responsibility of members , reporting of transactions on stock tickers , small-lot trading , commission rates and " similar matters . " Another section of existing law empowers the SEC to write its own rules regulating or even barring floor trading and controlling certain other exchange and NASD activities . So , even without blanket authority to disapprove new exchange rules , the three weeks ' notice will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the commission objects . Floor Trading Too , the SEC is plainly preparing to move against floor trading . In effect , it has accepted the study staff 's findings as establishing a firm case against the practice and has given the Big Board until March 1 to reply . The study recommended that floor trading be banned in stages starting- Jan. 2 . The New York Exchange has retained Cresap , McCormick &; Paget , a management consulting firm , to " obtain facts about floor trading " ; it reportedly will give the Big Board its findings by the end of this month , allowing the exchange the month of February to file its defense with the SEC . Mr. Funston has hinted at a defense that attacks the floor trading ban proposal as one hatched in a " theoretical " atmosphere by academicians and one that would hurt market " liquidity . " The Big Board has retained outside consultants to study two other staff recommendations to which the SEC has assigned priority . Joel Dean Associates is looking into proposals for keeping closer tabs on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sell certain stocks in order to maintain " fair and orderly " trading in them . Price Waterhouse &; Co. , the big accounting firm , is collecting data bearing on the recommendation for sweeping changes in exchange members ' fees to customers , including discounts for large volume transactions and lower rates for all investors who do n't use a member firm 's investment advisory and other sideline services . Moving " Very Carefully " The commission is n't likely to get around to proposing rules concerning specialists for some time . And it will move " very carefully , very slowly , " an aide says , on changes in fees ; these could have major effects on mutual funds , all institutional investors and the growing " third market , " over-the-counter trading in big blocks of listed issues . The Ira Haupt affair appears likely to put WC action on recommendations concerning financial responsibility ahead of commission action on stock specialists and brokerage fees . The liquidation of Ira Haupt , brought on by its involvement in the commodity market dealings of Allied Crude Vegetable Oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put up $12 million to repay the firm 's securities customers who had left cash and securities with Haupt . Precisely what action the SEC will take is n't clear but the study recommendations clearly have a direct bearing on such an episode . In a section labeled " protection of customers ' funds and securities , " the staff recommended that brokerage firms be required to maintain a cash balance " of , say , 15% " of the aggregate amount of customers ' money held .                     