@@726184

txt Senate Ethics Committee chairman John C. Stennis ( D ) of Mississippi says the acceptance by all parties of stipulations " will greatly shorten " the Dodd hearings . He expects the hearings to be completed by Easter recess . In a massive move to hurdle some of the time-consuming detail of identifying documents and other data , Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D ) of Connecticut and the committee have agreed to two separate stipulations totaling nearly 180 pages . These stipulations will have the effect of greatly reducing the work load of the committee . They identify certain evidence which all parties agree is indisputable . Talking to newsmen at the end of the first day of hearings , Senator Stennis said he felt the hearings were " moving along rapidly due in large part to the sweeping nature of the stipulations . " The testimony from now on , he said , would be " confined largely to explanations , purposes , motives , that prompted the dinners . " Senator Stennis was referring to the several fund-raising dinners held in Sen. Thomas J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concedes that he used part of the $170,000 raised at these functions for personal purposes . ' Fund use cited The evidence agreed to by Senator Dodd Shows that funds raised at the dinners went , among other things , for payments on Sena*tor Dodd 's house , for personal expenses in curred by his sons , and for liquor , among other things . The sensational character of last summer 's investigation of Senator Dodd seems to have disappeared from the renewed hearings . The whole tenor of the probe has changed . Last June , tourists , newsmen , and other curious spectators flocked to the hearing room . Those who could n't get seats waited in line outside for a glimpse of the principals . Guards were everywhere , challenging newsmen 's passes , clearing aisles , and moving the witnesses in and out of the green marble and blond wood-paneled hearing room by resort to a kind of flying wedge . Senator Dodd 's lawyer , John F. Sonnett , was constantly on his feet , objecting to this or that part of the proceedings . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . Approach changed , Now all that is changed . Mr. Sonnet is deferential . He no longer objects to procedural matters the way he used to . ? In fact , Mr. Sonnett and the committee counsel , Benjamin R. Fern , have even labored hour after hour together to compile the stipulations . There is an almost somber aspect to the hearing room now . Guards no longer ask anyone for passes . And the visitor 's seats are only half filled . In the seven months since the first Dodd-hearing sessions closed , Senator Dodd has pushed along with his special legislative interests : promoting gun legislation , opposing the proposed consular treaty , and fighting communism with fervor . He has kept virtually silent over the charges raised against him by syndicated . columnists Drew Pearson and Jack Anderson . They charge that he diverted campaign contributions Mr. his personal use . Cooperation noted Now , , in th , e : reopened hearings , Senator Dodd appears to be : cooperating with the committee . Earlier , he had challenged the committee 's jurisdiction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he is going along with committee efforts . In this changed atmosphere , Senator Dodd insisted Monday that the $170,000 raised at his dinners was intended " as personal gifts . " He contends he was " entitled . to use the entire $170,000 as he saw according to his lawyers . Senator Dodd says that he used $140,000 of the funds to repay outstanding debts . He explained that between 1956 , when he first campaigned for Senate , and 1959 , the first year he was a member of the Senate , he borrowed a total of about $211,000 . He said that " the balance was not reduced except as a direct result of the testimonial dinners . " Intent sought The stipulation contains documents which the committee says will help it establish the intent of the donors . Among these documents is a letter from Arthur T. Barbieri , general chairman of Senator Dodd 's 1965 fund-raising dinner . The letter was sent to friends urging them to attend the function , and contains this wording : " This affair will celebrate his record- breaking majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treasurer of that dinner , Matthew M. Moriarty , testified before the Ethics Committee Monday that most people understood the dinner was to raise funds for Senator Dodd 's personal use . " Just one person told me he was n't sure , " he told the committee . Gift is personal Then , in questioning the witness , the committee 's vice-chairman , Wallace F. Ben- net , noted that Mr. Moriarty had made no contribution to Senator Dodd , according to the records . ? " If Senator Dodd was such a good friend of yours , why does n't your name appear on the list of contributors ? " asked Senator Bennett . Mr : Moriarty replied : " I give Senator Dodd money as a personal gift , not as a campaign contribution . " Mr. Moriarty , however , had just testified that the list to which Senator Bennett referred contained names of contributors whose donations were intended to be personal gifts , not campaign contributions . But the committee did n't follow up the questioning on that issue . Another letter appearing in the stipulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one of the 1963 fundraising events He asked if his friends were willing " to make a contribution to Tom Dodd 's campaign . " He added that " we have scheduled Oct. 26 as a sort of kickoff for fund-raising activities for the Senator . " A newspaper clipping contained in the stipulation docunient referred to a 1961 fundraising dinner , in which the then Vice-President Lyndon B. Johnson took part . The press account , appearing in the New Britain ( Conn . ) Herald , stated : " First Selectman Arthur B. Powers , treasurer of the committee the Dodd fund-raising committee , said the money will help Senator Dodd meet his campaign deficit . " Appearing before the Stennis committee , Mr. Powers denied he had ever made such a statement . He said the reporter " was , just filling in space . I do n't recall saying it was for his campaign expenses . " Among the witnesses scheduled to testify Tuesday was Ivan Sinclair , an aide to Vice-President Johnson in 1961 . Mr. Sinclair , the committee was told Monday , inquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , testimonial at which Mr. Johnson spoke . James P:Boyd Jr. , Senator Dodd 's former administrative assistant , said when the Senator learned about the inquiry he said " to tell the Vice-President the purpose was to raise money . " When Senator Dodd was asked whether he would benefit personally , Mr. Boyd said , the Senator gave these instructions : " Tell them I may be presented with a gold watch . " Mr. Boyd testified Senator Dodd told him the purpose of that dinner was to pay off campaign debts and establish a base for future campaigns . Regarding a description of the dinner as a " testimonial , " Mr. Boyd said " the word is an obvious euphemism . "                     