@@725369

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times French in Indochina To the Editor : C. L , Sulzberger 's editorial page column of Feb. 25 somewhat lacks the serenity and even urbanity which I have come to associate with him . But the point which concerns us here is whether such a war as that in Vietnam can be lost by debate , and whether ? as Gen. Maxwell Taylor said , and Mr. Sulzberger says is true  --  the French lost the Indochina war in Paris , not in the field . Te bard and brutal fact is the French lost the Indochina war in the field . One year before the battle of Dienbienphu the ratio between French and Communist forces had finally dropped to 1.2 to 1 in a situation where ( as is visible today ) a 5-to-1 ratio even with all the firepower in the world gives rise to little optimism , and 10 or even 20 to 1 is considered a useful superiority level . By that time also ( spring 1953 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shy of the Red River Delta , a fortified " enclave " in which the French controlled 1,800 villages out of 5,000 . All of northern Laos had fallen to Giap in one swift offensive . Vietminh Holdings In South Vietnam an unbroken expanse of Vietminh territory existed from a few miles south of Danarig to almost the gates of Saigon save ' for yet another French " enclave " in the mountain plateau area . Beyond the Mekong Delta , Camau Peninsula and the whole Cardamom Mountain chain of Cambodia were in Vietminh hands . The French Army had failed in every one of its offensives in which it attempted to " find , fix and destroy " the enemy although it , too , could point to reassuring casualty statistics . A 25,000-man stab into the northern hinterland netted a few hundred dead in late 1952 ; an airborne attack on the Chinese border in 1953 found a few tons of weapons but no troops ; a 20,000-man operation near Hu4 brought in 76 weapons . By 1954 the French Army had lost 1,500 officers ( including over 1,100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dienbienphu disaster . No French politician did that : the war did it , because it 's that kind of war . In fact , year after year , the Communists and a few of their associates excepted , the French Parliament voted the credits for pie war and voted for the reinforcements which could be squeezed out of a weakened postwar France . I have read every French parliamentary debate on Indochina since 1945 , and they make instructive reading as bewildered but honest men were faced , on one hand , with glowing reports that the war was being won and , on the other , with new requests for more funds and troops . Even when the United States made available to the French in 1953-54 almost unlimited funds and , in many fields , more equipment than they could usefully handle , the war was not being won on the battlefield . Only Army Limitation The only political limitation on the French Army was that it could not , after 1950 , use draftees in Vietnam until the much-maligned Mend6s-France , after Dienbienphu , threatened to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French , like King Canute , were fighting the combined waves of Vietnamese nationalism and Communism , a Parisian show of unity or even the sending of draftees would have made little difference . It Is rather curious , finally , to see observers who , for two decades , have berated the French Army for all sorts of true or imagined failings , now resort to the German " stab-in-the-back " myth to club their own opposition here . Surely there must be better arguments than that to justify the war in Vietnam . BERNARD B. FALL Washington , Feb. 25 , 1966 ? Abba Schwartz 's Record To the Editor : The pressured resignation of refugee expert Abba P. Schwartz from his post as administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs in the State Department reported by Max Frankel on . March 7 and the reorganization to abolish the bureau as an economy measure was outrageous . Since when is the care of refugees considered nu extravagant activity ? The distinguished record of Mr. Schwartz in. the area of immigration , travel and refugee affairs is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated humanitarian . His recent efforts to secure the release of the more . than 200 Americans held prisoner in Vietnam , and his work on behalf of the 780,000 war refugees in that country , deserve praise and urgent support from the State Department rather than this outright repudiation . DAVID NEMIEOFF Minneapolis , Minn . March 7 , 1966 ? Against Amending State 's Divorce Law To the Editor : It has been reported that there is little direct opposition to the proposed changes in the divorce law of New York State . At public hearings before Senator Jerome Wilson 's Joint Legislative Committee on Matrimonial and Family Lows testimony was rendered in opposition to the proposal to widen provision for divorce beyond adultery . The days in which we are living are too serious to set aside the words of the Lord Jesus : " Whosoever shall put away his wife , except it be for fornication , and shall marry another , committeth adultery : and whose marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery . " Matthew xix : 9 . The God who created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through His word . In public statements proponents of change have alleged that those who have perjured themselves in court to obtain divorce would become honest under the broadened provisions . With the change , then , does God , the giver of the law as it now stands , become a liar ? The present statute comes di ! . rectly from the pages of the Holy Bible and your editorial of : Feb. 3 names it cruel and evil : - Who , then , is the arbiter of . what is right  --  God or man ? The existing law is 179 years old , and for this reason has been labeled archaic . The Con stitution is older , and the Bill of Rights is one of its " archaic " amendments . The Magna Carta , : centuries old , defends the dig- . nity of man . The dignity of marriage merits a defender today in New York State . A. WALKER Brooklyn , Feb. 28 , 1966 ? Divided Germany To the Editor : A glance at pages 14 and 15-of the issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : . ical attitude on the question ofdivided Germany . On one page a report froni Bonn documents the rise of . rightist activity in the German- ; Federal Republic and tells n. * : that neo-Nazi and anti-Semitic : action grew sharply in 1965 , On the opposite page we informed that the German- ' Democratic Republic is apply4 , ing for membership in tile . " ' United Nations , and that the United States will oppose thit : - . move at every step . This will happen although pan-Germanism with its ugly manifestations of anti-Semitisin and neo-Nazidom have been completely eradicated in the ' East , as this writer can confirm from personal observ , S1 ? , - tion . In a rapidly changingworld American foreign policy is still made by J. F. Dulles : C. KUERTI                     