@@721885

txt Congress starts another week tomorrow with sharply Contrasting forecasts for the two chambers . In the Senate , several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict or opposition . In the House , the Southern-Republican coalition is expected to make another major stand in opposition to the Administration 's housing bill , while more jockeying is expected in an attempt to advance the aid-to-education bill . The housing bill is now in the House Rules Committee . It is expected to be reported out Tuesday , but this is a little uncertain . The panel 's action depends on the return of Representative James W. Trimble , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn 's forces in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor . Mr. Trimble has been in the hospital but is expected back Tuesday . Leadership Is Hopeful The housing bill is expected to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of Southern ' Democrats and conservative Republicans . The Democratic leadership , however , hopes to pass it sometime this week . The $6,100,000,000 measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , provides for forty'year mortgages at low downpayments for moderate-income ' families . It also provides for funds to clear slums and help colleges build dormitories . The education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee , where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the Administration are balking because of the religious controversy . They are James J. Delaney of Queens and Thomas P. O'Neill Jr . of Massachusetts . Three Groups to Meet What could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amending the National Defense Education Act of 1958 . This would provide for longterm Federal loans for construction of parochial and other private-school facilities for teaching science , languages and mathematics . Mr. Delaney and Mr. O'Neill are not willing to vote on the public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House Education and Labor Committee . In an effort to speed action on the defense education bill , the three subcommittees considering it will meet a half-hour earlier than usual tomorrow morning . The bill is expected to clear the full committee sometime this week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will take up President Kennedy 's reorganization plans for three regulatory agencies of the Government . These are the Securities and Exchange Commission , the Federal Trade Commission and the Civil Aeronautics Board . ? The proposals become effective in the absence of a vote of disapproval by either the Senate or the House . The Senate 's vote Tuesday is expected to be favorable to the plans , which are designed to improve and speed the agencies ' admin4strative procedures . The Administration 's reorganization plan for the Federal Communications Commission , the most controversial of the 1President 's reorganization proposals , was defeated last week in the House . Also on Tuesday , the Senate is expected to pass the agricul- tural appropriation bill and perhaps take up the water-pollution bill . The latter bill is likely to receive some vocal if not sizable Republican opposition . It authorizes a five-year program to help municipalities build sewagetreatment plants and finance other anti-pollution measures . It would authorize $70,000,000 for the fiscal year starting July 1 , with $80,000,000 the following year and $100,000,000 for the next three years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through without any major difficulty . If the bill does not come up Tuesday , the leadership will start action on it Wednesday . The Senate is also expected to take Up on Wednesday the Social Security bill and the extension of the so-called Korean War increase in taxes . The Administration 's Social ' Security bill increases benefits by $780,000,000 a year and allows men to retire at the age of 62 . It would mean an increase in the minimum Social Security benefit from $33 to $40 a month . The benefits would be paid from an increase in the Social Security payroll tax on employers and workers . If the Senate extends the Korean War increases in corporate income and excise taxes , it will be the ninth annual extension . This action would mean that the Government would not lose $3,659,000,000 in revenue . The House has already given its approval .                     