@@724531

txt Montgomery , Ala . Gov . George C. Wallace stands squarely behind local white officials in Selma , Ala. , in the dispute with Dallas County Negroes over voting rights and registration . The Governor emphasizeci this in an interview in his large , dark-paneled office ei the state capitol . It is understood to be the first public statement the Governor has made on the Selma incidents . State officials have not become involved , Governor Wallace said , because the dispute is primarily a local matter . However , state troopers are in Selma and neighboring Marion , Perry County seat , because " local officials asked them to stand by , " he said . " Local officials are doing a good job , " he added . " No violence has occurred at all . Violence does not solve any problem . " He challenged the assertion by Negro leaders that voter registration officials in Dallas County were dragging their feet in an attempt to keep Negroes from registering . Criticism Held Not Valid " The criticism is not valid , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days and I signed the order . if they were being kept from registering , they would n't have been given the extra days . " I 'm not a registration expert , but there have been days and days when registration offices have been open and nobody has come . There has been ample time to register anybody qualified under the laws of this state . " The Governor also called for more difficult voter registration tests to " protect the ballot . " While some states allow voters to register simply by signing their names and addresses , Alabama voters must take a test that had been getting progressively harder through the years . " The liberals would lower the education level for voters , " he said . " Instead , it ought to be raised . " The test is only difficult for somebody who ca n't read and write . But those who ca n't read and write ca n't because they do n't want to learn ? with all of the opportunities they have to learn in this state . These people should n't be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right a man has , and he ought to relish it . Negro Dropouts Cited " Besides , you ca n't go to New York and just sign your name and registe ? . " The answers to his state 's needs ( he emphatically denies there arc " problems " ) can be found in expanded educational programs and new industry to provide jobs for both whites and Negroes. the Governor said . When the Legislature convenes Governor Wallace will ask them to : ? Provide free textbooks for all students in the state . ? Increase both white and Negro teachers ' salaries 10 percent . ? Increase the budgets of state-supported colleges and universities 20 percent . ? Build 28 new junior colleges and trade schools , including eight for Negroes . ? And provide free bus service ( up to 40 miles ) for the junior college students so they can live at home . The Negroes ' greatest problem is that " thousands drop out of school in the third or fourth grade , " the Governor said . While Alabama has a Hi-year-old age limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce because of the numbers Involved , " he continued . In many cases , enforcement would " go against whole communities . " Educators , PTA 's , and other groups have been asked to work on this problem , said the Governor . By March 1 " a billion dollars in new industry will have come into the state under my administration , " Mr. Wallace stressed . " Thousands and thousands of jobs have been found for both whites and Negroes . " Earlier in the day Governor Wallace announced that Hammermill Paper Corporation or Erie , Pa , , will build a $35 million mill near Selma , employing ? an estimated 3011 persons . Selma , Ala . It is difficult for Negroes to wage a battle when their general is behind bars  --  especially when it essential to their strategy that he remain there . It becomes easier when jail officials permit the general to issue hand-written orders to chief lieutenants on the outside . And when the " army " is released at the end of the day , after they have been jailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning . But this is the strange way the civil-rights conflict operates in this central Alabama city . Children Freed at Dusk The general is the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. , Nobel Prize-winning leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) . The Rev. Dr. King is in the Selma jail , charged with leading a parade of Negroes without a permit . He refuses to post bond because , according to his aides , he believes he can do more for his cause in jail . And he told this reporter as he was arrested that he wanted to go to jail to " dramatize " the Negro plight to the world . Yet he has been permitted to pass handwritten instructions to the Rev. Andrew Young , who commands SCLC here when the Rev. Dr. King is incarcerated . And each day many of the adult marchers have been permitted to leave jail daily on signature bonds alter they were arrested . Most of the school-skipping children who march have been detained only during the clay , then released at dusk . To the Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them something to fight for , and to demonstrate against . Their main foe , they are told , is Dallas County Sheriff James Clark . Responds to Call Another is Circuit Judge James Hare . considered by many , including Justice Department officials here , to be the real power behind Sheriff Clark . It is Judge Hare who issues the contempt citations and court orders under which the Negroes are arrested . The Rev. Mr. Young often finds his respdosibilities large , with Dr. King in jail . It is his responsibility to sustain the enthusiasm of the Negroes here who , on wages sometimes as low as $25 a week , can ill atlord to pay fines or spend days in jail ? sometimes at the risk of their jobs . On Wednesday he called the Justice Department in Washington to protest that 1,000 teen-agers held in a prisoner work camp Wednesday night were being held in cells without bedding and without blankets , mattresses , or heat , as the temperature dropped into the 20 's . FBI agents were immediately dispatched . Direction of Struggle ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been following carefully planned strategy . Now they are " playing it by ear , " the Rev. Mr. Young said . Central to Negro protest is the charge that outer registration procedures in Selma are both slow and complex For the Selma dispute seems to have reached a stalemate . Those who have watched the civil-rights battles since the start in nearby Montgomery in 1935. including some federal officials here , believe it could go in several directions . " At this point , there is always the possibility of someone becoming angry and violent , " said one , " Perhaps one side or the other will grow tired , lose their tight , or just cave in from the sustained pressure . " And there is always the possibility that while and Negro leaders will eventually be able to sit down and talk things out , " said another .                     