@@723395

txt The annual battle over foreign aid in the House will dominate the Congressional scene this week . In the Senate , the focus will remain on the nuclear test ban treaty as the Foreign Relations Committee hears further testimony from the Joint Chiefs of Staff . But the big test for the Administration will come On the House floor on the Foreign Assistance Act , to be taken up Tuesday . The Administration wants to hold this year 's authorization at the $4,087,750,000 approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee and to block restrictions on aid to particular countries . Strategy will be blocked out by the President and legislative leaders at the White House just before debate begins on the House floor . Payments a Factor The prospect of a $9,000,000 , - 000 budget deficit and a turn for the worse in the nation 's balance of international payments is complicating the task of Administration forces in countering demands for heavier cuts in foreign aid than the House committee was willing to make . There will also be emphasis on the payments deficit , now running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ways and Means Committee begins hearings Tuesday on the President 's plan to tax foreign security purchases up to 15 per cent and thus reduce the contribution from this source to the deficit . Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon will be the leadoff witness for the Administration . When the case for the affirmative rests , the committee will hear from fiduciary and other investment spokesmen opposing the plan as an unwarranted interference with the nation 's traditionally free capital market . Timing Not Accidental The timing of the Ways and Means Committee hearings was not accidental . Whatever happens to the temporary excisetax proposal , it is hoped the hearings will dispose once and for all of the notion that foreign aid expenditures contribute substantially to the balance-of-payments deficit . This shortfall reflects the excess of United States expenditures over receipts from international transactions . The foreign aid authorization measure was cut $438,250,000 under the President 's request by the Foreign Affairs group . This was on top of a $420,000 , - 000 cut ordered by the President under the January budget estimate to reflect recommendations by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Die-hard antagonists of foreign aid who regard it as so much " money down a rat hole " but who were without " any respectable basis for their opposition found that respectability , psychologically at least , in the report . To begin with , the report said , the United States is trying to do " too much for too many too soon , " and a " higher quality and reduced quantity of our diffuse aid effort in certain counries would accomplish more . " The Clay group concluded that t4 much aid had been given for ' " political " , rather than " economic " . reasons . Aid has even used to " prove our esteem for foreign heads of state , to prevent Soviet aid , in gambles to maintain existing governments , " it said . Representative Otto E. Passman , Democrat of Louisiana , the chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations , has made a career of trimming foreign aid requests . He said General Clay ought- to be given another star . General Clay himself told the Foreign Affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program even though no more than $4 , - 000,000,000 would be spent . He said the other $300,000,000 would not be needed because Latin-American countries could not qualify for it . His thinking here . was that members of the Alliance for Progress would not be able to put into effect many of the selfhelp and reform measures on which the aid is conditional . Committee Acts ? The conitriitte4. responded ' . by giving the-Administration all it requested far the alliance except $50,000,000 left over from last year . But it lopped off more than $300,000,000 in other categories , including $180,000,000 for military aid . Meanwhile , much more than money ceilings are at stake in the immediate House debate . The mild and permissive directives imposed by the legislative committee on aid to Indonesia , India , Pakistan and the United Arab Republic will be hotly contested in favor of language                     