@@722368

txt Letters.to The Times Supervision of Banks Hope for Improved Climate Voiced , Rate Variation Defended To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A few comments relating to your April 7 editorial " The Confused Saver " may be in order . You are right when you say that banking institutions located in New York State are subject to multiple and sometimes overlapping supervision . In addition to the New York State Banking Department , the Federal Reserve Board and the United States Controller of the Currency , all referred to in the editorial , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board also exercise supervisory powers . Then , of course , there i is the United States Department of Justice , although opinions differ as to the extent of its powers and responsibilities with respect to banks . Speaking for myself and my colleagues in the New York State Banking Department , we deplore the confusion which sometimes results from this situation and would be more than ready to participate in any over-all study which held a reasonable promise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate . Pending such improvement , we do our best to keep in close touch and to cooperate with the various agencies of the United States Government operating in the same area as we do . Eliminating Duplication We also do our best to confine our activities to the matters as to which we have clear statutory responsibility , hoping that the Washington agencies will do the same , thus eliminating at least the unnecessary duplication . Within the state government , of course , except for relatively minor matters , banks are subject to only one supervisory agency . However , I am not sure you are right when you criticize the variations in interest and dividend rates paid on savings by various institutions . A different rate structure may result , among other things , from a difference in the type of institution , from a difference in investment policy , or merely from a difference of management . If one institution operates more efficiently than another , is there any reason that the depositors of that institution should not benefit'by higher rates ? One of the disadvantages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances ) is the resulting sacrifice of the kind of rate diversity which may flow from good management and initiative . Another disadvantage is that maximum rates tend also to become the prevailing rates , thus transferring responsibility from the directors or trustees , where it belongs , to the government agency which has imposed the regulations . Dual Authority It was with such thoughts in mina , among others , that the New York State Banking Board a few months ago eliminated the rate ceilings on dividends paid by savings banks on savings held for more than a year . Finally , it should be remembered that the duplication of supervisory authority to which your editorial refers is in part an unavoidable result of our Federal system . All businesses , and especially those engaging in interstate commerce . are , to a greater or lesser degree , subject to a dual authority . This is no argument against improving the situation as it applies to banks . But any change should he so designed as to preserve the advantages which flow from the dual banking system , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OREN ROOT , Superintendent of Banks , State of New York . New York , April 9 , 1962 . Struggle in Indonesia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The guilty verdict you imposed on President Sukarno of Indonesia in your editorial of April 5 is perverse . I am amazed at the way you tried to glamorize the Dutch brand of " self-determination " when you know full well that nothing is glamorous about it . Just one hundred years ago Jefferson Davis and Alexander H. Stephens tried to introduce the socalled " self-determination " on this soil . President Lincoln could not tolerate it . The result was that hundreds of thousands of the finest American young men lost their lives , a billion dollars ' worth of property was destroyed , but the Union was preserved . President Lincoln went down in history not as a warmonger but as a great President , Preserver of the Union . Now , how do you expect President Sukarno to accept " self-determination " when it is clearly instigated from without vis- ? - vis the Dutch ? Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irian ) , the Dutch already maintained 5,000 fully equipped marines on the island . Many Indonesians in this country are surprised at the lack of understanding shown by the American mass media of the struggle of the Indonesian people , especially since that struggle is parallel to the struggle of the American people iust a century ago . ABDULLAH BALBED . Washington , April 6 , 1962 . Age Limit on Drinking Any Restriction Based on Age Factor Deemed Absurd CO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Certain officials of the states of . ew Jersey and Connecticut have ) een recently protesting the fact bat some of their citizens between ; he ages of 18 and 21 may purchase . L glass of beer legally in the State ) f New York . These officials are irging , with more impudence than ogic , that our state should change its law to conform to the law of the complainants . The main purpose of this letter is to point out the absurdity of setting any age limit for the purchase of a beverage . Legislation governing sale and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and not with the characteristics of the purchaser . If a commodity is generally dangerous or toxic , such as dynamite or cyanide , its sale should be controlled . . However , many items in common ' use are only infrequently dangerous , and it would be illogical to restrict the sale of tomatoes , strawberries and aspirin merely because rare individuals are allergic to them . Similarly , it would be illogical to restrict a commodity merely because a small minority of its users take it to excess and suffer ill-effects therefrom . A child of 13 may legally purchase unlimited quantities of sweets and carbonated beverages containing sugar , highly deleterious to his teeth and his complexion , yet he can not purchase a glass of cold beer on a hot day , although the beer , in a small quantity , is n't harmful to him in the least . The protesting officials of New Jersey and Connecticut allude to automobile accidents , quite forgetting that men have enjoyed beer and wine for over 3,000 years , during which time there were no automobiles and consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents should concern itself , logically , with the use of the automobile , and not with the sale of a species of liquid , many of whose consumers do n't drive and see no reason to be deprived of their beverage . Training in temperate drinking , as in every kind of responsible behavior , should begin early in life , and not put off to age 18 or 21 . It has been my observation over many years that young people who have learned early at home to drink moderately as ladies and gentlemen practically never become drunk , whereas those who come from " dry " homes or bootlegging communities often do . ERIC THORNDALE . New York , April 5 , 1962 . Maya Fence at Guantanamo To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES Your story of April 5 by Jack Raymond , datelined the naval base at Guantanamo , Cuba , erroneously describes the " maya " as a cactus . It is no more a cactus than a rosebush is a cactus . Maya , cactus and rosebush plants all bear spines , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Maya is actually a close relative of the pineapple , differing from the latter in having leaves bearing stout , hooked barbs that can tear the flesh of man or beast . The maya , or " pinguin , " as it is known in many of the Englishspeaking West Indies , is widely used , as multiflora rose is used in the northern United States , to create stock-tight living fences . Cactus is too slow in its growth to be used to create such barriers . However , the barrier at Guantanamo can be destroyed easily enough by using one of the many effective herbicides that the wind can carry through the planting . But perhaps Castro will scream " Guerra biologica ! ARTHUR ISBIT . New York , April 5 , 1962 . Those Premium Stamps ro THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES The great and near-great supermarket chains are joined in a great battle  --  that of the premium stamps . This consumer would gladly forgo all the stamps and gifts for a little old-fashioned courteous and prompt service , rendered by a clerk who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting upon the public . SAI'L GOODMAN . New York . April 5 , 1962.                     