@@726491

txt A committee of the Constitutional Convention recommended today that the State Senate be enlarged to 60 members from 57 , and that " lulus " ? allowances paid to legislators " in lieu of " expenses ? be eliminated . In place of the flat expense allowance , which now amounts to $3,000 a year for each legislator , the lawmakers would be reimbursed only for their " necessary expenses . " In another action , the full convention voted to continue the ban against state taxes on the value of intangible personal property , such as savings accounts and securities holdings , and on the undistributed profits of corporations , Takeover of Welfare Other activity today included the following : 4lThe Convention President , Anthony J. Travia , Democrat of Brooklyn , proposed that the state take over the full responsibility for local welfare programs and appointed five delegates to look into the matter . QA convention committee voted , 15 to 3 , with 3 abstentions , to report out to the floor the final version of a controversial proposal that would eliminate the prohibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal guarantee against any law " respecting an establishment of religion " to the State Constitution , and would permit any citizen to sue the state or local government to prevent unconstitutional spending of public funds . In the proposal for a 60-member Senate , the Assembly would continue to have 150 members . The proposal would keep the legislators ' terms at two years , although the committee previously had considered recommending four-year terms for both Senators and Assemblymen . After 1970 Census The three additional Senatorial districts would be added during the reapportionment of all legislative districts after the 1970 Federal census . When the recommendations of the Committee on the Legislature are taken up by the full convention next week , a floor fight is expected over its proposed reapportionment procedures . Six of the committee 's 27 members made public a minority report , condemning as " a seriously retrogressive step " the committee 's decision to keep the task of drawing new legislative and Congressional districts in the hands of the Legislature . On the taxation issue , the convention passed three proposals that would continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from imposing levies in certain areas . They are : dllntangible personal property // of New York residents or of nonresidents that is held for them in the state , such as securities held in trust . 41Undistributed profits of carIporations , or the profits that are retained by a corporation and not paid out to its stockholders in dividends . ( U'roperty used exclusively for religious , educational or charitable purposes . I The three proposals continuing the taxing restrictions were passed by identical votes of 168 to 1 . The lone dissenter ' , was David Bromberg , Democrat of Manhattan , who contended that the only purpose in retaining the provisions was " to satisfy the irrational fears of some members of the business community . " Supporters of the restrictions argued that they were necessary to maintain a sound business climate in New York . Previously , the convention 's Committee on State Finances had considered lifting some of the barriers against taxes on intangible personal property land undistributed profits , but state business groups campaigned vigorously against the idea and the restrictions were retained . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue the Legislature 's power to draw new legislative and Congressional districts , but the Governors would not have veto power over any reapportionI ment plan drafted by the ( Legislature . If the Legislature failed to lagree on a plan within one year atter each Federal decennial census , a five-year member reapportionment commission would he appointed automatically  --  four members by the legislative leaders and one by the Court of Appeals  --  to draw a plan . The s ' : : commi- , : e members who oonosel th 's f  --   --  a of the loronosal objected to the elimination of the Covernor 's veto power over reapportionment and the failure to take away from the Lreislature the power to draw district l ' , es . " Their adopro a would indeed he a disaster , " the minority report said . The members who filed the minority report were Leonard B. Sand of Manhattan , Virgil C. Crisafulli of Clinton , George D. Covington of Manhattan , David N. Dinkins of Manhattan , Neal P. McCurn of Syracuse  --  all Democrats  --  and Alex Rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article spells out certain standards for the drawing of legislative districts and declares : " Gerrymandering , for any purpose is prohibited . " The convention delegates will meet again Monday . Quebec Clears Frenchman MONTREAL , Aug. 2 ( AP ) ? Andre Galabru , an Algerianborn Frenchman , was acquitted yesterday of a charge of disturbing the peace during President de Gaulle 's visit to Montreal last week . Mr. Galabru , aged 27 , was accused of shouting " assassin " as the French president delivered a controversial speech at City Hall . " The fact that emotions were aroused by the general 's address must be taken into consideration , " Judge Maurice Johnson said .                     