@@725744

txt Despite potentially serious trouble in its photographic system , Lunar Orbiter is being readied for its principal mission : orbiting the moon 26 miles from its surface and taking pictures of nine potential landing sites for Apollo astronauts . Transfer from high orbit to this so-called " low " orbit was tentatively scheduled for Sunday morning , although as of this writing it appeared possible that it might he postponed or canceled . Two of the crafts first batch of high-resolution photographs transmitted back to earth were washed out and indistinct . The first of the three photographs clearly showed an area 59 by 92 miles . However , the second and third photographs were poor . Scientists could not immediately determine whether the difficulty was permanent or temporary . If it turned out to be permanent , thus impairing the quality of any future photographs , there was the possibility that the entire mission might have to be done again . This could be necessary in order to provide adequate information about the terrain of the potential astronaut-landing sites . This information , it is thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed At midday Thursday , the 850-pound spacecraft began to transmit pictures back to earth . Scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena , command post for the mission , were fully satisfied with the medium-resolution photos . These shots were picking up objects on the moon 's surface as small as 115-feet in diameter . But high-resolution pictures designed to detect objects as small as 14 feet across showed little detail and lacked contrast . Lunar Orbiter scientists said later that they might consider postponing placing it into low orbit as originally scheduled . Another alternative would be to cancel completely low orbit photography for this mission . But Clifford H. Nelson , Lunar Orbiter project manager , earlier had given reasons why plans to complete the mission as scheduled were still being considered . " Even with only one lens working properly we could get pictures of potential Apollo astronaut landing sites almost 200 times better than those obtained with earth-based telescopes . " Earth photography so far has achieved pictures with a resolution of 1,000 meters . Orbiter 's high-resolution photos were expected to be 1,000 times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photos , for example , would be expecte4 to spot an object about the size of a folding card table . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has specified that these high-resolution pictures are necessary to identify properly the potential landing sites for manned spacecraft . Lunar Orbiter was launched Aug. 10 from Cape Kennedy . The 850-pound camera-equipped craft achieved high elliptical orbit after 90 hours and began to circle the moon every three hours and 37 minutes . Craters , plain areas , or mare ( dry lunar " seas " ) as well as uplands were apparent in Orbiter 's early photos of the lunar surface . We are particularly interested in these mare areas , " Dr. Lawrence Rowan said in an interview . Dr. Rowan is Lunar Orbiter project manager of the United States Geological Survey . " It is our job to find suitable landing sites for Apollo and the mare areas seem to be the smoothest . " But it is now apparent in the Ranger and Surveyor photographs ' and even in the early Orbiter shots that there is great variation within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detailed maps of these places of potential Apollo interest and then advise the Lunar Orbiter people so they can give them special attention in their next mission . "                     