@@724102

txt The Government of Cyprus warned Turkey tonight that if recently arrived Turkish soldiers were not soon withdrawn from the island , it would " deal with the situation . " The warning was contained in a " stern " protest note delivered to the Turkish Embassy here . The embassy was said to have refused to send a representative to the Foreign Ministry to receive the protest . it was sent through a United Nations liaison officer . Reliable sources said that the note termed recent clandestine arrivals of Turkish soldiers " aggression " and a " violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty " of the Cyprus republic . Denial Is Rejected The note also rejected the Turkish Government 's denial of an earlier confirmation that soldiers from the mainlind were on the island , in addition to the Turkish Army contingent based on Cyprus . The United Nations has confirmed the secret arrival of military personnel from Turkey , the note said . Mcanwhile , ; -. s reports multiplied about the military buildup by the warring Cypriote communities , the United Nations peace continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close to 7,000 men , is now down to 5,781 , drawn from Canada , Denmark , Finland , Sweden , . Ireland and Britain . By the end of this month , 400 more Irish soldiers will have arrived on the island , raising the force to 6,181 . This is expected to remain its basic strength . The diminished strength of the force has raised some doubts among some observers that it will be adequate in the face of the military build-up by the Greek and Turkish Cypriotes , particularly the former . Both military and civilian of-I ficials of the peace force apparently do not share these doubts . They maintain that , with the experience thus far gained in peace keeping , a force of 6,000 can do the jab . Doubts persist , however , whether 6,000 men with limited powers would be effezt ive should serious new violence erupt on the island between two communities that are stronger than ever in numbers and firepower . Not surprisingly , because it has nothing to hide , the United Nations is the only military body on Cyprus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Greek Cypriote ' security forces , now composed essentially of the police force and the national guard , which is being swollen by conscription , are said to number 15,000 to 30,000 men . But one Greek Cypriote Minister has placed the total at 40,000 . The old Greek Cypriote police and gendarmerie force numbered about 1,500 men before communal strife erupted last December over proposed constitutional changes , which the Turkish Cypriotes regarded as a repression of their minority rights . They are outnumbered 4 to 1 on the island . Last February the Government authorized an increase of up to 5,000 in the police force , which theoretically would bring the combined police and gendarmerie force to 6,500 men . Probably it is larger . The old Cyprus Army , which numbered a few hundred men , ha , s been absorbed into the security forces of both sides as commanders and trainers . There is no doubt that there have been recent arrivals of militarily trained personnel from Greece and Turkey . The United Nations and the Greek Cypriotes agree that about 3,000'men have landed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these are Greek Cypriote students who have finished their studies in Athens . The rest , it is said , are regular Greek Army officers and war veterans . The Greek Cypriotes insist that all of these men were born on Cyprus and that none of the arrivals from Greece are Greek-born . Independent observers are skeptical . Some , maintain that there are at least 5,000 Greek-born Greek soldiers on the island . Under the treaty of alliance , which formed part of the constitutional package when Cyprus won independence from Britain in 1960 , Greece is permitted to base a 950-man army contingent on the island . Turkey is permitted 650 soldiers . Estimates of the size of the Turkish Cypriote security forces vary between 5,000 and 10,000 men , although considerably more probably bear arms . As with the Greek Cypriotes , the Turkish Cypriote police and gendarmerie and the officers and men of the old Cyprus Army play key roles in the military and security organizations . The United Nations says that it has knowledge that several hundred men , who were not born on Cyprus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to aid the Turkish Cypriotes . Most observers place the number of new Turkish troop arrivals at a minimum of 500.                     