@@724326

txt Mayor Wagner signed yesterday a local law putting into effect on Dec. 1 a 10-cent-a-ride increase in all taxicab fares . The Mayor said the step was given " very serious and deliberate consideration " over a twoyear period and that " every legitimate interest and point of view " had been given an opportunity to be heard . The fare increase goes into effect at the first drop of the flag on the taxi meter , covering charges for the first fifth of a mile . At the drop , the meter will register 35 cents instead of a quarter , Thereafter there will be the customary 5-cent charge for each fifth of a mile or minute-and-a-half of waiting time . Owner-drivers will get in cash the full 10-cent increase , but the drivers for fleet owners will get half of the amount in pay and half in health-protection coverage . Calls Increase ' Deserved ' " It is clear that the drivers deserve an increase in their compensation and should surely have some of the fringe benefits , such as the health plan , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The compensations , includMg fringe benefits , of taxicab ' drivers , " Mr. Wagner continued , " must be allowed to catch up with those of other workers in New York City . As the taxi- , cab industry is affected with ' the public interest , there is a public obligation to those em- , ployed in it , even though they are employed by private enter-0 prise . " City Hall observers saw an element of politics in the May7 or 's timing , for his signature coming on election eve  --  guaran-1 teed a pay increase to 35,000 cab drivers . The drivers had been cam-1 paigning hard for the increase , which is the first approved by the city since 1952 . The last , increase before that came in 1932 . Wants Drivers to Benefit The Mayor stressed in his statement that he had checked carefully to assure himself that safeguards and guarantees in the new law assured that the benefits of the rate increase would " go to the drivers and not to the fleet owners . " Thirty thousand of the drivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized also that he had looked into the cases of 31 drivers who ' testified last month ? at an day hearing he held on the bill  --  that they had been discharged for union activity . " I can report that practically all of the 31 men have been rehired as a result of negotiations conducted under my sponsorship , " he said . " Negotiations are continuing for the remaining few . Of course , no person should be deprived of his position because of union activity . " An attempt to unionize the drivers had been keyed to the fare rise but had met with indifferent success . Conceding that the new local law " does not solve every problem of the taxicab industry or of those employed in it , " the Mayor declared : " It is not intended to affect the unionization of the drivers . That is a separate , question ; although I happen to believe in the right of all workers to organize and engage in collective bargaining if they so desire . " The new law authorizes the Mayor to appoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements made under the law and to report on the question to him periodically . The Mayor said he would announce the makeup of the board within a short time . In effect , the board will be checking on the operation of a $200-million-a-year industry in which the new increase will add $20 to $25 million in outlays . The Mayor pledged that the watchdog board would look " promptly and zealously " into all complaints . " Doubtless the board after it has been organized will have its own address and regular procedure for bringing complaints to its attention , " he said . " But I am offering the facilities of Box 100 , too , for the receipt of complaints on this or related subjects . A record will be made of such complaints and they will be promptly turned over to the new board . "                     