@@726015

txt Observers at the United Nations attach considerable importance to the news that a permanent delegation of the Front of National Liberation of South Vietnam will be established in Hanoi , the North Vietnamese capital . The Front of National Liberation ( FNL ) , the Viet Cong 's political arm , has had a representation in a few countries for some time . ? Official missions are located in Communist China , the Soviet Union , Czechoslovakia , Algeria , the United Arab Republic , and Cuba . Others with a nonofficial status are to be found in other capitals , such as Bucharest , Paris , Pnompenh , and Warsaw . No formal representation had been established in Hanoi , however , even though there have been through the years close contacts between the FNL and the Ho Chi Minh government . Separate entity The new development represents an implicit recognition that , for the time being at least , South Vietnam represents a separate entity from North Vietnam . A North Vietnamese spokesman told this reporter in Paris last May that his government is ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during what he termed an " historical period . " He specified anywhere from 3 to 20 years . A formal recognition of the FNL as an independent entity would tend to confirm this interpretation . At the same time the establishment - of FNL representation holds out the threat of a possible transformation of the front into a South Vietnamese government in competition with the government established in Saigon . In this connection the observers are examining a document which could , perhaps deliberately , lend itself to contrasting interpretations . In an announcement broadcast by the Hanoi press agency , the front said it functions as the " sole genuine representative of the South Vietnamese people . " The observers attach some importance to the word " genuine " which was missing in the past . It implies there are other representative political entities which , while not : genuine , " are nevertheless to be taken into account . Up to now no such possibility was envisaged .                     