@@721743

txt ? The fabulous art collection of the Barnes Foundation was reluctantly opened to the general public today after nine years of bitter litigation . It took a state Supreme Court decision to force the foundation to unlock the gates of the gallery in near-by Merion , where one of r the world 's greatest private art collections has been housed for thirty4ight years . Tight security and ' ? pickets greeted ? the first visitors . Promptly at 9:30 A. M. the grounds were opened , and about fifty persona we 're allowed ' to walk the 100 yards to the modified French eighteenth-centurystyle building that is the gallery . Each person 's name was recorded . The collection , begun in 1912 by the late Dr. Albert C. Barnes , consists of . about 1,000 paintings , many of them never before seen by the public even in reproduction . There are other works , too , dating back to the sixth century B. C. The collection has been valued at more than $100,000,000 . It was amassed by an eccentric chemist who rose from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He died in 1951 in ' an automobile accident at the age of 79 . At first Dr. Barnes planned to share his collection with the public . But in 1923 he exhibited some of the paintings in the collection and because they were then startlingly modern they were laughed at . He was outraged and declared the gallery closed to the public . From then until today only selected guests , including art stifdents , had been allowed to see the collection . The litigation began in 1952 with a taxpayer 's suit that contended the general public should be admitted because of the foundation 's tax-exempt status . On Feb. p of this year an outof-court agreement was reached to open the gallery . Dr. Barnes himself often rejected a letter of request for admission by writing a single impolite word on it and mailing it back to the applicant . ' An art critic who once got an appointment to see the collection arrived at the gallery gates , and after a fifteen-minute Wait , a museum attendant flanked by two snappish dogs appeared . He handed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a souvenir of your visit to Merion and as payment for having violated the privacy of Dr. Barnes ' unlisted telephone number . " Visitors Impressed But today it was opened and the visitors agreed that the works of Renoir , Cdzanne , Matisse , Van Gogh , Degas and others had lived up to the legend . The collection is most famed for its works of the French impressionists and post-impressionist painters . But it also includes African primitives , early American furniture , tapestries , wrought iron objects of art and French , Italian and Flemish paintings . Under the terms of the courtimposed opening , 200 persons will be admitted to the gallery each Friday and Saturday , except on legal holidays and in July and August , when it will be closed . A hundred admissions each day will be granted on a firstcome , first-served basis . And 100 will be scheduled by correspondence . The foundation may be telephoned at MOhawk 7-0290 on each open day by anyone without an appointment who wants to know whether the day 's limit has been reached . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At 6 A. M. the first visitor , Miss Natalie Charkow , an instructor in sculpture at the Philadelphia Museum College of Arts , drove up and parked near the locked , chained gates of the grounds . The initial turn-out of visitors fell far short of expectations . This prompted officials to chain the massive iron gates outside the gallery so they could not be opened more than two feet . By 9 A. M. , only twenty7seven visitors had arrived , standing outside , stamping their feet against the nippy weather . Police and Guards Present They seemed to be outnumbered by private guards , state police and , city police . They spent part of their time reading a broadside against them prepared by " Friends of the Barnes Foundation . " The " Friends " were students . Headed " Notice to the Public , " the broadside read : " Destroying Our Education Facilities Is Not Building Our Culture . " Shortly before 9:30 A. M. Anne X. Alpern , Attorney General of Pennsylvania , drove up accompanied by the state police . She said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that had been won through the efforts of many people , of whom she was only one . Foundation Contention The foundation had contended that opening its collection to the public interfered with its function as an educational institution that teaches with the collection as illustrative material . The collections covers two floors of the building , and only three visitors at a time are allowed on the second floor . This Is because the building has no ' fire escape , the foundation said . Once today , when a fourth person ventured onto the second floor , a bottleneck developed that took forty-five minutes to clear . Many persons could not wait and had to leave the gallery without seeing half the collection . The visitors were also surveyed by Mrs. Barnes , 86-yearold widow of the founder . She observed that it was " annoying to have so many people in the gallery at one time . " No catalogues were available and none of the paintings was identified by title , although each had a name plate of the artist . An unusual regulation in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be checked . The gallery removed all small unattached objects from view . Women 's handbags as well as other objects that might conceal cameras had to be checked . Anything that could contain a sharp instrument that might damage a painting also had to be left at the door . No one under 16 years of age was admitted . One of those who had waited forty-five minutes for the privilege of viewing the second floor collection was John Ramaries of Philadelphia . His remark seemed to sum up the entire nine-year court battle , as well as the wait . He said : " It was worth it . Time means nothing among such wonderful old masterpieces . "                     