@@728270

txt The Government of Israel early today characterized Secretary of State William P. Rogers 's statement on the Middle East as likely to mar the prospects for peace in the region . In a special statement issued after a late Cabinet session , the Government said : " Negotiations for peace must be free from prior conditions and external influences and pressures . " Soviet officials at the United Nations termed Mr. Rogers 's statement a ' long overdue step in the right direction . In Moscow , Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin said that the Soviet Union would take active measures to strengthen the defense potential of the Arab nations Page 12 . Convened by Mrs. Melt ' The Israeli Cabinet statement , referring specifically to Mr. Rogers 's address Tuesday night , read : " The prospects for peace will be seriously marred if states outside the region continue to raise territorial proposals and suggestions on subjects that can not promote peace and security . " Premier Golda Meir convened the Cabinet to consider Israel 's position following Mr. Rogers 's decision to make public the proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eve of Foreign Minister Abbe Eban 's departure for the United States , where he will discuss these matters with Mr. Rogers and other officials . Reflecting the annoyance I caused by the Secretary 's unexpected announcement , the Cabinet statement , apparently drafted by Mr. Eban , reviewed Israel 's position without touching on specific points raised by Mr. Rogers . It said that the tensions referred to by Mr. Rogers " derive from the aggressive policies of the Arab Governments . " The only way to end the state of war , the statement read , is with a " directly negotiated peace treaty . " The statement also noted that Mr. Rogers said " states outside the region can not fix peace terms . " These terms , Mr. Rogers was quoted as having said , " can be established only by agreement among the parties concerned . " But Mr. Rogers 's observation , the Cabinet statement noted , does not tally with his speech , which includes " peace terms and other basic questions , among them the status of Jerusalem . " Jerusalem Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first and most direct Israeli response to Mr. Rogers 's speech was made yesterday by Deputy Premier Yigal Allon . Speaking in , the Knesset , or parliament , Mr. Allon declared that all of East Jerusalem , the former Jordanian sector , was being opened to Jewish settlement . Defending the Government against charges of being slow about development in East Jerusalem , Mr. Allon listed several projects being planned or built for thousands of Jewish families . Mr. Rogers 's outline included a reference to Jerusalem , which he said , should remarn unified but with " roles for bathe Israeli and Jordan in the civic , economic and religious life of the city . " Mr. Allan said that the Israeli authorities would assist " any Jew who wants to buy or rent real estate either privately or through institutions . " " No part of East Jerusalem , and certainly no part of the Old City , is closed to Jewish settlement , " he said . He reaffirmed Israel 's intention never to give up control of the unified city . Recalling that Jerusalem was divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , invaded in 1948 . Mr. Allan said that the city had been united legally by Knesset action . " Terms Holy Place Secure The holy places , he said , were never before so secure and so open to all faiths as they have been since the 1967 war , Mr. Allon said . He added that Israel had no intention of taking orders from anyone " whatever the cloak " on the issue of Jerusalem . He seemed to be alluding to United Nations resolutions calling on Israel to revoke her absorption of East Jerusalem and more specifically to Mr. Rogers 's statement on the Jerusalem issue . Israel has indicated that she would agree to a Jordanian role in control of the Moslem holy places but has vowed never to share administrative control of the city . Mr. Allon , in reassuring the Knesset that Israel was reinforcing her administrative decision with settlement , said that 200 Jewish families had already moved into the first of the completed housing projects in the former Arab Quarter of the Old City . The project . in the northeastern section of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the late Premier , Levi Eshkol . About 150 families will move in each month until all 2,100 apartments are filled . Israel requisitioned more than 800 acres of undeveloped land in that area shortly after the 1967 war . Two other settlements , Givat Hamiv Tar and French Hill , were named by Mr. Allon in this same area , on either side of the Jerusalem-Ramallah Road . Givat Hamiv Tar , Mr. Allon said , would consist of 300 villas , a term that simply means private houses here , half of which were already under construction , he said . The French Hill settlement , where work will begin in a few weeks , will consist of apartment dwellings housing 2,000 families .                     