@@726805

txt The Supreme Court made it clear today that the Constitution does not forbid electronic bugging by law enforcement officers if they first obtain warrants authorizing the eavesdropping . extended the reach of the Fourth Amendment by holding that the warrant procedure must be followed by police officers , even when they planned to eavesdrop on persons in semi-public places , such as telephone booths . Must . ** Warniat 1:11e Court . also iiountiuDeu a precedent dating back to 1942 . This precedent , maintained in a series of cases , held that the fruits of bugging by the police , could be used in court so long as no physical trespass had been involved in installing the electronic listening device . Today , the Court said that such trespass was not the-decisiye point . It also held that the police must first get a warrant approving surveillance if they are going to . use a device that will let them overhear , without trespass , remarks that the subject of ? the eavesdropping " seeks to preserve as private , even in an area accessible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision erased an impression that had been created , in a decision of the Court last June , that the Supreme Court would insist on such elaborate procedures in connection with these warrants that bugging would become virtually useless as a police tool . The Court took pains today to eliminate such ? an impression , using language that should buttress the constitutional arguments of those who are urging the adoption of state and Federal laws to permit court-approved bugging by the police in anticrime investigations . In the few states that have such legislation now , it is customary , but not generally obligatory for the law enforcement officers to report back to the judges who authorized a bugging operation . In other states , there are no procedures allowing the police to obtain eavesdropping- warrants . The effect of today 's decision by the Supreme Court will be limited until the states generally adopt laws covering the grants of bugging warrants . Both Sides Gain Thus the decision today " gave " something to both slues in the current controversy over the constitutionality of electronic eavesdropping by police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eight participating Justices . In a rare show of consensus on bugging , the only dissenter was Justice Hugo L. Black , who feels that the Fourth Amendment ban on " unreasonable searches and seizures " does not apply to eavesdroppings . Justice Thurgoed Marshall , who was Solicitor General during the early phase3 of the case , did not take part . The case involved Charles Katz of Los Angeles , who was convicted of the Federal offense of transmitting wagering information by way of interstate telephone calls . He was fined $300 . Katz was convicted partly on evidence produced by a microphone that had been taped by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the top of a telephone booth that he customarily used . Since they could hear only his end of the conversations , the device was not a wiretap , which is illegal under a Federal statute . The evidence was admitted against Katz under the authority of a series of Supreme Court rulings that have held eavesdropping evidence admissible if it was obtained without a physical penetration of a - constitutionally protected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police intrusion only into private premises , . such as homes , offices and automobiles . Privacy Right Upheld But Justice Potter Stewart , writing today for the majority , said that " the Fourth Amendment protects people , not places . " " One who occupies a telephone booth , " he added , " shuts the door behind him , and pays the toll that permits him to place a call , is ' surely entitled to assume that the words he utters into the mouthpiece will not be broadcast to the world . " He then overruled the cases that had held police eavesdropping to be permissible as long as there was no physical trespass . Under these decisions . a " spike mike " driven a thumb tack 's depth into the ' outer wall of a room , was unconstitutional . But an electronic stethoscope , which could pick up conversations within a room merely by being pressed against the outer wall could constitutionally be used . Justice Stewart ruled out . this distinction , stating that modern electronic technology had rendered the " penetration " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Katz 's conversations were protected by the Fourth s Amendment . Since there was no " search " warrant for the t " seizure " of his words , the con- e viction was reversed . Early Impression Changed He then went on to elit Mate the impression created by the Court last June when it struck down New York 's permissive bugging law in Berger v. New York , that the ? Court would impose impossible restrictions on police eavesdropping . Speaking of the bugging used against Katz , he said : " It is clear that this surveillance was so narrowly circumscribed that a duly authorized magistrate , properly notified of the need for such investigation , specifically informed of the basis on which it was to proceed , and clearly apprised of the precise intrusion it would , entail , could constitutionally ' have authorized , with appropriate safegutirds , the very limited search and seizure that the Government asserts in fact took ! place . " The decision said that the officers would not have to ! serve the warrant on the per-1 son to be bugged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an eavesdrop warrant would have to be served prior to any " search . " as in the case ; of any search warrant . This struck many lawyers as an indirect way for the Supreme Court to make police eavesH dropping a practical impossi bility . Today 's decision also said that an eavesdropping warrant would not be invalid as a search ; for " mere evidence . " A footnote in the Stewart opinion noted that the warrant requirement , stipulated for this would not a national rules of criminal procedure do not specifically authorize judges to issue warrants for it clear eavesdropping , and legislation could might be necessary before Fedcircum-eral agents could get such Federal warrants .                     