@@725749

txt Associate School Supt. Thaddeus Lubera was designated yesterday as acting general superintendent of schools for the month of September . The board of education voted unanimously in appointing Lubera to head the system for the interim after Supt. Benjamin C. Willis retires Aug. 31 and before Dr. James F. Redmond assumes the office Oct. 3 . The board 's decision was reached in a 35-minute private session before its regular meeting in the office of Frank M. Whiston , board president . Willis ' Last Session It was the last board meeting ' that Willis , 64 , attended after 13 years as superintendent . , When he entered the third-floor board room at 228 N. La Salle st. , he was joking and chatting with associates . Redmond , now superintendent in Syosset , N. Y. , came to Chicago Monday for four days to familiarize himself with the system , but he did not attend the board meeting . He and his wife attended a cocktail party the board gave Willis after the meeting , however . Lubera has been an associate superintendent since 1955 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side schools and earns $27,600 a year . He is the oldest associate superintendent in point of service . Lubera , who holds a doctorate in philosophy from the University of Chicago , was mentioned for the post of superintendent in 1953 before the board brought Willis in from Buffalo , N. Y. He has been close to Willis for many years . Cleric Opposes Plan The meeting 's calm was shattered as the board began to consider a recommendation by Willis that it buy land bordered by 44th and 55th streets , Ellis avenue , and Drexel boulevard , as the site of a new Forrestville High school . The Rev. James G. Jones , urban vicar of the Episcopal diocese of Chicago , stood up in the audience to oppose the proposal . Forty persons from the south side area were with him . Whiston told the Rev. Mr. Jones that he was out of order , and called a five-minute recess . When the meeting resumed , the board voted down a motion by Warren Bacon to put off action on the proposal . The Rev. Mr. Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of substantial homes and that several other sites east of Drexel would be more appropriate for the new school . They rose from their chairs en masse and left the room . The board later approved the motion to acquire the land for the school . He 'd Wave Requirements On another matter , Willis told the board that 14.4 million dollars in federal aid will be available in this federal fiscal year for local projects in a supplementary budget . The board agreed to consider his report at its next meeting . He suggested easing the rules for hiring teachers somewhat to help fill the gap . This would include giving " provisional " teachers the same pay as starting regular teachers and waiving certain other requirements . Whiston announced that a tentative agreement had been reached between the Chicago junior college board and the board of education on division of assets of the city 's junior college system , which the school board gave up earlier this year . Under terms of the agreement , the college board is to buy the Mayfair , Wright , Wilson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to lease the Amundsen , Bogan , Crane , Fenger , and Southeast branches from the school board . Purchase price is to be set under terms arrived at by an appraiser appointed by the city . The school board agreed to Whiston 's suggestion that it administer the junior college system until Dec. 31 because , Whiston said , the previously set break-off date of Aug. 31 will be impossible because of technical difficulties .                     