@@727966

txt There is a draft bill now in the House of Commons to repeal Britain 's antiobscenity laws . Many MPs are reacting strongly against it . They fear it could loose a flood of pornography . Sentiment against the proposal among some lawmakers is particularly strong because this latest move to free all publications from censorship comes hard on the heels of other legislation  --  some call it reforming , others call it permissive  --  which has abolished theater censorship , eased divorce laws , and legalized abortion and hoinosexuality . Since the public is believed to share the apprehension of these MPs , the bill is expected to incur strong opposition from that quarter . And coming up as it will in the next parliamentary session on the eve of a general election , the measure may not survive . The bill , which has bipartisan support , is sponsored by Labour MP William Hamling . He says his motive is to give the serious artist and writer freedom ? of expression . Here is the timetable of Britain 's application - to the Common Market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The Council of Ministers of the Common Market takes note that the application remains on the agenda . Early October  --  The Council holds its first substantive discussions . November  --  A move is made to have published a " declaration of intent " by the Six to bring in Britain and other applicants for membership . France insists on first holding discussions over common British-European nuclear and defense policies . The Six turn to their own problems , particularly on agriculture . February or March , 1970 ? Discussions on the application begin in earnest . 0 A concrete television tower in Yorkshire soon will become one of the world 's technological wonders . In March the 1,265-foot TV mast at Emley Moor , Yorkshire , collapsed . Since then a temporary mast has been beaming programs . Now plans have been released for a new 1,080-foot reinforced concrete tower . It will be the first high-tapered concrete tower proposed in the United Kingdom to carry broadcasting aerials . The new tower will weigh around 14,000 tons-2B times that of its predecessor . It will be the third highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only by TV masts in Moscow and East Berlin . It is expected to be ready for use by late 1970 . Cost of the new mast has not been ? disclosed . But it is bound to be in excess of the ? 225,000 cost of the former stayed-tubular mast . Britain has some of the most beautiful ? main roads in the world . One reason is that the Minister of Transport has an advisory committee on the landscape treatment of trunk roads . Another is that the minister listens to his advisers . The chief strength of the committee has always been its chairman . Now Sir Eric Sevin , director of the Gardens , Windsor Great Park , is retiring from the committee after seven years as chairman . But Sir George Taylor is going to be asked to take over . And since Sir George is director of the Royal Botanic Gardens , Kew , motoring in England will still be like driving through one great English park . Trends ... Britons are getting ? fresh insights into their country 's million colored population and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of well documented surveys on race relations . Out of this massive array of statistical reports some common trends emerge : ? Britons basically have a high proportion of tolerance . But the predicted consequences of not eradicating discrimination in housing and employment are already flashing warning lights . Such discrimination is particularly hard on second-generation colored Britons who have as good qualifications as their white counterparts . The next decade is regarded as decisive . ? In some areas not hitherto spotlighted , symptoms of withdrawal by coloreds from integrated society are noted . Church attendance at established churches among West Indians , for instance , is falling off . This is attributed to their reception in this country . Churches here now are being urged to give coloreds greater use of their schools , halls , and land for communal activities . In the meantime , there has been some rallying by West Indians to Pentecostal sects . ? At present coloreds concentrate in the poorer sectors of the economy where they best avoid discrimination . But commentators say that in the years ahead coloreds must give up their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gainful employ-. ment.                     