@@721903

txt Andrew W. Cordier , the official closest to the Secretary General , has resigned after sixteen years as executive assistant . The resignation was among staff changes announced today by Secretary General Dag Hamm a rskj old . The 60-year-old Mr. Cordier , who had been a history professor in the Midwest , has been associated with , the United Nations from its earliest days . He will remain for a while , Mr. Hammarskjold said , but on special assignment as Under Secretary for General Assembly Affairs . His present duties will be assumed largely by Chakravarthi V. Narasimhan , the top- ranking Indian on the Secretariat staff , who will function as a kind of chief of staff . Mr. Hammarskjold used the French term " chef de cabinet . " Mr. Hammarskjold said at his weekly news conference that Mr. Cordier , an American , wished to resign to facilitate the reorganization of the staff to give it wider geographic range . The present composition has been criticized particularly by the Soviet Union , as top-heavy with United States citizens . The Secretary General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to members this week . The reorganization issue is expected to be of major importance at the General Assembly session due to start in September . It is taken for granted that Mr. Hammarskjold will oppose any suggestions for sharing the policy - making responsibilities now vested in the Secretary General , as made by either the Soviet Union or some neutral states . Last September Premier Khrushchev opened . a drive to replace Mr. Hammarskjold with a three-man executive that would represent the Communist bloc , the West and neutralists . As a compromise , India and others have proposed three deputy Secretaries General representing the three political camps . The changes announced by Mr. Hammarskjold to take effect Aug. 1 apparently mean that Mr. Cordier will continue , to perform some of his duties temporarily but probably will not be as active in political planning . The job of executive assistant is comparable to that of an Under Secretary , with a salary of up to ** including benefits . It is anticipated that the executive assistant 's post will be abolished . Mr. Cordier has played a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The nature of the assignment calls for a close personal relationship with the Secretary General . Mr. Cordier shared the confidences of both Mr. Hammarskjold and former Secretary General Trygve Lie . He also performed a num- I ber of troubleshooter assignments . Mr. Hammarskjold sent him to the Middle East on a negotiating mission in 1958 and to the Congo last year . At the sixteenth Assembly Mr. Cordier again will act as adviser to the Assembly President . This is the role in which he probably is best known to thousands of diplomats  --  and ? to visitors who have watched him as he sat on the Assembly dais , available to advise on proceIn Change of Posts at U. N. dural points or to conduct balloting . A man of phenomenal memory , he rarely had need for the rule book . In a letter to Mr. Cordier , Mr. . Hammarskjold remarked that his executive assistant had made an " outstanding contribution " to the development of the United Nations and spoke of his distinguished record as an international civil servant " carrying the greatest responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Hammarskjold , said that it had been " a priceless privilege to have had you as my chief during these years . " The exchange of letters indicated that Mr. Cordier would remain in the new post only for the ' - start of the forthcoming Assembly . meeting , although Mr. Hammarskjold at his news conference , said he hoped to have him stay at least to the end of the year . After that Mr. Cordier is expected to take a post outside the United Nations . A United States spokesman praised Mr. Cordier tonight as a " most able and devoted servant of the United Nations . " Mr. Narasimnan , who will keep the title of Under Secretary for Special Political Affairs , came to the United Nations from Indian Government service and formerly headed the United Nations Commission for Asia and the Far East . The Secretary General also announced at his news conference that he planned to go to Geneva for a session of the Economic and Social Council early next month , then to Cairo land New Delhi . The planned ' Cairo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Will be discussing with Presi4ent Gamal Abdel Nasser the ' problem of Palestinian Arab refugees who are receiving United Nations help . Mr. Hammarskjold said only that he had not had the opportunity for a long time to be in touch with United Nations operations in the Middle East where " we have so many irons in the fire . " This apparently was an allusion to the United Nations Emergency Force on duty there .                     