@@725179

txt The administration now is seriously thinking of going to Congress in January for another vote of support for its position in Vietnam . The Christian Science Monitor has learned from an unimpeachable source that the emerging administration reassessment of the Vietnam war has reached a point where it can only be described as " very , very serious . " In specifics , the administration now is thinking of a Vietnam build-up that could well go beyond the 350,000 to 400,000 figure that has been reported . Thus the point seems near when the administration is due to disclose , in much fuller details , the gravity of the situation in Vietnam . Declaration of war ? A new administration request for a vote of confidence would seek renewed support similar to that of August , 1964 , when Congress overwhelmingly approved the Johnson resolution supporting United States armed action in Southeast Asia . Last May the administration went back to Congress for an additional $700 million allocation for the war in Vietnam . It is further known that the administration is , at least , pondering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A move toward something like this may or may not be on ? the immediate horizon . But this much is known : the concept and its implications are being carefully weighed today in the highest administration circles . This , too , underscores the gravity of developments in Vietnam . Although there has been considerable talk of " business much as usual " or " guns and butter at the same time . " it now seems that the moment may be close when the American citizen will be called upon for a little belt-tightening . Major debate looms Thus , one implication could well be a move toward hiking taxes . Such a move would receive strong resistance from those in Congress who would urge cutbacks in the administration 's Great Society program  --  rather than moving to taxes . The new disclosure of the administration 's assessment of Vietnam also provides new insights into the dollar cost that lies ahead . There have been estimates that $6 billion to $8 billion of next year 's budget will have to be devoted to the war . The new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something closer to the larger figure , and perhaps more . What seems to lie ahead , too , is the emergence of the first great debate on the Vietnam war . Many Republicans and some Democrats , too , would like to see more emphasis on bombing ? not the ground-troop buildup that is envisioned by the administration . Many Democrats , and some Republicans , too , would like to see new efforts at negotiation before any new military commitment is made . Such voices have been raised before . But this time , with something like a Korea emerging , the challenge to the administration could result in a dialogue that would shake the halls of Congress .                     