@@726177

txt India is taking urgent steps to consult " like-minded " nations in order to promote a common approach to the nuclear nonproliferation treaty . The nations mentioned are Japan , West Germany and Sweden . Foreign Secretary C. S. Jha is soon to go to Tokyo for talks with Prime Minister Eisaku Sato  --  he was there also a few weeks ago . Last month the head of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 's secretariat and Dr. Vikram Sarabhai , chairman of India 's Atomic Energy Commission , went on an unheralded visit to Moscow . The Soviet Union is cosponsor with the United States of the treaty , which is the most important foreign policy matter facing the new Indian . Government . Before the Indian Cabinet decides , it wants . to have considered views before it , including those of Tokyo , Bonn , and Stockholm . The government secretariat spokesmen in New Delhi and Atomic Energy Commission officials here say there is no question of India going back on its decision not to make the nuclear bomb . But one question to be decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by signing a document prepared by Washington and Moscow . Draft carefully weighed It is being said here that the draft treaty is riddled with provisions unacceptable to India . For instance , it debars nonnuclear nations from making the bomb , but there is no corresponding obligation on the nuclear nations to set out on nuclear disarmament . On the contrary , the nuclear powers and dissident Communist China are left free to expand their stockpiles . Also considered " highly objectionable " is the draft 's complete prohibition on nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes . This , too , it is pointed out , does not appinio " haves . " The " escape clause " also adds to the unease here . This enableS a country to opt out for reasons of " supreme national importance . " For India , China 's Lop Nor explosions already provide reasons , even before it signs the treaty . Furthermore the treaty is said to contain no creditable safeguards against nuclear attack or nuclear " blackmail . " While government leaders still are heavily involved in a postelection scene of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have put much thought and planning into an approach to the draft treaty . Contacts with Mr. Sato and West German Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger have been maintained and are likely to be accelerated . Soviet views have been further amplified by Chief of Staff Marshal Nikolai Zakharov , now touring this country . Here informally is India 's old friend and adviser Admiral Lord Mountbatten .                     