@@725671

txt The Gemini 10 astronauts rocketed into orbit late yesterday afternoon , caught . and linked up with an unmanned , satellite . Then early this morning they maneuvered deeper into space than man has ever ventured . Thus , less than seven hours after their three-day mission began from here , Comdr . John W. Young of the Navy and Maj. Michael Collins of the Air Force had already achieved what space agency officials considered the primary objectives of the mission  --  rendezvous and docking . The two craft locked noses safely and without difficulty a/ 12:18 A.M. Eastern daylight time , as they soared over the Pacific Ocean about 185 miles out in space . Agena Went First The 26-foot-long Agena la rget vehicle was launched into orbit 100 minutes before the Gemini lift-off . The two launchings came after the smoothest countdown on record . Then , after a series of tests to make sure the Gemini and Agena were firmly joined ( Commander Young fired the Agena 's 16,000-pound-thrust engine for the first manned launching from orbital altitudes . This occurred at 1:59 A.M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a wide elliptical orbit that reaches out as far as 474 miles where the astronauts will begin maneuvering for their second rendevous next Wednesday . They will try to come within 50 feet of another Agena rocket , the one that has been orbiting since the Gemini 8 mission last March . The former space altitude record was held by the Soviet Union 's Voskhod 2 , which reached 307 miles on its flight in March , 1965 . Fuel Supply a Problem By the time the astronauts prepared to go to sleep , only one serious problem posed a threat to the mission . The fuel supply for Gemini 's 10 small maneuvering rockets had dropped more sharply than had been expected in the rendezvous period . The spacecraft , which started with 940 pounds of propellant , was down to 350 pounds . The fuel is mnomethylhydrazine , which fires on contact with the oxidizer , nitrogen tetroxide . Flight controllers , still studying what effect this may have on the flight , said that some of the 14 planned scientific and technical experiments might have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon with a splashdown in the Atlan- rocket fell away , leaving the Gemini spacecraft on its own in orbit . It prompted Major Collins to jest : " Let 's conclude this simulation and proceed with the debriefing . " Charles W. Mathews , the Gemini program manager , described the dual launching as " by far the smoothest operation we 've had . " Dr. George E. Mueller , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's associate administrator for manned space flights , called it an " auspicious beginning , " but cautioned that " we have a long way to go and an ambitious flight plan to carry out in the next three days . " The hard work of the two astronauts , both 35 years old , was just beginning . For Commander Young , the command pilot , it is his second flight in space . Major Collins is on his first space journey . The Gemini 10 astronauts ' faced the busiest 70 hours ever , mapped out for space voyagers. , 1 The flight was planned to in- , clude in one mission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one by one , in previous Gemini missions . These are rendezvous , docking and excursions outside the cabin by an astronaut . During their first revolution after launching , Commander Young and Major Collins found that they were unable to handle their own navigation , problemsolving . Their onboard computer was turning out figures contradicting those . calculated by the ground computers . Flight controllers decided to stick with the ground computer . . Begins to Catchup This , however , did not inter fere with the astronauts ' 103 , - 000-mile chase after the Agena . During the second revolution , over the Indian Ocean , Commande ? Young fired the maneuvering thruster rockets of the Gemini 10 to begin the first catch-up maneuver . At this time this maneuver put the Gemini into a higher orbit , trailing the Agena by about 140 miles . A few minutes later another change in the spacecraft 's orbit placed it above 350 miles below and behind the Agena . At 9:20 P.M. Gemini 10 homed in on its quarry . Another firing of Gemini 10 's maneuvering rockets placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 276 miles . At this point the astronauts reported that their radar had locked onto the Agena . Then , at 10:45 P.M. , Commander Young reported that he had the Agena target in sight . All that was left was to make LAST-MINUTE CHECK : Technicians at Cape Kennedy inspect Gemini 10 atop Titan 2 . Platform , part of craft , gantry used to service rocket and is removed in countdown . NASA , via United Press International Telephotos LEAVING PAD 19 : Gemini 10 heads for orbit . Launching was flawless . The spacecraft docked with unmanned Agena target vehicle last night , 185 miles out in space . propel himself by a hand-lield jet rocket . His other open hatch maneuver will be a simple matter of standing on his feet  --  and taking pictures of ultraviolet rays from stars . This will take place Tuesday . Splashdown for the Gemini 10 mission is set for Thursday afternoon in the Atlantic Ocean about 350 miles , east of here . Officials of NASA have high hopes for all these goals , but are putting the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that and nothing else , officials said , it would be considered a success . Rendezvous and docking are maneuvers critical to the nation 's planned manned mission to the moon by the end of the decade . As it is planned , two astronauts will descend to the surface of the moon in a special landing craft , leaving behind one astronaut in the Apollo mother ship that will be flying in a lunar orbit . After they complete their visit to the moon , the astronauts will take off in their craft to rendezvous and link up with the Apollo for the return to earth . Rendezvous was first proved the final maneuver ? to thrust possible last December by the the Gemini higher and into the astronauts of Gemini 6 and same orbit of the Agena . Gemini 7 . The two ships came Once the Gemini 10 gets near within touching distance of the old Agena , the astronauts each other 185 miles out in will cut loose from their own space . Agena rocket . No attempt will Gemini 8 became the first be made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anold Agena , as its radar receiv- other vehicle  --  the same Agena ing system is dead . with which Gemini 10 hopes to Tomorrow , in one of the rendezvous tomorrow . Unlike two excursions outside the their early-rising predecessors , cabin , Major Collins will propel Commander Young and Major himself over to the Agena of Collins slept late yesterday ? Gemini 8 to retrieve a detection until 12:30 P.M. They did not go plate for micrometeoroids to bed until 3 A.M. Thus they Scientists want to study the were prepared for their earlyimpacts that the tiny , evening launching and a long supersonic particles make on night 's work . materials that remain in orbit For the last 10 days the for a long time . astronauts have stayed up late Major Collins will be con- at night and started training netted to the spacecraft by a late in the morning to get used 50-foot umbilical cord . He will to their schedule for this mission . Nearly all of their important maneuvers are scheduled to come in , the late afternoon and evening hours on earth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had begun fueling the Atlas , Agena and Titan rockets . Because of the hot afternoon sun , the fuel and oxidizers had to be cooled to temperatures lower than usual . The astronauts underwent a quick medical examination , lunched on steak and eggs , then left their quarters for the " ready room " near launching pad 19 . There they listened to a final mission briefing before getting into their space suits . At the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston , flight controllers alerted the worldwide tracking network . Only a minor computer problem at the Grand Turk Island tracking outpost caused any momentary concern . It was quickly corrected . At 4:10 P.M. , Commander Young and Major Collins arrived at pad 19 , shook hands with some of the launching crewmen and hurried into the elevator that took them up more than 100 feet to their spacecraft . Twenty minutes later , they settled into their seats as workmen sealed the Gemini hatches . Then , 6,000 feet away on launching pad 14 , the final countdown for the Atlas-Agena ticked away . It was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used in the nation 's space program . The Atlas roared to life at 4:39.46 , only two seconds later than planned . It climbed straight into space on a bulbous tail of orange flame , then after about two minutes disappeared into the haze hanging high over the launching area . ' Shortly afterward , the Atlas engines cut off on schedule and dropped away , leaving the Agena to propel itself higher downrange and into orbit . " We look good , " came the report from mission control . Nine minutes into the flight , the Agena had jettisoned the protective cover over its docking apparatus and was reported in orbit . The 7,000-pound Agena was on17 , slightly off its aim of an 185-mile circular orbit . With Agena up and ready for companionship in space , launching crews and the astronauts on pad 19 had less than 100 minutes to get ready for the chase . At 4:50 P.M. , the astronauts began their " switch lift checks , " methodically noting that each of the scores of switches in the cockpit was in its proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King , the space agency spokesman said . The 130-foot erector , a lacework of steel and cables that supports the rocket and spacecraft during the weeks of preparation , swung away at 5:35 P.M. When Major Collins looked out through the hatch windows at the high overcast , he remarked that it would help shade their eyes during lift-off . The Gemini 9 astronauts , who took off close to noon , recently reported that they had been temporarily blinded by sunlight streaming into their cockpit . They could not see their controls . The timing had to be precise . As the Agena neared the end of its first revolution , passing over here , Gemini 10 had only 37 seconds in which it could lift off in time to catch the Agena within the prescribed four revolutions . If the astronauts had missed their lift-off time , they would have had to wait two days to try again . ? The delay would have meant that the Gemini would have had to spend too much fuel making the maeuvers necessary for rendezvous . On the mark , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sending a cloud of orange smoke boiling up on the pad . Slowly , then with accelerating speed , the 109-foot-high Titan and its payload thundered skyward and curved out over the Atlatnic . " We are go ' for staging , " Commander Young reported . And right on time , 2% minutes after lift-off , the first stage of the Titan dropped away . The 100,000-pound-thrust second stage then took over . Six minutes away from pad 19 Gemini 10 reached orbital speed . At this point it was trailing the new Agena by about 1,160 miles . The chase toward rendezvous and docking was on .                     