@@723364

txt After being compelled to overhaul its first budget with serious political damage , the new Canadian Government has encountered a much larger and older problem . It finds itself at odds with the powerful government of Quebec for reasons which it did not foresee . Party Supported That the French Canadian people have demanded an overhaul of the Canadian constitutional system in their favor long has been understood in Ottawa , and a royal commission soon will begin to explore this historic problem . But certainly the federal government of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson did not expect an outright attack on its immediate financial policies from Premier Jean Lesage of Quebec . He is an adherent of Mr. Pearson 's Liberal Party and vigorously supported it at the recent national election . His influence in Quebec undoubtedly Nves a major factor in bringing Mr. Pearson to power with a minority government . When Mr. Pearson launched the first important installments of new national policy  --  a contributory old-age pension scheme and federal loans to municipalities for public works ? he anticipated general support from the 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcome these projects but Mr. Lesage immediately protested what he called a double invasion of Quebec 's autonomy . No federal government , he said , has any right to deal with Quebec municipalities without its approval nor to impose the costs of a new DellSi011 system on the Quebec people . The language of Mr. Lesage 's letters to Mr. Pearson , a fellow Liberal , ' Was surprisingly strong . The federal government , the Quebec Premier said , was breaking its solemn promise to govern with full regard to the constitutional rights of the provinces . Obviously shaken by this angry protest , the federal government hurriedly called a conference of all the provinces , as demanded by Mr. Lesagc . John G. Diefenbaker , leader of the Progressive Conservative opposition in Parliament , immediately interpreted the sudden announcement of a federal-provincial conference as a humiliating retreat by Mr. Pear- son . The federal government , he said , had committed itself to policies of huge cost without proper preparation or necessary advance consultation with the sovereign provincial governments . Red ivision Demanded The present dispute , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lesage is demanding a drastic redivision of revenue fields between the federal and provincial governments to increase Quebec 's tax collections , His proposed formula would cost Ottawa far more than it can afford , as Walter Gordon , Minister of Finance , plainly indicated in recent budget speech . And back of these financial disagreements looms the ancient problem of reconciling the two major Canadian races in a dual society which is to be restudied by the royal commission on " bieulturalism. "                     