@@723111

txt Washington Before our eyes these days , Dixie is on its way to becoming a genuinely two-party region . This growth of the Republican Party in the South could have some interesting consequences . For instance , since Southern Republicanism is usually conservative Republicanism , the prospect that a Republican presidential candidate with leanings to the right can capture a big bloc of Southern states makes it just possible that a conservative Republican can be nominated . This possibility enhances Sen. Barry Goldwater 's prospects at this time . Again , if Republicans move on from their present scattered Southern victories in congressional contests , We may see the time when there will be far fewer " safe Southern boroughs " for the Democrats . There will , in that case , be fewer Democrats who are returned to Congress year after year and who rise through seniority to control House and Senate through their hold on powerful committee chairmanships . Conceivably , too , if the Republicans begin garnering some of the South 's conservative votes , the Democrats in the South will become a more liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they have in the past . There 's no mistaking the increase in Republican prestige in the South . In the congressional campaigns of 1958 , the total Republican vote in the Southern states was 606,000 . In 1962 it was 2 , - 084.000 , an increase of 244 percent in four years . During this period the Democrats were boosting their vote by 41 percent . The GOP still has a considerable distance to go , of course , but major Republican gains were made in 1962 in every Southern state except Mississippi . where there were no Republican candidates for Congress . The gains ranged from a 9.2 percentage-point increase in the GOP percentage of the vote in Florida to 32 points in Texas . In three Southern states ? North Carolina , Texas , and Virginia ? Republicans won 40 percent or more of the total vote . In three more ? Alabama , Florida , and Tennessee ? the GOP percentage exceeded 33 percent . In Texas Republicans in- creased their contingent in the State Legislature from 2 to 7 . In Alabama an oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi a Republican who is a former Democrat is fixing to run for governor next fall . In a March Florida election the GOP picked up 12 of 34 new seats in the State Legislature . How did the change of sentiment come about ? A. Ask a Texan or a Virginian why he switched to Republican and the most usual reply is that he admires the party 's philosophy . He means conservative Republican philosophy . Conversely , he says he is disappointed with the present Democratic philosophy which is , as be sees it , a program of big government and federal spending . Some , in Mississippi and Alabama particularly , are reacting against the administration 's racial policies , but in general it 's the GOP 's basic conservative outlook that appeals , plus hostility to Kennedy policies , including Cuba . Not so long ago the Republican Party had little respectability in the South . But with the states industrializing , and with Northern businessmen and business sentiment moving into the cities , a brisk new Republican image has shaped up . No one can foresee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could aid the GOP , growth , while the increase in the number of Negroes who vote  --  and usually vote Democratic ? could be a counterbalance . To be noted now , however , is a switch in political sentiment which means that the Democrats can rely less and less on that ancient party bulwark , the " Solid South . "                     