@@723667

txt President Johnson moved today to give more coordinated direction to the Administration 's Latin-American policy . The President created a dual post for his new Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs . He said at his news conference that Thomas C. Mann , who was appointed an Assistant Secretary this week , would also be a special adviser at the White House . Question 1 , Page 16 . Mr. Mann , a Texan and a friend of the President , returned to Mexico yesterday to end his duties as Ambassador there . The appointment as special adviser was announced at the President 's second informal news conference in two weeks . Peace Goal Emphasized Mr. Johnson also used the occasion to reiterate his readiness to meet with any world leader , including Premier Khrushchev , if such a meeting could contribute to the main goal of his Administration , the achievement of peace and prosperity . Mr. Johnson expressed satisfaction at having had the opportunity of defining his Administration 's objectives at the United Nations General Assembly yesterday . He considered it " a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for American policies . Question 7 . He seized on a question about - ids plans for improving relations with the Soviet Union to 7eiterate his dedication to peace , tolerance and prosperity . World 's First Obligation Speaking in a low , deliberate voice , the President said he . bought the basis for an im ) rovement would he " the realzation that there are three bilion people in the world and , hat the No. 1 obligation of the ' resident of this country and ? very citizen of every country s to ? learn how to live to ; ether . " " Failure in that mission could nean disaster for most of the vorld , " he continued . " My No. 1 ) riority , my No. 1 goal , my Jo . 1 objective , my No. 1 ambiion , is to try to provide the eadership for my country with vision , tolerance , patience and trength that will convince the . est of the world that we court io territory , we seek no satelites , that we are trying to live n @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow men , verywhere to be able to do the same thing . " Question 191 Apart from this broad statement of objective , most of President Johnson 's discussion of foreign policy centered on his efforts to unify authority over Latin-American affairs . There has been criticism , especially in Congress , that it was not always clear whether major decisions stemmed from ranking State Department officials or from the office of the United States coordinator of the Alliance for Progress , Teodoro Moscoso . President Kennedy had already considered a reorganization , possibly by naming W. Averell Harriman to take charge of policy direction for Latin America . In the first major personnel shift since he assumed office , President Johnson announced Saturday that Mr. Mann would succeed Edwin M. Martin as Assistant Secretary for InterAmerican Affairs . The President said at the time that Mr. Mann would have broader powers than his predecessor . The President emphasized this point in a letter to Mr. Mann on Sunday in which he asked him " to undertake the coordination and direction of all policies and programs of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America . " This statement suggested that Mr. Mann would have a policy-r. ( 111:11ed only by that of Secretary of State Dean Husk . Mr. Mann is expected to re'turn to Washington Dec. 26 in time for a high-level policy review at the State Department . The President at his news conference said he expected to name a new Ambassador to Mexico " very shortly . " He said he was also considering appointment of a new United States representative in the Council of the Organization of American States to replace Elesseps S. Morrison , who resigned last September to run for Governor of Louisiana . At his news conference Mr. Johnson mentioned only Mr. Rusk 's role Rs the senior official in the department . , fining Mr. Mann 's new powers , the President said : " Because I want Mr. Mann to be the one man in the Government to coordiante the policies of this Hemisphere after consultation with the Secretary of State , I am going to make him not only the Assistant Secretary of State in charge of LatinAmerican affairs , but special assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President he will be dealing with many other American agencies and other international agencies . We expect to speak with one voice on all matters affecting this Hemisphere . Mr. Mann , with the support of the Secretary of State and the President , will be that voice . "                     