@@727829

txt The Chicago Teachers union house of representatives voted 327 to 3 last night to strike the Chicago public schools on May 22 . It authorized a strike vote of the entire membership to he held Friday in the schools . John E. Desmond , union president , said the union leadership will urge the teachers to vote for the strike . He said he expects the membership vote to be affirmative . Strike Against Board Desmond said the strike is against the board of education and not against the legislature , which will be voting a state support level for the schools . He charged that board members have not done enough to obtain more state aid for the schools . He accused the board of breaking faith with the union and said it is time for a showdown . . The union put forth a package of demands which it said is nonnegotiable . Smaller class size , no cutbacks in personnel , and a salary increase are part of the package to which Desmond said he could assign no dollar value . The demands include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers , and a 10 per cent increase for civil service employes " beginning in September as well as an up ' grading of salaries for other employes . This was the final demand on the union 's list . Class Size of 30 " A maximum class size of 30 students in primary grades ; 33 in intermediate grades ; 35 in upper grades ; 28 in advanced high school English ; and 25 in essential or basic English . " The board shall take adoquate measures to guarantee safe working conditions for all teachers . " The preceding two demands were among those which the union said were included in previous commitments by the board . Other ' demands include no discharge of regularly assigned teachers , full time basis substitutes , and certain other personnel ; no cutbacks in the 1059 summer school program ; and no decrease in educational programs , supplies or equipment . Thousands Lose Jobs School Supt. James F. Redmond has said that if the present $400 state support level is not increased , thousands of teachers would lose their jobs and cutbacks would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that a $550 level would be necessary for the schools to continue operating without any cutbacks and that a $600 level would be necessary to give the teachers a cost of living wage hike . Gov . Ogilvie **28;140;TOOLONG support level . The union also demands that full time basis substitutes be Certified after two years of satisfactory teaching experience without either the oral or written exams which now are required . Desmond said that the strike date had been moved up from the previous June 2 date to assure that school jobs will not be eliminated in September by school board economies . He said the change also was to give the hoard the opportunity " to settle the issue early enough so that students will be able to complete their neces-                     