@@725247

txt Prime Minister Harold Wilson is going to the Commonwealth conference at Lagos , Nigeria , so that control of the Rhodesian crisis may be kept in British hands . Mr. Wilson believes this to be supremely important not only now , during the sanctions drive against the Salisbury regime , but later on when that regime presumably will have been forced out of office . In this objective , British strategy is aided by the action of Nigeria 's Prime Minister , Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa , who summoned the unique Lagos conference of Commonwealth leaders primarily to bring others besides Africans to a common table . The non-Africans would be more likely to leave Rhodesia to Britain . Most Commonwealth countries will be represented , but not all by prime ministers . The Indian and Pakistani chiefs are busy at Tashkent . Australia and New Zealand are sending observers . Zambia will be represented at the conference by Vice-President Reuben KaPlease turn to Page 12 *Lagos talks on Rhodesia seen as aid to Wilson // manga , it was officially announced in Lusaka Friday , Reuters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would not attend as he was unable to leave Zambia at present . He also said it was not the best time to hold the conference . Still , the conference will be immensely valuable to London if it leaves to Britain the determination of Rhodesian strategy . This means : No military measures , except to preserve order if necessary during a change of regime . It also will mean that Britain can raise the sanction pressure against Rhodesia while keeping a close watch on the impact of these measures against neighboring Zambia 's economy and , for instance , on Britain 's own reliance on Zambian copper . The airlift and " road-lift " in and out of Zambia require the most careful use of poor airfields and narrow roads . Whitehall officials suggest that Mr. Wilson , at Lagos , will not make big boasts about the bite of sanctions against Rhodesia . He will let actions speak louder than words . The imposition of drastic petrol rationing by the Rhodesion Government , its anxious search for new oil sources , the obvious worry about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctions . Patience stressed In fact , Mr. Wilson believes he can say very convincingly to the African delegates that there is no need for military action , that sanctions are becoming ever more effective , and that time and patience will bring about the desired overthrow of the Ian Smith regime . Mr. Wilson may also want to inform the Lagos leaders of some of the " contingency planning " that is going ahead , for the moment when a more cooperative government takes over in Rhodesia . This planning will include an immediate end to sanctions , new educational opportunities for the African majority , and a program for gradual evolution to majority government . Mr. Wilson would not have decided to go to Lagos , had the African atmosphere promised anything like the walkout which occurred during his speech to the United Nations at New York . But London believes the atmosphere has indeed changed to some degree . Tighter curbs due Mr. Wilson will be able to promise a further tightening of sanctions , particularly as regards consumer goods . Simultaneously , Sir Abubakar , as chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shunt aside African cries for the immediate use of force . It will be stressed that military measures , and indeed any moves that are not carefully prepared , are likely to hurt Zambia more than they harm Rhodesia . The Lagos conference will be unique in Commonwealth history . For the first time it will be happening outside London , with a non  --  British prime minister in the chair . For the first time the New Commonwealth Secretariat run by Arnold Smith will have helped with arrangements . Lagos means that this unique multiracial body is still an " evolving " Commonwealth .                     