@@727335

txt Authoritative military sources said today that all East German troops participating in the invasion of Czechoslovakia were quietly withdrawn within three days . According to these informants , the Russians recommended the withdrawal because of second thoughts about the wisdom of East German participation in the invasion forces . The Soviet-led invasion began late on Aug. 20 . Two East German divisions , the sources said , entered Czechoslovakia at dawn the following day . The military sources said the Soviet recommendation of withdrawal followed a belated realization in Moscow that the presence of East German troops in a foreign country could be construed , in a sense , as a violation of the 1945 Potsdam agreement , which forbade German rearmament . While both East and West Germany have subsequently developed their own military establishments , the Soviet view seems to be that the presence of East German forced outside East Germany would an important step beyond the actual existence of a military establishment in East Germany . U.S. Belations an Issue Another reason given here for the East German pullout was the question of relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the invasion , - Moscow has gone to pains to make sure that the United States will not regard the Czechoslovak operation as a direct threat-to itself or to the Atlantic alliance . The State Department said Saturdii'that the Soviet Union had upset the military balance in Central Europe and that the North Atlantic allies were therefore reviewing possible counteraction to insure their security . Authoritative informants said here today that the Russians wanted the United States to think of the action against Czechoslovakia as a purely internal Communist affair . With the departure of the East Germans , Czechoslovakia remains occupied by Soviet , Polish , Hungarian and Bulgarian forces totaling upward of 600,000 men . While the eventual withdrawal of most of the occupation troops from Czechoslovakia is to be negotiated at a conference in Dresden , East Germany , between the Prague leadership and the leaders of the five Warsaw Pact countries , probably on Sept. 10 or 11 , talks began here today with the occupation commandant for the complete evacuation of Prague by the foreign forces . The withdrawal from Prague and other Czechoslovak cities to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander Dubcek , the First Secretary of the Czechoslovak Communist party , in a speech yesterday before its Central Committee . The second stage , it is understood here , is to be the actual departure of the troops from Czechoslovakia . The third stage is to be the stationing of at least two Soviet divisions on the West German border and of Soviet air force units at Czechoslovak air bases . This morning the Prague radio announced that the party 's Central Committee adopted yesterday a five-point resolution approving the signing by Mr. Dubcek and his colleagues last week of the still secret Moscow agreement , which is reported to provide for the stationing of the Warsaw Pact troops and for renewed press censorship as the price for the eventual withdrawal of the occupation forces . The predominantly and surprisingly liberal Presidium elected yesterday by the Central Committee held its organizational meeting today . The Czechoslovak Cabinet also met today to review the situation . Meanwhile , the Soviet command continued to remove troops from the Prague urban area . The hundreds of tanks that filled the city last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where Lieut . Gen. Ivan Velichkov has set up his headquarters as Warsaw Pact commander for Prague and Central Bohemia . The Troja area has become the concentration place for at least two Soviet armored divisions and tens of thousands of airborne and motorized infantry troops . Another major concentration of Soviet armor and troops is in the forests around Rozvadov on the West German border facing the German town of Waidhaus . Rozvadov lies on Highway 5 , leading from Pilsen to Nuremberg , and is one of the main border crossing points into West Germany . The Soviet army moved in strength to the West German border immediately after invading Czechoslovakia . Observers who visited the area this week reported that the Soviet forces , equipped with armored units , artillery and helicopters , seem to be digging in for a long stay . According to the observers , the Soviet forces , using Rozvadov as the headquarters , have fanned out along the West German frontier , spreading south in the region adjacent to Bavaria and north toward As , the crossing point contiguous to the East German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remains open and hardly . any Soviet troops are visible between here and the frontier , the Russians have taken over control of the crossings into West Germany and are preventing all traffic there . The Polish troops are concentrated at Hradec Kralove , least of Prague ; the Bulgarians I occupy the Prague airport , and ' the Hungarians are mainly in Slovakia . In Prague , which has regained almost complete normalcy , Soviet troops are visible only at a few strateglc spots . These include the editorial offices of newspapers and the press agency C.T.K. , the Prague radio and the Czechoslovak television station . Even there , however , the soldiers tend to stay inside doorways and their presence is said to be related to the still unresolved problem of how the newly restored censorship will function . An occasional Soviet armored car can be seen now and then in the midst of the heavy downtown traffic , but the Czechoslovaks ignore them . It is a rarity to see Soviet soldiers in the streets , except for an occasional patrol and the forays by army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom of the Soviet intervention .                     