@@727272

txt Mayor Daley yesterday indorsed Sep . ' Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts fOr the Democratic Vice Presidential nomination , and predicted he would be drafted at the party 's national convention . Daley 's statements came at a City hall press conference in which he joined John M. Bailey , Democratic national chairman , and John B. Criswell , the party treasurer and executive director of the convention , in discussing convention plans . Tells Choice Aug. 25 Reporters noted that on Tuesday Bailey said Kennedy would be an asset to the ticket , and asked Daley if he or intermediaries had talked to Kennedy about possible Vice Presidential nomination . " No , but I think the convention will draft him , " Daley ; replied . As he was questioned further , Daley added , " I hope they will . " Daley , regarded as having firm control over the ' Illinois delegation , has said he would not disclose his choice for President until the delegation caucuses Aug. 25 , the day before the convention opens in ; the International Amphitheater . Humphrey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all others in the Illinois delegation would support Vice President Hum ; phrey . Kennedy , 30 , last survivor of the font ' Kennedy brothers , has been mentioned by a number of political leaders as the one who would help Humphrey 's candidacy most . In Washington , Kennedy ' s press secretary said Kennedy would not comment on Daley 's statements . Bailey , Criswell , and Daley unveiled a m odel of the Amphitheater 's interior as they discussed convention plans . Bailey disclosed that only delegates will he allowed to demonstrate in the aisles after nominating speeches , with their alternates prohibited from taking part . Seats for Delegates This is part of an effort to avoid p as t experiences of demonstrations tying up conventions for hours . Bailey said the delegates will occupy about 2,900 of the 3,000 seats on the convention floor , all within 120 feet of the podium . There are 2,622 convention votes . But some states bring more than their assigned delegates , giving some of them half votes . Candidates will be assigned an undisclosed number of seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have most of the rest . The alternate delegates will be in the balconies as will be many of the newsmen . Tickets for other balcony seats will be distributed thru state party committess . Bailey said that all told there will be between 10,000 and 11,500 seats at the convention .                     