@@722389

txt WASHINGTON , April ** for favorable Congressional action on the Administration 's medical care bill have shifted from bad to good in the last few weeks . The present outlook , as viewed by competent sources in the Administration and at the Capitol , is for approval of a modified version by the House Ways and Means Committee , possibly next month . The measure is expected then to have comparatively easy going in the House and Senate . The bill has been locked in the Ways and Means Committee since early last year , with little apparent chance of winning a majority until recently . When Congress convened in January , the committee line-up was fifteen to ten against the measure , according to confidential canvasses. 13 Favor Principle These canvasses indicate that at least thirteen members , or a one-vote majority , now favor the principle of health care for the aged as part of the Social Security insurance system . This does not mean that a thirteen-to-twelve , majority can be mustered for the bill as it now stands . Nor is it entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out . Various modifications are being privately discussed , however , and Administration leaders in the House are confident that a winning formula will be devised when the committee sits down in closed session and puts its mind to the task . The newly favorable outlook is attributed largely to shifting opinion among the committee 's conservative Democrats under the leadership of Representative Burr P. Harrison of Virginia . // Mr. Harrison was among five Democratic members identified along with all ten of the cornmittee's-Republicans , as opponents of the bill earlier this session . The other Democratic opponents were Representatives Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas , committee chairman ; A. Sidney Herlong Jr . of Florida , James B. Frazier Jr . of Tennessee and John . C. Watts of Kentucky . Representatives Harrison , Herlong and Watts are now counted as supporters of the Social Security approach . Mr. Frazier is regarded as a possible recruit . If all four supported a compromise bill , the vote for approval would be fourteen to eleven . Administration strategists also have some hope of persuading one or two Republicans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsing its provisions . These hopes are centered on Representatives Howard E. Baker of Tennessee and Herman T. Schneebeli of Pennsylvania . A majority of sixteen to nine is thus viewed as a possible . if difficult , achievement . Such a substantial margin in committee would do much to ease the way to House passage . Apparently there is no prospect of winning the support of Mr. Mills , the committee chairman . He has promised , however , to put the issue before the committee when the panel completes work on the Administration 's trade expansion bill . He has also given assurances that he will not try to obstruct the bill . Plan Being Drafted Representative Harrison has ! been quietly working with Social Security officials in an attempt to draft a formula that could serve as a basis for compromise . His efforts are aimed principally at two objectives . First , he wants to put the main emphasis on providing services for persons afflicted with chronic , longterm or " catastrophic " illnesses . Second . he wants to require persons already on the Social Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance program . The Administration bill , as written , would provide limited hospitalization , nursing care and out-patient diagnostic services for persons over 65 on the Social Security retirement rolls . Up to ninety days of hospitalization for any bout of illness would he allowed , with the ' patient paying $10 a day of the charges for the first nine days . Up to 180 days of nursing home care , begun immediately on departure from the hospital , would also be provided . In addition , the Social Security Administration would pay charges in excess of $20 for diagnostic services by out-patient hospital clinics . Up to 240 calls by visiting nurses would be financed by the insurance fund as an alternative to nuts ' ing home care . The bill would raise the Social Security tax rate one-fourth of 1 per cent each for employers and employes and apply it to the first $5,200 of annual earn ! ings instead of the first $4,800 . The present rate is 31/s per cent each . Limits Tax Base One tentative formula being prepared by Representative Harrison would provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chronic or catastrophic illness of elderly persons . Under this plan , the patient would pay for the first three days or perhaps the first five days of hospitalization and the Social Security fund would pay for the rest . Mr. Harrison has not yet determined how best to achieve the objective of requiring persons already on the Social Security retirement rolls to contribute to the insurance system . One idea is to give them coverage if they agree to a deduction of $5 or so in their monthly Social Security benefit checks . The Harrison plan contemplates a similar approach to ' nursing home care but with unlimited benefits perhaps postponed until adequate facilities were available . The plan calls for the same increase in the tax rate as the Administration bill would provide but no rise in the present $4,800 earnings base to which the tax applies . Administration officials are understood to be favorably disposed to the Harrison approach to the extent of shifting the emphasis of benefits to chronic and catastrophic illnesses . They are strongly opposed to the idea of requiring persons already on the retirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , however , that Administration strategists in the House will go along with both principles of the Harrison formula as the price of getting a bill to the floor . The feeling is that the measure could be shaped to the Administration 's satisfaction in the Senate . ' Representative Harrison 's conversion to the cause of health care for the aged under Social Security is attributed to second thoughts about the 1960 KerrMills Act , which , provides aid to " medically indigent " persons over 65 . The program is administered by the states , with 00 per cent of the cost financed by Federal grants . Mr. Harrison ; who voted for the Kerr-Mills bill " with misgivings , " now calls it " the most socialistic legislation ever to pass Congress . " He contends , that a self-financed Federal in- , surance system must be devised to replace it before it becomes " a bottomless pit " for general , Treasury funds . The Virginia legislator , now in his sixteenth year as a House member , is retiring from Congress at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the health-insur-1 ance dispute are motivated ' largely by a desire to crown a long career of political conservatismwith a notable achieve ment in the social welfare field . Managers of the Administration bill are not at this time inclined to regard any of a number of plans proposed by Republicans as a basis for compromise . The newest of these was introduced this week by Representative John V. Lindsay of Manhattan . It embodies Governor Rockefeller 's proposal to let beneficiaries take either cash or health services under a Social Security insurance system . The cash could be applied to the , cost of private health insurance . An Administration leader said that acceptance of any of the Republican proposals would mean " compromising the principle of our bill . " " This we will not do , " he said . " We have the votes , and we are going to pass a bill without , Republican help , if necessary . "                     