@@725732

txt UNESCO will meet in Paris in September to leave an apple for the world 's teachers . It will adopt its International Draft Recommendation on the Status of Teachers . The draft aims to improve the lot of teachers worldwide . None of it will be legally binding on any nation . But it will lay out minimum standards recognized by the international community . The draft has taken several years and sundry meetings to hammer out . Among many things it will suggest : That all teachers complete an approved course of study and that they be helped financially to do so . That teachers be urged , even helped , to travel widely at home and abroad and that periodically they be granted study leave on full or partial pay . That they be protected against arbitrary action affecting their careers , and that they enjoy the freedom to select textbooks . That wives and mothers not only be urged to continue teaching , but that school systems arrange the baby sitting so they can . That pay be hiked to levels comparable with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to the department store to learn something about their little Johnny 's education . Educators are convinced thousands of talented working-class children just are n't taking courses to match their abilities . And part of the trouble is that their mothers and fathers need to be better informed . But how to get at . the parents ? Many of them go rattle-kneed and get butterflies at the thought of going to see a headmaster or anybody else halfway official . So Britain 's Advisory Center for Education decided to set up an " education shop " in a department store . There , where they feel more at ease , working-class parents are getting some educational advice . It has worked well  --  so well that similar education shops may start spreading around the country . Some 200 West German teachers-to-be are headed for Britain , France , and Switzerland to learn better how to teach little Hans . All 200 are students of English and Romance languages . They are all graduates of teacher-training colleges and are assistant teachers . Ninety-five of them will go to schools in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All will assume trainee positions in their respective host nations . For 12 hours a week they will teach German in the French and British schools . They will also teach French and British children about German civilization and the German way of life . In return they will learn more about teaching . Trends ... With Kansas school districts it 's a case of now you see them  --  now you do n't . The state pared the number of its operating school districts from about 1,300 to 349 in July . The governing bodies of more than 1,100 Kansas school districts now have given up their authority and their districts have been " disorganized " to become parts of larger units . Kansas now has 306 districts that are unified and only 42 that are n't . One other district , while not listed as unified , meets all the qualifications . All this paring down in Kansas  --  other states are doing it too  --  dates back to 1963 . The Legislature that year adopted its Reunification Act . At that time the state had 1,848 school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the state is cutting off all support to schools with fewer than 10 pupils . That , in effect , leaves them no choice . Students in the west of Scotland arc taking their lessons on Loch Lomond . It 's a new project . And it is launching some 2,000 Scottish school children on educational cruises three days a week this summer . There they learn to appreciate the countryside and to preserve it . The largest single group of students involved in the Loch Lomond excursions are from a Glasgow school . The remainder come from nearby market towns and rural areas . The children debark for lessons at the Loch Slay hydroelectric power plant . They visit the Inchcailloch nature reserve and the historic countryside at Inversnaid , where Rob Roy once roamed . Others climb to the top of Ben Lomond high above the song-famed loch  --  for a geography lesson .                     