@@727138

txt Jubilant Gaullist party strategists . today predicted a Gaullist landslide in the general election on June 23 . They set their target at 300 seats in the ** National Assembly , an increase of 50 per cent over their present strength . In the continuing labor negotiations between the Government and the representatives of the unions and employers , little headway was made . The sentiment . among rank - and - file Workers in favor of continued strikes was reported to be hardening in several sectors of the economy . Opposition politicians conceded that the left might lose heavily if the election were held now , ' in the wake of President de Gaulle 's address on Thursday appealing to the fear of Communism . But they insisted that many things could happen in three weeks and that the fight was likely to be even again by election day . Strategy to . Be Simple The Gaullist party now has 199 seats , and the Independent , Republicans of ** Giscard d'Estaing , the former Finance Minister , have 43 seats , giving the . Government coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as explained by the men who are preparing the campaign , is simple : the tricolor French flag vs. the red flag , patriotism vs . Communist " subversion . " Observers close to the opposition parties concede that the opposition will have an uphill battle in the campaign . The left-wing parties and the labor unions are weakened by the fact that they must conduct a difficult operation on two fronts . On one hand , their strategists feel , they must liquidate the countrywide strike , now in its third week , before moving into the campaign . Continued paralysis of the country 's economy would play into the hands of the Gaullists , who are bidding for the votes of all those whom the revolt of students and workers has frightened . On the other hand , the labor unions must give the appearance of driving a hard bargain with the Government in the remaining labor negotiations . If they seem soft , their own fol // lowers will stay away from the polls , it is felt . The Government and the unions today signed draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy ? the coal mines , the state gas and electricity company , and also the Paris subway and bus system . A similar agreement has been signed for Government civil servants . Negotiations with the representatives of the national railroads and the postal and telegraph offices were set for tonight . But all the agreements must be submitted to the workers for ratification . In line with the reports of hardened sentiment favoring continuing the strikes , negotiations in the steel industry were suspended today at the request of the unions . Offer Is Rejected The Roman Catholic-oriented Democratic Federation of Labor , the country 's secondstrongest union , rejected the offer of the employers as unacceptable and accused the employers ' representatives of having made their proposals in the form of an ultimatum . The Democratic Federation also issued a statement warning the Government of the continuing tension in the nationalized sector of the industry . It invited the Government to make fresh and better proposals for a settlement with the railroad workers and the Paris transport workers . In the automobile industry , the three major unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Socialist Workers Force , as well as the Catholic-oriented group ? called worker meetings for tomorrow evening at several Peugeot plants , rejecting management 's call for a meeting early in the morning . Peugeot , like Citroen , but unlike Renault , is a private company . Union leaders are carefully refraining from taking definite positions on the draft agreements before the rank and file has given its verdict . The unions ' caution is dictated by the experience of the last three weeks , during which the leaders were twice left behind by the demands of their workers and had to run fast to catch up . Strike Spread Begun The first time was on May 15 , when local workers , imitating the rebellious students , occupied an aircraft factory in Nantes and touched off a nationwide strike movement that the union leadership had not planned or intended . The second time was at dawn last Monday , when union leaders went into the factories to submit to the rank and file a draft settlement that they had just negotiated with Premier Georges Pompidou . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boldest dreams . They were stunned when the workers said " no " and continued the strike . However , they are also faced with the opposite danger  --  that of letting the strike go on too long . They have to take into account the tired and worried workers ? who want to work , feeling that the bread-and-butter gains they achieved since the beginning of the strikes are considerable enough to resume work . The union solidarity is beginning to wear thin partly because the strikers are feeling the pinch . Unlike American labor organizations , the French unions have no strike funds and the strikers go without pay or compensation . Settlements Emphasized Frequent Government statements since yesterday are giving prominence to each enterprise , even if it is a small one , where the strike has ended . The . unions and the left-wing parties that they support can not afford to let the impression grow that they are pressing the workers to go on striking and that the strike is fizzling against the unions ' wish . Such an impression would add to the ammunition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategy of making the campaign an issue between the French flag and the red flag , between order and chaos and between patriotism and subversion , emerged from President de Gaulle 's talks with Army generals last Wednesday , which resulted in loyalty pledges from the Army . The strategy is also the result of the fact that the extreme rightists and the former French settlers from Algeria have rallied to the general , at least temporarily . Both groups had denounced him venomously until a few weeks ago , but the students ' and workers ' revolts have awakened their fears . One of the former settlers , or colons , today expressed the reasons for the change . " I do n't want to lose everything twice , " he said . " I lost all I had when de Gaulle sold Algeria down the river . If the Left comes to power I will lose all I 've made since . "                     