@@725826

txt Troops of the United States First Cavalry Division ( Airmobile ) ? reported having killed 110 North Vietnamese and Vietcong soldiers in two engagements today in a valley about 305 miles northeast of Saigon . A United States military spokesman said helicopters of the division 's reconnaissance unit observed about 300 enemy soldiers marching west through the valley in the central coastal area early this morning . , An airmobile commander then sent about 150 men into the valley ahead of the enemy soldiers and moving toward them . Second Force Sent In At 9:30 A.M. a fight , described by the spokesman as " savage , " developed and commanders sent in a second force . Two hours and 45 minutes later the enemy troops pulled back and the airmobile soldiers counted 85 dead . The two airmobile companies then pursued the enemy , finding them in the afternoon . They reported having killed 25 more in a 30-minute fight . During the initial reconnaissance action , enemy gunners brought down a UH-1 helicopter and two smaller H-13 observation helicopters that flew in to survey the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the crew members was killed or seriously wounded . About 10 miles to the north , other airmobile soldiers killed six enemy soldiers in four hours of fighting yesterday . They also captured 5 to 10 tons of rice . The spokesman said that the action today was not directly related to Operation Thayer , which beban in the area Sept. 14 and in which 230 enemy troops have been killed . Near the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Vietnam a , company of United States Marines suffered moderate casualties yesterday as they advanced against four North Vietnamese army bunkers . Moderate casualties would be a toll large enough to interfere with the unit 's effectiveness . As heavy automatic-weapons fire poured from the bunkers , the marines withdrew and called for artillery and air strikes , the spokesman said . There was no report on the size of the enemy force or its casualties . Shortly after midnight , Air Force B-52 Stratofortresses struck at what were believed to be base camps , assembly areas and infiltration routes in the southern part of the demilitarized zone believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the principal enemy units that has been opposing the marines in the northernmost province of Quangtri for several months : The marines have reported killing 943 North Vietnamese soldiers since Operation Prairie began Aug. 3 . Fighting about 25 miles south of the garrison city of Danang yesterday , South Vietnamese Rangers killed 25 Vietcong , a Government spokesman said tonight . Government losses were said to have been light . American paratroopers made their way across thickly jungled mountains 258 miles northeast of Saigon today to free 23 persons  --  military and civilian ? from a Vietcong prison camp . They had been led to the camp by one of the 11 persons freed from a similar Vietcong installation about a mile away ' last week . Five South Vietnamese civilians were killed late yesterday and early this morning when Vietcong ** attacked two hamlets about 230 miles northeast of Saigon . Five others were kidnapped and another person was wounded . The New York Times oct. 3 , 1966 U.S. troops fought in area of Vietnam 's central coast ( 1 ) as Government forces battled foe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near demilitarized zone ( 3 ) . In North Vietnam yesterday , overcast skies held American fighter-bomber pilots to 111 attack missions involving more than one plane . Fifteen waves of Navy jets hammered at the Phuly railroad bridge and rail yard 35 miles south of Hanoi yesterday . The spokesman said that smoke and debris from bombs of 250 to 1,000 pounds prevented a detailed assessment of the damage , but that at least two spans of the 232-foot bridge had been collapsed . The raids were another in a series of concentrated attacks on transportation facilities by the Navy , the spokesman said . The bridge is on the main rail line leading to Hanoi . An F-4B Phantom pilot assigned to protect the pilots attacking the bridge against enemy jets said he picked up " some type of jet aircraft " on his radar set , gave chase and fired an air-to-air missile , but missed . An Air Force F-105 Thunderchief crashed during yesterday 's raids , bringing to 389 the number of American planes lost in the air war over North Vietnam , the spokesman said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shells Fall on G.I. 's A Columbia Broadcasting System dispatch from South Vietnam reported yesterday that one American was killed and at least four were wounded when South Vietnamese artillery shells accidentally fell on an American armored column . Ike Pappas , the network 's correspondent , said a second mistaken artillery barrage , fired by United States artillery , had killed one South Vietnamese soldier and wounded at least five others . Mr. Pappas reported that an American officer had witnessed the shelling of the American troops from a helicopter near Tanuyen , about 25 miles north of Saigon . The South Vietnamese artillery was working with an armored unit of the First Infantry Division and was scheduled to lay down a barrage behind the United States column as it withdrew . Military spokesmen reported that two tanks broke down , delaying the withdrawal ' and possibly contributing to the acoident . Mr. Pappas said that about 10 rounds fell on the American unit . In the second incident , he reported , a South Vietnamese column apparently walked into supporting artillery fire . About 12 rounds fell on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the same general area , but apparently were not connected , Mr. Pappas said .                     