@@726481

txt The sending of regular- federal troops to Detroit was the first such action in nearly five years . President Johnson 's decision to send regular Army troops to Selfridge Air Force Base near Detroit was the first such action by a chief executive since President Kennedy used elements of the 101st and 82d Airborne and 2d Infantry Divisions to oversee enrollment of students at the University of Mississippi in 1962 . Significantly , if troops actually get involved in quelling the disturbance in Detroit , it will mark the first time in the history of the civil-rights movement that federal troops have been used to counter Negro disturbances . The decision to send the troops to the area was announced by the White House late Monday morning . The regular Army contingents were expected to arrive at the Air Force base during the afternoon . President Johnson sent a carefully worded telegram to Republican Gov . George Romney saying that his decision to act came " in response to your official request . . . and on the basis of your representation that there is a reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Two divisions involved It was not immediately clear which units were to be sent but the 101st and 82d Airborne Divisions had units on a state of alert . The 101st , which has two brigades stationed at Ft . Campbell , Ky. , is the closest Army unit to the scene of strife . It was not immediately clear how many troops were to be sent , but Governor Romney , in an announcement that President Johnson had responded to his plea , said that 5,000 regular troops were expected . This would mean that the use of a single brigade was initially envisioned . Federalized national guardsmen and regular Army troops had been used only four times before in the history of the civil-rights movement . Heated controversy arose following the first instance in September , 1957 , when President Eisenhower federalized local national guardsmen and sent elements of the 101st Airborne to maintain control during high-school integration in Little Rock , Ark . Oxford crises recalled Federal troops were again used , along with the guard , in Oxford , Miss. , in October , 1962 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only guardsmen were involved . Alabama guardsmen were federalized in June , 1963 , when Gov . George C. Wallace made a pro forma doorway stand to prevent Negro enrollment at the University of Alabama . Alabama guardsmen were again federalized in March of 1965 to protect Selma marchers when state officials claimed they could not provide protection . In the current instance , the federal troops would augment 8,000 Michigan national guardsmen earlier sent to Detroit . It was expected that , if federal troops are used , the guardsmen would also be federalized to provide a unified organization .                     