@@721495

txt Senator J. W. Vulbright charged today that Vice President Nixon had in effect expressed " regret " to PremierKhrushchev over Captive Nations Week . The Arkansas Democrat , who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said that he had been " reliably informed " that the Vice President had indicated these regrets during his talks with Mr. Khrushchev in Moscow in July ; 1959 . Captive Nations Week was proclaimed by President Eisenhower following a resolution adopted by Congress that said that " the enslavement of a , substantial part of the world'k ' population by Communist imperialism makes a mockery of the idea of . peaceful coexistence . " Considered Reply to Nixon Senator Fulbright 's assertion , which was contained in a letter to Secretary of State Christian A , Herter , was widely regarded1 here as a reply to +the campaign ' arguments of Vice President Nixon . In St. Petersburg , Fla. , a spokesman for Vice President : Nixon said Senator Fulbright 's charge was " an obvious smear . " In his speeches , Mr. Nixon has repeatedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for suggesting that President Eisenhower might . have saved the summit conference at Paris by expressing regrets to Mr. Khrushchev for the . U-2 incident , Republican speakers have also stressed , on the basis of Mr. .. Nixon 's " kitchen debate " with the ? Soviet Premier , that the Republican nominee has the ability . to " stand up to Khrushchev . " A. few days before Mr. Nixon reached Moscow , Congress passed a joint resolution requesting President Eisenhower to proclaim the third week of July . as " Captive Nations Week . " The President acceded . Mr. Khrushchev complained bitterly to Mr. Nixon about this . Senator Fuibright told Mr. Herter he had information that Mr. Nixon assured Mr. Khrushchev that " neither he nor the President would deliberately have chosen to have a resolution of this type passed just before his visit to the U. S. S. R. " Senator Fuibright said that , according to his informants , the Vice President had then added : " After all , we are not stupid . " His letter continued : " As you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus far on the fact that the timing of the U-2 incident was unimportant . Yet , Mr. Nixon apparently has felt that the timing of the captive nations resolution was important . " Furthermore , a great deal has been said during the camIpaign of the alleged ability of the Vice President to ' stand up ' to Khrushchev . Yet , apparently in connection with the captive nations resolution , he indicated his regret over its timing . " Mr. Fulbright 's letter today was the fourth in-which he requested the Secretary of State to make available to all of the press " the full records " of the Nixon - Khrushchev conversations . In earlier letters the Senator has asserted that " copies " of these records had been used by Earl Mazo , a biographer of Mr. Nixon , in a series of articles written for his . newspaper , The New York . Herald Tribune . Mr. Fuibright has contended that , according to his informants , who had had access to the records of the talks , the articles by Mr. Maze did not convey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the transcripts had been used " in a selective way for a partisan purpose , namely to prove that the Republican Presidential candidate knows how to deal with Mr. Khrushchev . " Assistant Gives Answer Mr. Herter has not himself answered Senator Fulbright 's letters . However , William B. Macomber Jr. , Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations , has twice written to the Senator , refusing to make the full record available on " policy " grounds . In his second letter , Mr. Ma. comber assured the Senator that " insofar ' as I can deter . mine , no officia'of the Depart-I avant of State " made available to Mr.- Maze " any or all of the records , or a summary of the records " of the Nixon-lthrushchey talks . In a third letter on Oct. 10 , Senator Fuibright asked Mr. Herter for " an explanation , of why " the full . records of these conversations are not made public . " There could be no security considerations , the Senator said , since Premier Khrushchev . was there . He added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the records of the conversations contain Some secrecy classification , then I would like to know what , if any , action is being taken to fix responsibility for . a breach of the depart- ment 's security regulations , and whether the department con- , strues their release and publication as a violation of the ' espionage laws . " Mr. Fuibright reminded Mr. Herter today that he had had no reply to this letter .                     