@@726540

txt A leading civilian candidate ' , for the presidency of Southi Vietnam said today he was con incal that " many of our brothers in the National Liberation Front are true nationalists . " Although they are under the tight control of the Communists , who have come to dominate the Ifront , he said , they are " eagerly awaiting the establishment of a clean and effective Government in Saigon to make the life-and-death decision to break away . " The speaker was Tran Van Huong , a former Premier and former Mayor of Saigon . He made these observations after addressing a meagerly attended rally in the suburbs of the capital at which nine of the ten civilian tickets appeared . About 1,500 people attended the meeting , which was held in the Phnhuan district of Giadinh Province , about two miles from the center of Saigon . Informed Vietnamese said that few of those present were ordinary citizens . A large percentage appeared to be Government workers , several of whom said they had been ordered to attend the rally . Dozens of plainclothes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavyset man with dark glasses who made heckling statements during the question period that followed each candidate 's speech did the same thing on Wednesday at the rally in Bienhoa , 20 miles to the north . Others in the crowd whispered with uniformed police officers before putting questions to the candidates . " The Government shows a lack of goodwill in organizing such a shabby rally , " Mr. Huong said . " I know personally that the Government has told agents here in the crowd to ' ask me unfriendly questions . But I do n't mind . " U. S. Ambassador Criticized Mr. Huong sharply criticized Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker for his statement yesterday , attributed in the press to a " senior American diplomat , " in which he said that no evidence had been found to substantiate the civilian candidates ' charges of harassment and intimidation by the Government . " Why should Bunker give the answer , " he asked , " when the charge was directed at Thieu ' and Ky ? " The meeting , the first appearance by the civilian candidates in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entrance plaza of a temple dedicated to Marshal Le Van Duyet , a southern Vietnamese military hero of the early 19th century . A cargo parachute 100 feet in diameter had been rigged on tall poles to protect the ondidates ar , d , as it turned out , most of the audience from the sun . The 63-year-old Mr. Huong , a stocky man with a friendly , weather-beaten face and a crewcut shock of graying hair , discussed the campaign in the cloister of the temple . He spoke in the slow , softly modulated accents of the delta while fumes of incense drifted past . Premier for 3 Months In his discussion of the Vietcong , Mr. Huong noted that he himself had fought with their predecessor , the Vietminh. which ousted the French from Indo-China in 1954 . He served as Premier from November , 1964 , through January , 1965 . " One of my own sons joined the resistance , " he said with show of emotion , " I have n't heard from him in years . " While Mr. Huong said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight against the French or against the repressions of the N , o Dinh Diem regime , he said he did not believe that any Saigon government , including his own if he was elected , could immediately undertake peace negotiations . " There must be negotiations , hut to tackle them we must have enough trumps , " he said . " We must get our own house in order first . " Mr. Huong ruled nut negotiations with the Vietcong , which , he said , had become " nothing but a North Vietnamese tool . " He also said there was no possibility of a successful coalition government .                     