@@726642

txt Europe can expect a barrage of banana sales talk . Growers in Central and South America , sensing a slippery feeling underfoot , are about to mount a major public-relations and diplomatic offensive there . They are concerned that France may attempt to squeeze their bananas . out of the Common Market in favor of smaller and more expensive fruit from the French Caribbean islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe . President de Gaulle could declare West Indian bananas a French domestic product , thus freeing them from all Common Market import duties . Meanwhile Latin-American bananas would stay bunched under a 20 percent tariff . Many Latin-American nations lean heavily on banana sales to Europe and the United States . The threat of French action was discussed in private at the recent meeting in Washington of the Organization of American States ( OAS ) . It was decided to send emissaries to Paris and other capitals to find out where the French stand on the banana issue  --  and to unpeel a sales and public-relations campaign . Efforts by the OAS to persuade Western Europe to quit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite action taken by the organization at its Washington conference , Cuba 's trading patterns with non-Communist countries could very well keep on increasing . Altogether nearly a quarter of Cuba 's trade in 1966 was with non-Communist countries . And so far this year the total continues to inch upward . The simple fact is that non-Communist lands other than nations within the inter-American system find Cuban trade profitable . 4 And , as one British official in Latin America noted recently , " The Cubans pay their bills . " Baseball attention may be glued to the World Series . But fang , in the Dominican . Republic can see past it to another series  --  five post . season exhibition games . with. , the National League 's sixth-place Pittsburgh Pirates . Beginning Oct. 18 the Pirates will tangle with an all-star Dominican team of major and minor leaguers . One factor sparking interest in the'homebase series is that this island nation has produced many players for American and National League teams . Three native sons currently on the Pirates ' roster : Matty Alou , Manny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be played in Santo Domingo . Santiago de los Caballeros , and San Pedro de Macoris . Trends ... A general scramble to improve air service is underway in the Caribbean . Tourists in growing numbers are taking off for the islands  --  particularly Puerto Rico , the Virgin Islands , and the Leeward and Windward strings . British West Indian Airways ( BWIA ) is a leading Caribbean carrier . With help from Trans-World Airlines , it is modernizing and gearing for expanded activity and possible new routes . Pan American World Airways , workhorse pioneer of many Caribbean routes it now shares with BWIA and other carriers , is stepping up service to Puerto Rico and elsewhere . Soon it will offer four direct turnaround flights weekly between Miami and the United States Virgin Islands . Caribair , Puerto Rico 's main air service , is also responding to demand . In the near future new jets will speed up and multiply its service to the sunshine seekers . Venezuela 's eastern Guayana region is fast developing into one of Latin America 's most important industrial zones . Paced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant , the area is attracting a variety of heavy industry . The hub of the region , Ciudad Guayana , has mushroomed from 4,000 persons 10 years ago to a city of 110,000 today . On Oct. 14 President Leoni of Venezuela Will take part in dedication exercises opening an aluminum plant ( operated jointly by Reynolds International and the Venezuelan Government ) , an electricity substation , a water-treatment plant for part of Ciudad Guayana , a new park overlooking the Caroni River which divides the city in half , and a major thoroughfare , Avenida Antonion de Berrio . Soon massive Guri Dam on the Caroni will produce power for much of the nation , including the capital city of Caracas .                     