@@722081

txt Fifty thousand Soviet combat troops and 10,000 Polish troops have arrived in Communist East Germany to take part in Warsaw Pact maneuvers near the West German border . Authoritative sources in . West Berlin said today that more units of the Soviet-bloc armed forces were arriving every day . An undisclosed number of Czechoslovak troops have also arrived in the southern part of East Germany , the sources said . The Polish and Soviet units Include paratroopers and other airborne troops . The sources said the Poles had brought tanks , artillery , at least 650 trucks and enough field kitchens to provide meals for three divisions . The Polish units began moving across the border into East Germany last Thursday near Szczecin , At the same time , the Soviet combat units started coming into Germany at Frankfurt an . der Oder and at Guren , both on the East German-Polish border . The sources said many of the Polish units were now carrying out maneuvers in the East German district of Schwerin , only five miles from the West German border . Meanwhile , Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside Berlin . Observers here speculated that the maneuvers would include an airdrop by Polish paratroopers . The only indication of the presence of the new Soviet-bloc units given by the East German press was a picture of two Polish paratroopers that appeared in a week-end issue of the Erfurt newspaper Das Volk . The 50,000 new Soviet troops brought the strength of Soviet army combat units in East Germany up to 300,000 , according to the observers here . It is understood that elements of these Soviet units were seen in the Moscow area only three weeks ago . The . extent of the Czechoslovak build-up in East Germany could not he determined , but it is understood that Czechoslovak general staff officers have been seen in some places . The observers said the largescale troop movements appeared to be only the beginning of a build-up of Communist bloc forces in East Germany . It was speculated that the build-up would reach its peak about Oct. 24 . These are the largest military maneuvers ever organized by the Soviet-bloc military organization , which was formed in 1955 . An estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army was also reported to be taking part in the maneuvers . The authoritative sources noted that the Polish units in East Germany were escoted by members of the People 's Police ; not members of the People 's Army . This was seen as an indication that East Germany 's " National Defense Law , " an ' emergency enabling act adopted Sept. 20 , had not gone into full effect . The act gave the Government wide powers to mobilize the citizenry in the event of a " national defense emergency . " The East German Council of Ministers issued a decree today empowering the Minister of Defense , General . of the . Army Heinz Hoffmann , to extend for six months the duty of " certain units " of the People 's Army and of soldiers and officers due for release this fall . Five East German Communist newspapers , including Neues Deutschland , the main organ of the ruling Socialist Unity ( Communist ) party , complained sharply of shortcomings in the harvesting of potatoes on collective farms . ' The newspapers reported that despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , " poor organisation and unsatisfactory use of machines " had resulted in serious ) setbacks , particularly in the districts of Erfurt , Suhi and Neubrandenburg . In West Berlin , a United States Army spokesman reported that four more persons had , been flown from the isolated Western enclave of Steinstuecken into the city . Twelve persons had been flown out ear lier . They were presumed to be East German refugees . Police officials in West Berlin reported that twelve East Germans escaped duying the night and today across the everwidening Communist barriers surrounding the city .                     