@@722758

txt White Sulphur Springs , W. Va. , Nov. 4 ( AP ) - Three persons , including the wife of an Indiana industrialist , were killed today when a light plane crashed near the summit of Greenbrier mountain near here . George E. Price , 46 , president of National Homes company , of Lafayette , Ind. , and his advertising director , Allan C. Dibble , survived when the twin-engine Beechcraft crashed northwest of the airport here . Killed were Price 's wife , Eleanor ; Benson Newton Munro , 45 , pilot ; and Charles Edward Compliment , : 11 , co-pilot , all of Lafayette . Found in Plane The victims were found in the wrecked plane , from which pieces of the tail section and wings had been torn . Dibble 's leg was broken and he was in shock , but his condition was not believed serious . Price managed to walk off the mountain and was picked up by a state police cruiser three hours after the crash . Price was hospitalized at Ronceverte with minor cuts on the face . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The crash was witnessed by Billy Campbell of Huntington , former captain of the - United States Walker cup team , who was golfing near the airport . He reported the accident to Oscar Tate , operator of the Greenbrier hotel airport , who flew over the scene . Tate reported that the plane did not burn . He said the pilot had communicated with the airport while at 6,000 feet . He passed over the field , Tate said , then turned back on in approach pattern . The plane passed over a beacon on Kate 's mountain , east of the airport , then struck Greenbrier mountain . Price was coming to the hotel for the convention of the Home Manufacturers Association , of which he is president . Stops at Pittsburgh Another National Homes executive , Anson , vice president in charge of sales , was aboard the plane when it left the Purdue airport in Lafayette this morning . However , he got off in Pittsburgh . A company pilot and two passengers were killed in 1951 when a plane crashed while trying to land at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Price and his brother , James R. , were injured in that crash and spent several weeks in a hospital . The two brothers founded the company in 1940 . It now is the world 's largest manufacturer of prefabricated houses . George became president three years ago , when his brother moved wp from president to chairman . Mr. and Mrs. George Price bad two children , Barbara Kay and C. William .                     