@@726367

txt More than 600 men and women shouting their opposition to the city 's rent-control law knocked over police barricades yesterday , swarmed up the steps of City Hall and fought with the police in an attempt to reach Mayor Lindsay 's offices . Six panes of glass in the five double doors at the front of City Hall and three window panes were smashed , some by rocks that flew from the crowd , others by the clenched fists of the demonstrators and at least one by the head of a policeman who was slammed back against the doors . The demonstrators described themselves as owners of small rent-controlled buildings . Only a minority were believed to employ the unionized building service workers who are on strike at about 1,000 rent-controlled buildings in Manhattan . Two Women Injured In the fracas two women were slightly injured ? one a demonstrator who fell in the rush up the stairs and the other a Lindsay secretary who was struck in the ankle by a rock that crashed through a door . Three men in the crowd were arrested . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of demonstrators and they all ended up rolling on the ground . During the 15 minutes in which the crowd struggled with scores of police , Vito Battista , a longtime critic of city officials and their tax policies , stood atop a ladder with a battery-operated microphone and shouted such things as , " We need a Mayor , not an actor , " and " The police will let the hippies go but arrest the taxpayers . " Mayor Condemns Protest The noise of the disturbance drifted into the Mayor 's offices as he was holding a news conference . He criticized the demonstrators as " irresponsible and crude , " and he refused to meet with them as they had demanded . Instead , he ordered the police , who soon numbered 150 , to arrest any who broke the law and then he left by a back door to keep his appointments . Only hours earlier , the Mayor , seeking an end to the strike of building service workers here , which is entangled in the whole rent-control issue , announced that he was taking court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent-controlled buildings . The landlords of the big rentcontrolled buildings , most of whom are represented by the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee , have said that they can not pay the higher wages demanded by the striking workers until the city modifies the rent law to allow higher rents . The workers , who are custodians , doormen , elevator operators and handymen , and are members of Local 32B of the Building Service Employes International Union , average $85 a week . The union negotiated a new three-year contract with many luxury and middle-income apartments here last month that called for an $18-a-week increase over the period of the contract . The rent-controlled properties refused to go along . Private discussions continued yesterday between the landlords ' committee and city officials in an effort to reach a compromise agreement on changes in the law . But there was no report of progress . The owners issued a statement repeating that they " do not seek abolition of rent control " but " meaningful relief " to be able to meet rising labor and other costs . If no agreement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much larger  --  disturbance will exist . Three groups whose interests are far from mutual have announced independently that they plan demonstrations at City Hall that morning . Yesterday 's Group to Return The small-building owners who demonstrated yesterday vowed to come back next Tuesday . The building service union , which has 100,000 members in 21 different locals , has asked all those members to attend a " union meeting " at the same time . And the Metropolitan Council on Housing , which represents tenants , has announced it plans to be there too . The reason they have all selected Tuesday morning is that the City Council is scheduled to take up a series of amendments to the rent law proposed by the Lindsay Administration and approved by the council 's Committee on General Welfare . The amendments would allow for rent increases in several thousand apartments , but have been criticized by the owners as inadequate and a backward step . The West Side Emergency Tenants Council , which is encouraging tenants in struck buildings to withhold rents after consultation with a lawyer , said yesterday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings might attempt to do so . There were reports of similar activities by other committees . The city 's decision to speed-up its action on applications from tenants for rent reduction because of lack of services was contested in Brooklyn Supreme Court . Justice Louis B. Heller signed an order requiring Frederic S. Berman , the city Rent Administrator , to show cause why the city should not be stopped from reducing the rents . The order is returnable at 9:30 next Friday . It was obtained by Alfred S. Friedman , who manages several apartment houses here . In the disturbance on the steps of City Hall yesterday , the three men arrested were identified by the police as Harry Stern about 40 years old , of 202 West 40th Street ; Raymond Galliani , 37 , of 154 East 106th Street and Robert Maloff , 36 , of 63 John Street , Englewood Cliffs , N. J. Mr. Stern and Mr. Galliani were charged with disorderly conduct and released in Criminal Court for a hearing June 14 . Mr. Malott , charged with resisting arrest , was held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 21 . Mr. Maloff was described as a property owner in the city . Mr. Galliani has been a close associate of Mr. Battista . Rock Hits Woman Mrs. Ethel Baum , 49 , of 3137 Coney Island Avenue , Brooklyn , was the demonstrator who struck her head when she fell on the steps of City Hall . Miss Edie Radley , 28 , an assistant appointments secretary to the Mayor , was struck in the leg by a rock while she was standing in the foyer behind closed front doors . Among the things that aroused the crowd was the fact that a group of so-called hippies , who live in the East Village and have had trouble with the police this week , were said to be meeting in City Hall . The demonstrators wanted to know why a committee of their own could n't meet inside as well . When they stormed to the top of the steps , some demonstrators swung at the police who were trying to - restrain the crowd with hastily arranged wooden barriers . The dozen police directly in front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neck muscles bulging at the height of the push . The fight between the demonstrators and the two workmen , who declined to give their names but said they work for the Arrow Building Cleaning Company , started after a demonstrator interfered with a generator supplying the workmen with water power to sandblast the west side of City Hall . The workmen exchanged at least a dozen punches with five demonstrators . One of the demonstrators was spun around three times by a right punch to the side of his head and landed about 15 feet away at the foot of a car . The demonstrators began gathering about 11 A.M. , stormed the doors at 12:15 and , after sitting on the steps , began leaving about 2 P.M.                     