@@721863

txt LONDON , June 4 ? Londoners turned out by the scores of thousands tonight to welcome President Kennedy in the luminous glow of Britain 's famous June twilight . The President said his 28 hours in London would be a " fitting climax " to what he called " a long and ( after a considerable pause varied journey . " President Kennedy pointed out he was no stranger to Britain , that he had spent many months here before the war , two of his sisters had " the good judgment to marry citizens of Great Britain , " and tomorrow he would " assume my most sober responsibility of becoming the godfather of a new English citizen . " Met by Macmillan Turning to Prime Minister Harold Macmillan , who met him at London airport on his arrival from Vienna 45 minutes late , President Kennedy said , " I am especially glad , Mr. Prime Minister , to have the opportunity of counseling with you . " Macmillan , in welcoming Kennedy on his first visit to Britain as President , said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hearing just what happened on your long journey . " " You have seen many distinguished personalities , " the prime minister said , rolling out the word " distinguished " with a chuckle . Estimated at 250,000 Britons lined the 10 mile route from the airport to midLondon . Police estimated the number at 250,000 , far fewer than the crowd that turned out to greet President Eisenhower two years ago . Several thousand " ban-thebomb " demonstrators w e r e scattered along the route with banners and black and white pennants . Frequently they chanted " Ban-the-bomb " as the President and prime minister passed in an open car . Equally frequently , the demonstrators were surrounded by groups who cheered and clapped loudly to show support for the Anglo-American alliance . As the President left the airport , a demonstrator tried to throw himself in the path of the Presidential car but was pulled back by police and promptly fainted . Wears Gray Salt " Good ' old Jack " was the cry as President Kennedy , carrying a hat and wearing a gray suit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighted on his wife who followed him in an extremely short , navy blue , two - piece dress ; highcrowned , brimmed beige hat , navy blue bag , and pointed shoes . Lady Dorothy Macmillan , wife of the prime minister ; Princess Lee Radziwill , Mrs. Kennedy 's sister ; and David Bruce , the new American ambassador to Britain , also , were in the airport welcoming party . Princess Radziwill , whose daughter , Anna Christina , is being christened tomorrow afternoon , like her sister , Wan in a short waisted. two-piece dress , but the princess wore black . Lawrence Roger Lumley , who is Lord Scarborough , also was there to welcome the Kennedys in the queen 's name . Scarborough is lord chamberlain to Queen Elizabeth , . who with the duke of Edinburgh will have President and Mrs. Kennedy to dinner tomorrow evening at Buckingham palace . Britons today were recalling the only other occasion upon which an American President in office dined at the palace . One tale of that visit ? it was by President Woodrow . Wilson and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been arrested by the sight of the lord chamberlain of that period walking backwards before the sovereign . Make " Private " Visit The Wilsons were entertained at a full fledged state banquet at the palace . But the Kennedys are to be guests at an informal dinner  --  informal because the Kennedys are.making now what is called a " private " visit to London . President Kennedy inspected a British naval guard of honor recalling his own war time service in the American navy . A British marine band played the " Star Spangled Banner . " The motor cavalcade swung swiftly past long rows of suburban houses , London 's show area of modern factories , red brick St. Paul 's school where President Eisenhower had a war time planning headquarters and explained the D-day , operation to the late King George VI , massive Victoria and Albert museum , the vivid greenery of huge Hyde park , pubs ' like Ye Olde Swan and Bag O'Nails , and past the stable entrance into Buckingham palace to turn into a narrow street leading to the small , three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mrs. Kennedy 's sister and her Polish-born husband , Prince Radziwill . Man Is Arrested The crowd was thickest outside this short street named Buckingham place . Some of the spectators had taken up their places opposite the house while the Kennedys were still in Vienna . As the President 's car drew up at the Radziwill house , a man shouting anti-nuclear slogans was arrested . Macmillan stayed with the Kennedys at the Radziwill house for 25 minutes . Tomorrow he will get a full report when the President comes to his office at Admiralty house for two hours before they are joined by their . wives for lunch . The President flies back to Washington overnight Tuesday . His wife and her sister go to Greece Wednesday for a vacation as guests of the Greek prime minister , Constantine Karamanlis.                     