@@727010

txt Gen. William C. Westmoreland 's departure from command of United States forces in South Vietnam will open the way further to new approaches to strategic problems of the conflict . And it will have a second major effect of at least equal importance . As Army chief of staff , General Westmoreland will be able to gain from his experience in Vietnam as he assesses the ability of the Army to cope with unconventional warfare . The Army , like its sister services , is very slow to change . Informed sources agree that the services have not yet fully coped with the problems posed by unconventional warfare , in which both objectives and means are limited . The four-star general , whose new assignment was announced by President Johnson March 22 , will be able to bring to bear the knoWledge gained in more than four years in the field in Vietnam . " I regret to leave this war-torn land before the battle is over and before peace is restored , " the general said in Saigon after learning the news by telephone , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // *Command change to open way to new Viet strategy // word from Gen. Earle G .. Wheeler , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  --  not from Mr. Johnson , who has been ' considering General Westmoreland 's bid for up to about 200,800 more troops . The President deferred selection of a successor . This raised speculation that Mr. Johnson might pass over . Gen. Creighton Abrams , General Westmoreland 's , deputy , in favor of a new face with a new strategy . General Westmoreland , who will replace retiring Gen. Harold K. Johnson as Army chief in the Pentagon on July 2 , said he would hope Abrams succeeds him as Vietnam war leader . " I have absolute confidence in the ability and leadership of General Abrams , " General Westmoreland said . Optimism recalled It appears now that the general will leave Vietnam with his forces and those of the United States allies neither vanquished nor victorious . Indeed , with much of the countryside still in a chaotic condition in the aftermath of the Tet offensive , and with the threat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed little of a comforting nature to be found in current assessments of the war . Times have changed since the elegantly attired and handsome general stood before a National Press Club audience here in November and ticked off meticulously the successes of the past and the plans for the future . It was a very optimistic report given to bolster a sagging national Morale . And it gave precision to the expression of the administration 's goals in Vietnam . General Westmoreland said ; at that time that the fourth and final phase " lies within our grasp  --  the enemy 's hopes , are bankrupt . " Now , a little more than four months later , the general probably would agree that the statement was overoptimistic . It was a statement born of the successes of last summer and fall . At that time , the North Vietnamese and the Viet Cong were having recruitment , ' supply , and fighting problems . There were signs of allied success on every side . But then , the enemy strategy changed and forces were marshaled , for a big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they apparently miscalculated both time and dimension of the effort . That was a sad error . But there have been other erroneous appraisals of enemy intentions and capabilities , sources here agree . When General Westmoreland assumed command of U.S. forces in Vietnam in August , 1964 , there were well under 20,000 U.S. troops present in Vietnam . Now there are well over 500,000 . General Westmoreland assumed command in the months before ' the big escalation began . Its assessment was that a catastrophic ? defeat was certain unless U.S. forces were rushed in . Pacification program Then the most pressing problem was an essentially military one  --  the prevention of defeat . Since then , the political aspects of the war have become steadily more important . In the past few months it has become clear that the people of South Vietnam must be won over to the government side and that the government must be sup- ported and effective for there to be a favorable end to the war . Only in the past year has the pacification program received major and continued emphasis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of pure necessity because of the overriding military problems of the war . But the Tet offensive , by demonstrating the great extent of non-commitment among the South Vietnamese , pointed out the military importance of pacification and reform . Strategists here argue that the United States now must insist upon performance by the South Vietnamese Government , and it must devise ways of assuring results . More and more , these same strategists argue , the United States must be prepared to bolster the Saigon government as it helps itself , rather than provide so much pervasive support . ? The changing situation in Vietnam has brought to light other problems . A committee guided by Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford now is trying to gain a precise understanding of the problems posed in Vietnam and how best to deal with them . Other studies are also being conducted . From these the President will formulate a revised strategy . Problems ahead Some things are clear : A budget supplement of perhaps as much as $5 billion may be needed . A moderate number of troops above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the end of the year . And the allied nations are to be asked to increase their effort as much as possible . With the precise nature of the new strategy still undisclosed , and with enemy intentions and capabilities to respond to any changes equally uncertain , it is difficult to say what the future will bring . But it is clear that General Westmoreland was not to be the man of that future . As one Pentagon analyst put it bluntly , " Westy has simply far outlived his usefulness . " There would appear to be several reasons for this , none of them reflecting particularly unfavorably upon the veteran general : ? If the South Vietnamese Government is to be confronted with stricter requirements , it would be well for the word to be given by a new voice . A new man probably would be able to give greater meaning to a harder approach than could General Westmoreland , who has been forced to be rather permissive in his attitude and rather gentle in his approach to many matters . ? If new approaches to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in having a new team to try them . ? It is likely that American forces would receive a boost under a new commander . An equally capable general with different ways could shake old patterns and instill new drive simply because of his altered approach , if nothing else . Extracurricular duties General Westmoreland has performed yeoman service during the past several years . In addition to his extremely difficult military tasks , he has taken on the burden of being host to multitudes of visitors to the war zone . He has welcomed visitors and treated them handsomely on the theory that observation will lead to understanding . And he has been ready to return to the United States according to political dictates to address the Congress , various other groups , and the press . It is doubtful that any U.S. war-zone commander has before been beset with so many extracurricular duties . When General Westmoreland 's service is analyzed in the aftermath of the war , it will be difficult to give him his fair share of credit for successes and blame of failures . The war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major decisions have been made in Washing . ton not in Vietnam . There nave been very few important matters in which the general has had a free hard . And the task of bolstering and guiding a weak ally against a strong foe supported well from outside has been an extremely difficult task . But the fact remains that there are many problems with which the Saigon command has not come to grips . Sources here agree that the blame rests on many shoulders here and in Vietnam . But it is certain that under General Westmoreland allied forces did avert military defeat in South Vietnam . Now his successor is to be charged with a major responsibility for trying to keep the elusive military advantage and for pressing the allied movement toward the winning of peace .                     