@@725892

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 42 Letters to the Editor of The Times Connor Cites Staten Island Planning To the Editor : In your Nov. 2 edition your editorial refers to the " sordid and scandalous land exploitation in Staten Island to which the Borough President has been consistently unresponsive . " I am becoming somewhat cynical of the Pavlovian reaction of The Times in any situation in which an elected official does not happen to agree with your views . Upon taking office the first of this year I succeeded in obtaining a moratorium on the sale of city-owned lands on Staten Island . Recently I was successful in having this moratorium continued until such time as this borough , through orderly planning and implementation , could adequately service the needs of the influx of families to the Borough of Richmond . A minimum amount of research by The New York Times would have confirmed these facts . Since a large majority of the underdeveloped lands on Staten Island are currently held by the city , it certainly seems to me that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Help Welcomed With respect to the Office of Staten Island Development , I have repeatedly stated that my office needs and appreciates all possible help in the planning of our borough . I would be delighted to have a coordinator and his staff devoted to such planning here in Staten Island . In the interest of orderly and efficient administration , such a function should be properly placed within the Department of City Planning ; but to set it up as an individual arm of the Mayor , with a director , leads to duplication , confusion , and , as presently constituted , an undermining of the Borough President 's office . As an elected official responsible and responsive to the electorate of this borough , I have no intention of presiding over the liquidation of the office of Borough President . ROBERT T. CON NOR Staten Island , N. Y. Nov. 2 , 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . Voting Procedure To the Editor : The voting procedure with respect to the constitutional convention delegates at large was a slap in the face of every conscientious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anyone who wished to register votes for individual candidates rather than vote for a party was faced with a procedure which defied execution in the three minutes afforded in the election booth . The election officials undoubtedly recognized the possibility of such procedure inhibiting good-faith voting . Nevertheless , nothing was , done to facilitate the process so as to abate the possible negative consequences . Was it not feasible for the election officials to furnish instructions regarding this procedure to the voter before he entered the booth ? Such a. flaw in the design of the ballot acts to strip the citizenry of its most effective and precious power  --  the selection of its leaders ; and thereby tends to transfer this power to the caucuses of the political parties . Such disparagement of the voting system and democracy is intolerable and must not be repeated . ALAN LIPPEL Bronx , Nov. 8 , 1966 ? Election Reform To the Editor : Nelson Rockefeller 's victory , although impressive , represents only a minority of the vote . This certainly raises questions which should be addressed to the constitutional convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York State . It would seem to me that the new Constitution should provide that where no candidate gets a majority of the vote ' in the election for a statewide office , there should be a runoff election between the two highest candidates . Otherwise , for reasons of personal rivalry , spite and cheap political manipulation , two or more candidates with similar views could accumulate a large majority of the vote and yet a candidate with completely different and entirely minority views could be elected Governor . Another step should he taken by the convention to eliminate spite candidates . This would be a provision that unless a candidate won the nomination of the party of which he is a member he could not accept the nomination of any other party . Independent candidates are more often motivated by considerations or envy , jealousy and hatred than they are motivated by lofty purpose . Most people in public life do good for the public because they crave admiration and approbation . They derive approbation and admiration from good deeds , but let us remember that glory is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means . The two above reforms in the election procedures of New York State would put a real brake on people whose motivation is questionable along these lines . GEORGE V. PALAIER Chairman Schenectady County Democratic Committee Schenectady , Nov. 9 , 1966 ? Robert Moses ' Views on Verse To the Editor : " The Computer has replaced Apollo . " What an astounding statement ! The writer of the Nov. 1 editorial entitled " Mr. Moses and the Poets , " in calling Mr. Moses to task for his recent uncomplimentary references to contemporary verse , has , however , by the above quoted statement , given strength to the very criticism he seeks to invalidate . For it does seem that much of the verse that is being published in leading newspapers and magazines today surely must spring from a computer mind rather than from an Apollo-inspired intellect . Dull , labyrinthian , , the majority of modern poets appear more concerned with making their lines unintelligible rather than intelligible to the reader . Cocoon - wrapped in their own private interests rather than the interests of man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who , today more than ever , seeks from poetry a beauty and meaning which he may apply to his life . " The Moseses , " who include this writer , do not deny the modern poet 's need to explore new areas of experience and to devise new forms . We agree that they must treat the modern mechanized world in fitting terms . But those of us who turn away from the bloodless verse of today , turn away because we do not find there the reflection of that " magical perception lighting up the mind . " Rather , we find a selfish obscurity of thought satisfying only to the poet himself , ROSALIND D. CLARK Meriden , Conn. , Nov. 1 , 1966 ? New Forms in Poetry To the Editor : The underlying thought In your editorial " Mr. Moses and the Poets " should arrest the attention of those , too many , who want the artists to show today in yesterday 's forms . So to paraphrase your memorable words , " If the artists are not merely to imitate themselves , repeating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's conditions . " We must not deny any of our artists respectiful attention when they are so venturesome . Who but you would be interested ? I do commend you for your concern with this subject , one which may seem immaterial to some , but which ought to be of vital interest to all . ALBERT CIIRIST-JA NER Dean of the Art School Pratt Institute Brooklyn , Nov. 1 , 1966 ?                     