@@727304

txt Huge missiles streak upward . Then the sky over the entire U.S. erupts in blinding flashes as scores of hydrogen bombs explode in outer space some 200 miles overhead . A second salvo of smaller , cone-shaped missiles roars up from underground silos , and in less time than it takes for 50 heart beats , the air is filled with fireballs of atomic bombs detonating in the upper atmosphere about 20 miles above the ground . This is antiballistic missile defense , the two-tier nuclear " umbrella " that the U.S. , in theory anyway , could throw up to protect its cities and its own offensive missile sites against an enemy attack . The system is yet to be built , and it has never been tested . Yet , antiballistic missile ( ABM ) defense is fast becoming one of the most controversial military programs ever conceived by the Pentagon . The controversy already equals that which accompanied the nuclear test ban treaty and likely will exceed the furor over the F-111 fighter-bomber . At stake , say both proponents and opponents , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , enormous sums are involved  --  anywhere from $5 billion to $80 billion in defense contracts , depending on how extensive any U.S. ABM system would be . This is money that otherwise could be used to fight poverty in U.S. cities , according to ' critics anyway . A Pentagon Decision The controversy has broken out as a result of the Pentagon 's decision to build a $5 billion antimissile system called Sentinel , designed to fend off a nuclear attack by a country possessing relatively few and relatively unsophisticated missiles . Sentinel 's supporters claim that it could save perhaps 30 million American lives from a Chinese missile attack in the 1970s . But some leading U.S. scientists say that Sentinel would be obsolete before it could be completed . They say that even the Chinese could develop means of penetrating the system far faster than it could be deployed . And they worry that , despite Pentagon denials , Sentinel really represents only the first step in the building of a massive  --  but , they think , equally futile  --  ABM system , costing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian attack . Some Congressmen and defense companies have long been pressing for such a system . As the situation now stands , Congressional proponents of Sentinel have managed to get $227 million appropriated for construction of Sentinel sites within the next few months . The next stage in the dispute will begin next month , when appropriations for actual Sentinel " hardware " are to be voted on . The Congressional discussions could well drag on until election time , and there are signs that the Republicans may increasingly attack the Johnson Administration with charges of recklessly neglecting ABM defense . The " Thin " Version The ABM dispute is not new . Military planners , politicians and scientists have argued over the antimissile question for at least a decade . The U.S. has poured some $4 billion into ABM research and development , first under the code-name Nike-Zeus and , since 1963 , under the Nike-X designation . The Nike-X effort has been oriented around a so-called thick ABM system directed against the Soviets ; Sentinel is the " thin , " or first-stage version . As presently designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and two sets of missiles . The first sign of imminent enemy attack would come shortly after the enemy missiles were launched and arcing toward the U.S. They would be spotted by new , long-range radar units , consisting of thousands of electronic elements imbedded in concrete . The radar beams would be steered electronically and could sweep 1,500 miles away , far beyond the visual horizon , in millionths of a second . Backed by computers , the long-range radar would track the enemy missiles for a few minutes , plotting their trajectory and position . This data would be fed to a second complex of radars and computers located at the sites of the defensive missiles . These missile-site radars would provide an even more precise report on the incoming missiles and would guide the U.S. missiles to their targets . High-Level Interception The first defensive Missiles to roar up to meet the attack would be the Spartan missiles . Loaded with hydrogen-bomb warheads , the Spartans would intercept attacking missiles perhaps 200 miles away , well above the Earth 's atmosphere in the vacuum of space . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sources outside the Government estimate as many as 200 to 300 Spartans would be deployed in the Sentinel system . Presumably , only those Spartans protecting the sRecific areas under attack would be launched . Ripping into the air-at 5,000 miles an hour , the Spartans could intercept the enemy missiles in perhaps three minutes . As they neared the enemy warheads , the Spartans ' H-bombs would start exploding , each with the force of millions of tons of TNT ( the Hiroshima bomb was equal only to 20,000 tons ) . Persons looking skyward at the moment would be blinded , some perhaps permanently because of retinal burns . Pentagon officials do n't talk much about how the H-bombs would destroy the incoming missiles , but the process has been described , by civilian physicists such as Ralph E. Lapp , who writes and lectures on weapons and politics , and Hans Bethe , the Nobel Prize-wiimer front Cornell University . The explosions , brilliant but soundless in the vacuum of space , would take place - in a tenth of a millionth of a second , claims Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of invisible X rays . If an enemy warhead were within a couple of miles , the tremendous burst of X-rays would damage its heat shield and the warhead would probably burn up when it reentered the Earth 's atmosphere . The enemy warheads that managed to plunge through this X-ray curtain would be met by cone-shaped Sprint missiles , armed with nuclear warheads considerably less powerful than those of the long-range Spartans . The Sprints would intercept and blow up the enemy warheads when they were some 20 miles away ( this presumably would n't bring on a detonation of the enemy warheads , though some ABM critics worry about such a possibility ) . The blast of the atomic bombs carried by the Sprints would send some radioactive fallout down to earth , backers of the system concede ; it is uncertain how drastic the effects would be . System proponents view whatever fallout might occur as the price that would have to be paid to prevent the incalculably greater damage that would result from enemy missiles hitting their targets in the U.S. Broad-Area Defense The Spartan missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northeastern Iowa , for example , would supposedly defend all of Iowa , Missouri , Illinois and Wisconsin , plus much of Minnesota , Nebraska , Kansas , Oklahoma , Arkansas , Indiana and Michigan . Sprint batteries would defend only specific points , such as the sites of intercontinental attack missiles , perhaps . Under present plans , the Sentinel system would deploy 15 to 20 Spartan batteries across the country . Army surveyors recently have inspected possible sites in the cities of Albany , Ga. , Chicago , Dallas , New York , Salt Lake City , Seattle , Boston and Detroit , and in the states of North Dakota and Hawaii . No specific plans for Sprint missile locations have been announced . How well would Sentinel actually work if it were deployed ? In the early 1960 's , antimisBiles from Kwajalein Island in the Pacific successfully intercepted intercontinental missiles launched from California . And before the nuclear test ban of 1963 there were tests of nuclear explosions at high altitudes . There has been considerable research and development since then , despite the banning of nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pentagon officials ? argue , would be an effective defense against a small attack by relatively crude and unsophisticated intercontinental missiles . " We are confident that this sophisticated defense can provide us with high assurance of denying damage to the United States from the will of attack the Chinese Peoples Republic will be able to launch in the mid-seventies , " Paul H. Nitze , Deputy Secretary of Defense , told the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy when it held hearings on Sentinel in 1967 . Pentagon Estimates Pentagon researchers calculate that the Chinese would have to rain more than 75 nucleartipped missiles on the U.S. before any could break through a Sentinel defense . Without any Sentinel defense , however , such an attack would kill 20 million to 30 million Americans , officials say . Skeptics , however , contend that if China wanted to attack the U.S. mainland , Sentinel would merely force the Chinese to turn to other means of getting their H-bombs to American targets . They could launch missiles from submarines or detonate a few H-bombs off the U.S. West Coast and let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear . Why would the Chinese attack the U.S. ? Top Pentagon officials , apparently including Defense Secretary Clark Clifford , say that Sentinel is designed to protect against a " highly improbable miscalculation " by the Red Chinese . As Assistant Defense Secretary Paul C. Warnke explains it : " In a crisis which they had brought on , if the Chinese came to believe that the United States might attack , they might be tempted to launch a preemptive strike , hoping to bring down at least a part of the American house in the face of total destruction . . . . " On the other hand , in testimony before the Joint Atomic Energy Committee , Mrs. Alice Langley Hsieh , a Rand Corp . specialist on China , said that " all of these ( Pentagon arguments ) add up to one thing , that the Chinese are prepared to commit suicide ( and ) in my analysis in the years I have studied Chinese military policy I have seen no suicidal tendencies on their part . " Mrs. Hsieh suggested that the Chinese may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intimidate Asian neighbors . Pressure From Congress It 's partly because they regard the possibility of an attack by Red China as so unlikely that opponents of ABM defense charge that Sentinel really is the first stage of a " thick " ABM system directed against Russian attack . Congressional pressure for an ABM defense became intense in 1966 , they note , precisely when former Defense Secretary Robert S. announced that intelligence indicated the Soviets might be building an ABM ring around Moscow . It was this Congressional pressure , it 's generally agreed , that led directly to the decision to go ahead with Sentinel . Proponents of a thick ABM system interpret Russia 's move to build an ABM defense as a sign that the Soviets believe that a nuclear attack against the U.S. might be winnable if they possessed an ABM system and the U.S. did not . At the least , ABM proponents worry that Russia might be tempted into nuclear blackmail tactics , especially if it expands its now-small AMB network . Thus , proponents of a thick ABM defense for the U.S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to $80 billion , would be worth the cost Others , including some Pentagon officials , retort that this would lead to an unreasonable escalation of the Russian-American arms race . The present state of technology , they say , precludes the development of any effective thick ABM defense , either by the Russians or the U.S. Among their arguments : Warheads could be made more resistant to X rays . Decoys could be used that would confuse ABM radar ( the real warheads could be singled out only after they entered the atmosphere where they would fall faster than lighter decoys ) . Closerange Sprint defense missiles could be circumvented by aiming at unprotected locations . Accordingly , many experts argue that the best defense will continue to be the sort of overwhelming offense that would hopefully deter any potential attacker . Toward this end , the U.S. has been developing a system called MIRV , or " multiple , independently targeted , reentry vehicle . " In a MIRV , the H-bomb tip of an intercontinental missile would be replaced by perhaps as many as 10 smaller ones . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different target . A MIRV missile carrying 10 warheads could destroy 10 times as many airfields or missile sites as a single-warhead missile and 8.5 times as many cities of 100,000 population , according to the Defense Department . Officials seeking to avoid what they regard as a senseless step-up in the arms race are hoping that Russia and America will manage to work out agreements that eventually would limit each other 's production of such missiles as MIRV and would prevent building vast ABM networks . The two super-powers already have agreed to discuss setting up talks aimed at limiting strategic weapons , but no dates have been set .                     