@@726327

txt American businessmen are feeling some uneasiness about doing business in Greece following the military coup . A few firms have delayed investments until the dust settles . But most are going ahead with planned projects . The new government has gone out ? of its way to assure foreign investors their capital is welcome . Indeed , the regime has cleared away much of the undergrowth of corruption , bureaucratic delay , and inefficiency that has discouraged overseas investors in recent years . But the unpopularity of the junta may frighten away major new investments . Deals might be abrogated or altered by a new democratic government . It has happened before in Greece . Tourism , a major factor in the Greek economy , has been damaged by the military dictatorship . Airlines and cruise lines report some cancellations . But the setback is not considered too serious . Business is picking up again . But one group is taking care to stay away ? young Greek-American men . They fear that , despite their American citzenship , they might be drafted into the Greek Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may make drastic changes in the way they cable information . Some messages already travel by satellite , as well as by cable and radio . It is satellite communications which will cause the revolution , Comsat officials say . At present a message from Lagos , Nigeria , to Boston probably would go by high-frequency radio to London , thence by underwater cable to New York , and finally by landlines to Boston . With a satellite aloft , a message leaving a ground station in Nigeria could be bounced directly to a similar station at Andover , Maine , north of Boston . This could reduce costs enormously . Newspapermen are already talking about cheaper and better communications with distant parts of the globe . Defense spending has immense impact on prices and competition . Just how much is being investigated by the Senate antitrust subcommittee . There is a feeling on the committee that the Defense Department may not be trying hard enough to encourage competition for its contracts , preferring instead the easy rapport that builds with regular suppliers . One example of what the committee is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion spent annually on defense goes to 25 companies . The way inventions are bought is also a source of concern . Sources say there is some evidence that lone inventors and small companies are forced to go through a complicated bureaucratic system to try to sell their products to the Pentagon . But the way always seems open to big companies that know which door to knock on . Hearings on these problems will be held this summer . Trends ... Holography  --  a new kind of photography which records objects in three dimensions ? is awaking business interest . Numerous companies are researching this novel technique . So far , holography has been mainly a laboratory curiosity . Making good 3-D images is a formidable task , involving an array of lasers , mirrors , and lenses . But new methods of making holograms have significantly reduced costs . Some 3-D images now can be viewed without the aid of special light sources . Even multicolored holograms are coming into view . Much development is still required . But not so far down the beam businessmen can see commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to detect imperfections in their structures . ? To provide product displays showing 3-D images of such heavy-to-transport items as machine tools . 0 Business is picking up between Britain and the Soviet Union . Each is planning to expand its purchases of the other 's consumer goods . Britain will increase its import quota for Soviet cars by 20 percent ; treble its quotas for alarm clocks and transistor radios , and double those for handmade carpets and galvanized buckets . And Britain will import 20 percent more Soviet window glass . The Soviets in turn will more than double their purchases of British clothing , knitwear , footwear , and , most probably later on , cars .                     