@@727429

txt Apollo 7 wound up a full week in space today with a successful test firing of the rocket engine that future astronauts must rely on to get them into and out of a moon orbit . " Rub-a-dub-a-doo , " said the commander , Capt . Walter M , Schirra of the Navy , as the 20,500-pound thrust engine kicked on and boosted the spaceship into a higher orbit . " She performed beautifully . " After the 66-second firing , longest of the eight planned for this mission , Glynn S. Lunney , the flight director on earth , indicated that the engine seemed to have passed its qualification test for a lunar journey . It was the engine 's fifth test firing on this mission . Mr. I.unncy said // the engine ' ' has worked very , ' well and the guidance systems has controlled it very well . " The engine is situated in the spacecraft 's 22-foot-long rear : compartment which is called the service module . On a flight to the moon , its critical assignment is to brake the spacecraft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orbit and to boost it out of orbit for the return to earth . In the test this morning . Apollo 's computerized guidance system automatically fired the engine . Then Captain Schirra took over manual control as is the practice in case the automatic controls should fail . Because of an apparent misunderstanding between Captain Schirra and ground controllers , the Apollo commander failed to cut off the engine himself ? but the automatic controls switched it off in time . With its added velocity from the firing , the spacecraft soared from a maximum altitude of 165 miles to 282 miles . The Apollo is flying an eggshaped orbit that takes it to a low point of 102 miles altitude when it passes over the point , off Cape Kennedy , Fla. , where it first went into orbit . The eighth and final test of the engine is scheduled Tuesday morning , the 11th day of the mission , to initiate Apollo 7 's descent to a splashdown in the Atlantic Ocean some 230 miles southwest of Bermuda . The aircraft carrier Essex is standing by to recover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Air Force and Walter Cunningham , a civilian . Mission controllers said this afternoon that Hurricane Gladys in the Gulf of Mexico off Florida was not expected to interfere with recovery plans . Nor was it expected to force technicians at Cape Kennedy , on the Atlantic side of Florida , to move the Saturn 5 rocket off the launching pad . This is the rocket for the next Apollo flight in December . If it had to be removed , it might delay the launching into January . Early this morning , before the engine test , the astronauts noted that the temperature was rising steadily in one of the three fuel cells that generate electricity for the spacecraft . All three cells were necessary to furnish power to operate the engine firing . So , on instructions from flight controllers , the astronauts shut down the balky fuel cell to let it cool off , then restarted it just before the firing . It was cut off again tonight while the astronauts rested and the Apollo 's power needs were slight . Engineers here suspected that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocked , preventing the flow of coolants throughout the unit . The cells produce electricity by the chemical reaction of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen , which , as a by-product , makes the spacecraft 's water . The astronauts also spotted a strange brown substance on the syringe-like injector used to put a daily dose , of chlorine into the craft 's drinking water tank . Doctors said that it was probably the injector 's lubricant that was oxidized by the acid in the chlorine . They said it was not toxic , and the astronauts reported none of it had showed up in their water . A communications blackout on the ground gave flight controllers a momentary start late this morning and caused them to lose a couple of minutes of coded data coining from the spacecraft . Voice communications with the astronauts were not affected . The trouble occurred at a relay station in Pennsboro , W. Va . Two telegraph lines passed through there from the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt , Md. , which serves as Apollo 's master switching center , and the Manned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . According to flight directors , one line failed temporarily and the data were switched to the back-up line . The trouble lasted about nine minutes , but the data lost were not considered essential . The astronauts , at their own request , did not put on a television show from their spacecraft today . But they plan to televise their activities tomorrow starting at 8:07 A.M. , Eastern daylight time . Early this morning , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration reported that the second stage of the Saturn 1-B that launched the astronauts into space plunged into the atmosphere over the Indian Ocean and presumably burned up . The astronauts had used the ? rocket as a rendezvous target earlier in the mission .                     