@@727398

txt Police Supt. James B. Conlisk said yesterday be has received a recommendation that he suspend 10 policemen charged with , improper conduct in Lincoln park during a disturbance on the eve of the Democratic convention . The internal investigations division I. I. D. recommended that two sergeants be suspended for 15 days and eight patrolmen for six days , all without pay . Frank Sullivan , department spokesman , said all 10 asked for permission to have their cases reviewed next week by a special panel . Blame Two Sergeants The I. I. D. said two sergeants ordered or allowed men to remove their stars and nameplates while driving demonstrators out of the south end of the park on Aug. 25 . The I. I. D. report said Sgt. Tommy M. Kelly of the East Chicago avenue district ordered six members of his squad to remove their stars while in , the park . He did not remove his own , star or nameplate , the report said . Sgt. Kelly told Tii nunuNE he gave the order after a patrolman ? bad his star ripped from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policeman cap be suspended for losing his star . He said he accepted the suspension and did not want a hearing . Allows Removal of Stars The I. I. D. report staid Sgt. Claude M. Connelly of the Town Hall district permitted his men to remove their stars without ordering them to do so . The patrolmen recommended for suspension are : Dennis G. Kotsos , 25 ; Thomas M. Fleming , 25 ; William W. White , 34 ; and Thomas H. Goddard , 22 , all of East Chicago avenue district . Salvatore P. Sorci , 30 ; James J. Riordan Jr. , 21 ; and Claude W. Tarala , 23 , all of Town Hall district ; and Daniel M. Higgins , 26 , of task force area 4 . Others Being Probed The 10 were the first police named by the I. I. D. in a wide investigation of police actions during the convention week . Conlisk said more policemen were being investigated and a charge of brutality to newsmen was under study . None of those recommended for suspension yesterday was charged with brutality or use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and name= plates so that they could beat them without fear of identification . After the report was released yesterday , THE ' Dual= talked to five of the policemen who have been charged . Lesser P.nalty Expected All said that the I. D. had recommended suspensions of 10 days for the sergeants and 3 days for the patrolmen- when their report to the superintendent was made more than a week ago . ' All said that the heavier penalties had been recommended after Conlisk reviewed the I. I. D. report . Two said they did not want hearings . Three said they will seek hearings to fight the suspensions . Riordan is the son of Capt . James Riordan , central district commander , who helped ' command police around the Hilton hotel during convention , week .                     