@@728085

txt A TRIBUNE financial expert looks into the causes of and attempts to curb inflation . This is the second of two articles . ' BY LOWS DOMBROWSKI IChicago Tribune Press Stinks Washington , Sept. 14 ? Most economists believe that inflation is being brought under control . However , they also agree that it may be another six months to a year before the effects filter down to the neighborhood supermarket and stores . This forecast does not offer much comfort to the nation 's homemakers , who are well aware that living costs this year have been rising at the sharpest rate in 18 years . Furthermore , most government economists do not hold any hope that prices , with a few exceptions , will decline to lany appreciable , extent over the next 12 to 18 months . At best , they say , - prices will begin to stabilize and the rate of price lincreases will slow down . Slime Drops Seen There . may be some decline in food prices , both at the farm and wholesale levels . But such price changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand , and there is some question whether the lower prices will be passed on to ' the consumer at the retail level . Inflation without question has caused severe social- and economic damage . It ' is the most regressive tax of all , hurting most the people who can least afford it . " Moreover , " said Paul W. McCracken , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , " inflation has had a socially disintegrating effect thru its tendencies to escalate group tensions . " By-Product of Inflation . He pointed out that labor unions are well aware that real weekly wages after allowing for price increases have increased only 1.3 per cent in the last three years . Tile unions , therefore , see the problem as one of extracting large further wage increases to catch up with lagging incomes and in anticipation of further increases in the cost of living .. The business man , harassed by wage demands that obviously will further increase his costs , sees the problem as union ? power and wage inflation . He raises his prices . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " McCracken said . The ' classic tools for ; fighting inflation are policies . of - restraint in. federal fiscal and monetary policies . It has ' been the ' general rule-to cut federal spending to the ? barest essentials , defer or stretch nut Money already committed , and raise taxes to remove spending power within the economy .. Al the same time , the federal " reserVe board has exercised , its monetary policy powers by restricting the amount of credit available thru the banking system and by slowing or stopping the growth rate in the nation 's money supply . New Policy : Gradualism Unfortunately , the sharp application of these anti-inflationary policies in the past invariably led to recession and massive unemployment , neither of which is socially acceptable today . The nation followed a boom or bust cycle . When President Nixon took office in January , he adopted an economic policy of " gradualism " ? that is. policy actions in both the fiscal and monetary areas that were designed to gradually slow the rate of growth in- the economy after four years of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was understood when the policies were initiated that six months to a year would elapse before the full effect would become apparent . Because the psychology of inflation was so deeply ingrained , the administration 's economic planners warned that during the transition period the price-cost level tnight continue to advance because of its own momentum . Once the price-cost level began to stabilize , economists expected the economy to generate " back pressures of resistance " to further price increases in the marketplace . When this was achieved . monetary restraint could be eased and the growth in the economy would be in terms of real output rather than simply higher prices . Now , what has happened ? For one thing . McCracken admitted that federal policymakers ? underestimated the extent of the inflationary momentum . " " We probably must expect the time lags to be on the long side of average this time . " the nation 's chief economist said . " This is the price that must he paid for having allowed the inflation to run unchecked so long . " Some Headway Being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-inflationary policies . Investors are well aware of the sharp drop in stock prices . Real gross national product after allowance for inflation grew at the rate of only 2 per cent a year in the second quarter and probably will show zero . growth in the third quarter . In its monthly economic letter for September . the First National City bank of New York commented , " It would be a mistake to assume that the struggle against inflation has made little leadway so far this year . It is true that prices arc still rising rapidly , but the conditions required to make price increases stick are being eroded . " Dr. Charts E. Walker , undersecretary of the treasury and an economist by profession . also pointed out that the latest survey of business capital ' spending intentions has , dropped sharply from just six , months ago . And the demand for bank loans is slowing under ; the pressure of tight money ! policies and bank loan - rationing . While the Nixon policies are working albeit slowly . the question is raised , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by placing direct controts on prices , wages , dividends , and interest rate ? George Meany , president of the AFL-CIO , came out reluctantly in favor of controls as long as they were across-the-board . Members of the business community also have come out openly for controls . A small minority of economists feel that we have lived with inflation for so long that controls are the only answer . MI Must Support Controls Walker pointed out that controls are only effective when everyone is willing to accept them . Once they are in place , however , their attractiveness wanes . The system of prices is the communications by which the economy does its sophisticated job of - tailoring limited re sources to the complex and ? changing wants of consumers . ' With controls , prices tend to he frozen in their relationship to each other and the whole sensitive system become afflicted with arthritis . Controls which would hold prices , wages , and other items below what the volume of purchasing power in the market would otherwise establish land controls which did not would be pointless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , items available only to those with " pull . " and a burocracy to administer the complex controls , McCracken said . Patience Is Needed It is difficult to wait for inflation to be brought under control while continually rising prices further erode the purchasing power of the dollar . " It takes time for economic processes to work their effects on the economy , " McCracken said in defense of the Nixon policies . " Economic processes do not operate in ways that produce instant results . This is a difficult matter for impatient people , and Americans have never been criticized for excessive patience . Patience will . however , be essential to give time for cooling policies to work out their effects . "                     