@@723308

txt Raleigh , N.C. In the midst of a society enjoying the " abundant life , " some Americans are becoming aware that they have among them some fellow citizens so far removed from the benefits of this abundant life as to seem in another world . These citizens have become so numerous in recent years that they have acquired a special name . They are " the disadvantaged . " Agencies Represented The term is relative , and difficult to define , declared several members of the American Country Life Association , Inc. , which has just concluded its 42d annual conference on the campus of North Carolina State College . This association , which was an outgrowth of the Commission on Country Life appointed by Theodore Roosevelt in 1908 , is concerned with the " educational , social , economic , and spiritual development of country people . " Members represent many national and statewide organizations and agencies interested in progress for all Americans . It is far easier , they agreed here to point out who some of the disadvantaged are , than to formulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than $2,000 ( including relief payments ) are among the disadvantaged , said economist Howard Hjort , who was armed with extensive statistics showing that lack of income is closely tied in with lack of education . The American Indian is among the disadvantaged , de- clared Frell M. Owl . Cherokee , now retired from the Bureau of Indian Affairs . He , too , presented statistics . The American Indian , said Mr. Owl , is halt as well educated as the average American adult , lives two-thirds as long , has an unemployment rate six or seven times greater than that for other Americans ; has a much higher death rate , more dropouts from school , and fewer lawyers , doctors , dentists , or other professionally trained members because of inadequacy of education . The Disadvantaged The Appalachian white person is disadvantaged , asserted Milton Ogle , community-development counselor of the Council of Southern Mountains . The Appalachian lives in an area of narrow valleys and high ridges which have forced urban crowding in a rural setting and made proper sanitation a difficult problem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school attendance for children who already consider school a waste of time because , at 14 , the can get coal Jobs which pay more than their teachers get . More money would not help these people much , said Mr. Ogle , because they do n't know how to use money to enrich their lives . The Spanish and Mexican Americans , often migrants , are disadvantaged , said the Rev. . T. L. Vizzard of the National Catholic Rural Life Conference . " The United States Government spends more money every year counting and tracing the habits of migrant birds than it devotes to migrant citizens , " he said . First of several articles                     