@@725853

txt Soviet Premier Alexei N. Kosygin blames Peking for the fact that the United States is able to continue fighting in Vietnam . " Had American imperialism encountered the joint rebuff of all countries of socialism , " the Premier said in a speech at Sverdlovsk Friday , " a quick end would have been put to its outrages in Vietnam and the aggression would have been cut short . China 's position has become a serious obstacle to the struggle for this sacred cause . " Mr. Kosygin was speaking at a Polish-Soviet friendship meeting in honor of a visiting Polish delegation headed by its Communist Party chief , Wladyslaw Gomulka and Premier Josef Cyrankiewicz . Mr. Cyrankiewicz also condemned Chinese actions . He said he had to state " with a feeling of pain " that Peking 's splittist policies had hindered the " possibilities of our opposition to imperialism . " The Chinese line , the Polish Premier continued , " damages first of all the cause of the Vietnamese peoples struggle and encourages the imperialist aggressors . " These remarks were in line with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " sharpening anti-Soviet course " of the Chinese Communists . U.S. also assailed Mr. Kosygin 's remarks on the same point were severe . " By the refusal to engage in a joint coordinated struggle against imperialism and reaction in Vietnam and in other regions of the globe , by their actions against socialist countries , by their splitting policies in the international Communist movement , the leaders of China render a great service to American imperialism , all enemies of socialism , of peace and of progress . " The Soviet Premier also condemned American actions in Vietnam and implied that if war continued to escalate the Soviets would respond with further aid for the North Vietnamese . " Ignoring the dangerous consequences of its course , American imperialism escalates the barbaric war in Vietnam and is cornmiC.ing still newer crimes against the Vietnamese people . . . . " The affair has gone as far as making calls in the United States for using nuclear weapons in Vietnam , and those who are responsible for United States foreign policies do not separate themselves from these cannibal calls , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech // A United States soldier helps a Vietnamese farmer to carry wheat flour for distribution to villagers near Da Nang in a civic-aid program to help displaced villagers . // that could be construed as a direct reply to President Johnson 's Oct. 7 appeal " to heal the wound in Europe which now cuts East from West and brother from brother . " The Soviet Premier did say that in Europe the Communist countries were " united and consolidated " as they were not in Asia , and that for this reason in Europe they were " capable of effectively deterring the forces of imperalism and aggression . " Polish borders reaffirmed Mr. Kosygin reaffirmed Soviet support for Poland 's western borders on the Oder and Neisse rivers , and reiterated longstanding Soviet contentions in the following terms : " To provide European security means first of all to provide unchanging frontiers in Europe , to rule out the possibility of West Germany getting nuclear arms , to disable revanchist and militarist forces , and to proceed from the fact of the existence of two German states . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist positions in Europe and in Asia . In Europe , the Communists are basically satisfied with the status quo . In their view , it is West Germany , supported by Washington , which seeks to upset the status quo by raising questions of reunification and of pre-World War II boundaries . In Asia , on the other hand , the United States says it is aiding the Saigon government purely in order to preserve the status quo  --  that is , a Communist North Vietnam and a non-Communist South , and that the United States has no intention of destroying North Vietnam as a Communist state . No Communist country has so far bought this argument , and the militant tone of Mr. Kosygin 's support for North Vietnam appears to rule out , at least for the present , global negotiations embracing explicit Western recognition of the European status quo in exchange for Communist agreement to restore the status quo in Indochina .                     