@@726197

txt The three-man Presidential committee studying the Central Intelligence Agency is believed to have recommended the establishment of an independent corporation to finance openly the overseas activities of voluntary groups . . such a nonprofit corporation , financed by contributions from private foundations and individuals : as : well as ' by the , Federif-GOvernment , would replace the intelligence agency:s program of : secret , support of anti-Communist activities of student , labor and other voluntgry groups . The committee 's report is being reviewed at the White House and is expected to be made public soon after President Johnson returns from his trip to Guam . Congress is moving In the same direction as the committee . One bill along the lines of the committee 's proposal has already been introduced in the House and others with broad support are expected to be filed in both branches of Congress on Monday . Headed By Katzenbach The committee is headed by Under Secretary of State Nicholas deB . Katzenbach . The other members are John W. Gardner , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up the committee Feb. 15 , following disclosures , first made in Ramparts magazine ; that the intelligence agency had been secretly subsidizing the foreign operations of the National Student Association . The ' President ordered the agency to suspend its program of aid to youth groups and gave the committee the task of formulating a policy that would prevent the C.I.A . or any other Government agency from endangering the integrity and independence of ' American educational institutions . In reviewing the problem the committee decided to extend its study beyond student and educational groups because of press disclosures that a wide variety cy 's defense . Mr. Katzenbach said that the agency had not acted on its ' own initiative in setting up the program but only in accordance wtih policies established by the National ? Se'curity Council . In its search for an alternative method of financing , the Katzenbach committee is known to have examined the operations of the British Council . This Government-financed but essentially privately administrative body resembles , in structure , the British Broadcasting Corpora-tion , Only seven of the council 's 30-member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private life . Since the committee fills its own vacancies , the Government can not force policy changes by packing it . The Government does decide the countries the council can operate in ; the council decides the nature of the work . In actual operations , however , there are continuing discussions between Government officials and the council 's executive com-mittee , The British Council is limited in purpose to the promotion of the English language abroad and closer cultural relations with foreign countries . It does not finance trips by British students , who pay their own expenses . Much of the council 's work involves exchanges of professional people , such as drama and opera companies , and the operation of British libraries . The Katzenbach committee is believed to have urged that any American corporation set up to finance overseas activities have a much wider mandate than the British Council . A bill somewhat along the lines of the Katzenbach committee 's proposal has already been introduced in the House by Representative John S. Monagan , Democrat of Connecticut . His measure calls for the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American International Cultural and Educational Council . Under the Monagan bill , the council could subsidize and advise student , labor , journalistic , scientific , education and " other similar " organizations in the support of American foreign policy . The council could accept funds from foundations or private individuals , but if such financing was insufficient , the bill authorizes Congress to make appropriations . " Thus , " Mr. Monagan said , " while there could be some Government support , at least it would be open and its extent known . " Mr. Monagan said that he has received wide support for his bill . However , it has run into same opposition because one of the ex-officio members of the proposed agency 's board of trustees would be the Director of Central Intelligence . Mr. Monagan said he was willing to alter that part of the bill , The House Foreign Affairs Committee has asked the Administration for comment on the measure . // of other organizations had also been receiving funds from the spy agency . Among the sub ? sidized organizations were nose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialists and unionized Government employes . The Katzenbach committee also decided that it could not stop with a mere recommendation for insulating private groups from the intelligence agency . The activities of some groups were considered so valuable in advancing American ideas abroad that an alternative method of financing was sought . Defenders of the program have pointed out that the secret subsidy was decided on in 1952 only after private foundations refused to finance youth and labor groups who wanted to wage propaganda and political warfare against Communists overseas . Congress was not asked to finance the program with open appropriations because of a fear of the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy , Republican of Wisconsin , who was waging a campaign against the non-Communist left wing as well as against Communists . It was thought that he would exploit the fact that some of the student and labor leaders were left wing to block any open appropriations . Such a rejection would have made it difficult to justify secret subsidies . There has been wide criticism in and out of Congress that regardless of the laudable objectives of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tainted organizations that were nominally free and independent . In ' a preliminary report to President Johnson on Feb. .22 , the Katzenbach committee came to the intelligence agenCongress to Act WASHINGTON , March 18 ( AP ) ? Both branches of Congress are to receive bills Mon ' day to provide for open Congressional supervised financing of certain American activities overseas . A bipartisan House group plans to ask for a publicly controlled corporation to finance various activities , outside the intelligence-gathering field . In the senate , Senator Eugene J. McCarthy , Democrat of Minnesota , plans to offer a bill to establish a fund to be financed by private foundations that would lose.their tax exemptions if they refused to assist In the financing .                     