@@727264

txt Senator McCarthy is more forthright . He says it should be stopped . We do not see any prospect of movement in Paris until it is stopped ; and we do not see  --  nor have we ever seen  --  how the risks in stopping the bombing can outweigh the probable gains it would bring in stopping the fighting altogether . Although Governor Rockefeller completely avoided this issue , he still has made a contribution to the campaign discussion on Vietnam simply by offering a concrete program from a leader of the opposition . Rockefeller- or ' Vietnam The principal importance of Governor Rockefeller 's " plan for peace " in Vietnam is that , as a Republican candidate for President , he has spelled it out . While the program has obvious faults , the Governor has at least  --  and at last  --  put forward a specific proposal that explains to the electorate what he would do about the nation 's No. 1 problem . And he has been more specific in more respects than candidates Nixon and Humphrey in particular . Once this has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor does not seem to have taken a position very far in advance of that of the Administration . It is not surprising a high Administration source reportedly commended his statement . Mr. Rockefeller 's four-stage agenda for peace  --  providing for mutual withdrawals , the interjection of international peace-keeping forces , supervised free elections and negotiations between the two parts of Vietnam on reunification ? is essentially an elaboration of Ambassador Harriman 's proposals . Mr. Rockefeller says his plan , which calls for a " good faith " withdrawal of 75,000 American troops " as soon as the North Vietnamese begin to move back toward the frontier , " will reassure Hanoi concerning American intentions . Ambassador Harriman has already said " we are prepared to withdraw our forces from South Vietnam as the other side withdraws its forces .... " President Johnson recently reaffirmed that United States military involvement in South Vietnam " will diminish and disappear " as that country gains the right of self-determination . If Hanoi refuses to accept his proposal , Mr. Rockefeller advocates the unilateral curtailment of " search and destroy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect populated areas ? in which he includes 60 per cent of the total land area ? and that the South Vietnamese army be speedily reequipped to take over major responsibility for antiguerrilla warfare . But this is the direction in which United States military policy already appears to be moving under General Abrams . If the Governor has broken new ground , it is in his cautious concession that " as the National Liberation Front renounces force , it is guaranteed participation in the political life of the country . " Out of deference to Saigon , the Johnson Administration so far has not been willing publicly to concede a political role to the N. L. F. as such ; and Governor Rockefeller has subsequently made clear that he is against an interim coalition government prior to cessation of hostilities and free elections . In contrast , Senator McCarthy has repeatedly stated that it is unrealistic to try to deny the Front a political role in any settlement . Governor Rockefeller 's proposals both for reduction in the number of American civilians in Vietnam , and the gradual withdrawal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength . . . and provided the North Vietnamese rate of infiltration does not increase , " do not seem to us to be different in spirit from the present policy of the Administration . On the ground that he does not want to comment on a subject that is actually under negotiation in Paris , Mr. Rockefeller has sidestepped what is currently the most crucial , most controversial and most stubborn issue stalling progress toward a settlement  --  the continued American bombing of part of North Vietnam .                     