@@723348

txt Letters to The Times Rights Report Praised Recommended Denial of Federal Funds Believed Effective Measure The ' writer of the following letter is ' president emeritus of Tuskegee Institute and president of the PhelpsStokes Fi To ma EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Since the civil rights measure presented by the President is before the Congress , it seems appropriate to offer the following commentary on that phase of the rights bill having to do with the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Commission on Civil Rights . The commission 's report which advocated action by the Federal Government in denying Federal monies to those states which persist in open and flagrant discrimination on the basis of race , has drawn editorial fire from a number of sources , including The New York Times . It is rather interesting that Senator Barry Goldwater , in rejecting the part of the President 's message to Congress on civil rights having to do with requiring all businesses open to the public to serve persons without regard to race , took a different point of view as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's message to Congress requested discretion in denying Federal funds , Senator Goldwater would make this a mandatory requirement and has supported his position by saying that he doubted if many states would refuse the millions of dollars which come to them from the Federal Government for road-building programs , if the elimination of discrimination was the small price they would have to pay to secure this largesse . States ' Decision I think Senator Goldwater 's position is absolutely sound and emphasizes the fact that no state is going to be willing to do without Federal monies in order to preserve segregation and discrimination , when it comes down to the hard reality of eliminating these proscriptions or doing without the money . The New York Times , which consistently takes a positive position on the efforts of Negro Americans and others to secure equal civil rights , seems to fall short when it comes to the kind of direct action required to give , implementation to the thags which it espouses , The argument , therefore , that those states whin I need the money most and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Negroes , does not stand up . The purpose of the legislation is not to deny states money but to see to it that they disburse it equitably . And this is exactly what will happen if such action is taken . The Civil Rights Commission has made a sound and forthright recommendation . The commission knows , from being up against the reality of segregation and the hard-core attitude , that all of the preachments in the world will not bring reactionary Southerners to agree to elimination of discrimination . This discrimination is not only a part of the Southern way of life in terms of the social processes involved , it is also a part of the economic thinking of those who assume that denying equality of opportunity enhances the financial or economic position of the discriminators . It is I clear , therefore , that either this or ; some equally definitive and stringent measure will have to be adopted if the abuses , which most Americans regard as undemocratic and unChristian , are to be eliminated . Goldwater 's Position In my opinion Senator Goldwater , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South . was willing to take a forthright position on this issue ? not because he anticipated the withholding of funds but because he realized that despite the furor that such reaction would create , it would in the end result in compliance . And once compliance is established , the animus associated with the change would soon be forgotten . This has laken the history of civil rights changes in the South . My acquaintance with the South leads me to conclude that the majority of white Southerners are willing to tolerate the defiant attitudes of their rabble-rousing politicians as long as it is deemed not to cost anything . Once convinced this is not so , changes will be made . To assume otherwise is to undervalue the wisdnrn and sagacity of the Southern people . FREDERICK D. PATTERSON . New Rochelle , N.Y. , July 31 , 1963 , Retaliatory Tariffs Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : If the Common Market raises tariffs on American poultry American farmers are hurt . It is proposed that we retaliate for this action by raising our tariffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaliation it would appear that American poultry farm ? ers would still be hurt and , in addition , consumers here must pay higher prices for wine , film , etc . These lAmerican tariffs are retaliation against American consume ers and for the life of me I do not know why . DAVID H. CLARK . Baltimore , Aug. 8 , 1963 . If East Germany Signs Pact Objection That Adherence Will Enhance Her Status Answered To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yom TIMES : There has been considerable comment about the possibility that East Germany might seek to join in the nuclear test-ban treaty and thereby gain some token of recognition from the United States and other parties to the treaty which do not recognize it . It has been suggested that we have fallen into a trap prepared by the Russians by entering into . a treaty that will be open to other regimes without retaining a veto power over adherence by governments not recognized by US . Assuming that a test-ban treaty among the three original signatories is desirable and that an easy means of adherence by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original parties . there is a threefold answer to the argument that the present procedure is unwise . The " insignificant increment " answer is that adherence by East Germany to the treaty adds little to the international stature it already has as a participant in international postal unions and trade arrangements with countries that do not recognize the Pankow regime . The " shoe on the other foot " answer could be used if the Russians sought to argue that East Germany 's adherence was tantamount to recognition by other parties to the treaty , including the U.S. Soviet Recognition The Russians might choose to abandon this position if we suggested to them that they would likewise be held to have recognized such countries that they presently do not recognize upon the adherence of these countries to the treaty . The " veto power could be embarrassing elsewhere " argument DI the third answer . Vvnereas we do not want to recognize East Germany and-do not want them to accede to the treaty for fear that it would be deemed to be recognition or a form of it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist China to the treaty if at some time in the future tney stopped preaching the benefit ' of nuclear war and chose to adhere . But we do not want to be put in the position of " recognizing " Communist China . It is Much easier from a logical viewpoint ( and logic is important in deciding the legal consequences that acts could be construed to be tantamount to recognition ) not to have the veto power at all ( thereby enabling any " country " acceptable to one of the original parties to become a party ) than it is to devise a rational argument , if we had a veto power , for vetoing the application of East Germany and the failure to exercise the veto power upon China 's , application . We could not logically veto East Germany and state we did so to avoid recognition of this " non-state " or " non-regime " and then decline to veto Communist China and state that our failure to veto does not mean that we recognize that " nonstate " or " non-regime . " WESLEY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Role of the Arts To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : It was good to read that President Kennedy is considering the appointment of Richard M. Goodwin as special consultant on the arts to fill the position which August Heckscher vacated some time ago . It was disconcerting , however , to note that this announcement was coupled with one more plea for the recognition of the arts as a means of impressing countries outside our borders with our cultural maturity . It seems to me it is an apologetic approach to the problems of the artist in America continually to make a case based on how much " practical " and propaganda use the arts can be . Surely the health of the arts in America is really dependent upon a public awareness of their spiritual value and their value as a reflection of the nature of man in conjunction with his times . Whoever is finally selected to fill this post will succeed in making a real contribution only when he assesses soundly the vital responsibilities of the Government toward the health of the arts within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Aug. 5 , 1963.                     