@@725291

txt There is more hope for European unity than first reactions to the recent Luxembourg meeting between France and its five partners in the European Economic Community ( EEC ) suggest . Exaggerated thoughts ? " Clearly we are on the edge of a great catastrophe . " . . . " The breakup of the Common Market looms " ? are giving way to cooler counsels . Yet it is certain that a momentous decision has to be taken . New commission Before returning to Luxembourg next Friday , the Foreign Ministers of Belgium , Italy , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , and West Germany have to define their attitudes to the French proposals . The main points : ? Unanimity still to be required in the Council of Ministers when subjects declared of vital concern to a particular member state are under discussion . ? The three European " communities " ? coal and steel , Euratom and the economic community ? to be merged in a single united community before the end of April . ? A new commission to manage the single community to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The commission to bear the same relationship to the Council of Ministers as a civil service to a government , or perhaps a cabinet to its president or prime minister . The actual powers of the commission , however , to remain exactly as specified in the Treaty of Rome . ? The common agricultural market to be finalized immediately . ? A decision to be taken in February on the financing of the budget of the community . This is no plan " to cripple the Common Market , " as one observer has written . But against it some serious objections can be raised . Veto proposed For instance , as Belgium 's Paul-Henri Spaak has said , " Each deadline is the guarantee of one more crisis . " France 's plan sets five or six new deadlines . Then again , these deadlines are certainly part of a squeeze play . They provide almost no time for discussion . France says , " Accept without demur  --  or else . " The proposals , if adopted , also would confirm the Common Market as essentially an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One country could veto any moves it does not like ? for instance , it might be moves toward political union . Finally , a strong independent commission serving the European idea would be discarded in favor of a weak , dependent commission serving a council of six national minis. ters . Against these disadvantages , the proposals , however , also have some merit : ? Their adoption would make British membership easier . The rest of the European Free Trade Association also could join more easily , possibly even the neutrals . ? They would lead to rapid development of the industrial , agricultural and commercial sides of the Common Market . The logjam would be broken . ? The way would be opened for successful completion of the " Kennedy round . " Up to half the world 's tariff barriers could be swept away . ? Nothing in the proposals need stop consolidation of the Common Market into a united Europe later on , when all members felt ready for it . A decision on the balance between these advantages and disadvantages clearly requires courage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Common Market . A new one without France would have to be built from scratch . Europe would be in an unstable condition in the meanwhile . The " Kennedy round " would be sacrificed . To accept the terms means accepting , along with the advantages , a de Gaulle policy victory . But this is only one part of a wider French policy ? involving also NATO , nuclear defense , Soviet relations , and the international financial system .                     