@@727211

txt When June Clark , a 23-year-old unmarried mother of three children , went to a New Jersey court to seek support payments from the father of one of her children , the judge noticed she was pregnant again . He promptly notified the county prosecutor , and before long she was indicted by a grand jury . Miss Clark was indicted for the crime of fornication . For , while it is no crime in New Jersey to have illegitimate children , it is a crime to conceive them through sexual intercourse . While fornication  --  usually defined as sexual intercourse by an unmarried person ? is illegal in most states , the jails are hardly filled with offenders . The indictment against Miss Clark , who goes on trial early this month , is one of the rare times that the state 's statute has been invoked since it was enacted in 1704 , when New Jersey was a royal province . Miss Clark 's attorney , who took the case at the behest of the American Civil Liberties Union , claims the indictment is part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmarried mothers from seeking aid . Officials deny that allegation . Whatever the reason , it is part of a trend . All across the country , police and city officials are dusting off a host of archaic sex laws so broad that jails would have to be built on every corner if all the offenders were prosecuted . But lawyers say enforcement is extremely selective ? with college students and the poor usually the victims . " Heritage of Puritanism " In the opinion of many lawyers , these old statutes have been resurrected as a weapon by those upset over what they feel is an increasingly permissive society . " It 's our heritage of Puritanism , " says Gerhard Mueller , professor of criminal law at New York University and an authority on sex laws . " In the United States , we 're virtually alone in punishing these crimes . " There is no shortage of statutes to work with . According " to an article in the University of Colorado Law Review by Hugh M. Hefner , publisher of Playboy magazine , 48 states prohibit nommarital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England states , the mere presence of an unmarried man and woman in a room together at night is against the law ; under these " lewd and lascivious behavior " statutes , there need be no evidence of physical contact for conviction . Most states also prohibit sodomy , though few laws define the crime . All told , the various sex statutes cover practically every physical activity known to man  --  and then some . In Minnesota , for example , it is a crime punishable by up to 20 years in prison to " carnally know " a bird . No statistics have ever been gathered on the number of arrests under the sex laws . But lawyers familiar with the field say most of the arrests ? if not most of the offenses  --  come in small towns . Sheboygan vs . New York New York , for instance , has had two adultery and no fornication prosecutions in the past 50 years . Sheboygan , Wis. , on the other hand , in 1967 alone had 35 arrests for adultery , 11 for fornication , 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct , 4 for bigamy and 1 for sexual perversion . " This is a rather straight-laced community , " says Police Chief Oakley 0 . Frank . 4'We have high-principled people who find this kind of conduct abhorrent . " He says most of Sheboygan 's arrests came at the behest of complaining neighbors who observed strangers entering houses : He adds that Sheboygan , a town of 50,000 people , " is a wonderful place for a man and his family . " Sometimes , police forces initiate actions themselves . Consider this New Hampshire case , where circumstances are not disputed by any of the parties involved . A 21-year-old boy was spending the night in the dormitory room of his sick girl friend . at a small New Hampshire college earlier this year . The girl , ill with a 104-degree fever , was in bed . The boy , wearing dungarees , was asleep on the floor when , at 6 a.m. , four state troopers entered the room with a search warrant . Invoking Great-Great-Grandpa The troopers were making a narcotics raid on the campus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they did arrest the youth on a charge of lewd and lascivious behavior . He was fined $200 and sentenced to 30 days in jail , a punishment he is appealing . " We went in looking for narcotics , and we found this , " says a New Hampshire police official . " If you see a crime in your presence , you 'd be a poor officer not to act . " And he adds : " What our great-great-grandfathers fought for in 1776 , these kids are taking away . They fought for freedom , but not freedom to break the law . " The nation 's fornication , adultery and sodomy laws have never been tested in the Supreme Court , though many have been on the books since the days of the Salem witchcraft trials . One reason is that few people are willing to face the publicity such a test would involve . Also , Prof. Mueller says that until recently it would have been difficult to get the court to rule on them . Now , however , he thinks the court would declare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is prohibited by the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution . Only one state , Illinois , has modified its sex statutes in recent years . In 1961 , the state 's legislators eliminated their sodomy law . " The Illinois lawmakers did remove the state 's sodomy statute , " Playboy 's Mr. Hefner says , " but they left standing the statutes against fornication and adultery . Illinois is thus in the unique position of permitting all so-called ' perversion , ' both heterosexual and homosexual , while prohibiting normal sexual intercourse " between persons who are n't married to each other .                     