@@721785

txt The Israeli tribunal trying Adolf Eichmann reserved decision today on his plea that it lacks jurisdiction . Justice Moshe Landau , the presiding judge , said a decision on the plea would be announced when the court reconvened ? at 9 A. M. Monday . Legal , experts predict the court will summarily and categorically reject the challenge to its jurisdiction . The , question of competence raised by the defense counsel , Dr. Robert Servatius of West Germany , centers on conten= tions that Eichmann was O.-ducted from Argentina , that his crimes were not committed in Israel , that an Israeli court would be prejudiced and that the crimes were committed before Israel was created . Dr. Servatius wound up his plea for dismissal of the indiCt. ; ment , which accuses Eichmann . of delivering millions of Jews to execution camps for the Nazis in World War II , by pip , turing the defendant as : a .. man no longer dangerous to humanity . Eichmann , sitting in his cage of bullet-proof glass , cast eyes down and studied a ballpoint pen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Servatius argued that while international law might recognize the right of a court to try pirates and slave traders forcibly apprehended outside its territorial jurisdiction , Eichman was in neither class . Replying to the prosecution 's contention that the crimes committed by Eichmann were worse than pacy , Dr. Servatius said : " Humanity is not in danger from the accused . " Eichmann stole a glance at the tribunal . His sharp face , ashen in the harsh light of neon lamps , was , as usual , devoid of expression . Dr. Servatius went on in a colorless voice . Eichmann was dangerous only when he was taking orders from the Hitler regime , the Rhineland lawyer said . With the death of Hitler , Eichmann returned to the ways of a peaceful citizen , he contended . " It is unfortunate he had to take orders from an inhuman regime , " Dr. Servatius said . " He is above the morals of that Government . He has freed himself from the oath he had taken to that regime . " Earlier , Attorney General Gideon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eichmann was a mere lieutenant obeying Nazi orders . " If such a defense were admissible , " Mr. Hausner said , " any accused Nazi could claim immunity and only Hitler could be tried . ' ' Eiehmann , Not Hitler ' Mr. Hausner pointed to the man in the glass cage and , speaking in Hebrew , cried : " It is not Adolf Hitler who sits before you . It is Adolf Eichmann . " The international military tribunals at Nuremberg and even the German courts rejected the defense that crimes committed under state orders were excusable , the prosecutor said . " International society expressed its opinion openly that Eichmann be brought to trial and he is now here before you to be tried according to the law that has been accepted by all civilized people , " the prosecutor said . " His contention that he was brought here against his will makes no difference at all . " He shook a finger at Bichmann and cried : " Let Adolf Eichmann come and explain if the murder of millions by taking them to concentration camps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscience or whether it is unlawful . " Eichmann gave him a stony glance . Cites ' Universal Right ' " The privilege of bringing to justice Nazi criminals is the universal right of all civilized nations , " Mr. Hausner continued . " The State of Israel now has the privilege to try and sit in judgment on the man who tried , to annihilate the Jewish people and certainly has more right than any other state . " To the defense argument that Eichmann feared he would not get a fair trial in Israel , Mr. Hausner told the court : " Your Honors , the principle of law here is the same for citizens and foreigners . The Israeli court will do justice to all . It will do justice to Adolf Richmann as well . " Dr Servatius said Wednesday he would require only thirty minutes for his final argument against the court 's jurisdiction . He talked for nearly an hour . The German is not a flamboyant lawyer and his delivery is nearly as dry , matter of fact and undramatic as Mr. Hausner 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Israeli court interpreter translate his remarks into Hebrew , the official language of the court . Declaration Challenged He insisted ' that the declaration Eichmann was alleged to have given his captors in Argentina last May was made under duress . In this declaration , Eich , mann said he was going to Israel of his own free will to face trial . IDr . Servatius proposed that the question of Eiclunam 's illegal arrest be given a hearing I by the court before any further trial . He said Eichmann had the right of protection by the West German Government and although Bonn had not yet acted on his claim for extradition , it might demand Eiehmann at any time . Dr. Servatius then announced that unless West Germany acted favorably on his request for intervention he would bring suit to compel Bonn to seek Richmann 's extradition . ( Chancellor Adenauer , who is visiting Washington , was asked Thursday why West Germany had not sought to extradite Eichmann . The Chancellor , who called Bachmann " the biggest of the murderers , " replied by saying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While today 's argument was still confined to preliminary legal points , it was not quite as coldly impersonal as that of the first two days of the trial . Dr. Servatius , plump , pink-jowled and with close-cropped gray hair , spoke softly of how Eichmann had reformed himself into a " peace-loving citizen . " ' Rose Above Regime ' " He had the misfortune of having been subordinate to an inhuman Government , " Dr. Servatius said without looking at his client . " He overcame and rose above the concepts of that regime . " Again Dr. Servatius referred to the abduction of Eichmann by Israelis and insisted this had been done by orders of the Israeli Government . He said Premier David Ben-Gurion had told the Israeli Parliament at the time that Eichmann 's abductors were members of the state security forces . Attorney General Hausner sprang to his feet . " I wish to interrupt , " he said . " The Premier informed Parliament that the security forces bad revealed the place where the accused was found . That and nothing more . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Israel in indicting Eichmann and in bringing hint to trial was acting in conformity with international law . He noted that objection had been taken to the retroactive provisions of the Israeli law for the punishment of Nazis . This retroactivity , he insisted , was " more imaginary than real " since it contained nothing that was not recognized as criminal by international law for a long time before the law was passed in 1950 . The Nuremberg laws were retroactive , too , but they were unanimously endorsed twice by the United Nations General Assembly , he observed . Israeli Role in War To the argument that Israel was not in existence at the time of the crimes , Mr. Hausner said that at least three powers had retroactively recognized Israel 's , belligerence in World War IL The unconventional ' method of bringing Eichmann to Israel was not relevant , Mr. Hausner contended , because Israeli law had no rule depriving a court of , jurisdiction on those grounds . Moreover , Argentina , which protested to the United Nations over a violation of its sovereignty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the prosecutor said . No other country asked Israel to hand over Eichmann , he noted . To the objection that Israel had no competence to try the case because the crimes were committed outside Israel , Mr. Hausner said no international law prohibited Israel from exercising jurisdiction . On the contrary , he said , many countries after the war enacted legislation giving their courts this kind of extraterritorial jurisdiction .                     