@@727945

txt Eight persons were killed and hundreds injured last night when tornadoes and violent thunderstorms swept across northern Ohio and southern Michigan . All the deaths and most o , the injuries occurred in Ohio Greater Cleveland alone re ported 300 persons hurt . A Michigan twister injurec more than 40 persons . Botl Ohio and Michigan reportec heavy property damage . Cleveland Area Ripped Seven persons , including two little girls , were killed in the Cleveland area when they were hit by trees in separate incidents . They were not immediately identfied . Another man , Ernest Paszczytowski , 20 , of Toledo , was killed when struck by a tree at the Cedar Point amusement park on Lake Erie near Sandusky . About 50 persons in the park were injured . More than 200 boats were reported capsized in Lake Erie , and a coast guard officer was quoted as saying , " We 're just trying to pull the people out of the water as fast as we can . " There were no immediate reports of deaths or injuries in the boating mishaps. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 150 persons were evacuated from a neighborhood because of leaking ? gas , caused as uprooted trees tore a gas main loose . More than a dozen persons were pulled from the Detroit river at Amhurstberg , Ont. , by the Canadian coast guard . In Toledo , at least 30 persons were injured . Most of the hospitals were operating on emergency power , and Toledo hospital was isolated by water so high that vehicles could not reach it . Hundreds of others were injured in widely scattered communities in the region . Sixty national guard troops were ordered from summer training at Camp Perry to the community of Oak Harbor , about 40 miles east of Toledo . Another unit of guardsmen was ordered to duty at Lakewood , just west of Cleveland . High winds , which officials said could have been a tornado , dam aged Pittsfield , southwest of Cleveland . Some damage was also reported at Ashtabula , on the lake shore east of Cleveland . Other damage reports came from Fremont , Norwalk , and Milan . In Michigan , tornadoes touched down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rock with unconfirmed reports of funnel clouds in several other southern counties . The tornado at Flat Rock moved out of the west , touching down first in the late afternoon in the small community of Willow , about five miles to the west . Several garages and barns were damaged , but no injuried were reported . The tornado then moved thru a subdivision on the east side of Mat Rock , destroying one home and damaging several others . Trees were uprooted and electrical power lines were knocked down .                     