@@724905

txt Washington Birch Bayh , Democratic Senator from Indiana , has n't been around here very long  --  just since 1962 , in fact . But in that short time he has been the architect of important presidential succession and disability legislation . And now he is playing an important role in shaping what may or may not become state-reapportionment legislation . Of the so-called Dirksen amendment , which would enable states to set up one legislative body on other than a population , one-man , one-vote basis , the Senator said in an interview here : " I am one of those senators the Judiciary Committee who oppose the Dirksen approach to this problem . As is commonly known , we are very close on this  --  on whether we will vote it out . I think that Senator Dirksen will call for a vote this week . It could go either way . " Actually , Senator Bayh , differs from some of the liberals in the committee in that he feels the states should have the right , if they like , to find an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " My plan is this . We start out with the two houses being on a population basis . Then , unless a referendum adopts another plan , the two houses would remain on a population basis . Of course , one house would have to remain on the one-man , one-vote principle . " This is to be compared with the Dirksen proposal , as now constituted , which would , as Senator Bayh sees it , still permit malapportioned legislatures to shape the apportionment plans that would be submitted to the voters for approval . ? Would Senator Dirksen accept the Bayh plan ? No , said Senator Bayh , at least not up to this moment . Obviously the Senate minority leader would feel there would be little likelihood of a referendum coming out of a state where the houses had already reapportioned on a one-man , one-vote basis . But Senator Bayh thinks such state action would be quite possible under his plan . Further , he says that he can see perfectly good reasons for people being represented in one house for such reasons as geography @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favoring geographical representation point to the United States Senate as setting up constitutional precedence . " When I first looked at this subject , " he said , " I , like ' so many people , thought the federal analogy was Fe good one . But when I looked up the constitutional convention in the Madison papers , I found that something far different was involved . This was the small states saying to the large states , ' We will give up our sovereignty only if we are permitted to have equal representation in one of the houses of Congress . ' " " Now you go into the states , " he continued , " and you find , of course , that counties have never . had any sovereignty . So this point is n't even ' involved in today 's question of state-legislative reapportionment . " How does the Senator view the possibility of any reapportionment legislation emerging from Congress ? What if the Dirksen amendment gets out of committee and went to a vote ? " It would have a very hard time , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise bill went to a Senate and House vote ? " I would say that any bill will have a hard time , " he said . He went on to say that he felt there would be considerable support for such legislation , even among liberal senators in Congress who come from states with big urban centers . He was not certain of how much support a bill would get in the House .                     