@@721877

txt U S. auto makers apparently are worried more about the possibility of having a large number of unsold 1981 models this fall than they are about a strike . Production of 1981 models will be practically complete by the end of next month , a full three weeks earlier than last year . And August 's production may be among the lowest ( Or the month since pre-war days . When the industry 's contracts with the United Auto Workers expire August 31 only a handful of 1962 models , just enough for showroom displays , will have been built . It will take only a combination of slightly better-than-expected sales over the next three months and production interruptions brought on by the labor negotiations  --  a real likelihood ? to leave dealer showrooms bare in September . at least of the models most in demand . A brief shortage period would not necessarily make dealers unhappy . Last fall , they were still digging out from under a large inventory of 1980 cars long after the 1961 's came out . As a result , heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their introduction ; ordinarily heavy discounting does n't begin on new models until some time after the fall showings . But inventory reduction is n't the only advantage auto men foresee in the early closedowns . In the final weeks before a contract expires , workers are often restless , and production slowdowns or wildcat strikes are not unusual . If the assembly lines were running at a fast clip these disturbances would be costly . But the last weeks before the strike deadline will be devoted to 1962 model production . Usually , the lines are slow moving and stop often for " hug " removal in the first weeks of a model run . No Piles of Parts Another advantage : When the new contract is signed there will be no piles of parts for 1961 models awaiting assembly . In the past , one G.M. vice president says , his company found itself " having to make a lot of old model cars " when the dealers were clamoring for new models . Workers who had plenty of layoff time earlier this year will get more just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may tend to weaken the bargaining position of the UAW . Here is how the model changeover plans now shape up : General Motors Corp. , Ford Motor Co. and Studebaker-Packard Corp . will close down much earlier than last year . Chrysler Corp. , which last year shut much earlier than the rest of the industry , and American Motors Corp . will halt 1961 output about the same time as a year ago . At GM , the Buick-Oldsmobile-Pontiac assembly plants around the nation will shut down the week of July 17 , compared with August 12 last year . Chevrolet plants will be down late in July ; most Chevy plants finished their 1980 model year on August 19 . Pontiac will suspend assembly operations July 18 , against August 5 in 1980 . Ford car plants will close in the last days of July and the first days in August this year ; most went down August 12 and later last year . The Lincoln-Thunderbird plant outside Detroit. , usually the last assembly plant to end a model run , will complete manufacture of 1961 models in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' s plant closings are scheduled for mid-July , as they were last year . American Motors Corp . will be down a few days earlier than its August 5 close last year . Studebaker will begin to cut its operations at the end of this week , and will complete 1961 assemblies this month , three weeks ahead of last year . Lower Summer Output As a result of the early closedowns. the first 1982 models will be rolling down assembly lines in early August , and by the third week of that month most 1962 's will be in production . But because of the usual production problems at the beginning of a model run , August output will be low . In fact , In June , July and August , only 1,050,000 cars are scheduled to be built . down from 1,330,000 in these months a year ago It the industry were figuring on a lengthy strike , it probably would build 1981 cars at a faster pace in July and the first couple of weeks of August to build up dealer inventories . But car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could make some bad mistakes by producing cars and figuring on a strike . " says the president of one " Big Three " car maker . If inventories were built up and no strike came . dealers would be heavily overstocked with ' 61 models as the 1962 's came down the lines , as they were in late 1960.                     