@@727104

txt The official Czechoslovak press agency , C.T.K. , said today that the Prague Government had been informed in advance of the Soviet-bloc troop maneuvers that had taken place in southern Poland . In Ostrava , a mining center on the Polish border , no concern was evident over reports that Soviet troops were moving in that direction across Poland . The only people familiar with the excitement of the outside world were those who still depend on foreign broadcasts for their news . " The diplomatic correspondent of the Czechoslovak radio , " a C.T.K. statement said , " was Aoki in informed circles that the Czechoslovak Government had been informed in advance of the regular maneuvers of the Warsaw Treaty countries in the region of southern Poland . Information Lacking " The correspondent added that the report of some news agencies that this was a move against Czechoslovakia was considered in Czechoslovak political circles to he a political provocation . " IL was not known here tonight whether these maneuvers were still continuing . Despite the dismissal of the reports of hostile Soviet military moves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against its experiment in " democratic socialism . " These pressures ? ranging from the sudden Moscow meeting of this week of Communist chiefs from Poland , Hungary , East Germany told Bulgaria tom Polish press attacks on the leadership here  --  were reported cision to hold an emergency tonight to have led to the decision to hold an emergency meeting , probably tomorrow , of the Presidium of the Czechoslovak party 's Central Committee . Co:nmunist sources reported that the session will also set the tone for a major policy speech of Czechoslovakia 's independent " path to socialism " that Alexander Dubcek , the party First Secretary , is scheduled to deliver here Monday before regional Communist leaders . Svoboda Reiterates Goal Czechoslovakia 's determination to pursue her internal and international policies free of Soviet or other guidance was reiterated today by President Ludvik Svoboda in a speech stressing that " our goal is democratic regeneration . " Accompanied by Mr. Dubcek , the 73-year-old President spoke at a national celebration at the town of Rip , 30 miles from Prague , where 100 years ago the Czechoslovaks held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Austro-Hungarian Empire . Yesterday , General Svoboda stated the Government 's position even more forcibly in a speech in the presence of a Soviet military delegation headed by Marshal Ivan S. Konev during celebrations of the 23d anniversary of Prague 's liberation by Soviet troops . As Marshal Konev and his party left for Moscow today , Czechoslovaks continued to celebrate the three-day holiday marking the liberation , apparenity. more interested the spring weather than in politics . In any case , as a Czechoslovak observer remarked today , the real problems for the Dubcek Government appear to be in the realm of economics and domestic politics . Already controlling the party Presidium , Mr. Dubcek and his allies still have . not consolidated their power in the 110-Camera Press-Plx Soviet Marshal Ivan S. Honey , at celebration Thursday , heard forcible statement by Czechoslovak chief . member Central Committee , where the orthodox Communists may hold as many as 40 seats . This group is headed by the former President , Antonin Novotny , who was forced out in the dramatic but bloodless coup d'etat in February by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee positions . The present plan of the new , leadership is to hold a full ' meeting of the Central Committee before the end of May to seek to prepare the ouster of the Novotny group , The next step , if this procedure is successful , would be to hold a nationwide party congress later this year , when the actual ouster could be theoretically accomplished , according to Communist sources . But neither the new leadership nor its friends were ignoring the difficulties ahead . The Novotny group is known to be attempting to fight back and , this week , the campaign appeared to be centered on workers , thus far less involved in the " democratic revolution " than the intellectuals and the middle class . Leaflets circulating here are appealing to the workers to return to " true socialism " and , presumably , to do away with the Dubcek group . But the most serious aspect of the situation from the viewpoint of the " progressives " is the economy , ' and the new leadership realizes that this is where it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bolster its economy and is aware that the 1 " conservatives " are using as ' their foremost weapon the argument that under the " democratic revolution " the pocketbooks of the workers will suffer . This , of course , is one reason why the Dubcek group has adopted a policy of extreme caution in its relations with Moscow , traditionally Czechoslovakia 's chief trading partner . As of late this week , officials here are under orders to refuse all comment to foreign journalists on recent international events affecting Czechoslovakia . Even unofficial spokesmen have made themselves unavailable . " Give us time , at least until the Dubcek speech on Monday , " one official said today .                     