@@726040

txt Organized schoolteachers in Ohio are threatening statewide sanctions . The issue is money . More state money wanted for teacher salaries , for schoolroom operation , and to equalize differences between rich and poor school districts . The Ohio Education Association ( OEA ) complains that the state 's educational position is steadily slipping . Unless it 's improved , the OEA warns it will seek authorization from its 80,000 members to : ? Advise all new college graduates ' and out-of-state teachers that Ohio is providing , in its words , " an inferior quality of education . " ? Set up a placement bureau to secure out-of-state jobs for Ohio teachers . The threat dangles sharply over the heads of Ohio legislators due to convene early this month . Gov . James A. Rhodes has kept publicly quiet in the face of OEA threats . Privately he promises to support a bill to increase teacher salaries $400 a year . , Hallmark Cards , Inc. , has designed a greeting for its hometown of Kansas City , Mo . It 's a free-enterprise answer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covers a block and a half just south of downtown Kansas City . Its modern nine-story main building  --  engulfed by old warehouses , factories , and rundown houses  --  rises like a rose amid a thicket of thorns . In 1955 Hallmark began buying up the surrounding property . It now owns the largest share of an 84.5-acre tract . And on Jan. 4 the company presented a five-pound , 600-page gift-wrapped proposal to the city . If approved , it will result in a $100 million urban renewal project  --  privately financed . Joyce C. Hall , founder and chairman of the family firm , says the Hallmark complex would include high-rise apartment units and office buildings , a luxury hotel and two motor inns among parks , terraces , gardens , cultural and recreational facilities . 0 The car and plane are the two favorite forms of transportation . Yet journeys of 300 or 400 miles are not efficiently spanned by either , according to the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry . The car must fight city traffic . The plane needs airport transportation . So the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid interurban mass-transit systems . Cosponsor is the Illinois High Speed Rail Transit Commission . Conferees hope to find better ways to shuttle people between Chicago and other Midwestern cities even as Eastern experts talk of high-speed trains between Boston , New York , and Washington . Similar problems prevail in both areas . Some experts say the 150-mile-an-hour train is the answer . But those attending the Chicago meeting will look at other proposals , also . Trends Teen-agers , always at home where the action is , are fast slipping into the political groove . Young Republicans 18 to 35 have been helping on the hustings for years . But TARS ? Teen-Age Republicans 13 to 18 ? are clearly a product of the 1960 's . In the Midwest where the GOP has surged back into the limelight , these young groups are going strong . Ohio has at least 50 clubs . Illinois has 55 . TARs mix business with pleasure . They sprinkle parties and dances among the hard work of ringing doorbells and handing out leaflets . Senior party members value their services . Says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and legs . " Mailbox vandalism is a growing nuisance in the Midwest  --  and elsewhere in the nation . Postal officials in Chicago say the number of cases of damaged mail and mailboxes is definitely on the rise . Nationally the Post Office Department in Washington reports that 25,000 mail receptacles were damaged or destroyed during 1966 . More than 2,600 persons were arrested for this offense during the 12-month period ending last June . Of course the amount of mail itself is increasing . And the number of damaged mail boxes is infinitesimal compared with the total mail volume . But a single lighted match dropped into a box at 5 p.m. may burn hundreds of pieces of business mail . Much of the problem comes from juveniles . In many instances parents are held responsible for damage done . In some cases youths have been placed on probation or had such privileges as drivers ' licenses taken away . More serious offenses bring jail sentences .                     