@@721496

txt Senator John F. Kennedy charged Vice President Nixon with " malicious distortion " today in suggesting that Mr. Kennedy would follow policies of " surrender . " Addressing the - American ! Legion convention in Miami Beach shortly before Mr. Nixon spoke from the same platform , the Democratic Presidential candidate did not refer to his opponent by name . However , in light of Mr. Nixon 's many references to ' " surrender " in criticizing Mr. Kennedy 's stand on Quemoy and Matsu , there was no doubt about the Senator 's target . " I will not cut our present commitment to the cause of freedom anywhere in the world  --  the Formosa Taiwan Strait , Latin America , Asia , Africa , " he told the Legion . Candidates ' Paths Cross " I have never - believed in retreating under fire , " he went on . Mtn he referred obliquely to his Pacific war record during World War II , when he saved his torpedo-boat crew . after his ship had been sunk by the Japanese ; " I do not want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " I believe it- is clear that anyone who says the reverse that Senator Kennedy advocates retreat is guilty of a malicious distortion . " The Legion speech was the ' high point of a day in which Mr. Kennedy campaigned through West Palm Beach . and three of Florida 's principal cities ? Miami , Tampa and Jacksonville . Mr. Nixon was also campaigning ' through Florida today and the paths of the two kept crossing without ever bringing them together . As Mr .. Kennedy was speaking in Tampa tonight Mr. Nixon // was arriving at the airport . And tonight Mr. Kennedy spoke " in Hemming Park , Jacksonville , from the same platform that Mr. Nixon used this morning . Addressing a big crowd in front of the Hillsborough County Courthouse in Tampa this evening , Mr , Kennedy attacked the Latin-American policies of the Eisenhower Administration . This country 's troubles in the Western Hemisphere , he said , resulted from a " lamentable lack of concern " for the area in the last eight years . - In his final rally of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke to a huge crowd that jammed the , square and overflowed into the adjoining streets , Accurate comparisons with Mr. Nixon 's morning crowd were difficult , but reporters who had covered both events said the evening crowd was " bigger and wilder . " Aside from hitting back at Mr. Nixon in the battle over Quemoy and Matsu , Mr. Kennedy 's principal purpose in his Legion speech was to sharpen the issue of whether American strength had declined relative to the Soviet Union 's . Mr. Kennedy offered the following program to help reverse the " decline . " ( ) The establishment of an airborne alert for the Strategic Air Command , to prevent large parts of the retaliatory striking force from being caught on the ground in ? event of surprise attack . ( ) Stepped-up programs for making the Polaris and Minuteman missiles fully operational , These are the " ultimate " missiles , Mr. Kennedy said . Both operate on solid fuels , the Polaris from mobile submarine bases . ( ) The creation of a jet airlift for conventional forces that Would increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short notice to trouble spots in the event of limited warfare . . For his appearance before the 12,400 delegates in the Miami Beach exhibition hall , Mr. Kennedy , a combat hero of World War II , wore the blue legionnaire 's cap . This is traditional for candidates who are Legion members . Mr. Kennedy belongs to a Boston post . Except from the galleries , there was little applause as he spoke . " No amount of oratory , " he said , " can hide the fact that behind the rhetoric , behind the soothing words and confusing figures , American strength relative to that of the Soviet Union has been slipping and communism has been advancing steadily until the Iron Curtain now rests on the island of Cuba , only , ninety miles away . " Mr.- Kennedy arrived in Miami at about 3 A. M. today after another successful day of campaigning in Ohio . After breakfast this morning he set off in a sultry 80-degree heat to drive through Miami 's white boulevards and make two brief speaking appearances . The first , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second ' in Bayfront Park on Biscayne Bay . His route had been publicized in the newspapers and posters were placed along the way to advertise the time he would pass , but the crowds were rela-tively thin , Mr. Kennedy was accompanied by Senator George A , Smathers , Gov . LeRoy Collins and Farris Bryant , the conservative who is running for Governor on the Democratic ticket this fall . Senator Spessard Holland , Florida 's senior Senator , who is said to be doing no work for Mr. Kennedy , was absent . Before the Legion , Senator Kennedy struck on the theme that " we have been slipping and we are in danger . " He cited to prove his point the Gaither Committee , appointed by the Administration to survey the country 's security needs , the Rockefeller Brothers report of 1958 , and the testimony before Congressional committees of two Republicans who have served in security-policy positions  --  Robert A. Lovett and Robert Sprague . Turning then to Mr. Nixon 's argument , the Senator said : " Talk is cheap . Words are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nose costs the taxpayers nothing , even if all you 're saying is ' You may be ahead of us in rocket engines , but we are ahead of you in color television . ' " In his review of the country 's military status , Senator Kennedy found the Soviet Union outmatching it in ground forces , submarines and missiles . The nation 's ability to meet global commitments has been impaired by failure to develop an adequate . troop airlift ' , he charged . It is moving into a period when the Soviet Union will be outproducing it by a ratio of two to one in missiles , he said . This deterioration of strength , he asserted , resulted from Administration budgetary policies that had made a balanced budget seem more urgent than keeping pace with the.Russiahs . Earlier , addressing an open- , air audience at the band shell of Bayfront Park on . Biscayne Bay , Senator Kennedy resumed ' his attack on Mr. Nixon in relation to Cuban developments . " I wish I could take Mr. Nixon 's attention for just five , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and move him just ninety miles off the toast of Florida . " This referred to Mr. Nixon 's repeated insistence that he would continue to talk about ! supposed policy differences with Mr. Kennedy over Quemoy and Matsu , " He has announced that he is going to campaign the next three weeks talking about those islands about which there 's no debate , " Mr. Kennedy went on . This alluded to Mr. Kennedy 's insistence that Mr. Nixon " retreated " last week-end to the Quemoy-Matsu policy pursued both by President Eisenhower and Senator Kennedy . In 1955 , Mr. Kennedy said , Mr. Nixon declared that ! communism in Latin America is on the decline . " Now , he went on , the Communists " control Cuba , they 're about to control Iraq , the foreign policy of Guinea and Ghana matches theirs . "                     