@@725416

txt All drugs approved as safe by the Food and Drug Administration before 1962 are now to be screened for effectiveness , it was announced in Washington yesterday . It is estimated that 3,000 compounds are involved , many of them widely used on both a prescription and nonprescription basis . Dr. James L. Goddard , new C:mmissioner of the Food and Drug Administration , said that Dr. Joseph F. Sadusk Jr. , who is retiring as medical director of the agency , would initiate planning of the project in his final weeks with the organization . At the same time it was announced that special controls were being imposed on 16 drugs , including such popular tranquilizers as Miltown , Equanil , Librium , Valium and Placidyl . The drugs to be screened for efficacy are those approved as safe by the drug agency.between the start of its screening program in 1938 . and the institution of new procedures in 1962 . The latter require that drug makers show not only-that their product is safe , but also that it does what they claim . Now it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eirlier drugs are efficacious . In some cases this will be evident from clinical tests already published . For others , new tests , satisfactory to the F.D.A. , will have to be initiated . Officials at the agency expect that a number of drugs unlikely to pass such tests will be quietly taken off the market . The new action is another example of the Arigdretis Manner in which Dr. Goddard is carrying out his mandate . The law of 3,000 Widely Used Items Are Covered by Sweeping Rule of New F.D.A. Chief 1962 requires his agency to see that any drug on the market is efficacious . Hence yesterday 's move was not entirely unexpected . In fact there was a preview on March 8 . On that date the agency banned the manufacture of hundreds of brands of antibiotic lozenges on the ground that they had not ' been shown effective against sore throats , as claimed . The 16 drugs now under special control are tranquilizers , stimulants and drugs that stimulate hallucinations . They join other sedatives ( barbiturates ) and stimulants ( amphetamines ) in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that must bear a " C " symbol to indicate . that special control and accounting procedures are required . All such drugs considered by the F.D.A. to be habit-forming are available to the public only on a prescription . It is hoped the new procedure will make it easier for the drug agency to spot instances of excessive use of the drugs . The proposed new controls will be published tomorrow in the Federal Register , to become // Dr. Leake once proposed that the drug . industry set up an impartial institute for such tests , but hesays the plan was unacceptable to manufacturers who feared for their trade secrets . More recently a specialized medical society has proposed establishing a corps of accredContinued Prom Page 1 , CoL 6 effective May 17 . Interested persons may file comments until April 17 anr request a public hearing . , The regulations require that all persons handling the drugs . maintain detailed inventories in an effort to keep the , drugs out of illegal channels . Although Dr. Goddard 's moves , since he took office on Jan. 17 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his actions has stirred heated debate within the medical profession , the drug industry and Goverrunent . His policy clearly lies behind the resignation of the medical director , Dr. Sadusk , who has displayed ? a more lenient point of view . The questions at issue , put in extreme form , are : Should the Government become " big brother , " leaning over the shoulder of every physician to control his medication ? Or should the drug makers be allowed to run rampant in testing drugs on people and in promoting their products ? Happy Medium Sought All agree that the proper course lies somewhere between these extremes . The question is : Where ? Dr. Goddard , a handsome man with the youthful vitality of an astronaut , clearly believes his agency has been too lenient . The enormous growth in the use of drugs and food additives has laid heavy burdens on the agency , which is also being prodded by Congressional concern . As with its first suddel increase in authority , in 1938 current strengthening of the F.D.A. is essentially the outcome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sedative , thslidomide , led to the birth of malformed babies . The changes in 1938 were prompted by the deaths of more than 100 persons who had been given an improperly prepared elixir of sulfanilamide . Discontent with the new policy was manifest this week at a conference on the drug DMSO , held by the New York Academy of Sciences at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel . DMSO , or dimethyl sulfoxide , is an industrial solvent . In recent months a wide variety of medical uses of DMSO have been reported and widely publicized . However " double blind " tests , in which neither physician nor patient knows if he is being given the real drug , have been difficult because of the latter 's peculiar properties . It soaks through the skin , travels through the bloodstream and then imparts a garlic odor to the breath . Testing of the drug on human subjects went far beyond the limits set by the Federal drug agency , whereupon it was discovered that DMSO was damaging to animal eyes . Almost all testing of the drug has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was expressed by the conference chairman , Dr. Chauncey D. Leake , both from the rostrum and in an interview . Dr. Leake , a retired professor of pharmacology , is past president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . He clearly organized the conference to draw attention to the problems raised by the ban on DMSO research .. Puts Trust in Doctors Physicians , he said , are trustworthy and dedicated members of a sophisticated society . They are qualified to decide whether or not a certain drug should be administered . Every case is different , and rigid rules should not be set by the Government , he added . The Government 's role should be to disseminate information on drugs like DMSO and leave the rest up to the practitioner . Dr. Goddard , in an interview in Washington the other day , strongly disputed this argument . He agreed that physicians should have freedom of choice in using drugs already approved by his agency . He said , however , that most practicing doctors were not qualified to conduct trials of new medications ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goddard went on , his agency must " investigate the investigator " to make sure he is qualified and conducting a test program in a manner satisfactory to the agency . Under the law the testing procedure must be approved by the F.D.A. Dr. Goddard realizes that poking into laboratories will be resented by rome , but he believes it essential in safeguarding the public . The agency 's investigators are now going into drug company laboratories where they suspect departures from the agreed test procedures . There may ultimately be spot checks of such laboratories , without prior suspicion of a. violation , Dr. Goddard- said . Such spot checks have long been in force for drug manufacturing as a byproduct of the sulfanilamide episode of the 1930 's . They have not , however , been applied to the earlier stages of development and testing . Tests Made by Physicians The impartial testing of drugs has long been a troublesome problem . A common practice is for a drug company to offer a physician a generous grant to test the drug on patients . The grant helps the tester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may feel some obligation to give his benefactor a favorable finding . The results will then be published as a scientific report in ited drug testers . This - would be a self-policing system , someWhat like that of the certified public accountants . The roster would have to include  --  a broad range of specialists . Outside Help . Used Dr. Goddard has himself turned to the outside for help . He has arranged with Georgetown University Medical School to aid in his agency 's research . He plans similar arrangements with other schools , but says he has no intention of moving into the basic drug-testing field . That , he thinks , must remain the responsibility of the drug makers . The Government , he said , must depend on the " inherent honesty and integrity of the pharmaceutical industry . " companies have falsified data and concealed the fact that patients had died . He has shown himself willing to institute criminal ' proceedings against such companies . On-the other hand , while the drug companies are strongly competitive , he pictures most of them as honest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under his new restricttions , have avoided public criticism of the new drug commissioner . This is partly because they know he has strong Congressional backing . The growth ' of Dr. Goddard 's agency is shown both by its budget and its roster . In 1954 it employed 700 persons . By this summer there will probably has ' grown tenfold . Significantly Dr. Goddard hopes to swell his ranks by drawing on specialists in the Public Health Service . In the past his agency has been regarded in the medical community as being somewhat inbred . Its leaders tended to be men who had come up through the ranks of inspectors and analysts . Somewhat Isolated To some extent , therefore , it was isolated from the main stream of medical research as exemplified , for instance , by the National Institutes of Health : The latter are under the Public Health Service within which Dr. Goddard has been a leading figure . He was head of the Center in Atlanta before taking command of the drug agency on Jan. 17 . His ' past career may . help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug control , between . his agency and the Public . Health Service . The latter ; . for example , is concerned with pesticide residues in food- and the National Institutes of Health regulate vaccines production . Dr. Sadusk will ' probably not be replaced as medical director since the agency now is headed by ii:physician and public health specialist . But his post as head of the Bureau of Medicine *ill be filled , on sit acting basis , ' by Dr. Robert J. Robinson , the first Negro to occupy that position .                     