@@723746

txt Maj. Gen. Nguyen Khanh , the new leader of South Vietnam 's military Government , left Saigon today by helicopter for a three-hour morale-raising visit to peasants and soldiers in the midst of an antiguerrilla operation . Continuing the energetic pace with which he has taken up the reins of government since seizing ' power three days ago , General Khanh turned his trip into just the sort of psychological gesture Americans had urged upon Vietnam 's former leaders . Unlike his predecessors , the gregarious 36-year-old general seemed to need no urging . Heavy artillery , firing into a guerrilla-infested marshland , frequently drowned out the stocky young general 's words as he joked with village children , bcrave pep talks to troops and stressed his determination to do a better job of fighting the Communists than did the military junta that preceded him . " The essential point for defeating the Communists is to have the rural population with us , " General Khanh said , " not , just the people of Saigon but the people here in the country. , Here is where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American advisers and observers here hearing General Khanh argue points they have been trying to make for months , 1 reacted favorably . The man now leading the battle in which American pres- , tige is laid squarely on the line may not have assumed power under auspicious circumstances '  --  the initial reaction of diplomats and Vietnamese alike was that coups like last Thursday 's could tend to be habit-forming ,  --  but observers found little to criticize in General Khanh 's words or deeds so far . Military sources confirmed that there had been no major , dislocations in tactical planning and schedules . Specific operations planned before the coup are going on across country on schedule after being suspended Thursday and Friday , the sources said . General Khanh said the oneration against guerrillas in ' this area , 30 miles north of Saigon , started yesterday , only one day behind schedule as a result of the coup . Local officers gave General Khanh and Gen. Paul D. Harkins , chief of United States forces here , a briefing on the military activity . Helicopters armed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any Vietcong guerrillas in the area from setting up mortar positions within range of the town . Later General Khanh talked informally with officers and men . He stressed that he carried out the coup in the name " of all of us , of the entire armed forces " against leaders he called unworthy , more interested in enjoying themselves in the capital and seeking personal gain than in fighting the war . General Khanh specifically excluded the former junta leader , Maj. Gen. Duong Van Minh from the criticism . Wandering past a jeep-mounted radio transmitter , General Khanh grabbed a microphone to talk to the pilot of an observation plane searching for guerrillas . " This is the general , " he said . " I have come out personally to visit you . " After a moment 's hesitation a reply came in halting Vietnamese : " I am very much moved to have you here . " General Khanh questioned civilians about their health , housing and work . The children , accustomed to war and the crash of artillery day and night , were sullen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cheerful general 's teasing , however . He held packages of candy high above their heads and the children jumped on him , nearly pushing him over , to grab the candy . Under no illusions that this sort of thing would win the war against the Vietcong , American observers nevertheless noted that the former Vietnamese leaders had showed little interest in the grass-roots approach despite a recognized need to impress local populations with the presence of the Saigon Government . " We know this man is a general , " said one American . " Now he 's acting like a showman . Maybe he can pull something off . "                     