@@726538

txt President Johnson replied today to Congressional charges that he had exceeded the authority voted him in the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution by challenging Congress to rescind the resolution . " We think we 're well within the grounds of our constitutional responsibility , " the President said at his news conference . " We think we 're well within the rights of what the Congress said in its resolution , land the remedy is there if we have acted unwisely or improperly . " The President 's comment was ' elicited by a question based on criticism of the conflict in Vietnam voiced by members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee this week during hearings on the extent of United States commitments abroad . Question 10 , Page 10 . Javits Plea Rejected Mr. Johnson brushed aside a suggestion made yesterday by Senator Jacob K. Javits that the South Vietnamese presidential election , scheduled for Sept. 3 , be postponed for four weeks . Question 21 The New York Republican proposed the delay to give the civilian candidates " a real chance " and to restore public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Foreign Relations Committee took sharp exception yesterday to an argument advanced by Under Secretary of State Nicholas deB . Katzenbach . Mr. Katzenbach argued that the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution of August , 1964 , and the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty of 1955 gave the President authority equivalent to that conveyed by a declaration of war . In the 1964 resolution , Congress approved " all necessary measures " by the President to " repel any armed attack " against United States forces , and to " prevent further aggression . " ' Extremely Broad ' The " extremely broad " powers granted in the phrase " prevent further aggression , " Mr. Katzenbach contended , gave the President all the authority he needed to send American ground forces into battle and to order the recent bombing of targets 10 miles from the border of Communist China . On the bombing issue , President Johnson said today that he " would like to make if clear that these air strikes are not intended as any threat to Communist China . " Question 7 . " We believe that Peking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war in Vietnam , " the President said . He continued : " The evidence has been quite clear , we think , that the strikes ! were made against major military staging areas . And that the lines of communication where the enemy has been concentrating his supplies and troops , and the transportation routes and bridge , - ; over which those troops have been moved against our men , have been hit . " We think that these targets are directly related to the enemy 's capacity to move ma- terial into South Vietnam to kill American boys . " President Johnson was asked today why , in view of the misunderstanding over the Tonkin Resolution , he did not quickly call for a new vote on it . This was apparently a reference to a clause in the resolution saying that it would expire when the President decided that " the peace and security of the area is reasonably assured by international conditions created by action of the United Nations or otherwise , except that it may be terminated earlier by concurrent resolution of the Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress the power to withdraw the authority extended had been inserted at the suggestion of " a prominent Senator . " He did not name him . President Johnson requested the joint resolution on the heels of a reported attack by North Vietnamese PT boats against two American destroyers in the Gulf of Tonkin . Recalls Development He gave the following account today of how the resolution developed : In May and June , 1964 , he said , consideration had been given to how to keep Congress informed and in agreement with actions to be taken in event of contingencies . The attack on the destroyers was met immediately , he said . " But after that , " he con tinued , " we felt that we should point out that we ? there was likelihood there would be other instances . And we could see the problem developing in that area So we asked the leadership of the Congress to come to the White House . . . and asked their judgment about the resolution that would give us the opinion of the Congress . " The leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought desirable . " It was drafted and sent to the Congress . There ' were hearings , he said , before the Armed Services Committees of both houses and before the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees . ( Actually the hearings of the two Senate committees were conducted jointly . ) " We stated then , and we repeat now , we did not think the resolution was necessary to do what we did and what we 're doing , " Mr. Johnson said . " But we thought it was desirable and we thought if we were going to ask them to stay the whole route , and if we expected them to be there on the landing , we ought to ask them to be there on the take-off . " He noted that the resolution had passed the House unanimously , and the Senate with only two dissenting votes . " I believe that every Congressman there and most of the Senators there knew what the resolution said , " the President said . " And that resolution authorized the President and expressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing whatever was necessary to deter aggression . " Record of Debate It was just this contention that some committee members objected to when it was made yesterday by Mr. Katzenbach . Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , the committee chairman , said there was a great distinction between " repelling an attack and the waging of war as a matter of broad policy . " Senator Albert Gore , Democrat of Tennessee , said : " I did not mite for the resolution with any understanding that it was tantamount to a declaration of war " or that it authorind " the commitment of ground troops . " Mr. Katzenbach , in reply to a quetion by Mr. Gore as to whether the Tonkin resolution would encompass a decision to attackChina , said that that was a hypothetical situation . Thereupon Mr. Gore said that it was malty difficult for members o ' Congress to have foreseen ' the bombing of targets within 10 miles of China . " Altheugh the President said today ' hat " most of the Senators " knew what the resolution said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 , 1964 , shows hat many did not understand Oat its reach might he . For example , in a colloquy with Mi . Fulbright , floor manager of the bill , John Sherman Cooper , Republican from Kentucky , seemed to be puzzled about hew far the authority requested by the President could be used . COOPER : Are we now giving the President advance authority to take whatever action he may deem oecessary respecting South ietnam and its defense . .. ? FULBBIGHT : I think that is correct . COOPER : Then looking ahead , if the President decided that it was necessary to use such force as could lead into war , we will gve that authority by this resolition ? FULBRI3HT : That is the way I would irterpret it .. . COOPEF : Under Section 2 , When Mr. Nelson sought to are we now providing the President , if he determines it necessary , the authority to attack cities and ports in North Vietnam , not primarily to prevent an attack upon our forces but , as he might see fit , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . In the old days , when war usually resulted from a formal declaration of war . . . there was time in which to act . . . . Congress could participate in that way . . . . This provision is intended to give clearance to the President to use his discretion . We all hope and believe that the President will not use this discretion arbitrarily or irresponsibly . We know that he is accustomed to consulting ... with Congressional leaders . But he does not have to do that . However , Kenneth B. Keating , then Republican Senator from New York , said he was not voting " a blank check authorizing U. S. military actions against Red China . " And Gaylord Nelson , Democrat of Wisconsin , said he would be " most concerned if the Congress should say that we intend by the joint resolution to authorize a complete change in the United States mission .. . to engage in a direct land confrontation with our Army as a substitute for the South Vietnam Army , or as a substantially reinforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army in a war against North Vietname and possibly China . " amend the resolution with a statement reaffirming the policy of attempting " to avoid a direct military involvement , " Mr. Fulbright opposed the amendment , although he found it unobjectionable , because it would require debate , " cause confusion and require a conference with the 1:eesc " and so " delay matters . " Mr. Fulbrieht has many times rebuked himself for push-i ing the resolution through with ! such speed and without trying , to narrow its authority .                     