@@723539

txt Chancellor Ludwig Erhard proclaimed today a middle-of-the-road policy for West Germany under his leadership . In a two-hour statement in Parliament on his second day in office , Dr. Erhard appealed to the nation to rally behind him in support of policies formulated by his predecessor , Dr. Konrad Adenauer . " My policy is a policy of the middle way and of understanding , " . Dr. Erhard said . In reaffirming Dr. Adenauer 's foreign policies , the new Chancellor put heavy emphasis on West Germany 's ties to the United States and gave his blessing to President Kennedy 's attempt to reach an accommodation with the Soviet Union . Former President Eisenhower said in a magazine article that he believed the time had come to start withdrawing some United States troops from Europe . Partisanship Avoided In his bid to West Germans to follow him on " the middle way , " Dr. Erhard set out a philosophy at odds with the partisan spirit of Dr. Adenauer . A Chancellor is necessarily elected by a party group , Dr. Erhard said , but after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the entire German people who stands above all party groupings . " " I expressly state before this high house that I shall abide by this principle , " he said . " The tenacity of purpose of our policy and its vitality do not signify power politics ; it is a policy of the middle way that recognizes the necessity of agreement and of accommodation . " Welcomed by Opposition The Chancellor 's appeal for unity beyond partisan bounds was initially well received by the political Opposition . A Social-Democratic party statement commented that the call for cooperation and criticism by leading forces in the nation struck a note " never before heard from the mouth of a Chancellor . " Dr , Erhard reiterated Bonn 's demand that any agreements with the Soviet Union not be made at the expense of Germany 's vital interests , above all Germany 's reunification . " We are told that the division of our country is a ' reality ' that has to be accepted , " Dr. Erhard said , " Of course it is a reality , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reality , " he continued , " and yet we shall have to do all possible to remove it . Above all , if the division of our country is put forward as a reality , the will of the German people to restore its unity is a far stronger reality . " . The 66-year-old Chancellor 's carefully balanced statement of national policies was designed to represent a consensus within the coalition Government . But points of nuance and emphasis made it clear that the Erhard Government would establish a different oraer of priorities from that of Dr. Adenauer . Chancellor Erhard began his statement by saying that talks between the United States and the Soviet Union " can be useful " and should be continued . Having made his point that an East-West settlement based on Germany 's partition or the sacrifice of West Berlin would be unacceptable , Dr. Erhard committed his Government to full support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United States . He called for Inten4ified political cooperation " and tighter integration of the NATO alliance . The Chancellor added that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attaining this objective . " Dr , Erhard said the German people knew how greatly the United States had contributed to their postwar recovery and how much West Germany 's freedom and security depended on the United States . " The Federal Government will therefore , continue in close and friendly consultation to seek agreement with the American Government on all questions of common interest , " he added . Chancellor Erhard affirmed his determination to cultivate good relations with France because " all problems of European policy center on the relations between the German and French people . " However , his statement was dotted with implied criticisms of the nationalistic policies of President de Gaulle . Discussing the North Atlantic Alliance , Dr. Erhard said that " no individual state belonging to the alliance can protect itself in isolation . " General de Gaulle has been pressing a program of developing an independent nuclear force for France . The Chancellor pledged to concentrate on " reactivating the political formation of Europe " in the shape of a supernational parliamentary system . He added that bringing Britain into the Continental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . President de Gaulle vetoed early this year Britain 's application to join the European Economic Community , or Common Market . Alluding to General de Gaulle 's policy of Continental " independence , " Dr. Erhard said : " Anyone considering it a European task that in the present worldwide conflict our Continent should be lent greater weight and should be given the position it deserves , can only support a policy , both political and economic , that aims at uniting all the free nations of Europe . " The Common Market , he continued , " must not degenerate into a self-sufficient market . "                     