@@723959

txt Relations between Soviet leaders and United States diplomats in Moscow have developed to a point where Americans can obtain private advance word on Russian attitudes in the dispute with Communist China . The improved relationship was described by the United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union , Foy D. Kohler , in testi:inony before the subcommittee Ion national security of the Senate Committee on Government ' , Operations . The testimony , given April 8 , was made public today . Mr , Kohler replied to questions about the degree to which his contacts with Soviet leaders provided insights into So ' viet thinking . lie said : " Leaving the personality of the incumbent aside , I think the role of the Ambassador in ' the Soviet Union is a very key one . The leadership there is ' rather concentrated . You get to know all of them and the opportunities to communicate with them are very frequent now . " You get from them senses of what is bothering them in a way that you do not get out of any published material in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and where everything that is in the , press is purposeful in one way or another . " Mr. Kohler was asked by Senator Henry M. Jackson , Washington Democrat and subcommittee chairman , whether he could obtain a correct estimate on the Kremlin 's Views " outside of the doctrinaire published policy . " The Ambassador said that an illustration of this process was the " question of the relationship between Moscow and Peking during the past couple of years that I have been there . " Mr. Kohler took over the Moscow post in September , 1962 . " Officially , you could not get a Soviet leader to discuss this problem , " he said , " He would Say it was a family matter , and so forth . Unofficially on Social occasions and in private conversations with leading Russians , even though not officially , and in conversations which they did not regard as official , you Could get indications well in advance of anything published of their great and growing concern about this problem . " Stresses Improvement Mr. Kohler stressed his belief that mutual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved considerably in the recent past . He emphasized the importance of 1963 exchange agreements under which each country sent about 600 persons to the other . The United States Embassy in Moscow , he said , seeks to encourage visits by high American officials to en able them to " get a sense of the atmosphere . " Mr. Kohler noted that radio jamming had ceased and the Soviet radio and press had shown a willingness to disseminate more and " somewhat more favorable " material about the , United States . As a result , he said , the Soviet people " are getting a much more objective picture " about the United States . The Voice of America is now heard " quite clearly throughout the Soviet Union , " he said . Although the United States is still being portrayed as " the head of the imperialist camp , " he went on , " the more acrimonious comment these days has been directed toward the Chinese Communists , and this has caused a letup in the amount Of attack on us . " " The role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that you get much less of this about the United States , " he said . " You do get a lot of articles , usually exempting the President and the political leadership , but saying the generals in the Pentagon are plotting war behind the back even of the President . But this has gone down . " Mr. Kohler testified that there had been a tendency to " publish more top American statements and speeches . " He said that President Kennedy 's June 10 , 1963 , speech on " The Strategy of Peace " at the American University in Washington was published In full , and " a number of the speeches of President Johnson when he took over ( are ) being published In full . " As an example of the new Soviet cooperation , Mr. Kohler cited the plan for opening United States consulates in the Soviet Union and Soviet consulates in the : United States . He said he expected that initially an American consulate would be opened in Leningrad , through which most Americans usually arrive in the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . He said that when problems arise with American tourists , " I must say in all fairness that Intourist tends to get in touch with us about it , and we then get in touch with the traveler and do what we can for him . " Intourist is the official Soviet travel ' agency that looks after foreign tourists . The communications between the United States Embassy in Moscow and the State Department are not adequate , Mr. Kohler said . But later , this year he said , he expects the Soviet Government to authorize a direct leased Teletype line to Western Europe . Such a link , to be completely controlled by the embassy , would connect with the State Department 's system in West ! ern Europe and provide for rapid communications with Washington . On the whole , Mr. Kohler said , the State Department 's communications everywhere are inadequate and should be improved on a global basis .                     