@@726137

txt The President 's Commission on Law . Enforcement and Administration of Justice called today for " sweeping and costly changes in criminal administration " throughout the nation . It said these changes would , be necessary to effect a signifi , ' cant reduction in crime . In a 308-page report on its 18-month study of crime , ' the commission proposed more than 200 recommendations to reduce crime . They varied from controversial demands for birth control ' programs and a guaranteed . minimum family income to noncommittal positions on the death penalty and wiretapping . ' ' Very Substantial ' Cost No estimate of the total cost was made . But Under Secretary of State Nicholas deB . Katzenbach , the commission chairman , conceded at a news conference that the . cost of implementing the program would be " very . substantial . " The report was silent on the much-debated issue of the impact of court decisions on crime , and it criticized " those who point to scapegoats " for the increase in criminality . But seven members of the 19-member commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , joined In a separate statement declaring that recent Supreme Court decisions that limit police interrogation and confessions had tilted the balance of justice too far in favor of defendants . The former presidents , Ross L. Malone , Lewis F. Powell Jr . and Robert G. Storey , were joined by Leon Jawarski of Houston , Garrett H. Byrne , Attorney General of Suffolk County , Mass. ; Thomas J. Cahill , Chief of Police of San Francisco , and Thomas C. Lynch , Attorney General of California . Their statements called for a constitutional amendment to reverse a series of recent rub ings and allow police interrop .. tion with safeguards against abuse ; to permit the use of voluntary confessions , even if they were given by persons who had not been warned of their rights , and to allow judges and prosecutors to comment to juries on the failure of an accused to take the stand . Mr. Katzenbach called these against the intensity and tactics proposals high-priority items : ( IRestrUcturing of police forces to provide three levels youths , ' 17 to 21 who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beats and agents to handle complex investigations . Eventually , all officers and agents should be college graduates , the commission said . 9Creation of youth service weapons . bureaus in every community to It noted that its observers of coordinate all youth services . police . night work in ingh.Crime tlInCresied use of modern neighborhoods reported that one scientific equipment by the Po- out of , 10 persons ' " frisked " were lice .. carrying firearms and 10 per cent more had knives . The report dealt in detail with the social and economic factois that it found usually associated of the effort , and a loss of ' personnel in ' 01. e organized crime section ' Of the Justice Depart , ment , In another , controversial legal area , ; the. : eninrnisSion rectum mended. , that all states enact " stop , and frEs ? k " ' laws ' to authorize the Volt* to stop suspects on ' the Street , question them briefly and search them for Most of the recommendations would have to be put into effect by states and local communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these as large , frequently nonwhite f amFederal. legislation ? firearms ilies , living in crowded condilegislation , broadened immunity tions , often without a father and anti-intimidation protection present and usually with- Made , for witnesses , and increased spending on law enforcement ? have already been sent to Congress by President Johnson . The report did not produce the fireworks that had been predicted in some quarters on the subject of police corruption . It did say it had ? some evidence that " policemen are accepting bribes from motorists and storekeepers , stealing from burglarized premises or from drunks and receiving kickbacks from tow-truck operators . " But since it had no knowledge of how widespread these practices are , the commission restricted its recommendations to a statement that all police forces should have an internal unit to root out police corruption . Wary on Wiretaps On the sensitive issue of wiretapping and eavesdropping , the report said " a majority of the members of the commission believe that legislation should be enacted granting carefully circumscribed authority for electronic surveillance to law enforcement officers . " This places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress . He asked for a ban on all police wiretapping and eavesdropping except in national security cases . However , the commission technically avoided a conflict with the President 's position by limiting its recommendations to the statement that " Congress should enact legislation dealing specifically with wiretapping and bugging . " The report said a great majority of law enforcement officials considered electronic surveillance techniques " indispensable " to the fight against organized crime . According to the commission , the Justice Department 's drive against organized crime , which it said had reached a peak of effectiveness under Attorney General Robert Kennedy , lost its momentum in 1965 and " the intensity of its efforts diminished . " . It attributed this to accusations of illegal eavesdropping that were made against various Federal agencies , press attacks quate income . Although it did not elaborate on its recommendations to meet these , conditions , these were among the ' most controversial positions taken by the'group : ( I " Devise methods Of providing minimum family income : " This is , without using the term , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income or " negative income tax " that have been advanced recently , usually in liberal circles . ' " Insure availability of family planning assistance . " The idea of public birth control help to women in high-crime areas has been rarely , if ever , advocated in an official Government document .. Me-examine and revise welfare regulations so that they contribute to keeping the farnt ily together . " The commission threw its weight behind efforts to eliminate " man in the house " rules that cut off welfare benefits if an ablebodied man is living in , the home . The commission members concluded that each state should decide for itself whether to abolish the death penalty . The executive director of the commission are : Miss Genevieve Blatt , of Internal Affairs sylvania . Judge Charles D. Breitel , of the New York Court of Appeals . Kingman Brewster , president of Yale University . Otis Chandler , publisher of The Los Angeles Times . Judge James B. Parsons of the United States District Court , Northern District of Illinois . William P. Rogers of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Women Voters . Robert F. Wagner , former Mayor of New York . Prof. Herbert Wechsler of Columbia Law School . Whitney M. Young Jr. , executive director of the Urban League . Judge Luther W. Youngdahl of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia . The executive director of the commission was James Vorenberg , who will return next fall to his position as professor of law at the Harvard-Lew School . The commission used 63 staff members and 175 part-time consultants . Its operating budget was $1-million and it shared $1-million in research funds with the District of Columbia Crime Commission .                     