@@726163

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 46 Letters to the Editor of The Times Student Deferments To the Editor : . The Presidential and Congressional concern for meeting wartime contingencies has prevented complete reform of the Selective Service laws , i.e. , the elimination of conscription . Students and others should continue agitation for this end . Yet the nineteen-year-old impartial lottery pool being considered is a good place to start in bringing the draft up to higher standards of justice . That those who can not afford college or whose high school education was incomplete or insufficient for college should be risking and losing their lives while the middle and upper class young live in comfortable isolation in college communities only adds to the economic injustices borne by our ghettoized minorities and lower classes . To think that a nineteen-yearold gasoline station attendant is any less worthwhile as a citizen than a nineteen-year-old college student is to take an economic and intellectual elitist attitude . This new draft proposal justly has each share equal risks . One more point deserves mention . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree to submit to draft eligibility after graduation ) for " special " . college undergraduate or graduate students , such as physicists , chemists , engineers . Just because these students are . " vital to the national interests , " i.e. , more likely to build larger and more efficient atomic bombs or more likely to work for General Motors , I.B.M. , or General Electric , should not guarantee them the kind of special privileges that may mean life or death . What is good for General Motors is not necessarily good for the country . Editorial March 8 . BRUCE G. WENIGER ( Freshman Class ) Brown University Providence , R. I. , March 7 , 1967 Racism in Powell Vote To the Editor : Lamar Perkins in his letter published March 7 states that what Congress did to Adam Clayton Powell was not racial . Mr. Perkins goes on to uphold the right of Congress to be the sole judge of its members . What I and many other Negroes are against is the double standard ? one for white and one for black . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been , but I believe that he has been the victim of the double standard . Perhaps Mr. Perkins has not read any of Drew Pearson 's articles on Congress and some of its members . He seems to think that what Powell did was small compared to what some others did . Yet no one has been brought up on charges except Senator Thomas Dodd , and his subcommittee ) chairmanships have not been taken away while hearings are going on . Mr. Perkins can not convince me that there was no racial bias in the Powell case . ? The proof is that Powell received only five votes from the South . Without that solid Southern vote he could not have been unseated . FRANK T. PAYTON New York , March 7 , 1967 ? Wiretapping Against Organized Crime To the Editor : President Johnson 's outright ban on wiretapping to control organized crime in his special message to Congress may well be a disservice to the public interest . In his first remarks the new Attorney General , Ramsey Clark , echoes his sponsor , saying wiretapping should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President and his chief law enforcement officer would allow wiretapping to protect our national security , they would not permit wiretapping to curb the awesome rise in ? racketeering throughout the country . This is curious thinking , since no one doubts that crime syndicates ignore state lines and have infiltrated deeply into legitimate labor and business . Certainly , burgeoning organized crime affects our internal security and therefore should warrant , under strict controls , use of crime-fighting wiretapping by law enforcement officers . The safety of our nation is involved as much with the cancer of racketeering as it is with infection by foreign enemies . It is ironic that President Johnson appointed a first-rate national crime commission to give him advice and then apparently tried to induce his commission not to recommend wiretapping legislation to control crime . But the President 's longawaited crime commission report ( released only after his special message ) contradicts the President : " A majority .. . believe that legislation should be enacted granting carefully circumscribed authority for electronic surveillance to law enforcement officers . " Congress should enact new wiretapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal interception on court order of telephone communications involving organized crime . If , as President Johnson says , public order is the first business of government , we must protect ourselves against internal as well as external enemies . GORDON E. HYDE President Grand Jury Association of New York County New York , March 9 , 1967 ? Passive Witnesses To the Editor : I think that the refusal of bystanders to go to the aid of the Atlantic City woman who was dragged into an alley and raped is a disgrace to the nation . If this were an isolated instance of public inaction , it would not even then be less disgraceful . When such an occurrence becomes the rule instead of the exception , however , everyone bears part of the guilt . Just suppose that a soldier over here were under enemy fire and other soldiers refused to come to his aid for fear of " retaliation . " What punishment would you , as citizens , prescribe for such soldiers ? I think that laws prescribing similar judicial punishment . should be put into effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . I also think that , their names should not be withheld from publication for fear of public scorn . They deeply deserve it . Pfc . JEFFREY HARTNETT South Vietnam , March 5 , 1967 ? To Probe C.I.A . To the Editor : In his March 7 column concerned with C.I.A . involvement in the National Student Association , Tom Wicker noted " necessities " for C.I.A . funds rather than Congressional authorizations . In the absence of legislation underwriting expenses of student organizations to counter propaganda activities by certain foreign countries , Wicker explained , the C.I.A . filled the void . But herein exists a most grave danger : the C.I.A . subverts democratic processes of our country as it promotes activities that would not be approved by Congress . By what right does the C.I.A. , even w'th the sanction of " higher ? authorities , " undertake prograihs that would admittedly be rejected by Congress ? Is it possible for a nation to uphold democratic processes as ? the C.I.A . implements specific policies that could not receive passage by the duly elected representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we allow the C.I.A . to subvert constitutional processes . This , then , is sufficient reason for immediate Congressional investigation of the C.I.A . SIDNEY M. WILLUELM Associate Professor Department of Sociology State University of New York Buffalo , March 9 , 1967 ?                     