@@724005

txt Senator Barry Gold'water clung to a narrow and dwindling lead over Governor Rockefeller this morning in the bitter California Presidential primary , The Arizonan had been considered the underdog in this , the last significant primary before the opening of the Republican National Convention on July 13 . At stake were this ! state 's 86 convention votes . The Columbia Broadcasting System , after tabulating 83 per ; cent of the expected 2 million Republican votes , gave Senator Goldwater 861,963 votes and Governor Rockefeller 798,751 ? a lead of 66.212 . ? The National Broadcasting Company , after counting 82 per ; cent of the expected vote , reported 871.557 for Senator GoldI water and 842,184 for Mr. Rock ! efeller , Lead for Governor However , the American Broadcasting System announced ; at 11:35 P.M. 2:35 A.M. Wed ! nesday , New York time ) that ( Governor Rockefeller had 638 , - ; 291 votes and Senator Goldlwater 629,051 . C.B.S. , using computer projections of early returns , said at 7:22 P.M , ( 10:22 P.M , New York time ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes after most of the polling places had closed . A.B.C . gave victory to AO Goldwater at 8:12 P.M. N.B.C . said its computers indicated such a close vote that it would not name the winner last night . Late last night neither The Associated Press nor United Press International had designated a winner . The A.P. , with a tabulation from 22,841 of the state 's 32,861 precincts , said Mr. Goldwater had 532,163 votes and Mr. Rockefeller 550 , - 079. with returns counted from 21.538 precincts . said the tally was 159.180 for Mr. Goldwater and 176,217 for Mr , Rockefeller . Goldwater Strength Noted Influential Republicans believe that Senator Goldwater ! entered the primary with about 510 convention delegates committed for first-ballot support . Adding California 's 86 delegates would mean he had fewer than 30 to pick up befor , - he could record 635  --  the total needed to win the party 's nomination for President . Party professionals indicated that Mr. Goldwater would collect more delegate votes from conservative Middle West states before the convention if he won California . Senator Goldwater himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night , predicted " a greater and greater stop - Goldwater movement . " " It 's not a victory for Barry Goldwater , It 's a victory for the mainstream of Republican thinking , " he declared . This was the Senator 's wry way of calling attention to the phrase Mr. Rockefeller had used as the theme of his campaign . In the second important part of the California primary , Pierre Salinger , who had served Presidents Kennedy and Johnson as White House press secretary , won a hitter contest with State Controller Alan Cranston for the Democratic nomination for United States Senator . Mr. Salinger will be opposed in November by the winner of the Republican nomination , George Murphy , the former actor . Mr , Murphy , who is now a film executive , was successful over Leland M. Kaiser , a San Francisco financier , and Fred Hall , former Governor of Kansas , who now is practicing law in Los Angeles . In its simplest terms , Mr. Goldwater 's showing was determined by Los Angeles County , the sprawling . metropolitan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California , Early in the campaign , Rockefeller managers acknowledged that their candidate was in deep trouble in Los Angeles and in other major Southern California counties where ultraconservatisin had spouted and flourished . But because of prodigious campaigning by the Governor in the last two weeks , abetted by a vast army of workers , the Rockefeller managers thought that Goldwater strength had been : diminished . Senator Goldwater still had ) more than majority support in Los Angeles county before the election , according to the c.B.S. - LEM . Vote Profile Analysis . But when the sample districts had reported their results , the analysis showed that the Gold- , water total had risen 4 percent- , age points above expectations , i The Voter Profile Analysis projected a statewide election , outcome on the basis of results from 42 precincts throughout , the state . The precincts were , chosen to represent a cross-secil tion of Californians as to reli- ? religion , politics , economic status , education and other elements bearing on voter behavior . Returns from these areas were obtained as soon as possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment en the entire vote . A Gain For Senator In the San Francisco Bay , area , roughly a 60.40 ratio in , favor of Governor Rockefeller was maintained as expected . But Senator Goldwater did considerably better than had been forecast in the East Bay dis- , trict , which includes Oakland . Mr. Rockefeller had been expected to take two out of three votes there , although it is the home of former Senator William F. Knowland , who is the editor of the Oakland Tribune and Senator Goldwater 's state campaign chairman . In the ' ' lower valley , ' a term applied to some areas east and south of Los Angeles below the Tehachapi Range , Mr. Goldwater was winning two-thirds of the vote . In coastal areas , Governor Rockefeller was doing relatively better than earlier samplings had indicated he would . But in the 500-mile-long Central Valley  --  made up of the San Joaquin and Sacramento Valleys  --  the Goldwater strength was exceeding forecasts made in professional straw polls . In that great inland valley , dotted with cities , towns and vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to record more than 60 per cent of the vote . The incomplete returns cut at least 10 per cent off that figure . According to the C.B.S.-I.B.M . Vote Profile Analysis , Senator Goldwater did better than expected in the metropolitan areas and as well as had been ex petted in California 's rapidly , growing suburbs . The analysis also indicated that the Roman Catholic vote for Mr. Goldwater in the sample precincts had been higher than expected . The inference here was that Governor Roekefeller 's divorce and remarriage had perhaps reacted more unfavorably than campaign developments had indicated . Even before the vote-tabulat-i log had begun , it was evident ; that the candidate who captured ' suburbia , which holds 43 per cent of California 's voter strength , was on the way to winning this primary election . From the start of the campaign Governor Rockefeller had , been strongest in the cities . which furnished 41 per cent of the voters . Senator Goldwater 's acknowledged leadership had , been in the rural districts  --  with I 2 per cent of the state 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grass Roots Noted Early in the evening , Senator told his supporters that he had " never seen such a fired up grass roots movement . " " And , ladies and gentlemen , " he said , " that 's what wins campaigns and that 's what will beat Lyndon Baines Johnson . " The most important issue is not Goldwater or Rockefeller . It 's getting rid of Lyndon Baines Johnson . " The Arizonan called for a " reuniting of Republican forces . , . to the end that in November we have a Republican vietet7 . It 's a victory not for me , not for any particular segment of the Republican party  --  let 's make it a victory for the Republican party . " Confident of getting the Presidential nomination at the national convention , which opens at San Francisco 's Cow Palace on July 13 , he said of a running mate : " I will have open ears and open eyes to anyone the party picks to run with me . " Governor Rockefeller had been a slight favorite of Hu . professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls opened at 7 A. M. ( 10 A. M. New York time ) , At least one polling organization , Louis Harris and Associates , had continued its work ; since its last announced findings , which had given Mr. Rockefeller a 2-point lead . From a sampling completed last midnight , Mr. Harris disclosed today that the candidates each had 44 per cent of the vote , with 12 per cent of the voters undecided . In the last two weeks , Gov. governor Rockefeller had become the rallying point for all Re . publican factions that sought . to stop Senator Goldwater 's quest for convention delegates . However , only the Senator and the Governor were named on the ballot . Neither Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge in Vietnam , Gov . William kir , Scranton of Pennsylvania , nor Richard M. Nixon , the party 's 1960 standard-bear ? I er , had sought to capture , via the ballot route , California 's ' delegates . Write-in votes Nverc I ( prohibited in the primary . Absentee ballots were count-I ed today along with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting was prohibited .                     