@@726684

txt What 's ahead . . George C. Wallace is packing his bags for a crucial sounding of Far West politics . Between Oct. 26 and Nov. 4 , the former governor of Alabama will make 11 speeches in Nevada , Oregon , and Washington , but mostly in California . Privately Mr. Wallace is asserting that , if he runs for president on an independent ticket in 1968 , he will carry California . He bases his prediction on the strong mail response his overtures have received from Californians . The former governor already has a campaign organization at work collecting the 90,000 signatures necessary to get him onto the California ballot next year . He says he 'll run if neither of the major parties offers a candidate and platform acceptable to conservatives . So far he specifically has pronounced as unacceptable every major candidate mentioned ? including California 's Gov . Ronald Reagan . ? Of late , when questioned about a possible running mate , Mr. Wallace has said that if he runs " there is going to be a good man or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mrs. Louise Day Hicks , a candidate for mayor of Boston . e Most Mississippians think Rep. John Bell Williams is sure to be elected their governor Nov. 7 . Nevertheless the race sparks interest . Challenger Rubel Phillips , a Southern Republican , has an unusual stance : He 's running as less conservative than his Democratic opponent . Most GOP office seekers in the South run to the right of Democrats . While success in statewide Mississippi politics in recent years has virtually required defense of the status quo , the Phillips thesis is that Mississippi must change greatly to prosper . Major improvements , he says , must be made in education and job opportunities for the poor  --  most of whom are Negroes  --  so they can contribute to the state 's economy . Phillips forces bravely say reaction is excellent to their candidate 's kickoff speech . But most observers see conservative Democrat Williams=for 21 years a congress . man  --  winning . Trends .. . Soviet sunflowers are taking the bloom off United States soybeans . They 're underselling the beans in foreign markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carolina where the bean has been hailed as an agricultural gold mine . A group of South Carolinians who recently took a people-to-people tour of the Soviet Union hoped to learn about the Soviet sunflower crop . But the technology is a trade secret , and the Russians expect to keep it that way . All the visitors learned was that the Soviet sunflower , said to be built around a superior variety , produces 40 to 50 percent oil and yields a high-protein feed used mostly for livestock . e . Claude R. Kirk Jr. , Florida 's first Republican Governor in almost 100 years , is n't doing too well with the voters . That is , if a poll taken for former Gov . LeRoy Collins is correct . Mr. Collins , running a brisk but as yet unannounced campaign for the Senate seat to be vacated by George A. Smathers , got Independent Research Associates of Miami and Washington to tap public opinion . Their sampling of 1,400 voters gave Governor Kirk , now in office nine months , these grades : excellent , 11. percent ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor , 31 percent . Experienced politicians say these marks are n't good enough . They offer explanations for the recent dissatisfaction : ? The Governor has stuck to his popular no-new-taxes pledge on the state level , but city and county taxes have risen because of burden shiftings . ? A school shutdown is possible . Teachers resent Governor Kirk 's veto of more funds for education and teachers ' salaries . Parents doubt the Governor 's stiff attitude has helped matters . How and why . . . The Chesapeake Bay-Bridge Tunnel , one of the world 's engineering marvels , is in money trouble . And the rumble from it disturbs Virginia 's fiscal front generally ? even though the state 's credit is not pledged . The span , linking Norfolk to an eastern-shore route straight to northern cities , was built with bonds by a toll authority . But traffic has n't approached what experts predicted . Mostly free Interstate 95 inland siphons off much of the trade . Should the state take over ? Objectors say bond buyers knew they were taking a risk . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent . And if the state moved in , argue opponents , so would speculators ? figuring the bond prices would skyrocket . One investment banker offers a solution : Consolidate the bridge-tunnel authority with others whose toll facilities are paying .                     