@@722464

txt Letters to The Times pg . 13 Letters : to The Times Indonesia 's Case Backed Delay by Dutch in Negotiating on West New Guinea Charged The writer of the following letter pis a member of the law firm which represents the Indonesian Government in the United States . To me EDITOR or Tin NEW YORK TIMER : Your recent editorials have manifested a gratifying tendency toward greater objectivity concerning the West Irian ( West New Guinea ) dispute between Indonesia and the Netherlands . Your editorial of June 8 acknowledges that Indonesia may well have a valid legal basis for her claim to West New Guinea . This is in accord with the views of the leading scholars on the subject , such as Prof. George Kahin , Robert Bone and Leslie Palmier , ' refuting the view sometimes advanced that the Indonesian claims are merely a variation of colonialism . Your same editorial , however , asserts that Indonesia is " the guilty party in resorting to military force to settle the dispute . " This view is based on the unwarranted assumption that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of West New Guinea after the one-year period mutually stipulated in the Round Table Conference Agreement which became effective in December , 1949 . Equivocal Acceptance Moreover , your editorial ignores the fact that , while Indonesia accepted the Bunker proposals promptly , the Netherlands used its own delay in acting on them as an occasion for building , up its forces in West New Guinea . This , in turn , caused Indonesia to engage in a show of force to speed the Netherlands ' acceptance of the Bunker proposals , an acceptance which to this day is still equivocal . It should also be borne in mind that the Indonesian Government has attempted unsuccessfully since 1950 , both directly and through the United Nations , to negotiate the issue with the Netherlands , as envisaged in the Round Table Conference Agreement . In this connection you must also recognize the unfairness of the headline on your news story of June 6 , which read : " Sukarno Tells U. N. He Is Pressing War . " The implication was that Indonesia had declared war . The story , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported all efforts to settle this problem of West Irian along the principles of the Bunker proposals , " and his explanation that the unfavorable Dutch reaction to the Bunker proposals and their build-up of forces was the reason for stepping up Indonesia 's military activity . Reassurance Wanted As The Times ' reporting has indicated , the Indonesians are not certain from ti4 character of the Dutch acceptance of the Bunker proposals whether they intend to use the negotiations in good faith to implement these proposals , or to use them as an excuse for further delay and modification of the proposals . Indonesia has asked for reassurance that the former is the case . An analysis of the Netherlands ' attitude in ' previous dealings with Indonesia and the United Nations would seem amply to warrant the Indonesian concern for such reassurance . Would not The Times serve a more constructive purpose if it commended Indonesia for its prompt and unequivocal acceptance of the Bunker proposals and called upon the Netherlands to confirm the unequivocal ' character of its acceptance ? Formal negotiations , desired by Indonesia , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the negotiations would have been clearly accepted by both parties . The foregoing is not written on behalf of the Indonesian Government . ROBERT DELSON . New York , June 11 , 1962 . Farm Controls Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You have not told the truth about organized farmers in your May 18 editorial or about " high prices . " Corn is currently worth a little more than it was in 1928 . Is this artificially high ? Consumers spend a smaller per cent of their earnings for food . Unwise political decisions have caused our present intolerable farmsurplus costs . Farmers never asked for this . Now , instead of reversing the procedure , the Administration wants to give us more of the same medicine . This is centralized authority in high gear and their only answer is more authority and tighter controls . The Farm Bureau has a program to solve our dilemma , which would cost much lest but is not being considered for political reasons . - You have been grossly- unfair to organized farmers . What do you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poles apart . There are some people in every business who want to live off the Federal Government . The ' Farm Bureau 's basic policy for any . new proposals is this : Is it good for farmers ? Is it economically sound ? Is it good for the country as a whole ? On this we stand . ELLIS R. ZOOK , President , Elkhart County Farm Bureau , Inc . Goshen , Ind. , May 26 , 1962 . Textile Industry Protests Duty on Imports Wanted to Offset Cotton Export Subsidy To THID EDITOR OT THINEW YORK Thin : Your editorial of June 9 recognizes that the proposed equalization charge on cotton product imports results from the 81/4 cents a pound or 02.50 a bale subsidy paid by the United States on raw cotton exports and holds that " it is this subsidy which ought in the first instance to be repealed . " But you have not mentioned that , instead of being repealed , the subsidy has been extended for another full crop year or until July 31 , 1963 . The subsidy thus continuing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light of the Hong Kong refugee situation Ls surprising . It is tantamount to saying that the domestic textile industry should continue to suffer from unfair competition created by our Government , forcing our mills to pay a third more for cotton than those overseas , so that Hong Kong can employ more refugees at the lowest wages and distribute their product in America . Your editorial claims that 5,000 jobs have been lost in Hong Kong due to quotas . Hong Kong has a current quota of 203 million yards equivalent of cotton products . A few years back it shipped nothing here . Great Britain 's ceiling on its own Crown Colony is less . There has been no cutback of quota  --  just a halting of excess shipments here when the colony exceeded the allotment to which it agreed . Were it permitted to exceed the quota , and retain these alleged 5 , - 000 jobs , that would be so many more jobs for Hong Kong , but so many less for workers in the United States . It hardly seems worthy of The Times that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continuing twoprice system for cotton by attempting to unload the chief burden of the Chinese refugee problem on a single industry . JOHN L. SEVERANCE , Executive Vice President , The Association of Cotton Textile Merchants . New York , June 11 , 1962 . Liberal Thinking in Russia To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your generous and accurate reports ( April 6 ) on my recent lectures at the University of Leningrad and the critique of these lectures by the Soviet journal Kommunist ( Times , June 6 ) contain one minor but not unimportant error which I should like to correct . Both reports suggest that I lectured exclusively on Russian conservatism , whereas in fact I discussed Russian liberalism as well . In particular , I devoted a whole lecture to the exposition of the views of Boris Chicherin and Peter Struve , perhaps the two greatest liberal thinkers in Russian history . It is not correct to say , therefore , that I " purposely ignored liberal intellectual history because it was adequately covered by the Russians themselves . " Russian liberals are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to know less about liberalism than about any other strain in Russian intellectual history . The movement which I did purposely ignore was socialism , partly because it is a highly sensitive subject to discuss before a Soviet audience , and partly because I saw no point in carrying coals to Newcastle , or , as the Russian saying has it , " carrying my samovar to Tula . " RICHARD PIPES . Ste. Maxime-sur-Mer , France , June 9 , 1962 . For Medical Care Now To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Thank you for your wonderful , clear-cut editorial of June 11 " Decision Days on Medical Care . " I sincerely believe , as you do , that provision for medical care is needed now . Politicians can fight to improve the law after it is on the books . M. RODES . Silver Spring , Md. , June 11 , 1962 . Testing New Drugi Witness at Kefauver Hearings Assails Fishbein 's Stand To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Being in California without daily benefit of The New York Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of May ' 12 . Late - though it is , his misleading criticism ' of your editorial urging more thordugh tests of drug safety and his chaiseterization of those testifying erthe Senate committee hearingS's- on Senate bill 1552 warrant rePly . Dr. Fishbein 's comment ' ithat " some of the greatest discOveries ever made were achieved on IiiiMan volunteers who voluntarily stqpitted themselves as aids in the search for causes and methods of prevent . tion and treatment of humalrdiss ease " may sound impressive : ! " But surely it is not a relevant arg*ent against the adequate testing- of a new drug before its release formarketing and general clinical useAnd when he states " contitned tests of patients are now an Indispensable step in determining , Oectiveness of medicaments after ! ' ; experiments on animals have ilbeen completed , " he supports the need of stringent testing as testified lttthe physicians whom he characterizes as " mavericks , the discontented , ? discharged employes , scientific Leftists . " He apparently is confused because he does not distinguish controlled clinical testing from clinical trial or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug bill ; S. 1552 , does not inhibit controlled clinical testing . As testified by physicians particularly qualified in the field of drug therapy , the bill provides for better validation of toxicity and efficacy of drugs by controlled clinical testing before their release for general marketing and clinical use . Haste may make waste not only of lives and by such tragedy as . Dr. Helen Taussig accurately describes from the inadequate testing ? of " Contergan " or " Kevadon , " but also by missing the worth of drugs judged toxic or ineffective by inadequate testing ; as for example , the disuse of Atabrine for many years prior to its carefully controlled testing early in . World War II . Dr. Fishbein 's intemperate characterization of witnesses appearing before the Kefauver committee is misleading and slanderous ; for among them were nationally , and internationally respected physicians , university professors , chiefs of major hospital services , editors of . outstanding medical journals , members of respected medical and scientific societies , recipients of commendations by the Secretaries of the Army and the Navy and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be helpful to remember the intemperately caustic editorials of the Journal of the American Medical Association , of which he was the editor , on the Report of the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care in 1930 , now generally considered a classic , on the Principles and Proposals for the Improvement of Medical ' Care in 1937 by 425 " physicians of the highest standing " ( New York Times editorial ) , seven of the nine proposals having been generally accepted and applied . And when speaking on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the American Medical Association to the annual Conference of Secretaries of Constituent State Medical Associations , November , 1939 , Dr. Fishbein stated that " all forms of security . . . even against old age and unemployment , represent a definite step : . . toward either communism or totalitarianism . " It was not so long ago that Abraham Lincoln believed that we hid a government by and for the people and Edmund Burke felt " the state is a partnership in all science , a partnership in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfection . " ALLAN M. BUTLER , M. D. , Professor of Pediatrics , Emeritus , Harvard University . Lafayette , Calif. , June 6 , 1962 . Against Food for China To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : What is the matter with the American public ? Indeed ! Help a Communist Chinese nation with food - from our surplus elevators and ' warehouses ! Mao Tse-tung made his bed , solet him sleep in it . When the people . are hungry enough , they will get sick of It all and overthrow the Communist regime . Let the Red Chinese alone ? let 's open our storage bins to ' our own poor and starving . We pay . the taxes to keep the surpluses in the bins in the first place  --  and charity begins at home . JEAN MCGRATK . Minneapolis , June 8 , 1962.                     