@@722444

txt BY RUSSELL FREEBURG Washington , May ** John Williams IR. , Dell charged in the Senate today that a department of agriculture secretary was " railroaded to a mental institution " because she knew too much about the Billie Sol Estes case . He demanded that Atty . Gen. Robert Kennedy , the President 's brother , investigate the affair . He accused the attorney general of an appalling lack of interest in an episode which the senator described as a clear violation of a citizen 's civil rights . Williams referred to Mary K. Jones , 51 , the former secretary of Battle Hales , the department of agriculture employe who was barred from his office containing department files on the Estes case . Find She 's Sane Miss Jones last week was released after 12 days ' confinement in a psychiatric ward of a hospital here after a District of Columbia Commission on Mental Health declared her mentally sound . She had been committed for observation on April 25 direct from the departn.ent of agriculture . Williams told the Senate Miss Jones ' only crimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her boss , Hales . " If this high handed action goes unchallenged , every government worker will be in jeopardy , " said the senator . " Why have we not heard of some of the liberals of this administration coming to the protection of this girl ? " Action Termed Arbitrary Williams charged that Miss Jones ' was " arbitrarily ordered into a mental institution " by Dr. Lee K. Buchanan , the department physician . Since Miss Jones ' release , Buchanan has been unavailable . Department officials report he is " on a field trip . " The department has refused to make public the file on Miss . Jones , altho confirming that she and Hales both had top security clearance , a situation that would indicate no mental disturbances . She and Hales were the only people with the combination to the safe in Hales ' office  --  which contained the Estes records and some security papers ? until the combination was changed by the department after their removal . Woman ' Bodily Removed ' Williams charged that Miss Jones was bodily removed from office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He said that all she tried to do was to " protect the files " of her boss , Hales , from being " pigeonholed or destroyed . " Williams said his investigation of the Jones affair disclosed that Dr. Buchanan took his action on his own , without consulting either Miss Jones ' personal doctor or her family . In a reply to Williams , the agriculture department issued a statement saying : " The woman , Mary K. Jones , was taken to D. C. General hospital on April 25 on the advice of two physicians . One was her own personal physician and the other was the doctor assigned to the department . The department 's physician accompanied her to the hospital . Condition Not Serious ' " The department 's doctor acted after consulting with her personal physician and only on his instructions . The psychiatric staff at D. C. General hospital concurred that she needed immediate hospitalization . She was under the care of the psychiatric staff at the hospital until she was released to the custody of her own family with the understanding she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physician , Dr. Harold Heiges , would not comment . The police report said Dr. Howard Madigan admitted her to the hospital . He described Miss Jones , for the police record , as not in a serious condition . Eleanor Lenhart , Sen. Williams ' executive secretary , said the senator talked with Dr. Heiges before his statement on the Senate floor . She said Williams was told that Dr. Buchanan did not call Dr. Heiges about the commitment to the psychiatric ward . ' No Basis ' for Action ? " There was no basis whatsoever to question her sanity , " Williams said . " She might have been a little nervous . But I would have been too if I had been told I was going to be shanghaied to a mental institution . Earlier two Senate investigators who talked to Estes over the weeks-end returned to the capital to report to Sen. John McClellan ID. , Ark. , head of the Senate investigations subcommittee .                     