@@726109

txt The Tet , or lunar new year , truce in Vietnam begins tomorrow in.the midst of a confusion of vague reports and denials of negotiations with Hanoi . Is it the fog of peace or the fog of war that bangs over the Vietnamese battlefield ? One day President Johnson states that he sees no " serious effort either to go to a conference table or bring the war to an end . " Two days later Walt Rostow , one of Mr. Johnson 's principal assistants in the White House , gives a contrary impression by stating that the United States and North Vietnam are involved in " what might turn out to be a negotiating process " toward a peace settlement . The next day 's news is that Senator Robert Kennedy has returned from Paris bearing a " peace signal " from Hanoi , which is then denied by all the parties involved including Mr. Kennedy , whose inscrutable smile , like the Chesire cat 's , remained suspended in air until last evening and then melted away . Out of all this confusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be helped along by public hints that it may be in the offing . This is not the time for " open diplomacy openly arrived at . " The technique of diplomacy in dealing with the devious , secretive , personalized regimes of the Communists ? especially a Communist state in the Sino-Soviet vise ? is not what Woodrow Wilson envisioned for the Western world of the 1920 's . All through recorded history , with due respect to the great World War I President , the most effective diplomacy has been secret diplomacy . The Vietnamese war is an event of enormous complexity and its resolution will be one of the utmost delicacy . Something is apparently going on . There are feelers and hints , blows and feints , shadowboxing , fancy footwork , and a baffling succession of statements followed by denials that the statements meant what they seemed to mean . Hanoi is playing the same game . Of one thing we are sure : there ought to be a moratorium on public statements while quiet , private diplomacy proceeds behind the scenes . Peace negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be used for public , political or prestige purposes . If they are , they will fail before they start . The beginning of the Tet truce is a good time to press for peace . It creates a favorable atmosphere . By coincidence , it was just two years ago today that President Johnson ordered the bombing of North Vietnam . This was after the Vietcong attack on Pleiku . The bombing was misleadingly labeled simply as " a retaliation , " although the bombing has been continued with only two major halts , in the mistaken belief that it would help force Hanoi to the negotiating table . There is no agreement among the experts on the net results of this bombing and no way of proving whatever opinions are held on whether its military advantages outweigh its political disadvantages . There is , however , agreement by a great many statesmen and authorities that there will be no substantive negotiations or settlement until or unless the United States halts this bombing of the North  --  and no proof , of course , that cessation of the bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begins tomorrow could be made the start of a long halt in the bombing of North Viet ? nam . Whatever else such a decision achieved or failed to achieve , it would certainly create a better atmosphere in which to conduct peace efforts . In the process , let the politicians and the statesmen , the generals and the diplomats refrain from public speculation that could destroy whatever delicate web of discussion might possibly have been begun .                     