@@726122

txt deleted 29 lines Development . Corporation , a flounced that it had bought a tract of land for a new quasi-public organization , was an assistant to the Mayor specializing in business affairs , during most of the negotiations with Pepsico . Dr. Shaughnessy said that Mayor Lindsay , who was not immediately available for comment , arranged a meeting with Pepsico executives and civic leaders when he first learned that the company might move its 700 headquarters employes from the 11-story building on Park Avenue . The leaders at the meeting included Clarence Francis , former chairman of General Foods , who is chairman of the city 's nonpolitical , Economic Development Council , and several other council members . " We talked over their problems and have been trying to solve them ever since , " Dr. Shaughnessy said . " But the biggest problem was outside the scope of city government . They were dissatisfied with the quality of clerical help In the city . I think they 're gong to be disappointed in the suburbs . New York has the highest quality labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' He asserted that the economic impact of the move would be " negligible , " and added : " I would estimate that 80 per cent of the Pepsico employes will not move to Purchase , but will find other jobs here . The building will be leased by another company in a minute  --  the vacancy rate in that part of Manhattan is about 1 ' per cent . " " It would be unethical of me to talk about the discussions with an industry , " said Mr. Francis , a founder of the Economic Development Council , which is a group of 28 prominent businessmen organized to promote the growth of New York business . " But this city is totally interested in keeping business and every effort is made in every case , " he added . Both Dr. Shaughnessy and Mr. Francis said similar campaigns to persuade other companies to stay in the city have been successful during the last year . Dr. Shaughnessy said at least three companies , including &; Robbins , which does a billion-dollar-a-year business as a drug and chemical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We 're all disappointed about Pepsico , " Dr. Shaughnessy said , " but for the most part our efforts to retain business have been successful . This ' is a matter of major concern to the Mayor and he spends almost as much time on , it as on any other problem . " Until his appointment last month to the Public Development Corporation , Dr. Shaughnessy was the Lindsay administration 's chief liaison with the city 's business community . In his new position he is responsible for attracting new industry and business to the city . Mayor Lindsay has repeatedly said that one of his major objectives is to stem the flight of business from the city and to attract new companies . When he summed up , his first year in office , the Mayor said : " We 're halting the flow of business out of the city and we 've made major steps in attracting new business to New York . " Mr. Lindsay moved to increae the powers of the Public Development Corporation yesterday with a series of bills introduced in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation to buy city land and lease it to industries . The purpose would be to allow the corporation to develop industrial parks at the former Naval Shipyard in Brooklyn , at College Point near LaGuardia Airport and on a 650-acre tract near the Staten Island end of the Goethals Bridge . Under existing laws , . the city can lase lands for periods of up to 10 years . But the development corporation could lease the same land for up to 99 years if the legislation was approved .                     