@@723951

txt Atlantic City , N. J. , May 9 ? President Johnson tonight unveiled the basic pitch the Democratic party will use to win votes in November as he moved his unofficial election campaigning from the south to the north . " Let us resolve , " he said at a party fund-raising dinner , " that the Democratic party will be the party that worked for the people  --  the party that cared about the future  --  the party that built the great society . " The last three and one-half years of this Democratic administration have been a time of promises kept , pledges fulfilled , and projects begun . he said . Addresses Jersey Democrats The President spoke tonight to 3,000 New Jersey Democrats gathered in Atlantic City 's convention hall for a $100-a-plate dinner sponsored by the state party organization . The Democratic Presidential nominating convention will be held in this hall beginning Aug. 24 . Tonight 's speech climaxed a day of public appearances which began in New York City . Earlier in the day . he addressed labor union members and dedicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Want to Be Political Johnson traveled north from Washington after spending Thursday and yesterday on a swing by plane and helicopter into Maryland . West Virginia , Ohio . Tennessee . North Carolina . and Georgia on a tour billed as a personal inspection of poverty in the Appalachian region , but which had every aspect of election campaigning in advance of the formality of his being nominated the Democratic Presidential candidate in August . " I do n't want to be partisan , " the President said at tonight 's fund-raising dinner . " I do n't want to be political . " I am President I have n't had much political experience of all the people , Democrats and Republicans . " Therefore , I just want to say that I hope that whatever candidate of whatever party is chosen in this hall will be successful in November . " ? Proud of Turning Off Lights The President told the cheering party faithful he is " proud to be a member of a party that may have turned off the lights in the White House  --  but has turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He listed the achievements of his administration in the six months since he took office , accomplishments he said are contributing to the nation 's " great march forward . " He checked off the 11.5-billion-dollar tax cut , reduction of federal spending , and settlement of the railroad dispute . " We are now completing the first peacetime administration in 100 years without setback or recession , " he Went on . " We are carrying forward the strongest economic expp-ision in peace time American nistory . " Johnson asserted that the record of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations " has shown the skeptics and the doubters , the weak of will and the faint of heart , that the victories of our future are limited only by the vision of our present " Proud of Conquests Won Altho the Democratic party is " proud of the promises we have kept , the conquests we have won , " he continued , it does not intend to tell the American people that " they 've never had it so good . " The latter was a campaign slogan used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was the Republican candidate . " We will not lull them into false satisfaction or restful apathy , " he said . " For there are many miles to be traveled and many battles to be won . " " I want you to call upon your congressman and get him behind these programs , " the President told his dinner audience . " Because if we do n't pass them between now and the Democratic convention , we 'll be working on them between convention and Christmas . " Addresses Union Gathering Johnson flew from Washington to New York City this morning and made a helicopter hop from the John F. Kennedy International airport to the New York World 's Fair grounds . Mrs. Johnson , who was in the city last night for an opera performance , and Mayor Robert F. Wagner met the President when his helicopter landed on ' the fair 's Tower heliport . In nearby Singer bowl on the fairground , the the chief executive addressed 8,000 members pf the AFL-CIO Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America and guests . The union is holding its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued his drive to mobilize support for his war on poverty , and for civil rights and medical care for the aged financed by the social security system . He asserted there can be no " conscientious objectors " in the administration 's anti-poverty " crusade , " that he was calling for all Americans to enlist as volunteers . All Can Live Useful Life " As I look into the next generation , " he told the union members , " I see a nation where every citizen has an opportunity to live a useful life , where every family lives in a good home in a healthy neighborhood , where every worker has a decent job at decent wages , where every young person has good schools and good teachers . " I see a nation where every older citizen is free from fear , and where every citizen is free from discrimination , and where equal opportunity is known by all . And I see a nation where every citizen can vote as he pleases and worship God as he chooses . " After his speech to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stadium to participate in a ceremony dedicating the Venezuelan pavilion at the World 's Fair . Ian pavilion at the World 's fair . efforts to implement the Alliance for Progress aid program , and for achieving social reform and economic development within a framework of constitutional democracy . Visits Race Track From the fair grounds , Johnson moved by helicopter to the Roosevelt raceway , a harness racing track on Long Island , for a private luncheon in the track 's Cloud casino with Nassau county officials . In t h e President 's honor , the track staged two special , non-betting pacing races , each race entering eight horses . Leaving the track , the chief executive drove a few blocks to the former Mitchel field air force base , site of a planned 46 million dollar educational , civic and cultural center to be named for President Kennedy . The site is in the town of Mineola . Addressing a crowd of 5,000 at a ceremony dedicating a plaque for the center , Johnson preached the Golden Rule , calling on Americans to banish hate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hate of our country , " he asserted . " John F. Kennedy could be with us today if we had hated a little less . " The President made another helicopter flight from Long Island to Atlantic City to speak at the fund-raising dinner . He returned to Washington from the ocean resort tonight after his speech .                     