@@722311

txt Letters to The Times pg . 34 Times Letters to The limes Fate of Soviet Jewry Sees Singling Out of Minority as Scapegoat for Convicted Group TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES As one who has for several years been keenly interested in the fate of Soviet Jewry I was particularly struck by Harrison Salisbury 's impressive article on this subject ( Feb. 8 ) . I should like to call attention to a recent development that has contributed ' significantly to the Fear and trouble which Mr. Salisbury describes as closing in on the Jews of the U. S. S. R. In the past couple of years the Soviet Government has stepped up its campaign against the widespread " economic parasitism . " Since July , 1961 , a series of trials against black marketeers , currency speculators , pilferers of state property , etc. , have occurred in Moscow , Leningrad and a half dozen major republican capitals . Among the scores tried and convicted many were given varying prison terms , and thirteen were sentenced to death by shooting . At least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of those given long prison terms , are Jews . And a careful examination of the Soviet press treatment of these cases , as well as of many other less grave alleged economic malfeasances , reveals a clear anti-Jewish bias , and demonstrates that the official campaign is using the Jews as a scapegoat for generalized social evils . Portrayal in Press The Soviet press consistently perpetuates and disseminates the traditional anti-Semitic stereotype , deeply rooted in Russia , of the Jew " whose only God is Gold . " It portrays the Jews as conniving , unscrupulous villains who prey upon honest , hardworking people and who cheat them of their patrimony . At the same time that the Government seeks to eradicate forcibly the illegal economic activities that have long flourished , it understandably desires to obviate popular resentment against legal cruelty in this campaign . What better solution than to go easy on the " true " natives , and to single out as the " educational " scapegoat such a " foreign minority as the Jews ? Such stereotyping and scapegoating are offensive and ominous wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of Soviet ideology and law . Even more unfortunate , however , is the imposition of capital punishment for economic offenses. surely this is cruel and excessive by commonly accepted standards of law and civilization , and represents an unhappy step backward in the evolution of Soviet legal practice . Not less so is the denial of the right of appeal in such cases . Outsiders like myself have the duty , as a matter of conscience and on purely humanitarian grounds , to appeal for clemency . We can only hope that a commutation of the Sentences will follow . JAMES A. PIKE , Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of California . San Francisco , March 9 , 1962 . Sending Messages to Congress TO THE EDITOROF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I wish to offer my full and unqualified endorsement of your editorial of March 5 " Eloquence Is Not Enough " with reference to the messages President Kennedy sent to Congress on proposed health and conservation measures . The sending of the message is merely tantamount to an opening statement made by counsel in the trial of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expect to attain a favorable result . Only too often have this and some past Administrations felt that they have satisfied their consciences and done their duty to the public by merely sending a message to the Congress without taking any further action . M. D. FLOMEN HAFT . New York , March 5 , 1962 . Relocation of Small Business TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; As one personally concerned may I make these comments on Martin Arnold 's article in The Times of March 5 concerning relocation of the small business man . I agree with the necessity for new housing and object solely to the compensation granted the owner of the small business affected . Precisely because he is in a location that has deteriorated for many years , the small store owner has no large backlog of capital to finance a new enterprise . In addition , the proprietor is usually advanced in years and may be physically handicapped . He must face not only the problem of higher rent in a new location but also the question of adaptation to a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , plus many other considerations , may result in undeserved financial ruin . Just as President Kennedy shows his concern for workers displaced by automation , more attention should be given the owner displaced by housing improvements . In view of the billions spent in aiding the displaced persons in foreign countries throughout the world , is not the tax-paying citizen entitled to equal consideration when he is displaced ? If the authorities would grant , in addition to the present pitiful allowances now offered , a sum equal to the net income as shown on his past two years ' income tax reports , the small business man 's problem would be greatly alleviated . Moreover , the city would gain by not being obliged to waste time by litigation and court delays in dispossessing reluctant owners . It is possible that earlier collection of apartment rents achieved by speedier eviction of the storekeepers would offset much of the added costs . ALFRED G : LEVY . Brooklyn , March 5 , 1962 . Revised Bus Routes Asked Amending Franchises to Serve Changing Needs Proposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been overlooked in the present transit dilemma , and which undoubtedly contributed to this crisis , is the inflexibility of the bus routes themselves . Competing bus operators within a county tend to keep the status quo , but if an operator has a monopoly , as in the Bronx , the franchises should be amended so that buses can be most efficiently used in providing the best transportation for the most people . It must be borne in mind that most of the bus lines of today were formerly street railroad lines that served the then widely scatterec villages of the county . Our city h always changing and so do the travel patterns of our citizens . What may have been efficient service years gone by may now be a long tortuous ride . In other instances , portions of t particular route may be well patron . ' ized until a transfer point is reachec when riders change en masse to another bus . However , more corn ? mon is the spectacle of three a more routes using the same street when an extension of one woule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highlight the strait-jacketec status of the bus lines let me dine ' you to the situation in upper Man . hattan . At 181st Street and Broad ? way is the terminus of five Brom bus routes . Here in the midst o1 the busy Washington Heights shopping center one finds buses of these five routes occupying the curb space on both sides of 181st Street for two full blocks , effectively halting the smooth flow of traffic . Just two blocks away from this busy area is the new Port Authority Bus Terminal . Does it not seem sensible to have these buses termi. nate their runs at this location . thereby giving New Jersey-bound riders from the Bronx convenient connections and at the same time keeping a free flow of traffic on 181st Street ? Unless the bus lines in the city can serve changing needs , their full potential can never be reached and the public will suffer . GEORGE M. ZOEBELEIN . New York , March 6 , 1962 . For Increased Bus Fare To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It may seem strange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fare increase on New York City buses , but to me the following seems the only logical end to the wars that keep breaking out among the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines , the Transport Workers Union and the City of New York : Put all bus lines under one management ; raise all fares to 20 cents , and issue one transfer free . With transfers eliminated , a passenger can ride from Fort George to Washington Square ( almost the length of Manhattan ) for 15 cents . but he has to pay 30 cents ( or possibly 45 cents if he is not capable of extensive walking ) to travel between certain crosstown points . Before transfers were eliminated the patron was often confused because after he had paid 5 cents for a transfer he would find that it was useless for the line he needed to use , or else he would be surprised to be handed one free . Why ca n't this all be simplified and the strife ended ? The bus- fare in many cities is 25 cents . Would n't most citizens of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some transportation security ? ELIZABETH NESBITT . New York , March 1 , 1962 . Monroe Quoted on Doetriie Views on Solidarity Cited in Opposing Action on Cuba To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER 1 , The significance of the Monrbe Doctrine has consistently been recognized at home and abroad . Just as consistently its validity has been denied . William A. Powe 's suggeetion in his letter published March -6 that we " intervene in Cuba with our armed forces " is difficult to derstand if international law still means anything . According to Mr. Powe , the Monroe Doctrine " was born of the defense needs of our own country , not of any vague concept of hemispheric solidarity . " Most historians are aware that this was not the case . ' , In President Monroe 's own words the basic reason for the Monroe Doctrine was as follows : " The American continents , by the free and independent condition which they have assumed and maintained , are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European powers . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " hemispheric solidarity " than that . At the Seventh Pan-American Congress in Montevideo , and in Article 15 of the charter of the Organization of American States , we pledged not to intervene in the internal and external affairs of other American countries , who also took the same pledge . These countries can hardly take comfort in thinking that our pledges are subject , to reversal by an emotional invocation of the Monroe Doctrine . If Mr. Powe were to examine nineteenth century history with greater care than apparently he has up to now , he would see that England , France and Spain realized eleven armed interventions in Latin America between 1829 and 1864 . During this time the Doctrine was a curiously dead letter . Experience has taught Latin America to distrust the traditionally hypocritical applications and misapplications of Monroe 's well-intentioned principle . Another armed Intervention in Cuba is just what the Castro Government ? in its thirst for martyrdom and increased Communist aid ? is looking for . PETER G. EARLE , Assistant Professor of Spanish , Wesleyan University . Middletown , Conn. , March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With regard to Mayor Wagner 's proposal to seek legislation against what he considers discrimination in the refusal of some landlords to rent apartments to families with children , may I present the opposing viewpoint that such legislation would ' in itself be discrimination against another group of citizens , among whom are both the childless couple and the couple whose children are grown , the widowed and divorced as well as the single . People in this group , often older than the couples with children , have usually learned to value quiet and privacy and are happy when they can get away from the incessaet noise that children create ? the racing feet over bare floors , the shouting , the too-loud TV sets , the angry screaming of the parents when even they can stand it no longer . Are the childless now to be legislated into a togetherness which neither they nor , for that matter , the couples with children want ? ' ' Let Mayor Wagner consider how poorly insulated against noise most apartment buildings in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hands of the few ? not many  --  landlords who care about the plight of the quiet tenant , EDITH FAIGMAN . New York , March 6 , 1962 . Caring for Narcotics Addicts TO TI1E EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was happy to note that the legislation proposed by Governor Rockefeller for the treatment of narcotics addicts as the sick people they are was unanimously passed by the Assembly . This program provides the alternative of hospitalization instead of jail , and also sets up a central narcotics office and an advisory council . The addict is not basically dangerous , but what can make him so is the cost of his habit . To pay for the monkey on his back he usually turns to crime . On being caught the addict generally is sentenced to , a half year , but upon release usually goes back to his habit . The tragic merry-go-round goes on , proving that jail is no answer . More must be done . Facilities frir specialized care , treatment and rehabilitation are sorrily inadequate . Governor Rockefeller 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STIER. - Great Neck , N. Y. , March 5 , 1962.                     