@@728062

txt COLORADO SPRINGS ? Lester G. Maddox , Governor of the great state of Georgia , flapped his arms in the air , sighed and said , " If only we had about five good governors we could show those boys how to make things work . " Ronald Reagan , Governor of the great state of California , nodded in agreement , aimed his eyes at the meeting room of the Broadmoor Hotel where the 61st National Governors ' Conference was in session , and replied , " Everybody in there just has his hand out for more money . " . To many observers at the annual outing of the nation 's governors , Mt : Maddox and Mr. Reagan may unwittingly have had a point . President Nixon had come here on the first day of the conference to outline his " new federalism , " a concept which proposes to give the governors more responsibility and more money . Many seemed to prefer less responsibility and more money . Calls for Aid The governors urged the national Administration to take over the entire financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval to Mr. Nixon 's plan to hand the states a no-strings-attached slice of the Federal income tax revenues . They sought a way out of the crushing cost of Medicaid by calling for a compulsory national health insurance program paid by employers , employes or the Federal Government . At their final formal session the governors refused even to vote on Rhode Island Governor Frank Licht 's resolution calling for a " massive intensification " of efforts to solve the urban crisis . But they uncompromisingly adopted Governor Maddox 's statement on the need for " a reaffirmation of the holy faith by our national leaders . " The nation 's mayors have had little trouble locating Washington . They turned to It for assistance because they failed to find it at the state level . Yet President Nixon seems to have faith that the trend can be reversed , that the governors can play a larger role in guiding the destiny of America . IF there is much evidence to support Mr. Nixon 's optimism it is not generally known . Indeed , the text of the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not read . It clad , as the sole example of " the states ' determition to improve still further , " their willingness to pay governors and other state and local officials higher salaries . Strapped for Funds If the " new federalism " is to work , it would seem to depend on responsiveness at the state level to more duties as well as more dollars . On that score , the governors have yet to prove themselves  --  with a few noteworthy exceptions . State administrations long have argued that , like the cities , they are sorely strapped for funds . Yet , it is only now that courageous governors , such as Mills E. Godwin Jr . of Virginia and Norbert T. Tiemann of Nebraska , have moved to pull their states into the current century by permitting bonded debt for needed new buildings . For every governor , such as Nelson Rockefeller of New York or Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois who has raised taxes , there are a half-dozen , such as Ohio 's James A. Rhodes , who have campaigned on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governmentally senseless , it is political . Jy smart . There were in Colorado Springs last week some limited signs of growing awareness by the governors . For one thing they are at least united for a change ? even if it is to extend an open palm toward the District of Columbia . And Gov . Buford Ellington of Tennessee , outgoing chairman of the governors , is correct in noting their annual conferences have been transformed from forums for partisan and sectional squabbles to platforms for discussion of substantive issue . In fairness , five years ago it would have been hard to conceive of the governors discussing , much less adopting , as they did last week , a report urging state participation in urban renewal . Little Modernization But it seems clear that such actions are at cross currents with the mainstream of gubernatorial leadership . Few of the governors have modernized their state constitutions . Fewer have allocated as much money as they have devoted oratory to the beleaguered cities . And , perhaps most important , hardly any have exerted enough political leadership to upgrade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair to criticize governors for the foot-dragging attitude of most members of legislatures , but It seems unlikely the " new federalism " could succeed if state senators and representatives can not be convinced of the need for a more progressive outlook . Maybe the legislators should have been invited to Colorado Springs , too . And perhaps someone should have , pointed out to those who did attend that the main topic of the 1969 National Governor ? Conference , Federalstate relations , was the same subject they discussed when they met last in Colorado Springs , 20 years ago .  - -  If .. 9,7101 ? 5 /VI- Net , tTGI-r1,17 ,                     