@@728021

txt A city official testified yesterday that if the telephone company failed to deliver adequate service " the customer is freed of his obligation to pay the company 's rates . " Mrs. Bess Myerson Grant , the city 's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs , said , " No one has an obligation to pay for service which is not in fact received  --  even to a colossus like the telephone company . " Mrs. Grant testified at a hearing called by the State Public Service Commission as part of its investigation into the growing difficulties plaguing telephone service in the metropolitan area . The hearing , highly emotional at times as subscribers de- scribed repeated frustrations with telephone service , ended with an 18-page explanation of the troubles read by William G. Sharwell , the vice president for operations of the New York Telephone Company . Mr. Sharwell , aided by an array of eight colored charts , said the company had not anticipated the " unprecedented " growth that took place over the last 20 months that resulted in a sharp rise in the demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said that no one had anticipated such a sharp growth of the economy in that period.1 But he said now that the telephone company had recognized the problem it was " doing everything possible to restore quality service in all areas . " Mr. Sharwell ended by saying that " the last 20 months have not only been backbreaking but have been a heartache for all telephone people . " " Pride Has Been Hurt ' " Our pride has been hurt , " he went on . " We wo n't rest easy until service is good everywhere for everyone . " As Mr. Sharwell finished , Vincent Furlong , a lawyer for the Public Service Commission , said the telephone company would have to present n-iore than " a pneral statement with beautiful charts " to explain the breakdown . Mr. Furlong said the company would have to come up with more details to show whether it had such things as adequate maintenance schedules or was staffed properly . Isadore E. Crade , the examiner who conducted yesterday 's session , adjourned the hearing to an indefinite date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's session heard testimony that workers in the telephone company were unhappy , that service broke down and went unrepaired for months and that the company sent out bills for services it had never rendered . Top Executive Assailed One man called for the resignation of C. W. Owens , the telephone company president , saying that " when a business is so poorly run , the only solution is to get a new boss . " The man , Carl Henry Abraham , a member of Community Planning Board No. 5 , said he was from " the PLaza 8 exchange of the telephone company , one of the outstanding disaster areas . " PLaza 8 covers a fast-growing area of the East Side of Manhattan that has been especially effected by poor service . Miss Louise Villela , president of the Telephone Employes Organization , Accounting , which represents the company 's accounting department , was interrupted repeatedly by the telephone company 's lawyer as she Phone Users Service Fails read a statement saying " the company has deliberately maintained an undermanning program . " The lawyer , James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground that they were " irrelevant , incompetent and based on opinion not fact . " A man shouted from the audience to say that Mr. Billingsley 's statements were ' ' irrelevant . " Audience Cautioned The shout prompted an admonition from the examiner , Mr. Crade , that " I ca n't permit the audience to run this hearing . " " We 're the consumers , " shot back another voice from the audience . " We have a right . " Outside the building at 199 Church Street , where the hearing was held , pickets marched for a time with placards denouncing the telephone company . A series of frustrations was described by Garland Roberts , an electronics technician from Brooklyn . He said he had been charged for service for a telephone that the company finally admitted had never been hooked up , that he had bills that were meant for someone else and that he had been charged for calls that he never made when the service was turned off when he was out of the country . Finally when he could get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he went to the Public Service Commission . At the P.S.C. ? complaint bureau that is in the same building where the hearing was held , Mr. Robert said a woman had told him that " we do n't have time to sit around all day and listen to long complaints . " After complaining to a superior Mr. Roberts said he was later told that the woman was no longer in the employ of the P.S.C. Just to check , Mr. Roberts said yesterday he went to the complaint bureau and found that the woman was still there . Suggestions that the commission has been too lenient in dealing with the telephone company were offered at the hearing . The city 's Mrs. Grant denounced the hearing as a " sideshow , to give the public a chance to put the company down . " " The commission has yet to demonstrate that it has any serious intention of seeing that telephone service is restored to adequate levels , " she said . Several speakers focused on the breakdown of coin telephones on the streets . George Levine , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the coin telephones be adjusted so that an operator would answer as soon as the receiver was lifted before any money was deposited so that the caller would not lose any coins if he could not complete his call .                     