@@726554

txt Informed sources said today that North Vietnamese MIG fighters were using Communist China as a sanctuary to escape from aerial combat and as a safe rear area to prepare for later attacks on United States planes . But these informants said that it was not clear whether the North Vietnamese planes were actually rising directly , from Chinese airfields to intercept American planes , though some military officers are said to consider this likely on occasions . Generally , it was reported , the planes based in China make a refueling stop in North Vietnam before entering combat . Informed sources said that this practice had prompted American military commanders to request permission to knock out all MIG airfields in North Vietnam . Secretary of Defense Rob . ert S. has opposed the request . United States pilots resumed bombing near Hanoi Saturday after a one-day layoff caused by bad weather . Page 2 . Planes Moved About Yesterday Mr. hinted at the extent to which China was being used as a base area by the North Vietnamese Air Force . He said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Other 1Pentagon officials said that this meant that about twothirds of Hanoi 's 75-plane air force was normally based at Chinese airfields , although the planes are frequently moved about . It has been known since March that North Vietnam had about 30 planes at bases in southern China , generally for training and repair . But the disclosure that these operations have been greatly enlarged and are now closely connected with aerial combat over North Vietnam is a new development . Several sources suggested that the situation was moving toward " another Yalu River , " referring to the sanctuary in Communist China used by enemy fighters during the Korean war . Secretary has rejected military recommendations for attacks against North Vietnam 's four operational MIG airfields . It is reported that he fears that , if the North Vietnamese Air Force was forced to operate entirely from bases in mainland China , the risks of provoking direct intervention in the war by Peking would be increased . Adm . U. S. Grant Sharp , the ' Pacific Commander who has over-all operational responsibility for the air war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North Vietnamese to operate their planes completely from China , informed sources said . These commanders want to knock out the North Vietnamese air strips at Phucyen , 15 miles northwest of Hanoi ; Gialam , about two miles northeast of Hanoi ; Catbi , three miles southeast of Haiphong , and Kievan , 55 miles southeast of Hanoi . Last April , American planes attacked two other bases , Hoalac , a mile west of Hanoi , and Kep , 37 miles northeast of Hanoi . The military commanders are reported to have argued that destruction of all six fields would diminish the risk of aerial combat for American pilots by making the North Vietnamese planes operate from greater distances and , because of the limited fuel supply of MIG fighters , shorten their combat time to about 15 minutes a flight . The normal range of a MIG-21 fighter is 600 miles . Some commanders are also eported to have suggested that , if the North Vietnamese had to take off from Chinese bases , American fighters protecting bombing missions could meet the North Vietnamese interceptors close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombers . Well-placed informants report that senior military officers maintain that this would not appreciably increase the risks of Chinese intervention , since North Vietnam 's air force is already largely stationed in China . The main base used by North Vietnamese fighters in Southern China is at Peitun , near the leading commercial center of Kumming , about 340 miles northwest of Hanoi and about 180 miles from the VietnamChina border . The other Chinese base is at Mentzu , in Yunnan Province , about 40 miles from the border and more than 200 miles northwest of Hanoi . When the United States began its attacks last April 24 against two of North Vietnam 's six operational jet air bases , officials said , Hanoi sent most of its air force to China to save its planes . This procedure has become more pronounced , officials add , now that North Vietnam has lost 48 planes in the last six months . The Defense Department , which last February estimated that Hanoi has about 115 jet fighters , now puts North Vietnamese fighter strength at 68 planes . These include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 55 older model ** and MIG-17 's . North Vietnam is believed to have about four other planes , including IL-28 light bombers .                     