@@726064

txt Mayor Lindsay cleared the way yesterday for a conference with Federal officials on the Cabinet level to consider the city 's major economic and social problems . The Mayor , in effect , extended an invitation to Vice President Humphrey to come here with Cabinet officers for a farreaching discussion of how to improve , and possibly increase , the channeling of Federal money to help the city fight slums and poverty . " I would be delighted if we could hold such a meeting , " the Mayor said in an interview . " There is no question but that it would help settle many outstanding differences . " Humphrey 's Views Differ The differences have centered on Mayor Lindsay 's contention that . the Johnson Administration 's expenditures on the Vietnam war and space exploration have led to a reduction in Federal spending for housing , education and other programs the Mayor believes vital to the regeneration of the nation 's metropolitan centers . Vice President Humphrey , on the other hand , has been arguing that more Federal money will actually be available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cities must improve their administrative structures if they are to take full advantage of the aid . The Democratic Vice President made clear in a recent inI terview that he did not wish to ! enter into a partisan debate with the Republican Lindsay administration , for which he had some words of praise . Waits for Response Instead , he expressed interest in a high-level meeting between Cabinet officials concerned with health , housing , education and poverty programs and their counterparts in the Lindsay administration . But he was understood to have been waiting for some indication of the Mayor 's response before making a formal proposal . : or . Lindsay 's warm reception of the idea resulted in a prompt reaction from Mr. Humphrey 's office in Washington . " The Vice President is very pleased , " a spokesman said . " He will now discuss the matter with the White House , but this ought to be done quickYy because everybody is in favor of the talks . It 'll mainly be a matter of setting dates that are suitable to the members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff speculated that the conference could take place " sometime in March , " either before or right after the Vice President takes a similar group to Puerto Rico for a review of Federal aid programs on the island . The group , he said , would include Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare John W. Gardner ; Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Robert C. Weaver ; Secretary of Labor W. Willard Wirtz , and Sargent Shriver , director of the Office of Economic Opportunity . Other sources said President Johnson had been working closely with Mr. Humphrey on ways to improve the Administration 's standing with city governments by accelerating programs that might have become bogged down by red tape . Ever since the controversial Senate hearings on city prob-1 lems last August , Mr. Johnson was reported to have felt that critics , including several Democratic mayors and governors , had damaged his reputation as a friend Of urban America . The Administration 's effort to develop better cooperation with the major cities seemed to be reflected in recent praise by Mr. Humphrey of Mayor Lindsay 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting opposition among Democrats in the City Council . " New York City 's reorganization plan seems like a step in the right direction , " Mr. Humphrey observed in an interview . " The trouble with most cities has been that their administration is so hopelessly outdated that they have been unable to key in with many Federal programs just because of poor coordination . " The Vice President , a former professor of political science , has been a stanch advocate of municipal reforms since he served two terms as mayor of Minneapolis before he was elected to the Senate in 1948 . He said that in recent months he and several members of the cabinet had been meeting with city and county representatives from New Haven , Chicago and Cleveland . The proposed study group for New York , however , would be the largest of its kind . City officials said yesterday they were not aware of any similar visit in the past by a working group of top Federal officials . While previous meetings usually have dealt with some specific aspects of city-Federal relations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide approach to the city 's problem . City officials said yesterday they were not aware of any similar visit here by a working group of top Federal officials before . Up to now , the practice has been for Mayor Lindsay or some of his aides to go to Washington whenever they considered it necessary to request funds from the Administration or Congress . During the recent Congressional hearings , it was suggested that $861-million in Federal money now goes into New York City . Sources in the Lindsay administration feel that a conference here with top Federal officials would be a more effective way of coorciinrting programs . They also welcomed the idea as a demonstration of goodwill by Washington that might influence Governor Rockefeller to take a more liberal attitude in helping the city . It was also pointed out that the substantial number of former Federal officials now holding high positions in the Lindsay cabinet was likely to facilitate the talk with Mr. Humphrey 's group . The officials include Jason R. Nathan , Housing and Development Administrator ; Donald H. Elliott , chairman of the Planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward O'Rourke , Commissioner of Health .                     