@@723071

txt President Kennedy maintained a conspicuous silence today on the Wheeling Steel Corpora- ' Lion 's price increase . He postpones overnignt ilib planned departure for a long Easter weekend in Florida . Pierre Salinger , his news secretary , said that this was because " the President has a number of matters here at the White House that he feels he should attend to this afternoon . " But it was widely interpreted as a psychological move to make the steel industry apprehensive . Most of the nation 's major steel producers declined Wednesday to discuss the Wheeling company 's announcement . Meeting Is Held The President met in the late morning with a half-dozen members of his Cabinet and top-ranking aides , essentially the same group that drafted the Administration 's . counterattack on the United States Steel Corporation 's price increase a year ago today . There was also one outsider present  --  Clark M. Clifford , the Washington lawyer who was the President 's private agent in dealing with United States Steel last year . There were two later meetings of the group . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's Council of Economic Advisers , followed the morning meeting with the President . Then in the late afternoon the group met with the President again . There had been no announcement of any meetings , though the word had spread fast . It was evident that at the first meeting the conferees had decided that the Administration should sit tight for the moment and gather facts . Mr. Salinger said " no comment " to all questions about steel all day , and other officials were told to do th , i same . At a late hour it was still not known whether the President would make a statement and the White House lobby was jammed with reporters in anticipation . The Administration was disturbed , though not completely surprised , by Wheeling 's move kid hoped that the increases would not stick . The Governhied was well aware that there 114d been price-increase talk in tile industry lately , and had given some thought to the situation . But faced now with a fait accompli , officials here found no clear and easy line of action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no way of being certain what Wheeling 's increases meant .. Was Wheeling floating a trial balloon for the industry ? Would other companies follow Wheeling if the Administration did not react ? Or would labor 's threatened demands for wage increases , or other economic factors , convince the others that this was not the time ? For another , the Administration 's thundering reaction to the United States Steel Corporation 's price increase at this time last year caused such widespread reverberations that any President might think twice before doing the same again . president Kennedy has said ptiblicly , ? in a news conference , that he would follow the same course of action again in the same circumstances . But the Circumstances this time are not the same , and there is widespread feeling ? in government and out  --  that he over-reacted last time . Even leaders in the labor nievement have often said privately that they did not like that display of Presidential power . The 1962 reaction was excited from the very moment when in the late afternoon on April 10 United States Steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his company 's announcement of a general $6-per-ton price increase . The President 's aides worked through the night preparing the counterattack . The following afternoon , several other companies having quickq matched Big Steel 's increase , the President seared the industry 's leaders from his press conference platform , and from then on it was open warfare . The Defense Department purposely placed a contract with a company that had not raised its prices . The F.B.I . woke two reporters in the middle of the night to check a steel executive 's remarks . Investigations were threatened . And the telephiqle lines hummed as the Administration applied all the pressure it could muster on everyone it knew in or close to the industry . Se enty-two hours after United States Steel 's price went up it came down again , but the memory of that mighty clash lingers on . Wheeling Is 11th In Size Differences in today 's situation include Wheeling 's size . Where last year 's move was led by the industry 's biggest company , this year the eleventhlargest has moved . Also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . A special factor present in officials ' thinking this time is a question of whether some companies might seek to merge if they could not expand their profits through a price increase . The context of the two occasions is different , too . Last yer 's price increases followed immediately on a wage settlement that the Administration had had a hand in . The Administration felt that the settlement did not necessitate higher prices and that any price increase was a breach of faith . This time wage talks were only a future possibility . Under last year 's contract the United S terlworkers Union may , on May 1 , ask for a further wage increase . Where there was some belief , before Wheeling 's move , 1hat the union might not ask , it was generally agreed that the situation had changed now . The public proceedings at the White House today were , as noted , mostly statements of " no comment . " These were interspersed with announcements of delays in the President 's weekend trip . First , reporters were told late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be delayed to an indefinite later hour . Later they were told that the President would not leave at 4 P.M. , as schedule , but at 9:15 tomorrow morning . Finally , in the late afternoon , Mr. Salinger announced that the President would not leave before 12:30 tomorrow afternoon and the exact hour was still " vague . " The private proceedings involved the following cast : At the first meeting  --  the President , Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon and Under Secretary Henry F. Fowlsr , Secretary of Commerce Luther H. Hbdges , Secretary of Labor Willard W. Wirtz , Messrs . Heller and Clifford and Theodore C. Sorensen , special assistant to the President . At the second meeting  --  essentially the same group withwt the President . At the third meeting  --  the ; ante group with the President Igpfn and his brother , Attorney : ; eneral Robert F. Kennedy .                     