@@727896

txt A poll of senior faculty members at City College has shown that they oppose , 7 to 1 , the creation of a separate , degreegranting school of Negro and Puerto Rican studies . The poll 's results , made public yesterday , also indicated overwhelming rejection by the senior faculty of proposals to admit 50 per cent of the 1970 freshman class from slum areas and without regard to academic performance . Both the so-called dual-adinission plan and the creation of a separate , degree-granting school of Negro and Puerto Rican studies were key demands of black and Puerto Rican student // protesters who occupied the college 's South Campus for two weeks earlier this spring . Last week the college 's 87-member Faculty Senate , com-1 posed of professors elected by the faculty , also rejected the dual-admissions plan but recommended instead that 400 disadvantaged freshmen be admitted without regard to academic standards . The senate at the same time called for establishment of a committee of professors to investigate proposals for a Negro and Puerto Rican studies program and to report back In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the black and Puerto Rican negotiation committee demanding relaxation of the admission policy walked out of a meeting with the Board of Higher Education . " The negotiations are a farce . They 're telling us lies . The whole program is racist , " one of , the students said , ' as the group stormed out at the board 's headquarters at 535 East 80th Street . They said that so far as the , Negroes and Puerto Ricans were concerned , " the negotiations have failed . " But they declined , to say what action , if any , might follow . City College 's , school year ends with commencement exercises tomorrow . ' The faculty referendum was initiated on May 28 by Dr. Joseph J. Copeland , the college 's acting president . The move brought some sharp criticisim from members of the Faculty Senate , and several resolutions were submitted to the body calling for the censure or criticism of Dr. Copeland for un- , dertaking the referendum while the senate was considerng the questions posed in the poll . The senate adjourned for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About 450 off the 650 tenured faculty members at City College returned ballots in the referendum , according to a spokesman for Dr. Copeland . The spokesman described the response as " the largest return in the recent history . of City College in such an opinion survey . ' The 250 full-time , nontenured faculty members and the 300 part-time nontenured faculty members at the college were not included in the poll . In answering questions about Negro and Puerto Rican studies , the senior faculty members voted 285 to 152 in favor of the creation of " an instructional unit concerned with urban problems , black and Puerto Rican heritage and allied areas . " Usual Control Favored A total of 158 said such a unit should deal only with urban problems , 18 said it should deal only with black and Puerto Rican heritage , and 185 said it should deal with both . However , 352 of the professors said such a unit should be a department within the College of Liberal Arts and Science , while only 51 said the unit should be a separate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control such a unit , 371 voted in favor of the usual faculty control , with the advice of Negro and Puerto Rican students , faculty members and the community . Forty favored giving control of the unit to Negro and Puerto Rican students , faculty members and the community . On admissions , 184 faculty members expressed support for admitting students to City College on the basis of academic performance only . And 243 favored retention of the present system under which some stu , dents are admitted to the SEEK pre-baccalaureate program and to similar programs outside normal academic standards . SEEK ( Search for Education , Elevation and Knowledge ) admits youths from minority groups whose Trades do not meet the requirements of colleges in the New York City University . The students take special courses , without academic credit , in an attempt to reach matriculation standards . About 1,300 students were in the program in the last school year . The professors were asked ) what percentage of the college 's admissions should be made on the basis of academic perform- , ance alone . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 said 60 per cent , 65 said 79 per cent and 240 said 80 per cent . In addition , 318 said preference should be given to applicants of the SEEK and other similar remedial programs on the basis of their academic performance , even where it fails to meet normal college admissions requirements In the view of 81 professors , academic performance should not be considered in admitting SEEK students . A total of 264 faculty members said community colleges should admit students requiring remedial and supportive assist lance , while 149 said such students should be admitted to both the community and the four-year colleges of the City University . Turning to another of the Negro and Puerto Rican student demands , the faculty voted 227 to 193 against the establishment of a separate freshman orientation program for the minority-group students . Asked how such a separate orientation program should be governed if it was established , 355 faculty members said by the usual college methods while 55 said the program should be run by the Negro and Puerto Rican students . A total of 240 faculty members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department for SEEK , while 185 opposed the idea . But 331 opposed permitting such a department to develop credit-bearing courses in addition to SEEK 's present remedial , tutorial and counseling functions . Board Weighs Vote The faculty voted 324 to 83 against turning over control of the SEEK program to its students and faculty members , another demand of the Negro and Puerto Rican student protesters . The results of the faculty referendum will be submitted to the Board of Higher Education , which began a series of meetings last night to deal with the City College crisis . The board will meet again Monday and has set next Wednesday as the target date for decisions on the college 's future course . In addition to considering the views of the faculty , as reflected in the referendum , the Board of Higher Education also will consider the admissions proposals of the Faculty Senate and proposals , not yet made public , to be submitted by Dr. Copeland . One of the demands of the black and Puerto Rican students  --  that all education majors at City College be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and culture ? has already been agreed upon by the Board of Higher Education and will go into effect in the fall . In its response to this question , the senior faculty voted 212 to 209 in favor of requiring education majors to study Spanish and 212 to 205 in favor of requiring them to study Negro and Puerto Rican history and culture .                     