@@721358

txt President Eisenhower returned to the scene of his first major political triumph today , and 1,000 , - 000 cheering spectators turned out in welcome , The President 's first action on arriving at his downtown hotel headquarters was:to talk with Vice President Nixon , his choice to succeed him in the White House . The White House office said afterward that they had discussed the Republican VicePresidential nomination as well as the , platform pledged to come before the convention tomorrow . . In a day crowded with political overtones the outstanding event was the outpouring of citizens , . who lined the stiets shoulder to shoulder as the Presidential motorcade entered the central business area and the Loop . Moved by Reception From Meigs Field on the lake front the President motored along North Shore Drive before heading downtown , By the time he reached the Sheraton Blackstone Hotel , 10,000 persons had filled the intersection , shouting " We like Ike " and " Thank you , Ike . " Visibly moved by the reception outside the hotel , the President responded readily when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bt4 there is a political campaign on and we old fellows are supposed to be forgotten , " he remarked . Then he said , " It is one of the finest crowds that I 've ever seen . " Confetti plastered the President 's face as he left the open car to be greeted by the Vice President and Mrs. Nixon . On the way to his suite with Mrs. Eisenhower he was heard to remark that " this seems to be a different kind of confetti , it really sticks . " It was not.a hot day , but the President had been standing in the rear of the car and waving to the crowds for forty-five minutes . Sometimes the crowds pressed close and he was doused with confetti . He would flinch and raise an arm to ward off the shower of varicolored paper . Occasionally he would rub it from his face with his coat sleeve . But he came up wearing the familiar grin . Old Chicagoans were agreed that it had not been the biggest demonstration nor the liveliest ever staged for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show . Democratic Mayor Richard J. Daley had appealed to civic pride to assure a big crowd . How well the people had responded was reflected in th4 recollection of newsmen that only the visit of Queen Elizabeth H a year ago surpassed today 's turnout . She was greeted by . about 2,000,000 . The President and his wife were more than two hours behind schedule when the 707 jet transport landed at O'hare International Airport from Newport , R. I. The flight had been delayed awaiting a higher ceiling and better visibility here . A helicopter took the couple to Meigs Field . They " were accompanied by Gov. and Mrs. William G. Stratton and Everett Dirksen of Illinois , Senate Republican leader . Leading a welcoming line of thirteen Republican officials on the windswept lakeside airport was Senator Thruston B. Morton of Kentucky , the party 's national chairman . Mrs. Stratton gave Mrs. Eisenhower a huge bouquet . As the two women entered a separate limousine , the Presilent and the two Senators climbed into the White House Lincoln " bubble top , " and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " Thank You , Ike " and " Hi , Ike , Mamie . " A loudspeaker atop a car in the motorcade blared " I Love the Sunshine . of Your Smile . " The crowds grew as the President 's car turned west on Wacker Drive at the quiet Kennedy - for - President headquarters and south on State Street into the heart of the Loop . Flags hung from stores on each side of the street . Floating paper filled the air . Spent confetti littered the street . Thousands waved , cheered and waved again . The President , white with confetti , waved back . With the hundreds of signs brandished in welcome to the President were two lettered " Kennedy " and " Let 's Back Jack . " Except for these reminders that Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts was the Democratic nominee for President , the day belonged to President Eisenhower . Before leaving tomorrow for Denver , the President is scheduled to address 600 Republican candidates for national and state office at a breakfast . He is expected to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League of Republican Women . ' From Denver , to which the President is accompanying Mrs. Eisenhower on a visit to her critically ill mother , Mrs. John S. Doud , he plans to fly back to Newport Friday and resume his vacation .                     