@@721302

txt Smaller big cars and bigger small cars will be in the center ring in this fall 's automotive circus . The main attraction will be four new king-sized luxury compacts . Three of them will come from General Motors and one from the Chrysler Corporation . Thus the swollen compact-car ranks will have ten entrants , or nearly half of the nameplates that will grace the car models for 1961 . In the side rings will be the familiar compact names of Falcon , Comet , Corvair , Valiant , ' Rambler and Lark . They will be spruced up to distinguish them from this year 's models . The giants among the pygmies will be Pontiac 's Tempest , the Buick Special and the Oldsmobile F-85 . Only the Tempest among G. M. 's three newcomers will be distinctively styled compared with the standard ! sized cars of their respective divisions . The smaller Buick and Olds are basically scaled-down versions of their larger siblings . Conversely , Chrysler 's new luxury compact , the Lancer , will be a big brother of the Valiant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping with the new automotive fashion decree that " longer and wider " cars are passe , the standard-sized cars have also been cut in size . Up to five inches have been trimmed from many models in the popular-priced and the medium priced fields . Even Cadillac has made a minor concession to the new trend , cutting three inches off most of its models . The de-emphasis on size is aimed primarily at strengthening the economy image carefully nurtured by the industry in the last year . It also has a related economic twist , for by trimming length and width and by new cost-cutting techniques the industry hopes it will be able to hold the line on prices . Just as bigness is on the wane so is the once popular high-rising fin . None of the new compacts , the holdovers or the " popular-priced " standard-sized Ford , Chevrolet , Plymouth and Dodge Dart lines will have a fin in 1961 . With the exception of the Dart , the other popular-priced entrants will undergo major styling surgery . Gracious Curves In sum , the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the flared blades , which in particular pose an extra hazard to pedestrians . The most significant engineering innovation in the year ahead will be on the new Tempest . It will have not only the first four-cylinder engine in the industry since 1953 and a radically different and more powerful engine , but will also break new ground in United Statesbuilt cars with a transaxle . The transaxle is a powerplant concept of engine up front and transmission and differential in the rear . The combination produces an ideal 50-50 weight distribution that is the goal of automotive engineers and eliminates the huge tunnel hump that has been the bane of center-seat passengers since the lower silhouette came into vogue five years ago . - General Motors will also make engineering news with a new small V-8 aluminum engine . It will be standard equipment on the Buick and Olds compacts and an optional extra on the Tempest . The engine will help cut car weight but ' the kingsized compacts will still be close to 3,000 pounds , 600 pounds heavier than the , Falcon and Corvair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the engineering side . They are sticking to cast-iron power plants for 1961 . The new compacts will be five to ten inches longer than the more austere smaller cars and will be about 190 inches over-all . Width will be about seventy-two inches , seven inches narrower than most standardsized cars . Fully aware that the car-buying public will be extremely price conscious , manufacturers say they will be " short on gimmicks and long on commonsense options . Such gadgetry as swivel seats , for example , will no longer be available . The lack of fancy options stems from company concern that some buyers might be scared away when they see along list of extra cost items on the price sticker . Under the Federal " truth in labeling " law , every extra cost item must be listed separately . The move to the compact car field presages two tumultuous years , perhaps the most hectic since the depression days of 1932-37 , industry leaders say . The industry intends to offer a supermarket choice and " keep both feet firmly planted in maid-air " until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended . " Differing Opinions It will take until 1862 , at least , before there is any clear indication of where the market will settle . One school holds that the compact car field will be a lot less compact in numbers by 1962 . There is a minority view that the public might get its fill of small cars by that time and that the standardsized popular-priced cars will score even higher than the 45 . per cent of the market they are expected to take in 1961 . There is agreement that the luxury-priced field will hold steady at 4 per cent of total domestic sales , but there is a wide range of guesses on the remaining 51 per cent of the market . The smaller car boosters are forecasting up to 36 per cent of all sales next year in that class , leaving only 15 per cent for the steadily shrinking medium-priced lines . The highest any automotive economist is predicting for the medium-priced models is 19 per cent , compared with 22 per cent now . There are no illusions here that 1961 will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will probably be the second best year in automotive history . The record year was 1955 when 7,169,908 cars were registered . The consensus is that 1960 will end with nearly 6,200,000 United States-built cars registered , plus about 550,000 imports . First estimates for 1961 place domestic car sales at nearly 6,000,000 , with imports 500,000 . Significantly , forreeign-car sales show that all but the two market leaders , Volkswagen and Renault , are off from last year . The industry professes little concern over the record midJune inventory or more than 1,000,000 cars , citing an earlier than usual shutdown for model change-over . Many dealers disagree and expect one of the most disorderly annual model clean-ups in history . There is one big front the industry wants to break through quickly . That is in improved quality control , ? for the mail these days is running heavy with please for " reliability . " It is even putting economy in the shade . In broad outline here is what lies ahead in the next model year : GENERAL MOTORS Corvair will add a station wagon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by moving - the gas heater to the rear compartment , where the engine is housed . Styling changes will be negligible . Chevrolet will be easier to get in and out of because all G.M. divisions will follow Ford 's lead of last year and cut back the wrap-around windshield and end the shin-barking " dog leg . " There will be substantial restyling , with the gull wing ' look of the rear end replaced by a rolled edge . There Will be new rear tail-light and grill treatment Over-all length Will be cut slightly . The Pontiac compact Tempest will have a four-cylinder engine slanted at 45 degrees . It is actually the right half of the powerful V-8 that is in the big Nineteen-Sixties . It will be far more potent with 130 horsepower than the last four cylinder , short-lived Henry J. which went out of production seven years ago . Like the other new G.M. compacts , the Tempest styling will flow out of the Corvair shell , but the cars will be on a 112-inch wheelbase as opposed to Corvair 's 108 and will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided front grill that Won favor in the big Pontiac in 1959 has been adapted for the new smaller car . Independent rear-end suspension is another innovation . Four Inches Shorter Standard-sized Pontiacs will be four inches shorter than this year 's models with 119 vs 122 , the two lower-priced series on-a substantially shorter wheelbase and even the top-priced lines tut back an inch to 123 inches . A three-section drive shaft will cut the size of the tunnel hump . Wide-track wheels will still be a feature . There will be a rolled convex grill , sculpted metal side panels and rear light twinned up in panel boxes . Oldsmobile F-85 will be a scaled-down version of the standard-sized , car , which will be shorter than in 1960 . The Smaller car will have a small V-8 aluminum engine rated at 145 horsepower , with a twobarrel carburetor . The big Olds will have a powerful cast-iron V-8 engine similar to the current power plant . The Buick Special will also be a little brother to the standard-sized models but with enough individuality to tell it apart from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in favor of the current G. M. theme of soft curves . It will have a more solid look than last year . Engines will be similar to Oldsmobile 's . The Cadillac will still go its own way with the accent on sweeping , but not soaring , fins . The fins will look like an arrowhead with a centerline dip . There will be a new rear window defroster and conservative tail lamps . FORD The Falcon will have a new convex grill , with the engine souped up a bit . Ford will cut back nearly five inches to 209 inches . It will have a concave grill . Big round tail-lights that were dropped two years ago will he back because the company considers them a valuable identification symbol .. Styling will resemble the classic Thunderbird of 1959 . The rear quarter panel will have coneshaped sculpted trim and a small canted blade tucked close to the body . Fenders will be wider and there will be more slope to the narrower hood . Width will be cut nearly two - inches . The Mercury will be cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shell although the wheelbase. will be one inch longer at 120 inches . There will be minor styling changes . The top-priced Park Lane series will , be dropped . The Comet will have a mild face lifting and a slightly more powerful engine , similar to the six-cylinder used by Falcon . Horsepower will go up from ninety to 105 . The Lincoln Continental will go from three to just one series , completely revamped and swapping classic simple styling for a sportier look . The Thunderbird will have a bold , racy silhouette achieved by dropping angular styling . The steering wheel can be swung to the right for easier entrance . CHRYSLER The Valiant will have a new grill . It will lose its separate corporate identity as it will be billed as a Plymouth Valiant . There will be a few low-cost ornamental trim changes . Plymouth wilt undergo a major styling overhaul that marks the end of a four-year cycle of big , bold fins . It will will have a sloping rear deck with tail lamps hung from the side in an unusual fashion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bold modernistic setting . Rolled-edge treatment will be in harmony with the new look . The Lancer , to be marketed through the Dodge division , will be on the same 106.5-inch wheelbase as the Valiant . Rear-end treatment will be similar to Valiant'sewith the same general sharp styling modified to fit its slightly higher price tag than Chrysler 's first compact . The front end will be distinctive with a wide sweeping hood line . The Lancer will also use the same slant six cast-iron engine as Valiant . It will fit luxury compact classification of about 190 inches . The successful lower-priced Dodge Dart models will again come in three series . There will be a bit more bright work and minor styling changes . The big Dodge , on a 122-inch wheelbase compared with Dart 's 118 inches , is being cut to a single series . De Soto will be trimmed in size and down to a single , lowerpriced series . There will be minor face lifting . Chrysler officials will not discuss De Soto 's future beyond insisting that a 1962 with that nameplate has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ De Soto , the weakest in the medium-priced Chrysler Corporation line-up , might turn up next year in a different car classification . Chrysler , another casualty in the medium-priced market , retains its smart appearance , virtually unchanged from this year 's models ; with its lowestpriced Windsor series cut in size and joined by the Saratoga series , which will be cut both in length and wheelbase to be a slightly better dressed twin of Windsor . Imperial will continue its classic rich styling , with a new front end that features headlamps on a pedestal in a dramatic setting . AMERICAN MOTORS The Rambler American , the , company 's smallest series on a 100-inch wheelbase , will get a major sheet-metal change , including a new roof line so the car will lose its " soft " look- and be more akin to its bigger 108-inch wheelbased Rambler Six and the Rebel , the eight-cylinder counterpart . There also will be a convertible for the first time . The regular Rambler will sport much the same look as now but will get a new engine . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than show , the line will have , a new ceramic-coated exhaust system that is said to be virtually impervious to corrosion . Automobile exhaust systems are among the most vulnerable parts on modern-day cars , with deterioration accentuated by road salt and exhaust acids . STUDEBAKER-PACKARD The compact Lark will probably have a new engine and some minor styling refinements . It has been hardest hit by the new Big Three small cars . The standard-sized Hawk line , of which very few are produced , ' may be dropped .                     