@@727905

txt Detectors 600 miles apart are recording simultaneously what appear to be gravitational waves impinging upon  --  and passing through  --  the earth . If the observations , announced yesterday by the University of Maryland . have been interpreted correctly , a 1101V chapter in man 's observation of the universe has been opened . In essence , the development would enable man to view the universe from a fresh perspective . Among other things . It may ? help him to determine whether the universe is infinite or finite . to deride which of two rival theories of gravity is correct and to explain why 90 per cent of the universe seems to he " missing . " Present knowledge of phenomena beyond the earth has been derived almost entirely from a single kind of wave . that of electromagnetic radiation ( embracing light waves . radio waves and N-rays . ) A preliminary study of the recordings by Dr. Jnseph Weber at the University of Maryland , who designed and earned nut the experiment , has persuaded him that a previnusly unobserved phenomenon , which . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His detectors will have to be rearranged before the location can be narrowed down . However , he believes it to lie in the same general region of the Milky Way Galaxy , or star system , as the sun and earth . The indicated direction is away from the turbulent core of the galaxy . A different proposal is that the observed gravitational waves are lapping back and forth through the universe as an aftermath of its explosive birth , more than 10 billion years ago . A further residue of this primordial " big hang " is a glow that seems to per ? vale the universe , primarily at radio wave lengths . ' Ms glow figured in another announcement , made yesterday by the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Page 49 . It reported that the glow was illuminating dust clouds in distant space whose composition seems suitable for the synthesis of organic compounds . The report suggested that " primitive life forms " might have evolved there . The discovery of gravitational waves would help complete the parallelism between the behavior of the two longrange forces In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his General Theory of Relativity published in 1916 , predicted the discovery of gravitational waves analogous to electromagnetic waves , such as those of radio . Gravitational waves would be shed by an asymmetrical , spinning object just as radio waves can be generated by an oscillating or spinning electric charge . However , physicists had despaired of ever observing gravitatibnal waves because they would be so weak . A dozen years ago Dr. Weber began developing a detection system , even though calculations showed that it could only detect waves generated by a cataclysmic event , such as a supernova ( the collapse and death of a star ) . Such events occur in this part of the Milky Way only once every few centuries . Dr. Weber 's detectors , however , are seeing what appear to be gravitational shock waves at least once a week . They are seen almost daily if one accepts indications of lesser magnitude . If his observing technique can be refined , according to theorists , it should be possible to illuminate some of the most basic problems in science . Gravity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulsers and quasars  --  two recently discovered classes of celestial objects both of which generate powerful radio and light emissions . It should be possible to discriminate between the two contending theories of general relativity . That derived by Dr. Einstein depended on a form of mathematics known as tensor Dr. Joseph Weber with model or the device he used . calculus , but a rival version also makes use of scalar calculus . So far , gravitational effects that might discriminate between them have been too subtle to provide a clear answer . The gravity pulses may provide a clue to the whereabouts of the " missing matter " in the universe . As noted by Dr. Gart Westerhout , a noted Dutch astronomer , in commenting on Dr. Weber 's observations , the motions of stars within our galaxy show that they are under the gravitational influence of 40 per cent more matter than can be seen . Furthermore , if the picture of the entire universe derived from Dr. Einstein 's calculations is correct , more than 90 per cent of its matter is missing . Some believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " black holes . " These are hypothetical spots in the sky where a very large star has died . With no more heat to support its structure , the star has contracted , crushed together by its own enormous weight until even its atoms could not withstand the pressure . Such an object , theorists say , would be so dense that its gravity would not permit the escape of any light to testify to its presence . Nor could the light of a star beyond it pass through such an object . The latter would be evident only as a " black hole " in the sky . One proposed explanation for the gravity pulses being observed is that massive objects are falling into such a black hole somewhere near by . The missing matter question is of philosophical , as well as of scientific , importance since it bears on the nature and destiny of the universe . If the total amount of material in the universe can be determined , this should indicate whether It is infinite or finite and whether it is destined to expand forever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likened to a stone thrown high and slowing as gravity seeks to pull it back to earth . Either the stone has sufficient velocity to escape the earth , despite its slowing , or it is destined to fall back . The expansion of the universe appears to be slowing , but it is not clear whether it will ultimately stop and fall back together again . Some cosmologists believe the universe has no beginning and no end , but oscillates between periods of expansion and collapse . Colleagues Skeptical A year ago Dr. Weber reported the possible detection of gravitational waves . The expected strength of such waves is so weak that skeptical colleagues suspected he might be recording earthquakes or other local phenomena . The detectors in his , work were all in the vicinity of the university campus at College Park , Md . Elaborate arrays of seismic detectors were installed and have shown that earthquakes do not have any effect ' on the gravity detectors . Another fear was that some sort of electric impulses , as from a lightning flash , might enter the recording circuits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility has been eliminated because one detector has a built-in lag of 11 seconds in recording a gravity event , whereas it would respond immediately to an electric event . The 11-second lag is observed in a number of the events . However , to eliminate any possibility of a local effect , Dr. Weber six months ago began operating another detector at Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago . Its readings are carried into the Maryland laboratory by telephone line . The simultaneous recordings 600 miles apart have convinced Dr. Weber that gravity waves are , in fact , being seen . In the June 16 issue of Physical Review Letters he reports that during an 81-day period there were more than 17 " significant " two-detector coincidences , five three-detector coincidences and three events that showed up on all four detectors ( three in Maryland and one in Illinois ) . Controversy Expected He said the probability of two triple-detector coincidences seen on March 20 being accidental was such that this would occur only once in 70 million years of observation . It was therefore " certain , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A0.z.:7y , , , LE:t IND. , OHIO ICY . TENN.N.C. ? 74 , Tho New York Times June 15 , 1969 Gravity wave observations were made at Argonne Laboratory and College Park . the coincidences could not be accidental . However , the university , in making its announcement , acknowledged that his findings would be challenged by some . The results promise , it said , " to open wide a vigorous controversy in modern physics . " Each detector consists of a massive cylinder of solid aluminum , suspended inside a vacuum tank from a bridge that is cushioned against local shocks . The elastic properties and dimensions of the cylinder are such that , according to calculations based on the Einstein equations , it should respond to gravitational waves where frequency is about 1,660 cycles a second . If the wave front is roughly parallel to the axis of the cylinder , the latter should oscillate . The frequecy was chosen because the collapse of a spinning star should generate a burst of gravitational waves sweeping past 1,660 cycles . Oscillations of the cylinder are sensed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are amplified and recorded . As set forth in relativity theory , the medium through which the gravitational wave moves at the speed of light is the sea of space and time that fills the universe . The geometry of this space-time is curved in a subtle way , and is distorted briefly as the wave passes by . It is this distortion that sets the cylinder to oscillating . The detectors are all oriented east and west . At any one time , they scan a pole-to-pole segment of the heavens over the meridian of the eastern United States on this side of the earth and India on the far side . Assumption Noted It is assumed that gravitational waves pass easily through the earth . As the earth turns on its axis , the observations sweep around the entire heavens . The findings that the gravity pulses occcur primarily at certain times in this sweep implies one or more primary sources . By reorienting some of the detectors , Dr. Weber explained a few days ago , it should be possible to narrow down these sources . A comparison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should give additional clues to their direction . Dr. Weber has been making continuous , high-precision observations of the earth 's gravity in Maryland , looking for changes that might indicate oscillations of the entire earth in response to gravitational waves . The results so far are negative , but he hopes gravity instruments of greater sensitivity can be installed on the earth and moon . These could " be used in tandem to provide far more precise information on directions of the waves .                     