@@725411

txt The court-appointed commission assigned to map new districts for members of the Legislature turned in its plan this afternoon , 10 hours before its midnight deadline . Details of the reapportionment plan were not revealed to anxious Senators and Assemblymen , who will be campaigning for re-election from the new districts in the fall . The five-man bipartisan commission sent copies of its recommendations to the ' seven judges of the Court of Appeals , the state 's highest tribunal , who named the panel . The court is in recess and the judges are at their homes In various parts of . ' , the state . Convinced ' that the politically divided Legislature was incapable of reaching agreement on a plan , the court assumed responsibility last month for drawing district maps , to conform both with the State . Constitution and the one-man , onevote ruling of the United States Supreme Court . The Court of Appeals ; judges will confer with the commission here Sunday afternoon . They will then decide whether to hold hearings before reaching a final determination on the district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today that prolonged delay in enacting the apportionment might force a postponement of primary elections scheduled for June 21 . The Democrats are eager for early primaries so that their slate can get a running start in its campaign to unseat Governor Rockefeller 's administration in the general election . Other legislative action in-cluded : BUDGET SESSION The fiscal committees of the Democratic-controlled , Assembly and Republican-controlled Senate worked together over Governor Rockefeller 's $3.98-billion budget . The committee chairmen had agreed not to discuss the progress of their negotiations p'iblicly while they sought a compromise acceptable to both houses . They hope ' to present a bill for floor action on Thursday . Unofficial reports emanating from the conference have it that the negotiators have agreed tentatively to trim more than $100-million from the Rockefeller budget . This is said to include $38-million that the Governor had earmarked for the East Hudson Parkway Authority for widening the Cross County Parkway in Westchester County . NARCOTICS ADDICTION Governor Rockefeller 's controversial program to curb narcotics addiction won the " hearty support " of the State Association of District Attorneys . Various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have expressed strong opposition to a part of the Rockefeller plan that provides for the involuntary commitment of addicts . Opponents contend this would be an infringement ' en individual rights , although a similar law in California has been upheld by the courts . Mr. Rockefeller said he was especially grateful for the District Attorneys ' endorsement , commenting : " No group in the state is more familiar with this situation . " MOONLIGHTING The Assembly passed , 136 to 20 , and sent to the Senate a bill that would allow policemen to hold outside jobs in their offduty hours  --  a practice known as " moonlighting . " The sponsor , Assemblyman Robert F. Kelly , a Brooklyn Republican , argued that despite the current prohibition , many policemen are ? " moonlighting " anyway and that his bill would give police chiefs better control over the : problem . Opponents , led by Democratic Assemblyman Percy E. Sutton of Manhattan , argued that outside work was bound to impair a policeman 's efficiency and Might lead to conflicts of interest . Mr. Sutton read a Lind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It . moonlighting tends to reduce the required concentration of the police upon their duties . . . exposes them to neglect of their official responsibilities , and promotes indifference to they professional police careers . " CONDON-WADLIN LAW A. group of Republican legislators introduced a bill drastically amending the state 's Condon-Wadlin Law , which prohibits strikes by public employes . The revision would require public-employe unions to pledge in writing not to go on ? strike . It would penalize union leaders who broke this commitment . The ' measure would abolish ' the . present automatic wage penalties against public employes who walk off their jobs ; instead they would be subject to misconduct charges . Several other bills amending the Condon-Wadlin Law have already been introduced . The Legislature is not expected to take any action on the issue until it receives the report of a panel appointed by Governor Rockefeller . HOUSE OF DETENTION As he promised last week , Assemblyman Joseph Kottler , chairman of the Assembly Committee on Penal Institutions , made a formal request to the State Commission of Correction to ? shut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City . The Brooklyn Democrat toured the prison last , week after he learned of a Correction Commission report citing " thoroughly deplorable conditions " , of overcrowding and sanitation.                     