@@721958

txt President Kennedy 's call for an increase in military manpower touched off a sharp increase in inquiries from the nation 's service-age youth yesterday on the prospects for the immediate future . Not only the men between the ages of 18 ' ; and 26 who are subject to the draft , but also their parents , wives and sweethearts by the hundreds telephoned headquarters of the Selective Service System for New York at 203 East Forty-second Street seeking information . In addition , the headquarters of the Ready Re // serve , embodying an estimated total of 225,000 men in the Second Army Corps Area ( New York , New Jersey and Connectient ) also received a heavy barrage of inquiries . A spokesman at , Selective Service headquarters here said hundreds of men of draft age and their families seemed to be " calling simultaneously " to find ' out " what 's going on . " ' Another Switchboard ' The spokesman said : " We could use another switchboard and a couple of more tele- ' phone operators . " Although no official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York 's draft quota-343 in July and 434 in August ? headquarters here said it planned to " about double " the number of men in its " manpower availability pool . " This consists of men who have received notice that they have been found acceptable for service and classified 1-A . The headquarters here has asked the sixty-eight New York City boards to order 3,000 youths to report in August . It said it planned to begin sending " much larger numbers of men for examination " at 39 . Whitehall Street , the processing point for potential industees . The present average age of inductees is 231 , : i years . Between 45 and 50 per cent of those called are being rejected for physical , mental or moral , unfitness , the spokesman fort Selective Service said . An average of 225 men is undergoing , pre-induction examination or enlistment formalities , is was explained . Queries on Standards Among the callers to various Selective Service and military , centers yesterday were a " large number " of men already classified as 4-F , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimum standards are being changed , " an Army spokesman said . " The answer is , ' they are not . ' " The number who had apparently decided not to wait for a draft call sharply increased yesterday , according to Capt . James V. Gannon , commanding the Army 's recruiting station here . Inquiries at Army recruiting centers across the city were " heavy " yesterday . They apparently had been stimulated by Mr. Kennedy 's plan to expand the Army to 1,000,000 by adding about 217,000 men . " We anticipate a great deal more , " Captain Gannon said . " If it 's necessary to go seven days a week it will be done . We have our emergency plans just like a : field unit . " The recruiting stations , banIdling facilities for all the armed l ( forces , will move from a fourday to a five-day processing ! schedule this week , it was announced . The " Crossroads of the World " ' recruiting station in Times Square experienced a " bigger ! than-usual " number of inquiries by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut yesterday , a spokesman said . First Army headquarters on Governors Island also reported a heavy increase of calls from reservists and their families . Particular interest , it was explained , appeared to center on the future of " short-termers " ? those who had elected six months of service , followed by years in the stand-by Reserve for possible call or continued activity in National Guard units . Other questiens centered on rumors that National Guard units , now in the field for two ' weeks of summer training , would be " frozen " indefinitely on active duty . No orders have been issued to this effect , the Army said : Inquiries were also being made by veterans of World War II and the Korean war as well as members of the retired i reserves . In Boston , where the normal traffic at the Boylston Street recruiting station is three or , four men a day , twenty-two men had applied for enlistment by noon . Two men were waiting at the station when it opened at 7 A. M. Civil Defense officials also reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and information about fallout shelters . Recruiting substations in Chicago reported heavy increases in enlistment application yesterday . " We had them standing in line here eight deep , " a Navy recruiter said . In Detroit a recruiting officer reported that in addition to " doubling our business today " his office had had " several patriotic calls , some from men over the age limit . " Similar reports have been received from all major cities in the country .                     