@@726551

txt At least five Illinois state policemen are under'investigation for bribery in the department 's third highway trucking scandal since 1962 , THE TRIBUNE learned exclusively yesterday . For a week , detectives of the state police crime section based in Springfield have been in the Chicago area investigating charges that certain troopers From the Elgin state police post have been on a clandestine payroll of a major Aurora area trucking firm operating overweight trucks . Sergeant Learns of Bribes Informed sources told ' THE . TRIBUNE that high state Police officials were informed of the bribery by a sergeant who turned in his own subordinates in disgust upon learning of the payoffs . In Springfield , Supt. William Morris of the state police confirmed the investigation of what he termed " anonymous charges . " He also confirmed reports that the 50 state policemen assigned to the Elgin post have been asked to sign statements agreeing to take lie detector tests on the bribery reports if asked to do so . Asked Five Questions The affidavits , it was learned , contain five questions , four of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or anyone else . Supt. Morris said he expect : the investigation to be ccmpletecl within a week . " Charges against anyone found guilty of accepting bribes will be filed immediately with the state police merit board . ' " Morris said . " We have never tolerated this type of behavior ; we never will . " Morris reportedly ordered the investigation after conferring with Ross Randolph , state director of public safety . Randolph is out of state attending a meeting of officials of correctional institutions . Squad cars from the Elgin district cover Lake , , Kane. and Du Page counties . Reportedly , the Aurora firm made the payoffs to avoid arrests for operating overweight trucks in violation of state law over Illinois highways primarily in Kane county . According to informants , Supt. Morris and detectives of the crime section headed by Sgt. John Coyne are investigating reports that one of the five men under suspicion  --  a trooper assigned to plain clothes work ? acted as the " bag man " in the scheme , making monthly collections from trucking company executives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been informed each of the men received a $150 gift at Christmas . According to the information under investigation , the policemen permitted the overweight trucks to operate and on days when the men were off duty or assigned elsewhere , they reIportedly informed the trucking firm not to run overweight trucks because other troopers would be on patrol . Weight limitations are imposed on various classes of trucks because of safety factors and damage to highway pavement . If arrested , fines for operating overweight vehicles are severe under Illinois law . Confirms Investigation " We 've been working on this for about a week , " Supt. Morris told THE TRIBUNE . " Sgt. Coyne and his men went to the Chicago area a week ago . " Sources reported that as yet no lie detector tests have been administered to the men under suspicion . All five remain on duty . The district is headed by Capt . Harold Crockett as the new commander who was transferred to the Chicago area in 1963 after the first of two similar scandals struck state police posts in northern Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received the initial information and transmitted it to his superiors in Springfield . In the 1962 overweight truck scandal , ' 21 state policemen were suspended for varying periods without pay while others more deeply involved resigned I or were fired by the state police merit board . They included virtually the entire top command of the old district No. 3 station at Irving Park road and Harlem avenue . Huge Payoffs Disclosed At that time , investigation disclosed personnel assigned to district No. 3 had accepted an estimated $500,000 in bribes from trucking companies over a 20 year period . A year later , a second inquiry ? this time centered on payoffs by tow truck operators  --  was launched on the basis of information furnished by THE TRIBUNE . In this investigation , 16 state policemen were suspended on charges they took money from the tow truck companies for favoring them with information about the removal of wrecks from state highways and the Illinois tollway system . The accused troopers reportedly accepted 35 to 50 per cent of the fees charged disabled motorists by the tow truck operators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used the state gasoline credit card system to obtain cash and gasoline , accessories , and repairs for their private cars . In this inquiry , about a dozen state policemen eventually resigned .                     