@@722866

txt A British-American press furor , approaching the status of an international incident , forced the White House today to acknowledge that President Kennedy had held a secret " background ' conference " with reporters at Palm Beach on Dec. 31 . Reporters attending had been instructed not to disclose the meeting and not to quote Mr. Kennedy directly . Over the weekend , however , direct quotations attributed to the President appeared in The Times of London and The London Sunday Times . This set off loud protests among American reporters who had written only paraphrased versions of views that many had said they got from " friends of the President . " It led also to the disclosure by White House sources that the Administration itself had made available a , transcript of Mr. Kennedy 's remarks to foreign reporters here , none of whom attended the Palm Beach conference . However , it was denied that permission had been given for anyone to quote Mr. Kennedy directly . The White House also released those portions of the transcript that had already been quoted from in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the White House 's embarrassment , it is unlikely that any more Presidential " backgrounders " will be held . In Washington press jargon , a " backgrounder " is a news conference in which an official talks freely to reporters and answers their questions . He can not be identified , nor can his remarks be directly quoted . Usually , such remarks are attributed to " high sources " or " informed officials . " In the case of ' Mr. Kennedy 's Palm Beach " backgrounder " his favored attributions were " friends of the President " or " highest authority . " A statement today by Pierre Salinger , the White House press secretary , confirmed that the Kennedy " backgrounder " had taken place on Dec. 31 . " At the request of the press , " Mr. Salinger said , certain sections were being made public because they had " been the subject of direct quotation by some British and American newspapers . " The latter reference was to a column by C. L. Sulzberger in The New York Times , which appeared after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conference 1 Mr. Salinger went no turtner on the record , but information is available to establish the following sequence of events : Mr. Kennedy met with about 35 American and one British reporter in the living room of the C. M. Paul home at Palm Beach on the morning of Dec. 31 . During the one-hour question and answer session , ranging widely over foreign and domestic affai  --  s , he made certain statements about the pact of Nassau , reached at the conferences with Prime Minister Macmillan of Britain , and his views on international leadership . The gist of the latter views , as published by the White House today , was that the President was " more aware , probably , that we are going to incur at intervals people 's displeasure .. . I ' I think too often in the past we ' have defined our leadership as Ian attempt to be rather well regarded in all these countries . The fact is , you ca n't possibly I carry out any policy without causing major frictions . " After citing the Congo and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I think what we have to do is be ready to accept a good deal more expressions of newspaper and governmental opposition to the United States in orde ? to get something done than we have perhaps been willing to do in the past . I do n't expect that the United States will be more beloved , but I would hope that we could get more done I I These remarks , as reported by some of those present , gave the impression that Mr. Kennedy was determined to exert more bold , unilateral leadership . The British press , seizing on these reports and enlarging upon them , responded with such headlines as : " Kennedy Says : ' I 'll Decide . ' " Reaction Stirs Alarm White House sources said officials here became alarmed at the violent British reaction . Subsequently , with the consent of Mr. Salinger , they made the transcript of the " backgrounder " available to foreign reporters to be reported under the same rules that applied to those present at Palm Beach . Quoting of the background ' emarks directly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lilted from a misunderstanding vith British reporters . The net effect was that Brash readers eventually were Oven Mr. Kennedy 's exact renarks , while American readers . eceived only reporters ' para ) hrases and attribution to ' highest authority . " Another result was that French reporters were highly lissatisfied . They were shown he transcript , too , but none noted it directly . Their view vas that British reporters had Token the rules and been revarded with publication of that art of the transcript applying o them . Mr. Salinger refused , howver , to authorize quotation of ortions of the text relating to ' rance and President de Gaulle , r any other sections except hose that had appeared in the ' ondon newspapers .                     