@@724620

txt WASHINGTON , March 6 ? Among the marks which distinguish this Administration from any that has gone before the tight official lip is outstanding . Nowhere is the " L.B.J. " brand on all Government acts and policies more plainly to be seen than in those lower-level executive quarters where the press has been accustomed to learn of moves before they are made , or the actual bases of decisions after they have been announced . President Johnson not only serves as the principal channel of public information , so that he can regulate the yield of the flow on his own estimate of what will help or hinder his objectives . By repressing among his subordinates the native tendency of Americans to sell whatever wares they are associated in producing , he also is controlling the volume to be delivered to the market of public opinion . This policy of official lip control is the most difficult of enforcement , even by a President of the United States , with his vast and growing power that significantly includes the power to open or close to many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has succeeded to a larger degree than any predecessor has who may have sought to impose so rigid a restraint ( the available records supply no demonstrable parallel ) . Of those Government servants on the lower levels who know the inwardness of decisions made or pending , this couplet of Kipling 's is an exact descriptive : " The artless aide-decamp was mute . The gilded staff stood still . . " Foreign Payments Issue There are still " leaks " to reporters and always will be . But their sources are largely limited to two : The President himself , through the medium of off-the-record disclosures to members of the press selected for their competence , integrity and discretion in this delicate operation ; and topranking administrators , acting with his full knowledge and authority in the immediate instance , or on the exercise of a personal judgment they have ample reason to know he will sustain . And the sources of the " outlaw " leaks which he has reduced to an historic minimum are few in the same proportion , because no President has been better at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from . Mr. Johnson ; however , has certain justifications for these curbs that only the outright critics refuse to acknowledge . His responsibilities for war and peace are a growing burden with the growth of critical situations in Southeast Asia and the Middle East . The fiercely aggressive Government of Communist China is moving toward the awesome point where it will qualify for membership in the International Nuclear Club . The expanding national economy is threatened by an inflation which is inherent in its expansion . Certain allies , restored by military and financial American aid from the ruins of the Second World War , are pursuing policies at the expense of the interests of the United States . Never was it more necessary for the American Executive to speak with a single voice . Divided Interests But the zeal the President is Esing to that purpose is prone to the excesses that are too often the by-products of zeal . And , though a President very naturally comes to identify protection of his partisan political interest with protection of the national interest , there is a difference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the public interest , by excessive governmental control of access to and presentation of the facts by which the difference can be clearly perceived . Congress and its creaky procedures are the target of those liberal thinkers who hold the opinion that a President with an emphatic electoral mandate should not be obstructed in any policy or project he asserts to be essential to the general welfare . But it is Congress , through the employment of its constitutional power of investigation , which alone can effectively expose what the President would conceal or minimize on his evaluation of the immediate or long-range public interest . An excellent example of the value of this Congressional function was recently provided by Dr. Raymond J. Saulnier in testimony before the Joint Economic Committee . As chairman of President Eisenhower 's Council of Economic Advisers , Dr. Saulnier guided the policy by which the Korean War inflation was squeezed out of the national economy . The policy has been criticized by spokesmen of the " new economy " as too tight a squeeze , leading to the recession toward the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the point where the threat of inflation has reappeared . But this situation and its causes would have been largely accepted in the Administration 's version if there had been no Congressional forum for Dr. Saulnier 's impressive challenge . Delicate Operation His principal subject was the stubborn and alarming trend of the United States ' balance of payments account ? the adverse disparity between the amount of dollars and gold leaving this country and the amount . coming in . President Johnson 's Council of Economic Advisers used the title " Approaching External Balance " for this year 's report . But with an array of facts and figures from the Government 's own books . Dr. Saulnier expressed this conclusion : " It is perfectly clear that . . . the drift . . . is not good . We are not approaching external balance ? . . In its approach to this problem . . . the Administration is relying too much on measures that can give only temporary relief and . . . may in the long run prove positively harmful .. . What the table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ net dollar outflow from military expenditures abroad has been reduced by only 5200 million ... and the net dollar outflow from foreign economic aid is unchanged . " fte proposed several steps in a program , including reduction of American troops in Europe , which the Administration shows no signs of taking . Thereby , through the indispensable public information facilities of Congress , Dr. Saulnier helped to restore that - balance " in the legislative mind . In the Nation : Lip Control as a Major Official Policy fly ARTiiUR KROCK                     