@@723647

txt Integration , the neighborhood school policy , and the sharedtime program were discussed yesterday with the school board by more than 65 citizens erouns . The organizations voiced their opinions before the board at its annual public hearing on school matters not related to tha I budget . The annual budget hearing is set for Dec. 18 . Some of the speakers who appeared at the hearing in the board 's offices , 228 N. LaSalle st. , defended the board 's neighborhood school policy while others opposed it . Five Are Arrested Five members of the Congress of Racial Equality were arrested after they refused to leave the meeting room following the hearing . They were charged with criminal trespassing and disorderly conduct and will appear today in South State street court . Bond was set at $200 each . The five are Wilson Lewis , 22 , of 4911 South Park way ; Marvin Brown , 23 , of 4335 Lake Park ay. ; Saul Mansfield , 36 , of 4811 N. Lawndale ay. ; William Devine , 32 , of 1052 Sheridan rd. ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ay . Backs Neighborhood Plan Mrs. Henry Balough , president of the Parents and Teachers association of the Sutherland Elementary school , 10015 Leavitt st. , told the board : " As responsible tax paying citizens we feel that we have a right to expect that school facilities which are provided in a neighborhood by taxes will be utilized by children of that neighborhood . " We deplore both the educational and the financial loss caused by the Oct. 22 boycott . We believe that school attendance laws should be enforced and that truancy caused or promoted by adults to secure their own ends should result in the prosecution of the adults . " We feel certain groups have used board of education meetings to air their racial grievances and have sought to use the board as a tool to push ends totally unrelated to education . " Calls for Integration At least a dozen of the citizens organizations asked the board to implement " an immediate , positive policy of integration . " Mrs. Ruby Jarrett , executive secretary of the Congress of Racial Equality , called for " an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , faculty and administration , and students . " Ernest Wheeler , president of the PTA of the William Carter Elementary school , 5740 Michigan ay. , told the board : " We feel that the board 's policy deprives our children of equal education advantages . School segregation patterns should be broken by shifting or overlapping all attendance boundaries and by permitting children to transfer easily to schools outside their segregated neighborhoods . " Edward E. Keener , president of the Citizens School committee , and Mrs. Newton Grobe , president of the Chicago Region of the Illinois Congress of Parents and Teachers , both urged the board to improve communication between the school board and administration and the public . Mrs. Grobe said her group opposes any shared-time proposal because - it would conflict with the principle of the separation of church and state . Mrs. Eugene Cotton , schools chairman for the National Council of Jewish Women , also spoke out against the shared-time proposal . Seek Policy Changes Also asking for a policy to promote integration were the Woodlawn organization , the National Council of Jewish Women , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social action committee of the First Baptist Church of Chicago , the social education and action committee of the Chicago Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers , the Chatham Village association , the education committee of the West Chatham Improvement association , and the Prairie Avenue Community Improvement association and affiliated block clubs . Some advocated maintenance of the neighborhood school policy and others wanted it eliminated or changed to give students a choice of schools . Harry Griffin , chairman of the education committee of the West Chatham Improvement association , demanded that the board accept the resignation of School Supt. Benjamin C. Willis " as a basic first step in desegregating Chicago schools , providing an equal education for all the children in Chicago and implementing the 1954 Supreme court decision regarding school segregation . " However , a number of groups praised Dr. Willis . Mrs. X. J. K. Sullivan , 1833 N. Orchard st. , president of the Independent Citizens Council of the United States , backed Dr. Willis and urged that the board await a racial report from a five-man panel set up as part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    