@@724695

txt Funeral mass and burial of Albert Cardinal Meyer will be con ducted in accordance with instructions that the archbishop gave before entering Mercy hospitsl for brain surgery . The funeral mass will be Celebrated according to the new church liturgy at 11 a. m . Tuesday in Holy Name cathedral . The Most Rev. Cletus F. O'Donnell , auxiliary bishop of Chicago , will celebrate the mass as requested by the late cardinal . The Most Rev. William E. Cousins , archbishop of Milwaukee , will preach the funeral sermon . Burial in Mundelein Cardinal Meyer 's body will be buried as he wished in the cemetery of St. Mary of the Lake seminary in Mundelein . Twelve priests ordained by the cardinal last year will act as pall bearers . The body of the cardinal will be moved at 1 p. m. today in a solemn procession from the chapel at 25 E. Erie st. to the cathedral at 734 N. State st. , where a mass attended by women 's organizations of the archdiocese will be said . The body will lie in state in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wake to Resume Tomorrow The public wake will resume at 2 p. m. tomorrow and continue night and day until the funeral . Msgr . William E. , superintendent of archdiocese schools , said that nuns from each convent in the archdiocese will attend the mass today . Four students from each of the 539 Catholic schools will attend the mass Monday . There will be no class et Tuesday . Instead students will attend morning masses in their parishes , and then watch the funeral mass on television in their homes . Honor Guard of Students A student honor guard will line the funeral route thru Libertyville . Another honor guard will be posted at the gate to the seminary cemetery when the procession proceeds ' to the burial site . The Most Rev. Aloysius J. Wycislo , auxiliary archdiocesan bishop , will be celebrant at today 's mass ; the Most Rev. Raymond P. Hillinger , also auxiliary bishop , at Monday 's . Among distinguished churchmen who yesterday told Bishop O'Donnell that they will attend the funeral are Francis Cardinal Spellman of New York City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of St. Louis , Lawrence Cardinal Sheehan of Baltimore , Paul Cardinal Leger of Montreal , and Guiseppe Cardinal Ferretto of Italy . Richard Cardinal Cushing of Boston sent his condolences to the archdiocese and said ill health would make it impossible for him to attend . Bishop O'Donnell said that Cardinal Meyer selected his final resting place because of his lifelong association with seminaries , " the lifeblood of the church . " Mayor Daley directed yesterday that all city flags on official buildings be flown at half staff until after the funeral for the cardinal .                     