@@725908

txt Manchester , N. H. , Nov. 4 ( AP ) Former Vice President Nixon charged today that President Johnson has broken the " bipartisan line " on Viet Nam " with a personal , partisan assault and by refusing to answer the questions I asked him about this war . " Despite what he called " this shocking display of temper " by the President at his press conference today , Nixon said , " My policy will continue to be to give him that all-out support ; which his own party has not done  --  for his goal of no reward for aggression in Viet Nam . " But Nixon told newsmen at his own press conferences here , aboard his chartered plane and in Waterville , Me. , that " despite the Presidential temper , I will continue to speak out . " Demands Answers Nixon again called on Johnson to answer his questions about Viet Nam  --  before eiection day  --  and especially these three : 1 . Will Americans resign themselves to a five-year war or will they increase their military pressure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Eisenhower had in ged ? 2 . Will the United States escalate the number of ground troops in Viet Nam or will it adopt the Republican policy of increased use of American sea and air power to bring the Communists to the conference table ? " These Are Issues " 3 . Will Americans pay the increased costs of the war by raising taxes or follow the Republican way of cutting nonmilitary expenditures ? These are the issues , he said , and not " the President 's temper or the fact that I was his target . " Nixon repeated his assertion that the mutual withdrawal of communist and allied troops from South Viet Nam , as proposed in the statement issued after the Manila conference , would , as worded , virtually turn that country over to the rommimict Viet Cono " Millions Uninformed " He called on the President to clarify it , saying , " I 'm not trying to be a carping critic ; I just do n't want this sort of an impression to remain in the minds of our enemies or of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had said that Nixon was n't very well informed . Nixon snapped . " Then millions of Americans are uninformed . That 's been the problem all along . " Rejects Personality Battle Nixon refused to be drawn into a battle of personalities with the President . " I respect the President as a man who works vigorously , probably the hardest working President of this century , " Nixon said . " The lives of men , the future of freedom here and abroad , are more important than what happens politically to me or to President John-con " Defended , U. S. : Goal " Nixon told newsmen that he was somewhat surprised at the tone of President Johnson 's remarks . " Let the record show , " he said , " that all over the world I have defended the administration 's announced goal of no surrender to aggression . I have defended it in the capitals of the world and here at home against members of the President 's own party . " Nixon said he had also defended the government of South Vietnamese Premier Nguyen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own party . . specifically , Bobby Kennedy . " G. 0 . P. Drops Movie The latest Republican campaign movie wound up today in the same place as the last one ? on the cutting room floor ? as G. G. P. offiicals announced that Nixon will represent the party on a nation-wide television program Sunday . The announcement by the Republican congressional committee in Washington said that Nixon will report on election issues , analyze the Manila conference and " reply to President Johnson 's personal attack on him . " A Republican source said Nixon 's speech will take up the entire 30 minutes planned originally for the film . The National Broadcasting company gave each of the major parties 30 minutes of free television time on Sunday for a campaign appeal . Call Attack Undeserved Chicago Tribune Press genital Washington , Nov. ** Republican party leaders today said that former Vice President Nixon posed serious questions with respect to the Manila conference and did not deserve the personal attack by President Johnson at his press conference . Rep. Gerald Ford Mich. , the minority leader , termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Nixon has raised a legitimate question about foreign policy , adding that " the American people should receive forthright answers to all these questions from the White House . " Sen. Thruston B. Morton R. Ky. , chairman of the Repub : lican senatorial campaign committee , assailed President Johnson for brushing aside Nixon 's questions " as being politically inspired campaign talk . " 1 Others Raised Questions Ford said these and other questions had already been raised by himself and others concerning United States policies spelled out in Manila . " Let me point out . " Sen. Morton said , " that it was not Mr. Nixon , it was not the Republican part y , but it was President Johnson who called the Manila conference at a time when this country is always beset with emotional political overtones . " It was the President himself who put this burning problem in the hot cauldron of American politics . "                     