@@726713

txt The city faces a shutdown of public bus transportation by this evening 's rush hour if the striking gasoline and fuel oil drivers do not make deliveries to the Chicago transit authority , Thomas B. O'Connor CTA general manager , warned last night . Faced with fuel shortages since the strike was declared at 2 a. m. yesterday , the CTA had only enough bus fuel to last thru this morning , O'Connor said . An estimated million workers , shoppers , and school children will be stranded if deliveries are not made , altho some lines may continue service into the afternoon , he said . " We will run the buses to the very last drop , " O'Connor said . " But we are hopeful we will get emergency deliveries . " Little Progress Reported Negotiations between the striking drivers and 125 petroleum products companies are to resume at 10 a. m. today in the Conrad Hilton hotel . Talks were broken off at 6:30 p. m. yesterday after several meetings . Little progress was made , according to spokesmen for both sides . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said his office will be available at any time to the negotiating teams and that he will do anything he can to bring about a settlement . Major taxicab companies said they had one or two days ' fuel supplies remaining , but this might be used up more quickly if stranded CTA passengers turn to cabs for transportation . The strike call was announced by the 11 teamsters locals at 2 a. m. yesterday , when the all-day collective bargaining talks collapsed . The unions represent more than 3,500 drivers from Waukegan on the north to Aurora and Joliet on the west , Kankakee on the south , and northwest Indiana on the east . Deliveries Cut Off The pickets immediately cut off the daily delivery of 6 million gallons of gasoline and 5 million gallons of fuel oil here . Motorists jammed into many of the 5,000 service stations affected by the strike to fill up their tanks . There were reports that a number of stations had hiked their prices by 3 and 4 cents a gallon to take advantage of the frantic buying . Louis F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be worked out to insure that vital fuel oil and gasoline supplies will be delivered to all hospitals , nursing homes , police stations , and fire departments . The union and management negotiators named Capt . Jack Killackey , director of the Chicago police labor detail , as coordinator of the effort to see that police stations , fire departments , hospitals , and other essential services and institutions are supplied with gas and fuel oil . The action was taken after Sheriff Joseph I. Woods reported that one of the three sheriff 's police stations would be out of gasoline within a few hours . Killackey said the union would furnish drivers for the trucks making essential deliveries and that the sheriff and various police departments would furnish guards for the trucks and for stations where the gas would be available for essential services . Industry sources said the average filling station should have enough to last three to five days , depending on the volume of business and the capacity of their storage tanks . They said several stations ran out of supplies yesterday because they failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as home owners are concerned , the company representatives said there should not be emergency needs for fuel oil supplies . They pointed out that the average home has a 275-gallon tank , and if it is one-fourth full the supply should last from 10 days to two weeks under present weather commons . Seek ** Contract Chief stumbling block in negotiations so far has been the insistence of the unions that a two-year contract replace the present two-year pact which terminated Oct. 31 . The companies have proposed a three-year contract with a package of wage increases and other benefits amounting to what union sources said would be 63 cents an hour . Industry spokesmen claim it would be 10 cents an hour higher . Union sources said it was imperative that the companies " sweeten their package offer " because of the temper of the rank and file members who have indicated they would continue to balk at ratifying any proposal which is not substantially increased . T. G. Hanlon , chairman of the all-industry negotiating group , said the three-year contract turned down by the teamsters last Sunday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . negotiated by the ' oil . industry with any union . " Comments on Offer " Now the union is attempting to achieve most of the monetary benefits- of the three-year package in only two years , " Hanlon added . " We felt the package we offered the teamsters was very attractive . In wages alone , it represented increases of 25 cents an hour now , 15 cents at the end of the first year , and another 15 cents at the end of the second year . During the third year of this contract the average day driver would earn more than $1,700 more than he would earn this year . " Under the old contract , the drivers received $3.66 an hour for day work and $3.78 for night work .                     