@@727709

txt Washington , March 14 ? The Nixon administration today scrapped , with one exception , the plan of former President Johnson to place anti-ballistic missiles near major metropolitan areas , including Libertyville , Ill . The one exception will be the nation 's capital . Deputy Secretary of Defense David Packard said a site will be just outside of Washington " in an attempt to protect the national command authority . " In modifying Johnson 's Sentinel system , Nixon proposed a carefully phased program which would have the first ABM deployment ready in 1973 at two Minuteman offensive missile sites in isolated areas in North Dakota and Montana . Tells Defensive Intent The President said in his press conference that in protecting the two offensive missile sites instead of putting the emphasis on guarding the big cities , be thought the United States would be preserving enough retaliatory missiles to make an enemy " think twice " before attacking . In a statement released by the White House before the press conference , Nixon described his plan as a modified sy ?  - -  a , designed so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be implemented according to some fixed , theoretical schedules , but " in a manner clearly related to our periodic analysis of the threat . " Sites Undetermined Johnson 's plan had called for a fixed deployment schedule . If Nixon 's plan is carried to its completion , it will have a total of 12 sites in the continental United States ready soon after 1975 , Packard told newsmen at the Pentagon . The two sites planned for 1973 are near Malmstrom air force base in Montana and the Grand Forks air force base in North Dakota . The others for later construction , besides Washington , D. C. , would be at Whiteman air force base , Mo. ; Warren air force base , Wyo. ; and presently undetermined areas in southern New England , Texas . Florida and Georgia . southern and central California , the upper northwest . and the Michigan-Ohio region . The Pentagon said that if needed . sites could also be built in Hawaii and Alaska . The Nixon move to some extent is a test of Russian intentions on d 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians have no intentions of a first strike they will have I to do nothing to change their present forces because of the Nixon decision . Plan Is Flexible " If they have first strike intentions . " said one high official , " it will be good to know that . " The Nixon plan is flexible ana adjustable according to Russian moves . If the Russians do not increase their offensive missile strength because of unilateral steps to disarm or because of an arms limitation agreement , the United States can scale the ABM system downward . If the Russian threat increases , the ABM system can be expanded . President Nixon also disclosed that he has no intention of increasing the number of American sea and land based missiles and bombers as of now . Shuns Offensive Increase He said he overruled the plan for big city sites because it tended to be more provocative in terms of making credible a first strike capability against Russia and that he wanted no provocation which might deter arms talks . He said he also ruled out doing nothing , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further increase in America 's offensive capability was also " the wrong road . . . because it would be provocative to the Soviet Union and might escalate the farms race . " He described what he has done as " truly a safeguard system , a defensive system only . " Nixon said he believes the Russians will interpret what be has done as a move toward deescalation of the arms race . The Pentagon said all of Nixon 's proposed sites away from the cities would have a mixture of long-range Spartan and short-range Sprint missiles and short range radar . The Spartan has a range of more than 400 miles and the Sprint about 25 miles . The Sprint is a low-1 altitude intercept rocket designed to travel fast and maneuver quickly to attack incoming missiles that might get past the Spartans . Ca n't Defend Cities In explaining his abandonment of big city sites , Nixon said that it is not " now within the power of modern defensive weaponry to give complete protection to the cities against a major nuclear attack . " " The heaviest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major cities , still could not prevent a catastrophic level of United States fatalities from a deliberate all-out attack , " he explained . " And it might look to an opponent like the prelude to an offensive strategy threatening the soviet deterrent . " Scientists opposed to the Sentinel system estimated it might reduce American casualties in a major nuclear attack from perhaps 80 million to 50 million . Their argument was that the country would still be so paralyzed and demoralized that the reduction would not really matter . The President said he is optimistic that Congress will go along with his decision . Expect Billion Savings Former President Johnson in his budget for the 1970 fiscal year beginning July 1 requested 1.8 billion dollars for the Sentinel system . Administration officials said Nixon will reduce this request by roughly a billion dollars to around 800 millions . Approximately 40 million dollars will be for the acquisition of sites for Spartan installations . The Nixon plan completely reorients America 's missile defense . The original Sentinel sys , tern was posed only to take care . of incoming land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revised plan takes into account the buildup of Russia 's submarine missile force and Russia 's possible deployment of a fractional orbiting ballistic system in outer space . The revised plan will also be sufficient , they said , to protect against a primitive Red Chinese system thru the 19705 and into the early 80s . Administration officials said Nixon did take the growing concern of residents in major cities into consideration in his decision to drop the sites near big cities . The foreign policy concern of the Nixon administration was that if it went ahead with a thin Sentinel system the Russians might look at it as a move toward a first strike capability on the part of the United States and the start of a thick sfstem designed to be ready to destroy Russian retaliatory rockets . after the first American strike . Russia might then move to increase its offensive missile stockpile and another round in escalation of offensive missiles would take place . Cost 6 to 7 Billions The total cost of the system now proposed by Nixon is estimated by the administration at 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : protection of American landbased retaliatory forces against a direct attack by the Russians , defense of the American people against the kind of nuclear attack which Communist China is likely to mount within a decade , and protection against the possibility of accidental attacks from any source . American officials estimate that Russia has about 70 ABM missile launchers of their own already deployed in the Moscow area . American officials said the United States has enough offensive missiles to penetrate this defense easily .                     