@@723112

txt BAD By LEONARD BUDER A management survey has found that serious administrative weaknesses prevent the efficient operation of the city school system . The report has been kept confidential by the Board of Education . But it was learned yesterday that it charged that the system had been handicapped by a lack of top-level coordination , insufficient internal communication , the duplication of efforts at school headquarters , no clear delegation of authority , overlapping responsibilities and " over-reliance on promotion from within . " The report proposed that the top administrative structure of the system be realigned , that the administrative , clerical and secretarial staffs at headquarters be cut and that greater emphasis be given to the teaching staff . Misuse of Teachers Seen " The 439 teachers now budgeted to the schools but assigned to administrative tasks at headquarters could be returned to the classrooms , " the study asserted . " This means that teachers costing $3,937,695 should become available for professional teaching assignments , in addition to the number now available . " Some of the conditions criticized in the report have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board said . However , action on most of the proposed changes had been held up.pending the arrit .11 of Dr. Calvin E. Gross , who took over as Superintendent of Schools on April 15 . The survey , made by the management consultant firm of Cresap , McCormick &; Paget , was submitted to the board last summer but was not made public . Controversies in Past The board 's decision to keep the report confidential was said to be based on the belief that Dr. Gross should have an opportunity to study the findings and recommendations free of pressures of controversies . Those in the system who have seen the full document concede that many of the recommendations would be opposed by administrators and others who would be affected , Similar proposals in other reports that have been made public have stirred considerable controversy in the past . However , others outside the system have urged that the new report be made public . Among those who hold this view is Har-1 old Siegel , executive director of the United Parents Associations , who asserted , " Reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the public record and should be made public . " The study was authorized by the board shortly after it was put into office with a mandate to reform the system . The previous school board was ousted by the Legislature in August , 1961 , for allegedly forfeiting public confidence . A series of investigations into asserted irregularities and inefficiencies in the school building program preceded the state 's action . The cost of the survey , 175 , - 000 , was covered by a special appropriation from the State Education Department . Major Findings Listed Among the survey 's major findings , as listed in its summary , were the following : 9The role of the Board of Education has historically been one of administration rather than policy development and control . 9Adminiitrative support for the Board of Education has been inadequate . 9The ' role of the Board of Superintendents the top professional body in the system dilutes administrative management by substituting " consensus " meetings for fixed responsibility . 9The Superintendent of Schools has so many persons reporting to him that the successful performance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it also means that too much must be coordinated at the Superintendent 's level . 9Administration has been characterized by a lack of management planning , with divergencies in policy and extensive duplication of effort . 9Financial management and control over expenditures throughout the system have been weak , largely because of the lack of sound budgeting and reporting . 9Administration has been handicapped by the processes used to select administrators . 9Mutliple and duplicative organizational lines to the schools prevent proper supervision . ( lBecause of complicated organizational relationships , coordination has been deficient at most levels ; the field is frustrated in getting decisions and is unable to get school supplies on a timely basis . There is a lack of data needed for planning , assignments at many levels are unclear , authority to act is doubtful and an unusually large headquarters staff has developed . 9The over-reliance on promotion from within has produced inbreeding , with the frequent consequence of a general low level of supervisory ability . 9There are no clear delegations of authority to the various levels of administration . Aid for Superintendent Asked The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board concentrate on policy-making Ind control . Involvement in administrative matters was one of the major criticisms made of the previous board . The new ooard has taken steps to delegate more of these duties to the Superintendent . To improve administration , the study group set forth a proDosed organization that would give the Superintendent a special deputy , a division for internal auditing , a division for management planning , and a support unit . The survey also proposed that there be six deputy superintendants . These would handle curriculum development and evaluation , guidance and special education , instructional administraion , buildings , personnel adninistration and business and : Mancha management - Present Organization The system now has six podions of deputy superintendent nit these do not fully correspond to the proposed organizaion . The board recently created he post of executive deputy luperintendent and before that authorized the position of depity superintendent for persontel . The latter post has not yet been filled . The other deputies are in charge of business affairs , instructional affairs , research and evaluation and the physical plant . The board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey and other reports . The new Superintendent of Schools and the deputy superintendent for business affairs are " outsiders " and a nationwide search is being made for the personnel deputy .                     