@@724107

txt The Iraqi Government nationalized today all private and foreign banks , insurance companies and 30 industrial and commercial concerns . Foreign oil companies , which provide Iraq with more than 80 per cent of her national income , were not affected . A new political organization , the Arab Socialist Union , was also announced . It will replace all political parties in Iraq . The nationalization measures were announced by Premier Taher Yahya on the sixth anniversary of the 1958 revolution , which overthrew the royalist regime and took Iraq out of the Western-sponsored Baghdad Pact , subsequently renamed the Central Treaty Organization . A state-owned . organization was created to operate the nationalized companies . These were the first such measures taken in Iraq . Agrarian reforms instituted in 1958 previously had been Iraq 's closest step to Socialism . The new measures were similar to those instituted in the United Arab Republic by President Gamal Abdel Nasser . They provide that employes will receive 25 per cent of the profits of companies for which they work and will be represented on their boards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only nationalization measures adopted by the regime of President Abdel Salam Arif . He asserted that the Government had drawn a line between the Governmentoperated public sector and private enterprise . Encouragement by the Government of private investment was promised by the Premier . President Arif , who assumed full power after purging the Baath Socialist party from the Government last November , is trying to pattern his regime on that of President Nasser . This year is of special significance to President Arif who , as a colonel , was the deputy leader of the 1958 revolution under Gen. Abdel Karim Kassim , General Kassim later that year ousted Colonel Arif after the latter tried to take Iraq into a union with the United Arab Republic , Kassim Deposed Last Year In February , last year , a military coup led by the Baath party deposed General Kassim and executed him . The Baathists made Colonel Arif President . The Colonel again tried to bring Iraq and Egypt together . His efforts bore fruit in April last year when a treaty was signed by Iraq , Syria and Egypt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later because of rivalry between the Baath and President Nasser . Last November President Arif , aided by military officers , overthrew the Baathists . Then in May he went to Cairo where he signed an agreement with President Nasser that was described as placing Iraq and the United Arab Republic on the road to constitutional unity . A 19-man delegation from the United Arab Republic has an honored place at this year 's revolution anniversary celebrations . The delegation is headed by Hussein Shafei , Vice President of the Cairo Government , who is in charge of his country 's Arab Socialist Union , a state-run body that is the country 's only political organization . Iraq 's new political organization is not only similar , but is named the Arab Socialist Union ? Iraqi Region . President Arif opened this morning a congress of 1,300 Iraqi leaders during which he announced the birth of the new union . He said the organization would replace all political parties .                     