@@727916

txt Washington , June 19 ? The highlights of President Nixon 's White House press conference : 1 . The administration h opes to have all ground forces out of South Viet Nam before the end of 1970. 2 . The United States and North Viet Nam are - far apart " at the Paris peace talks . but the administration hopes for progress in the next two to three months . 3 . If Russia agrees . discussions on the limitation of strategic nuclear missiles would start between the end of July and the middle of August . 4 . The United States does not intend to stop testing multiple warhead missiles unless Russia also agrees to a test moratorium . 5 . Recent elections in Los Angeles . Minneapolis . and Now York City indicate the American people are fed up with lawlessness and violence . 6 . The administration 's anti-inflation moves will begin to take effect in the next two to three months . Washington . June 19 ? President Nixon tonight interpreted the recent elections of conservative candidates in Los Angeles . Minneapolis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are fed up . with violence . and lawlessness . At his press conference . the President said that the message came thru - loud and clear " that the American people in cities and small towns want candidates who take a strong ; . and against this growing violence . " I do n't believe the great majority of people in our cities are anti-Negro. anti-welfare. reactionary . or members of hate groups . " he said . Nixon said that the " snap reaction " to the Los Angeles election as white man against black man may be wrong . Take Different View - When you see Minneapolis with only a 4 per cent black constituency coming out for a candidate against the G.O.P .. " he said . " and New York conservative candidates winning over liberal candidates . we have to tare a different view . " On other domestic issues . the President said that the administration 's economic policies should take effect within two or three months , and repeated his belief that dealing with campus violence was the job of college administrator 's Nixon said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and welfare . should end the controversy next week over whether Dr. John H. Knowles . director of Massachusetts General hospital would be named as his top health assistant . Backs FBI Chief The President also strongly indorsed J. Edgar Hoover . director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . Hoover has been embroiled recently in a dispute over tapping the telephone of the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . Asked whom he would support in the New York mayoral race , the President said he would back Sen. John Marchi , the conservative candidate who upset Mayor John V. Lindsay in the primary Tuesday . lie added that he ! would not participate or comment on this election or any other local election . The press conference opened with a question of what new moves the administration might consider to curb further inflation . Within Months The President replied that the administration 's decision in cutting the Johnson budget , extending the surtax , and tightening credit will begin to be felt within three months . " If our projection proves to be wrong , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of action because we can not allow prices to continue to go up . interest to go up . . . . " Even tho the 10 per cent surtax expires at the end of this month . Nixon said that Congress will pass a resolution whin will allow the forms to go out and the collections to proceed . He predicted that the surtax eventually will pass the House and Senate . Praises Unrest Probe " What is important is not the Congress pass the tax before it expires . " he said at one point , " but that the general public and the world know that the tax will eventually be passed . " During his conference the President praised a report on campus unrest presented to him yesterday by a group of Republican senators as " very thoughtful . " He said that the administration could not support legislation which would cut off federal funds from any college where there was a demonstration . " This would be cutting off our nose to spite our face , and it would be just what the demonstrators wanted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal govern . ment interfering in and responsible for discipline in every college and university in this country . " Checks into Matter Asked about the ruckus over the FBI 'S wiretapping of Dr. King . the President said that he personally checked into the matter and found that it " always had been approved by the attorney general . " He did not mention specifically the bugging of Dr. King . The FBI director disclosed today that the late Robert F. Kennedy . then attorney general , had authorized the surveillance of the Negro leader . Nixon said that his administration would use wiretapping " very sparingly , very carefully . having in mind the rights of those who might be involved , but very effectively to protect the internal and external security of the United States . "                     