@@724163

txt Putney , Vt . This remote spot in the rolling hills of eastern Vermont is serving as a kind of cultural shock absorber for 240 African students . All on the verge or spending four years in United States colleges , they have paused here for the past week and a half to get their bearings and brush up on customs and idiosyncracies of a new culture . All 240 are carefully selected participants of the three-year-old African Scholarship Program of American Universities ( ASPAU ) . This agency acts as an African admissions office for about 200 ' American colleges . Prospects ' Terrifying ' It - selects the student and assigns him an institution . He must accept the location verdict . This is not always easy when the names of only about seven or eight of the country 's larger colleges may be familiar to him . The prospect of four years at a smaller college , such as Oberlin or Swarth more , may sound positively terrifying to him , according to James Barker , one of the discussion leaders at the Putney orientation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary adjustments with remarkable ease . Richard Moll , assistant director of ASPAU , reports that only a baker 's dozen of more than 750 students have had to return home because of academic failure or emotional problems . This preliminary stage of orientation is conducted under the watchful eye of the Experiment in International ' Living which has its headquarters in Putney . This group also arranges for a three or four week home-stay for each student before classwork actually begins . Most students feel that the Putney ? stop has been well worth their while . Some have found it duplicative . They already have ? had long talks about American life , they say , with United States students . teachers , and Peace Corps workers in their own countries . They are fully prepared for the " jolt " of washing dishes , being punctual , and writing bread-and-butter letters . " What is new to us here , we 'd have learned after a week or two on campus anyway , " comments a young Kenyan who recently attended the University College of East Africa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face life itself  --  it 's time we did something practical . " Examples Persuasive Since student sophistication varies from country to country , orientation has to be offered at one basic level , counters one of the discussion leaders . He s .... ys that Nigcrian students rank among the most sophisticated . Like students anywhere , the Africans seem to learn more from personal examples than from mere advice . They listen attentively while young discussion leaders tell of their own experiences with dating and sororities and fraternities on campus . Most seemed surprised to hear that the American Negro might not receive them with open arms . " He may resent the special privileges you have , " explained one discussion leader . " After all there 's an exotic flavor about being acquainted with any one of you . " A few of the orientators estimated that many of the Africans were more frightened about the American racial situation than they would like to admit . One of the fringe benefits of the massive ASPAU orientation is a feeling of Pan-Africanism . " Often these students have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They may be better informed on America through Life magazine than on Tanganyika or the West African coast . As this program has developed , we 've decided to leave some time for Africans to get to know Africans . " The program scheduling this summer has been minimal . The experiment has left plenty of time for talk , talent shows , a rock-and-roll dancing party and movies ? " On the Waterfront " and " High Noon . " Nigerian Comment Not all Africans enjoy being orientated in such rural surroundings . A Nigerian comments , " It 's sort of like a detention camp once the soft drink machine breaks down . " Though most of the students are in Western dress , with suit coats and white shirts open at the neck , a few like to keep some reminder of the culture they left so recently . One student from Nairobi still keeps his watch on Kenyan time . " When I 'm having lunch here , they 're just getting up at home , " he says . " I 'm only in Putney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to keep changing time . " But most students would rather blend than contrast . With the prospect of four +'ears in this country ahead of them , they want to " work in well , " according to Mr. Barker . Their motivation is " tremendous , " he says . Many of the students say they have found Americans much more friendly and liberal than they had expected . " We 're used to the British , " points out Gabriel Onyango , a Kenyan , as he straightens his stature in mock imitation of British formality . " Talk to you only when necessary . " ?                     