@@727940

txt A 17-year old Lane Technical High school st u dent was charged early today with the murder of a suburban college student in Old Town during a robbery attempt Thursday . He is Joseph G. Green , 17 , of 1117 Cleveland ay. , who also is a summer student at the school . Green was arrested after the victim 's fiance identified him from a picture in a Lane yearbook . Turned in by Father Detective Jerry Lewanowski of the Damen avenue homicide unit said police went to his home where his father , Leonard , agreed to turn him over to police when the youth returned . Green and his . father arrived at the Damen avenue station at 11:30 p. m. last night . , Green is charged with shooting James Pratscher , 19. of 163 Oak Ridge ay. , Hillside . as Pratscher and his fiance returned to their auto in the 1400 block of Orleans street west of the Wells street Old Town district . 3 Others Sought Three other youths believed involved in the death also were sought . Green refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some persons at the time of the slaying . He is ' scheduled to appear today in Holiday court . The arrest culminated an investigation led by Sgt. Edward Nickel . Pratscher and his fiancee Miss Lorraine Zalisk , 19 , of 1528 Portsmouth ay. , Westchester , had come into the city to have dinner in Old Town . Members of the night shift of the Damen avenue homicide unit , including Nickel and Detectives John Durkin and Jerry Lewanowski. covered the area of the slaying between midnight and 3 p. m. yesterday before coming " up with a tip on the name of a suspect . Girl Identifies Picture Miss Zalisk then identified the picture of the person named in the tip , Nickel said . Miss Zalisk told police that she and Pratscher had returned to their car when they were approached by a youth who told " I 've got a gun . I mean business , I want your wallet . " Pratscher ignored the demand , and the youth shot once in the air and twice into the ground . As Pratscher started to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the chest , the bullet entering his heart . Honks Horn in Alarm Miss Zalisk pulled the body into the car and locked the doors . When she honked the horn , the youth ran and was joined by three or four other young men . She described the Negro who did the shooting as 16 to 19 years old , about 5 feet , 8 inches tall , wearing a high turban-like headband , and wearing dark clothing . The other youths , all Negroes about the same age , were slightly shorter , she said , and one of them wore a black ' leather jacket . Two tactical unit patrolmen cruising in the area of the shooting , James Leyden and William Foley , said they heard shots but thought they were firecrackers going off , as many Fourth of July revelers were throwing firecrackers during the night in Old Town . When they heard honking , however , they went up Orleans street and saw some youths walking down the street . By the time they found the girl and Pratscher in the auto , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pratscher was a student at Southern Illinois university . Miss Zalisk , a student at Arizona State college , had planned to transfer to Southern Illinois next term . Both were Proviso West High school graduates . Dangers in Arca Detectives working on the case yesteriay told of the dangers that abound on the side streets of Old Town , where young thugs prey on tourists and drunks . " They ought to put signs up making everything south of 1400 Wells street and east and west of Wells street off-limits , " said Sgt. Edward Bracy , a Damen avenue robbery detective . " They ought to put signs up in taverns around there warning of the dangers . Maybe that would save a life . " Bray said about 20 strongarm robberies will take place in ? the Old Town area this week-end . He said most of the victims will be unwary tourists and suburbanites who will park their cars on darkened sidestreets when they head for the Old Town clubs . Worst Area Listed " It 's getting to the point where any kid needs a buck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or a tourist , " Bray said . He said the areas south of North avenue , west of Wells street , and east of Halsted street are the worst possible ones for persons to park , and that muggers often break street lamps to darken the streets . " The only way to improve the situation , " he said , " would be to put a policeman on every corner . " Depending on the weather , usually there are at least three strong-arm robberies a night around the Old Town area , Bray said . Arrests often are difficult , because most of the robbers are young teen-agers who have no records or mug shots for identification , Because of the throngs on the Old Town streets it is also difficult to trace a criminal , win can easily lose himself in tin crowds .                     