@@721535

txt Lyndon B. Johnson , the Vice President-elect , is eager to play a strong supporting role ( in the Kennedy Administration , especially since he feels that his work in the South* helped to clinch Tuesday 's victory . To political associates , Senator Johnson has emphasized a statement by his Massachusetts running mate that if the Democratic ticket won , the Texan would be " the most influential Vice President " in American history . While his staff sorted out reams of congratulatory telegrams , the Texas Senator rose late and spent the day in his fourth-floor suite at the Driskill Hotel here , conferring in his bathrobe by telephone with Senator Kennedy and Democratic leaders throughout the country , Plans to Go to Ranch Depending on how soon his political clean-up chores can be accomplished , the Senator plans to go to his L. B. J. Ranch at Johnson City , west of here , probably tomorrow at noon . It was learned that since the Johnson victory , the stream of campaign contributions from well-to-do Texas Democrats has freshened considerably . According to reliable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy 's , wishes , he will probably specialize in space and defense matters and serve as a " trouble-shooter " in domestic affairs , in addition to presiding over the . Senate . He feels certain that his knowledge of Congress can be of considerable assistance in getting major legislation passed under the next Administration . Moreover , he is optimistic that Democratic proposals for medical care for the aged , aid to depressed areas and aid for teachers ' salaries can be put through Congress with . dispatch at the next session . He is also sure that some of the Southern Democratic members of the House Rules Cornmitte , headed by Howard W. Smith of Virginia , can be successfully purged in January by the Democratic majority . The committee , he feels , has been a major obstacle to Democratic legislation . With a more amenable Rules Committee , Mr. Johnson believes , it will be less difficult to pass the Kennedy Administration 's legislation within . the Democratic-controlled Congress . Senator Johnson is angry at those Republicans and some Northern Democrats who have sought to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign , Senator Johnson feels that a remarkable degree of cooperation and understanding between the two candidates was achieved and that each contributed greatly to the other 's efforts . According to reliable sources , it was Senator Kennedy who this morning suggested a joint meeting next week at Senator Johnson 's ranch . Senator Johnson agreed with alacrity , noting that the deer season was about Ito begin . Senator Johnson is believed to have suggested the appointment of a Negro Democratic leader , Representative William Dawson of Chicago , to be Postmaster General under the new Administration . The post is traditionally ' reserved for campaign managers or former national committee chairmen of the party in power . ? , Lodge Pledge Recalled During ahe campaign , Henry Cabot Lodge , Senator Johnson 's Republican opponent , pledged that a Negro would serve in the Cabinet uncle ' , a Republican administration . Senator , ' Johnson favors the appointment of Senator J. . W. Fulbright of Arkansas , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , as Secretary of State . Senator Fulbright has been a close associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As his successor as majority leader , Senator Johnson would prefer Mike Mansfield of Montana , now Democratic whip in the Senate . Senator Kennedy is also understood to favor Mr. Mansfield for the post . Senator Johnson has yet to Senator Johnson has been conferring with Gov . Price ' Daniel , state political leaders , and Senator Kennedy while making up his mind about a resignation date . When Senator Johnson does resign , within five days Governor Daniel must issue a writ for a special election to fill out his term within sixty to ninety days . If no candidate in this catch-all race gains a majority , a run-off between the two top contenders must be held thirty ' to forty days later , according to Texas election law . Before the special election , Governor Price can appoint an interim successor once Congress is in session . Today , certain that Mr. Johnson 's Senate seat would be open , several Texas officials sent up trial balloons announcing their " interest " in succeeding Senator Johnson . Chief Democrat among these was James C. Wright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fourth term last Tuesday by a substantial margin . Representative Wright was a strong supporter of the Kennedy-Johnson ticket , and is rated a " liberal " among Texas Democrats . John G. Tower , who won 40 per cent of the vote against Mr. Johnson in the Texas Senate race , is considered the chief , Republican prospect , although his defeat this week may have ended any chance of a comeback in a special election next year . decide , the date of his own resignation from the ' Senate . Conceivably , Senator Johnson could stay on as majority leader to organize the Senate during the seventeen-day period between the opening of Congress and ' Inauguration ? Day , Jan. 20 . A precedent exists , according to Democratic officials here .. The late Alben W. Barkley was . elected Vice President in 1948 , but did not relinquish his Senate seat until just before Inauguration Day in 1949 . Warren G. Harding , who was a Senator from Ohio when he was elected to the Presidency on Nov. 2 , 1920 , did not sit in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President-elect remained at his home in Marion , where he conferred with national leaders and others on the selection of his cabinet and issues . His resignation from the Senate took effect Jan. 13 , 1921 , and he was inaugurated as President on March 4 . Confer With . Governor                     