@@721788

txt Adolf Eichmann was portrayed today as crueler and more relentless than his Gestapo chief , Heinrich Himmler , in pressing for the annihilation of European Jews . In a hushed courtroom , Attorney General Gideon Hausner , the chief prosecutor , wound up his opening - statement with words that rang - like an Old Testament phrase : " And the judges of Israel will Prosecutor Says Gestapo Chief Criticized Death March pronounce true and righteous judgment . Mr. Hausner said he would prove " an astonishing thing " ? that Himmler himself had reprimanded Eichmann for organizing a death march of Jews from Budapest in late 1944 . Hundreds committed suicide or died of typhus during the forced march toward the Austrian frontier , the prosecutor said , and it took an order from Himmler to make Eichmann call a halt to the brutal operation . Israel called her first witnesses at the afternoon session . An Israeli police captain , Avner Less , testified that he had taken a tape-recorded declaration from Eichmann , made by the prisoner after he was brought to Israel last . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Eichmann , which runs close to 1,000,000 words , will be played at tomorrow 's court session . The prosecution asserts that the recording is highly incriminating , proving that Eichmann , by his own admissions , played a key role in the ' annihilation of Jews . Members of the prosecution said the deposition would also undermine the defense contention that Eichmann acted under duress when he made a statement to the Israelis who kidnapped him from his Buenos Aires hideout last May . At ' that time Eichmann allegedly declared that he was willingly coming to Israel to face trial . As if numbed by the details of the ghastly concentration camp atrocities described by Mr. Hausner , spectators in the courtroom did- not react today with tears or muted sobs as some had when the prosecutor began his grim recital yesterday . They kept their emotions as tightly bridled as those of the prisoner in the glass-enclosed dock who , according to the defense counsel , " felt depressed . " But pain and horror were evident in the faces of those in the court when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Sobibor , Cheimno , Treblinka and Maidanek . At Maidanek , Mr. Hausner. said , there was one place where children were treated with kindness  --  at the entrance to the gas chambers , where each was handed a piece of candy . ) Two-hundred thousand Jews ' perished at Maidanek . At Treblinka the Nazis kept a big dog . It was trained so that when one of the guards yelled " Jude , " the dog would leap at a Jewish prisoner and bite him . Mr. Hausner said that at least 750,000 Jews died at Treblinka . Chelmno Deaths Described At Chehnno , where about 340,000 Jews perished , new arrivals were slaughtered hnmediately . Mr. Hausner said they were led naked to trucks marked " sonderwagon " ( " special car " ) , believing they were about to be transported to disinfecting sheds . Eighty to 100 Jews would be crowded into the trucks . When the doors slammed shut , the victims were killed by exhaust fumes , Mr. Hausner said . The pits . But first the Nazis extracted the gold teeth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the victims was shipped to the German people 's Winter Aid Campaign , which once complained that the camp had neglected to remove the " Jewish badge , " a yellow Star of David , from a coat , Mr. Hausner said . At Sobibor , too , dogs were set on people , Mr. Hausner said , and prisoners were forced to march between rows of whipwielding S. S. Elite ? Guard men and Ukrainians . At least 250,000 Jews died at Sobibor . At Belsec , the prosecutor declared , a smiling S. S. man stood at the entrance to the gas chambers and told the prisoners ingratiatingly : " No harm will befall you . All you have to do is breathe in deeply . This strengthens the lungs ; inhaling is necessary as a means of disinfection . " The gas chambers were disguised by a sign that said " washing and inhalation equipment , " Mr. Hausner explained , adding that at Belsec " the Nazi Moloch consumed more than 600,000 Jewish victims . " At Auschwitz , the most infamous of the death camps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which victims were to be killed immediately and which were still capable of forced labor . In " selection parades , " prisoners marched past a camp doctor who would point a finger to the left whenever he saw someone too weak for work . To the left meant death , Mr. Hausner said , so all the prisoners tried " to appear healthy , to stand upright , to swell out a lean breast , to raise their heads , to act as if there were nothing wrong with them . " The killings were carried out at Auschwitz by shooting , hang ' Mg and beating , but mainly in massive gas chambers , Mr. Hausner said . Two thousand victims were herded together for a " shower " in a chamber marked " wasch and desinfektionsraum " ( " washing and disinfection room " ) . The " shower " was a flow of poison gas that killed 2,000 victims in twentyfive minutes . Medical Experiments Made Medical experiments were made on victims " as if they were guinea pigs , " the prosecutor said . Sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to death . The skeletons of 150 Jews were sent to the S. S. Institute of Race Research for anthropological investigation , Mr. Hausner told the court . The Attorney General spared no feelings in. describing the torture employed at Auschwitz . Prisoners received one-third of the minimum food requirements , he said . Some were driven insane by hunger and became cannibals . Eichmann rocked slowly in his tilted chair , his eyes half shut his thin lips clamped . He took no notes during the three hours Mr. Hausner spoke . Instead of toying with his pen as he had on previous days , he clasped his hands on his lap , his bloodless fingers locking and interlocking . Having completed the nightmarish tale of the concentration camps , Mr. Hausner poignantly recalled the intellectual and cultural contributions of European Jews . Of 257 Nobel Prizewinners during the first fifty years of the century , thirty-four were Jews , twelve of whom were expelled by the Nazis . The Attorney General ' read a list of Jewish geniuses , starting with Albert Einstein and Sigmund Freeud and including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and musicians like Artur Rubinstein , Fritz Kreisler and Richard Tauber . He spoke next of the destruction of illustrious Jewish communities , observing that " an entire civilization with a characteristic way of life , atmosphere and faith has been destroyed . " The landmarks of Jewish history have been obliterated , " he said . " The heart of the Jewish people has been wounded . Although Eichmann killed millions of Jews , there are still some survivors who met him at the time of the crimes and these survivors will be called as witnesses , Mr. Hausner said . ' Tragedy ' Recalled " I am afraid that even after submitting all the material that we have established and all the evidence in our possession , we shall not be able to do more than give a pale reflection of the enormous human and national tragedy that occurred to Jewry in this generation , " he asserted . " Adolf Eichmann will enjoy a privilege that he did not accord to even a single one of his victims , " the- prosecutor went on . " He will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fate will be decided according to law and according to evidence , with the burden of proof resting upon the prosecution . " When Mr. Hausner finished , Eichmann , who seemed to have dozed briefly , turned his head toward the Presiding Judge , Moshe Landau , to see what ' would happen next . Judge Landau called a luncheon recess . ? When the court reopened , the first witness for the prosecution was called . He was Naphtali Bar-Shalom. a middle-aged Superintendent of Police who is chief of documentation for Bureau 06 , the special police branch established to investigate Eichmann . Superintendent Bar-Shalom explained how the vast documentation , running to 1,580 exhibits , had been authenticated . Most of the material originated in Germany , but there are documents also from Britain , the United States , Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Italy , Poland , Yugoslavia and the Netherlands . The second witness was the 45-year-old , Berlin-born Captain Less , who testified on the taperecorded statement made ' by Eichmann . Captain Less , who Is partly bald , wears eyeglasses and has a guardsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be interrogated when he started interviewing the prisoner last May . This testimony may be significant . It contradicts the defenses ' contention that Eichmann was acting under duress when he made his statement to his Israeli kidnappers . In that challenged statement , Eichmann said that he was coming to Israel of his own free will to face trial and that he intended to make a full declaration of his actions . Captain Less said that when Eichmann was asked on May 26 , in Israel , if he was ready to make a statement with regard to his functions in the Third Reich , the accused replied : " Jay.rohl ( Yes , indeed ) . "                     