@@726011

txt Most diplomats here are not hopeful that Secretary-General U . Thant will be able to arrange the cease-fire talks with Hanoi that Washington has just requested of him . American Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg took the surprise request to U Thant at 10:30 Monday morning . News of it was released to the press at noon as U Thant was seeing first the Soviet , then the Algerian ambassadors . The latter has often been a conduit through whom the Secretary-General has contacted Hanoi leaders . ? One reason for widespread pessimisM about the success of this public American effort to broaden the holiday truces into a cease-fire is its very public nature . It is felt here that North Vietnamese and Viet Cong leaders may spurn it on grounds that it is a propaganda play by Washington . Letter from Goldberg The letter requesting intervention by U Thant was signed by Mr. Goldberg . It presumably was worked out Friday at a Washington meeting of President Johnson . Mr. Goldberg , Ambassador to Saigon Henry Cabot Lodge , and Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both U Thant and Pope Paul VI urging both sides to lengthen the holiday truces into a cease-fire that could lead to deescalation and talks . Ambassador Goldberg made no specific new commitments in the letter . He based it on the 14 American points for-ending the Vietnam war . He recalled that these included the idea of making a cease-fire the first order of business for a conference or even for preliminary talks between the two sides . To get such talks started , he then asked U Thant to contact the Communist side once again .. " We turn to you , " the letter concluded , " with the hope and the request that you will take whatever steps you consider necessary to bring about-the necessary discussions which could lead to such a ceasefire . Cooperation assured " I can assure you that the government of the United States will cooperate fully with you in getting such discussions started promptly and in bringing them to a successful completion . " U Thant is believed by some diplomats to have recently reestablished contact with Hanoi . After his earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely because of American inattention , his moves were suspended . But there has been some feeling among knowledgeable diplomats here that he is now in contact with Hanoi leaders again . The big question is the depth and persuasiveness of such contact , if it exists . Most officials who have studied the North Vietnamese and National Liberation Front positions carefully believe those Communist leaders are wary of starting talks with Washington without some prior Washington concessions  --  such as a halt in the bombing . Time Hanoi 's ally ? The Hanoi leaders are believed , in particular , to feel that time is on their side if they can persist until the 1968 American election period begins . They are also thought to believe that to begin talks at this point without concessions would be to risk undermining their forces ' morale . Thus , unless some new element enters the picture , UN analysts continue to feel that the Pope and the Secretary-General will find it hard to broaden the Christmas-New Year truces beyond the few days already agreed to . Some analysts feel that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to U Thant . This was to make an open show of giving American backing to the Secretary-General as a sign that in his second term Washington would make more use of his services on matters like Vietnam . When U Thant announced his decision not to run again last September , a principal reason was his feeling of being bypassed on Vietnam . When he changed his mind Dec. 1 and agreed to accept a second term there were vague statements from the great powers that they would welcome continued action by the Secretary-General in this peace-keeping field .                     