@@725663

txt Polls show the bombing of the oil dumps at Hanoi and Haiphong has moved the President 's popularity upward again . But this may be only a short-term result . The man on the street is apt to hear the hopeful tone in remarks by the White House , the Pentagon , and the State Department . He is apt to overlook the ifs and howevers that say the Vietnam war may be a protracted one . Politicians in Washington admit the President has scored a personal victory in voter reaction to the bombing . But they also note troop commitments continue to build and no response has apparently come from Hanoi . The President 's popularity , they feel , seems more than ever tied to actual results in Vietnam . The new Department of Interior legislation being prepared on Indians will be the most important in 30 years . Its key provision will alter the tribal trusteeship laws . The department wants the tribes to be able to enter partnership with private firms in utilizing natural resources on tribal land . Instead of leasing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribes would mortgage it for industrial development . In the process the Indians would be trained to take part in management and be employed on the jobs created by the industry . Secretary of Interior Stewart L. Udall will try to convince Congress to allow the mortgagees and private industry to participate in the development . New Indian Bureau Commissioner Robert LaF . Bennett will try to convince the tribes that their risk is no greater than an average citizen would take in mortgaging his home . Mr. Bennett has the harder job . ED Republicans have come up with their own plan for renewing the nation 's cities . Democrats are n't taking it seriously . But then neither are many big city Republicans . The Republican Coordinating Committee frowns 13,2 the administration 's $2.3 billion " demonstration cities " bill set for House action in August . It feels the bill will sap the cities of their own initiative . The GOP counterplan calls for a new administrative unit  --  an area government  --  to cope with core-city woes . The area government would tap a large enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would remain small enough to keep community boosters instead of Washington bureaucrats in control . The Republican plan is embarrassing GOP mayors and urban-based Congressmen . In fact they favor the White House plan . Like most pro-administration Democrats , the city Republicans feel an area government too unwieldy . And they doubt that suburban taxpayers will yield dollars for a metropolitan-run renewal crash plan any faster than for a federal-run one . Trends ... The new ruling on maximum heights for television towers is an example of cooperation between two government agencies . The Federal Aviation Agency has just announced the limit would be 2,000 feet . Earlier the Federal Communications Commission said a maximum height was " in the public interest " and that 2,000 feet was " both realistic and appropriate . " The FAA and FCC have worked together before to try to get telecasters to reduce all their aeronautical hazards to one suburban area . This area , planted with TV towers , would then be well publicized for pilots to avoid . The FAA has long had a 1,000-foot minimum over populated areas for planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already poked up through this " floor " and threatened to go higher . The new rule sets definite sky " buffer zones " for the planes and the antennas . And all sky charts will continue to list obstructions . How and why ... Those outmoded Atlas intercontinental ballistic missiles are staging a comeback . they are now being spruced up and used as aunch vehicles for some Air Force space experiments . Some 23 Atlases , once the backbone of the ration 's global striking power , are being fitted out for the new role . The Air Force ; ays they 'll mean saving $1 million per boost .                     