@@723047

txt French tactical warplanes stationed in Germany will shortly be armed with nuclear warheads under United States control , authoritative sources said today . This would be in accordance with Atlantic Pact defense plans initiated in 1957 . The French participation in the nuclear-armed fighter aircraft defenses in Western Europe had been scheduled for a long time . It was delayed because of controversies over the broader issues of French nuclear weapons policies . France still refuses to permit United States-controlled nuclear stockpiles on her soil . As a result of a French decision in 1959 , the United States was forced to transfer from France its nuclear-armed airplanes assigned to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces . The arrangements for the United States control of the warheads for the French aircraft are similar to arrangements for other Atlantic Pact air units . United States forces are at the German airfields . Key ' Needed for Combat The control system requires United States officers and enlisted men to control the storage of the warheads in silos . In cases where the weapons are attached to the aircraft in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in possession of the " key " or control mecharism that must be inserted in the weapon before it can be used in combat . An electronic network arrangement affecting installation throughout Western Europe gives high United States officers in NATO headquarters positive control over the warheads . According to United States laws accepted by the Atlantic Pact . powers , the signal for the use of these atomic weapons can be given only by the President of the United States . Commenting on the basic question of France 's nuclear weapons ambitions , authorities here indicated that the Admin7 istration was still inclined to help the French with nuclear Officials here hesitated to engines for attack ' submarines . French objections - were based on the differences between absolute United States control of nuclear warheads assigned to Atlantic Pact forces , in accordance with United States laws , and the ' joint arrangements that prevail in Britain . Thus , the French refused to accept intermediate range ballistic missiles such as the Thor and Jupiter , which were , placed in Britain , Italy and Turkey . The French also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the proposal for a joint force of nuclear-armed submarines . The arming of the French fighter planes in Germany , however Is regarded as consistent , technically , with French policy , because it does not constitute a matter of French sovereignty on French soil . In accord with the original 1957 defense plans , other Western allies , Germany in particularly , have had their tactical fighter jet aircraft equipped with United States nuclear warheads . The French have about 350 jet fighters in their Germanybased squadrons . The arming of these with nuclear weapons is to " complete the center " of the Allied defense positions on the , Continent . The Dutch , Belgians and Germans , in addition to the Americans , previously constituted the nuclear interceptor forces . read too much into the nucleararming of the French aircraft in Germany , except ! to say that it was a sign of practical French cooperation in defense efforts . Congress Balks Transfer The United States , during the Administration of President Dwight ** offered France nuclear power plants for submarines and even submarines ' of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aways balked by Congressional opposition . The Kennedy Administration several months ago indicated to the French Government , that it would be willing to seek to win over Congress to approve the plan . Subsequently President de Gaulle rejected the proposals for a Polaris-armed submarine force . Officials here indicated that they would still be willing to go ahead with the idea Of pro= riding the French with ' nuclearpowered submarines if the international climate could be made propitious . It is believed by some ' officials that despite general resentment over President de Gaulle 's behavior , they could obtain Congressional approval for the transfer of the submarines . Secretary of State Dean Rusk , who is going to Paris Monday for a meeting of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , is expected to take the opportunity to discuss these matters with French officials .                     