@@724508

txt Saigon After a brief , stormy experiment with purely civilian government , South Vietnam is preparing to return to joint military-civilian rule . Premier Tran Van Huong and Armed Forces Commander in Chief Nguyen Khanh agreed Tuesday on military participation in the hitherto civilian Cabinet . Despite last-minute hitches , it appears as of this writing that the arrangement will stand . Under " generals Huong 's Cabinet . One of them , Air Force Commander Nguyen Cao Ky , de , clined the Youth and Sports portfolio Tuesday morning after his name had been published in a new Cabinet lineup . Commands Desired This may have led to second thoughts by other generals . Presentation of the new Cabinet to the Chief of State Tuesday afternoon was canceled at the last minute with the explanation that ' ' the generals are busy at the front . " To newsmen 's persistent queries , " What front ' ! " the Chief of State 's spokesman returned only an enigmatic smile . The armed forces as a whole arc not believed to be opposed to participating in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or planes are reluctant to accept civilian portfolios if this means losing their military assignments . Of the four generals named by Premier Huong Monday , two  --  Air Vice-Mar ; hal Ky and Fourth Corps Commander Nguyen Van Thieu  --  are in this category . Two others arc in staff or administrative positions . and a compromise might eventually be evolved whereby portfolios are awarded only to generals in this second category . U.S. Optimistic The American Embassy here believes military participation in the new Cabinet will promote a mating of power with responsibility . An embassy spokesman described Tuesday 's move as " a positive and helpful step toward stable government and creation of military support for the government through participation of the military in the government . Military participation would include a measure of responsibility , obviously . " Vietnamese circles are disappointed that Premier litiong 's Cabinet has taken in only one of the several forces wielding political power  --  namely , the armed forces .                     