@@721998

txt Periodically educaEducation tional institutions , Under the Federal , State and Microscope City , are thoroughly surveyed  --  even when no political repercussions are involved . Sometimes the surveys deal with administrative practices , sometimes with pedagogic procedures . Veteran executives and supervisors , when eager questioners swoop down upon them , shrug their shoulders and inquire rhetorically , " What ! Another one ? " They manage , however , to do their prescribed work , whatever it may be . From past experience they know that such surveys ( whose value ranges from merely negligible to helpful ) are incorporated in formidable reports , later permitted to gather dust in forgotten archives . A comparatively High School modest " survey " inStudents volving only the 105-vs . TV member June graduating class of the Pearl River High School appeared not too long ago in a report and made a human-interest item in the newspapers . It purported to find out and evaluate the TV habits of good students and poor students as indicated in daily memoranda on programs they had been watching . These were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty minutes of watching " thrillers " and mystery shows ; the poorer students spent an equal amount of time on " The Untouchables " as a favorite , " Gunsmoke , " Westerns and televised baseball . The distinction is thin and the results inconclusive except for an astute observation made by the principal of the school , Walter Reiner . He commented , " The abler pupils are viewing with one eye on a newspaper or book and many girls watch while putting up their hair . " The conclusion to be The Trick of drawn , then , is that Marginal while groups Attention chose the kind of light TV entertainment they preferred ( with a little more accent on violence by the lower group ) the top students had somehow mastered the trick of marginal attention . They demonstrated an ability to read the prescribed assignment or do the assigned homework successfully while synchronizing these activities with television viewing . Some types of goad minds , like the multiple chess player who takes on a dozen or more opponents at the same time , can focus concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Readers will recall that while he was composing " Kubla ICnan " a man from Porlock interrupted him and the poem had to remain unfinished . Rostand 's Cyrano Cyrano de Bergerac , howComposes ever , in a part made as He Fights memorable by the acting of Coquelin and Richard Mansfield , during a duel with an opponent who had insulted him , composed and recited a complete ballade , concluding the Envoi with a triumphant thrust . This is an imaginative feat , but daily men with three or four telephones on their desks achieve near miracles of marginal attention . Evidently some minds at their best , without diminution of power , can , follow unrelated pursuits successfully or even focus keen attention on several objects or processes at the same time . Superior minds , When however , are not necAttention essarily infallible maLapses chines . Even capable mentalities among us have their off moments . Students , the best of them , under certain conditions are guilty of letting their minds wander during lectures . Scribe , in discussing the art of playwriting , stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought into the dialogue at least three times to make sure that the audience becomes aware of it . Men and women who work by day and must attend college courses at night have been known , when especially tired , to adjust their green eye shades , assume a listening position and fall asleep . If Morpheus does not prevail too often they pass their examinations and receive certificates or degrees like the others . It is heartening to remember this in the summertime  --  or any period of leisure ? when a relaxed attitude mentally and physically on one 's vacation is both a virtue and a necessity .                     