@@722093

txt Mayor Wagner set in motion a campaign yesterday for the election of two Liberal nominees for the Supreme Court . He said he was ready to stake his " political fate and future " to keep the " bosses " out of the courts . In urging the voters to shift to the Liberal line to vote for City Court Justice Emilio Nunez and Gustave Rosenberg , the Mayor said he recognized the risks . But he declared they were worth taking " because the purpose to be served is so great . " The Mayor chose a meeting of New York University law students as his forum for opening his campaign for the two Liberal candidates . One of the risks in his action is that it may reduce the victory chances of some of the Democratic candidates for the City Council if large , numbers of persons vote for the ; judges on the Liberal line ands do not return to the Democratic ? line . It is for this reason that the Committee for Democratic Voters , the central organization of the reform faction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The decision on whom to support is being left up to the reform clubs . One club , the East Harlem Reform Democrats in the Tenth Assembly District in Manhattan , uanimously endorsed Justice Nunez and Mr. Rosenberg at a meeting last night . Wagner Loses Fight Mayor Wagner waged a strong fight last month to win the Democratic nominations for Justice Nunez and Mr. Rosenberg , who is chairmair of the Board of Higher Education . The nominations , however , went to City Court Justice Nathaniel T. Heiman of the Bronx and Abraham Gellinoff , chairman of the Law Committee of the New York County Democratic Committee . Justice Heiman , a former State Senator , and Mr. Gellinoff had the support of Carmine G. De Sapio , former leader of the New York County Democrats , and Representative Charles A. Buckley . the Democratic leadot of the Bronx , at the judicial nominating convention . Several times in his speech to the law students , Mr. Wagner referred to the Liberal nominees as the " good government " candidates . He pointed out that in keeping with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' panel to recommend judicial candidates and that the two men he was supporting were on the list submitted by the panel . Two Alternatives Mayor Wagner said the action of the Democratic convention left him with the alternatives of supporting the recommendations of the Citizens ' panel on the Liberal line or being " regular . " " I chose the hard way , " he said . " Whatever the political Irisks and liabilities , I decided I would support and advocate the election of Nunez and Rosenberg on the Liberal line . I am doing so . This will be a test of the intelligence of the voters who will be asked in many cases Ito follow a broken-line pattern of voting . " Whatever the outcome of the judicial election , the Mayor said , ' the fight to erase political con trol of the courts " has just be-1 gun as far as I am concerned . " I " Even if my friends the reformc " s control the party organization , " he added , " the choice of judges should not be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We must raise the judiciary above machine politics . " Addressing 800 members of Local 155 of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union last night , Mayor Wagner again implied that Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz , his Republican opponent , had a hand in drafting the 1961 Rent Control Law . " This law , " he told the garment workers at Roosevelt Auditorium , 100 East Seventeenth Street , " came from the second floor and I am told that my Republican opponent was in on the drafting of that law . " The second floor is a reference to Governor Rockefeller 's office in the Capitol . 6,500 More ' On Beat ' The Mayor also ridiculed his opponent 's call for an increase of 6,000 members in the police force . He told the union members that he had put 6,500 more men " on the beat " and was increasing the force as rapidly as possible . " Do n't let anybody tell you that they are going to add 6,000 more policemen tomorrow just by waving a wand , " he said . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trained and it 's a long process . " Meanwhile , Mr. Lefkowitz came under attack from another source in a statement given out at Wagner headquarters . The Rev. Dr. Gardner Taylor , a former member of the Board of Education , aid he was " shocked and angered at Mr. Lefkowitz 's shameless threat to the new Board of Education in the matter of replacing the present Superintendent of Schools . " The G. 0 . P. candidate on Tuesday renewed an early demand that Dr. John .1 . Theobald. the superintendent , be dismissed . Dr. Taylor said Mr. Lefkowitz 's statement was a " wanton political invasion of the educational process . "                     