@@722581

txt Secretary of Labor Arthur J. Goldberg fears that a continued high level of unemployment will cause unions to go after a shorter work week in earnest . This is the main present danger in the industrial rela-tions field , the Secretary thinks . 1 An intensive drive by labor for shorter hours would mean more strikes and would cause economic difficulties , he believes . Mr. Goldberg senses a shift in labor 's mood about shorter hours in recent months . Formerly , calls by union leaders for cuts in the work week were /ritualistic , but lately these appeals have taken on an air of urgency . No one , Mr. Goldberg noted I in an interview , is asserting that it is onerous to work forty hours a week . The appeals are i based on the need to reduce unemployment , not to increase i free time . 1 Members Press Unions I 1 The Secretary thinks that un ' employment has been underi estimated as a factor in deter , mining the industrial relations II climate . Unions are under pressure from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . But , the Secretary said , the added costs of a shorter work week would create serious difficulties in maintaining stable prices . Thus he repeated a theme he has voiced from a number of platforms of union conventions . " This points up the absolute necessity of bringing unemployment down to minimum levels if we are to have stability in labor relations and are to produce goods that are competitive abroad , " Mr. Goldberg said . To cut unemployment , which was 5.3 per cent of the work force in July , Mr. Goldberg favors some specific measures such as area redevelopment and retraining programs . He also favors more general remedies such as a permanent tax cut , investment incentives and other steps to stimulate increased economic demand . Goldberg believes that the general climate of Indus , trial relations in the country'is good , but that there are portant Industries in which the collective bargaining machinery sorely needs overhauling . These Mr. Goldberg identified as construction ; maritime , airlines and railroads . Mr. ' Goldberg said that new forms of collective bargaining had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should riot be ? governMent forms . The kind of models he has in mind , Mr. Goldberg said , are the union-management committees to studyjoint-problems set up in the steel industry after the strike in 1959 and the longstanding use of impartial third parties to resolve disputes in the garment industry . " We should encourage the parties to use their own procedures , " Mr. Goldberg said . " If those do n't work , they should be encouraged to bring in impartial third parties . " Thus in the construction industry it might be possible to broaden and adapt to the negotiation of labor contracts procedures already established to deal with disputes over work jurisdiction , Mr. Goldberg suggested . The industrial relations problems of the transportation industry are difficult , the Secretary said , because they involve both jurisdictional arguments and manning controversies provoked by technological change . The core of the airlines ' labor controversy has been a dispute between two unions as to which should have jurisdiction over the third seat in the jet cockpit once crews are cut from four men to three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this issue . He has achieved a settlement on Trans World Airlines and agreement on a settlement procedure on Pan American World Airways . His efforts to end a flight enigneers ' strike against Eastern Air Lines , which began on June 23 , have so far been unsuccessful . The principal problem on the railroads is a reduction in manpower requirements being pressed by the carriers and resisted by the unions . Favors New Machinery An initial step to overhaul the collective bargaining system in this industry , Mr : Goldberg said , might be to try to recreate the attitude that existed on born sides in 1926 when they worked out the provisions of the Railway Labor Act , which then was passed by Congress . j In the maritime industry , I where labor relations have been exacerbated by a. continuous jurisdictional war between unions and by controversies over manpower requirements , Mr. Goldberg thinks the key is the creation of machinery to ' bridge the conflict between the unions . Significantly , Mr. Goldberg is not prone to see final solutions in new laws . He thinks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with labor disputes that create emergencies . But the principal changes he would promote are those to be worked out by labor and management by collective bargaining . Mr. Goldberg has been involved to a greater or lesser degree in trying to help resolve thirty-one labor disputes since Ihe gave up his job as general counsel for the United Steelworkers of America to become I Labor Secretary eighteen ' months ago . One of the main reasons he has been so often involved , Mr. Goldberg said , is so that President Kennedy will not have to be . " A President is too busy and should not be burdened with these matters , " Mr. Goldberg said . " Nor should he risk his prestige too often by intervening . He should use his prestige sparingly , reserving it for the critical situations . " Mr. Goldberg regards the ' peaceful , early and noninflationary settlement last spring between the steel industry and the United Steelworkers of America as " a major achievement of this Administration . " The " second guessers " who be= llittle the importance of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a break-off in negotiations , " Mr. Goldberg said . " Those of us who are experienced in steel know that 's an ominous sign , " he said . " In the absence of quick movement there would have been a buildup of propaganda . " If the company had dug in at 4 or 5 cents , which was an impossible settlement for the union , the situation could very well have drifted into a strike . And at the point the break-off occurred , the company was convinced that the union was n't going to settle for less than 15 or 16 cents , which the company regarded as completely unreasonable . "                     