@@726309

txt A three-year contract between Chicago area trucking companies and 10 teamster union locals was agreed upon last night , The smaller independent union did not agree on the terms , but its director indicated members may return to work during further talks . The contract , which covers 49,000 drivers represented by the teamster locals , calls for an increase of 75 cents an hour in wage and fringe benefits over the three-year period . The national trucking industry and international teamster union also agreed last night to bring their April 12 contract in line wit h the new Chicago area contract . This means the 430,000 truckers under the national contract will also receive a 75 cent-an hour , three-year contract instead of the 60 cents agreed upon last month . Fenner Holding Out Hdwever , the new contract will not be signed by the independent Chicago Truck Drivers unio n , representing 11,000 drivers . Edward Fenner , executive director of the independent group , told THE TRIBUNE that lie has no objections to drivers from his union returning to work while negotiations con-Untie but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he likes some parts of it but not others . He said lie would like to see another 8 or 9 cents added to the 75-cent package and that he especially would like to see an improvement in the vacation pay offer . Local teamster union officials said their members would be expected to be back on the job by 12:01 a. m. tomorrow . Local company officials said it might not be possible to get back into operation by tomorrow but they would endeavor to do so . Estimate 300 Million Loss The 12-day lockout-strike had strangled truck shipments in the Chicago area and forced many industries to shut down or severely . restrict their operations . The Chicago Association of Commerce estimated the economic loss to the area at 300 million dollars , including 60 millions hi wages and 240 millions in sales and other income . Louis Peick , chief negotiator for the 10 Chicago area teamster locals , called the new contract " the best deal we have ever had . " His view was echoed by Frank Fitzsimmons , acting president of the International teamsters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urge the membership of their locals to ratify the contract . Fitzsimmons said he would ask for a ratification vote by mail . It was not announced when the voting will be held . Negotiators for the Chicago area and the national trucking groups said they will meet today with their member companies to seek approval of the contract . THE TRIBUNE in its late editions yesterday , had exclusively reported that a new contract would be signed during the day , that it would be close to 75 cents an hour over three years , and that the national contract would be brought in line with the Chicago area contract . These are the details of the new contract : The drivers will receive an increase of 55 cents an hour in wages over the three years and 20 cents an hour in health and welfare , pension , cost of living , paid holidays , and vacation fringe benefits . The wage increase will be 25 cents an hour the first year , 15 cents an hour the second year , and 15 cents the third year . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $6 a week in each of the two remaining years , or , $22 a week in wage increases over the three-year period . One International Teamster union official estimated an over-the-road driver will receive a basic $2,000 annuall wage increase over the threes years . O. K. Vacation Plan As to fringe benefit improvements , the new contract calls for an increase in paid holidays from six to seven and the health-welfare and an increase from $15 to $18 a week m pension payments . The vacation question , which was one of the major stumbling blocks in reaching a new agreement , was worked out so that drivers will receive vacation pay based on an average work week of 45 hours straight pay , The drivers were getting vacation pay based on a 40-hour straight pay work week . In addition to the 49,000 drivers represented by the 10 local teamster unions under the Chicago area contract , there are 15,000 other Chicago area drivers under the national contract who belong to local 710 , headed by William Joyce . Meet for 6 Hours The Chicago area contract was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiators in the Conrad Hilton hotel yesterday . At the same time , the national trucking association and International Teamster negotiators amended their contract to come in line with the Chicago contract in talks in the Pick-Congress hotel . Fitzsimmons and Ray Schoessling , the chief Chicago area International Teamster official , then went to the Edgewater Beach hotel . There they told 500 International delegates the terms of the Chicago area agreement and that the same terms were being offered by the national truckers for the drivers under the national contract . The delegates then voted approval of the new contract , increasing wage and fringe benefits for their members from 60 to 75 cents an hour over the three years .                     