@@722799

txt CASTRO DEMANDS INSPECTION IN U.S. Asks Dismantling of Exiles ' Bases  --  Rejection of Plan Indicated in Washington By United Press International HAVANA , Nov. 26 ? Cuba said today she would permit United Nations investigators to verify the removal of Soviet missiles from Cuba if the United States would agree to United Nations supervision of the ( usmantling of what she termed anti-Castro training bases on United States soil . The demand , disclosed by the Government press , was believed to have been prepared for presentation to the United Nations through Anastas I. Mikoyan , a Soviet First Deputy Premier . Mr. Mikoyan was sent ' to Cuba to resolve Soviet- , Cuban differences . The United States indicated it would reject the Cuban proposal . Mr. Mikoyan received a farewell from virtually every top man in the Cuban hierarchy as he left for New York today . Premier Fidel . Castro , Armed Forces Minister Raul Castro , President Osvaldo DorticOs Torrado , Foreign Minister Raul Roa and most Cabinet members exchanged embraces with the Soviet official as he ended his 24-day stay . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed in the Government newspaper Revolucion and broadcast by the Havana radio , Cuba said she // would agree to on-site inspection by the United Nations if the United States would agree to United Nations supervision of the dismantling of " training camps of mercenaries , spies , saboteurs and . terrorists " alleged to be . on United States soil . The effect of the declaration was to reject the long-standing United States demand that the United Nations verify that Soviet offensive missiles and bombers have been removed from Cuban soil ; as pledged by Premier Khrushchev . The statement declared also that Cuba " reserves the right to acquire arms of any type for its defense and to take steps it deems pertinent to strengthening its security . " In effect , this statement was a reply to President Kennedy 's assertion at a news conference last week that " no lasting safeguards " had been established against the ? reintroduction of offensive weapons in Cuba .. The new Cuban challenge said : " The United Nations must verify , on the continental soil of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Cuba , the dismantling of training camps of mercenaries , spies , saboteurs and terrorists ; centers where subversion is being prepared and bases from which pirate ships embark against our coasts . " The communique also reiterated Premier Castro 's five-point ; " minimum conditions " for a ' settlement of the Cuban crisis . These are : abandonment of the United States Naval Basel at Guantanamo ; cessation of ! " pirate attacks " on Cuba ; ces-I sation of " subversive " activities ; halting of an economic ! blockade , and cessation of the violation of Cuban airspace and ' waters . The communique was signed by Premier Castro and President Osvaldo Torrado Dorticos . U.S. Indicates Rejection Special to The New York Times WASHINGTON , Nov. 26  - -  - 1The United States indicated today that it would not allow international inspection of areas in this country and in the Caribbean in exchange for verification of the former Cuban missiles sites . Commenting on the Cuban proposal , Lincoln White , State Department press officer , said the statement was " an attempt to avoid adequate international arrangements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ** a base for offensive weapons . " " If the Cuban Government is sincerely anxious about its own security and is determined to live at peace with ite neighbors , we can think of no better method of allaying its fears ' than the presence in Cuba of representatives of the United Nations , " Mr. White said , The view here , largely reinforced by the tone of Mr. Mikhoyan 's farewell speech in Havana last night , is that Moscow is pushing the Castro regime into a conciliatory line toward the United States although it has been unable to budge the Cuban leader from his opposition on inspection . It was thus noted here that the Cuban Government 's declaration today omitted the threats , repeated all last week , that United States patrol aircraft would be shot down .  - -   - -  - Peking Sees Cuba Victor Sperial to The New York Times HONG KONG , Nov. 26 -- A Chinese Communist newspaper asserted today that the Cuban crisis had ended in victory for the Cuban people despite the withdrawal of Soviet missiles and bombers . " United States imperialism is beside itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has claimed that it is no longer a ' paper tiger , ' " the Peking newspaper Ta Kung Pao declared in an editorial that was transmitted abroad by Hsinhua , the Chinese Communist press agency . " But this , in fact , is vain and deceptive talk by United States imperialism and its lackeys . The facts show that in the test of strength over the last month it is by no means imperialism but the fearless Cuban people who have won victory . "                     