@@725886

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 26 ? The President 's chief economic adviser said today that the Government should not attempt to reduce unemployment below its current level by its tax and spending policies . The cost in inflation of such an effort would be too high , Gardner Ackley , chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , said . With his statement , Mr. Ackley , in effect , moved over to the enemy camp . Mr. Ackley 's shift means that there is no one left in the high economic policy councils of Government who advocates Government action to increase total demand as the solution to remaining unemployment problems . Labor groups and possibly // Negro groups may object , however , to any abandonment of the policy , of reducing unemployment by keeping the economy growing rapidly through Government action . Mr. Ackley 's switch will not signal any abrupt change in Federal policies that have recently aimed at making the economy grow faster . But there apparently will no longer be any important voice raised within the Government for even mildly stimulative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Council of Economic Advisers has held ? in opposition to the views of such diverse agencies as the Labor Department and the Federal Reserve Board  --  that the primary cure for unemployment was broad governmental measures to increase total demand in the economy . That meant tax reductions and expenditure increases . And the council 's view has essentially prevailed , in terms of Government policies adopted . Now , however , Mr. Ackley believes that conditions have changed , and he associated himself with those who believe that the only sound way to cut unemployment below the present rate of just under 4 per cent is to . attack what are known as " structural " problems of the work force , such as lack of education and race discrimination . Mr. ? Ackley explained the change in his views in delivering the Vandeveer Memorial Lecture ture at Southern Illinois ' University at Carbondale . His office made the text of his remarks available here . He made clear his belief that tax reductions and Government expenditure increases had been right policies to deal with the level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such steps would not work or would work I only at the cost of inflation during the 1961- ' 65-period " were wrong , " Mr. ' Ackley said . They mace Is number of miscalculations , he argued , such as overestimating the impact of automation ana underestimating the mobility of workers . These , among other errors , he said , led them to the erroneous conclusion that the only solution to unemployment was upgrading the skills of the labor force , and that simply making the economy grow faster , through Government fiscal action , would not work . Those who adhered to this view forgot , he said , that employers insist on overly qualified people when there is an abundance of labor , thus leaving the less qualified unemployed , but not necessarily permanently so . They also forgot that the work force steadily becomes more skilled in the natural course of events , and that it is always the less skilled who are . laid off during recessions . It would still be possible to reduce the unemployment , even now , through Government policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But it would now be at a substantial cost in terms of inflationary pressures , " he said . " When there is an inadequate supply of workers with particular skills and in particular places , both employers and workers can and do adjust " through employer job training programs and in other ways . " But such adjustments become Increasingly costly the further they are pushed , " he said . " Rather than make the most costly of these adjustments , employers will raise what they are willing to pay for a worker who already meets their preferred specifications . " These increases will lead to other wage increases and to price increases , Mr. Ackley said . However , he added that the largest price increases that have occurred so far have been " in areas where skill shortages play a relatively minor role , if any . " For the 3-million workers still unemployed , the solution is better education , improved health , improved information on job vacancies and a specific effort ' to train workers in skills that are in short supply , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Government 's wage-price guideposts , for non-inflationary behavior on the part of labor and manage-1 ment . He noted that there has been ' " an increasing number of increasingly serious violations " of the guideposts . The guideposts hold that wages may be increased as much as the average annual gain in productivity of workers and that prices should not be changed if an industry has enjoyed productivity advances at least equal to the national average . The productivity figure has been officially set at 3.2 per cent in recent years , although officials have recently disclosed that the real five-year average gain has been 3.7 percent . Mr. Ackley observed that " some say the guideposts are dead and should be buried . " " I disagree , " he said . " Moreover , I am convinced that the educational effort involved in the ' guideposts has already had some significant payoff in more restrained wage and price behavior. "                     