@@723024

txt London The Australian Government has strongly criticized the Australian Labor Party 's " reluctant support " of the proposed United States Polaris submarine communication center to be located in northwest Australia . By a very narrow majority of 19 to 17 votes an ALP special policymaking conference , which ALP parliamentary leader Arthur A. Calwell was not permitted to attend or cast a vote in , approved location of the United States base in Australia . In approving it , however , it attached conditions which virtually would place the base under Australian Government control , and these restrictive conditions will bind any future Labor , government unless rescinded in the meantime . Condition Stipulated One such policy condition states : " In the event of the United States being at war , or threatened with war by another power , Australian territory and Australian facilities must not be used in any way that would involve Australia without the prior knowledge and consent of the Australian Government . " In strongly criticizing this Sir Robert Menzies said it was " made up of the most dangerous ambiguities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of these facilities for the United States will become of crucial importance if they become involved in hostilities in this part of the world . " ( Actually the communications base will control Polaris submarines in waters pearly halfway round the world from Africa to Canada . ) ALP policymakers had now decided that in an emergency the United States could not use its Australian communications base without the concurrence of the Australian Government of the day , said Sir Robert . " It will be seen that this is a most dangerous and frustrating condition . What it means is that if the United States , which is , I repeat , our ally and a most powerful friend , becomes involved in hostilities with some common enemy , and the Australian Government is disposed to isolate itself under the cloak of neutrality , a direct blow will be struck against the United States and against its effective conduct of naval warfare , " he said . 1Labor Party Outlook Opposition within the Labor Party policymaking conference to this United States base in Australia apparently came from leftists with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the base would have been completely banned under the Labor Party 's policy , but as this would have been offensive to the majority of Australians , an attempt seems to have been made to ruin the value of the base to the United States by approving its establishment under impossibly restrictive conditions . As things now stand , this form of approval may have damaged the , Labor Party 's hope of winning the next general elections . The Democratic Labor Party which worked against the ALP in the last elections declared : " The political future of the Labor Party now depends on the degree to which Mr. Calwell , who almost alone has tried to match the temper of the times , can reassert his leadership and work to undo the unhappy impression which the conference has left with the electorate . "                     