@@726395

txt The Government announced today that it would ask the people of Gibraltar to declare whether they want to remain associated with Britain or become part of Spain . A plebiscite will be held in September . It will be a vital move in Britain 's continuing diplomatic struggle with Spain over the future of the Rock . Mrs. Judith Hart , Minister of State for Commonwealth Affairs , announced the surprise move to the House of Commons today . It brought cheers from those taking it as a symbol of the Government 's determination to stand up against Spanish pressure for alsorption of Gibraltar . Britain has every expectation that the Gibraltarians will vote for continued association . // Politicians of all parties in Gibraltar have repeatedly said that they do not want to become a part of Spain . The tactical point of the plebiscite will be to answer complaints in the United Nations , pressed by Spain , that Gibraltar is an example of " colonialism . " Mrs. Hart said today that decolonization could not consist in the transfer of a people , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule of another country . " We therefore think that the next step in pursuance of the U.N . resolution should be to give the people of Gibraltar an opportunity to express their views , by a formal and deliberate act , on what would best serve their interests , " she added . She referred to a resolution adopted by the General Assembly last Dec. 20 asking Britain to expedite the end of colonial rule in Gibraltar . Britain was instructed to act in consultation with Spain , Since then Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's Government has brought a series of economic and diplomatic pressures on Britain to renegotiate the political status of Gibraltar . The latest and most important move was the declaration by Spain of a prohibited air zone around Gibraltar that puts difficulties in the way of flights to and from the territory 's single airstrip . Alternatives Are Offered Mrs. Hart said that the people of Gibraltar would be asked in the plebiscite which of two alternatives would best serve their interest . One would be to pass under Spanish sovereignty in accordance with the proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , voluntary , to retain the people 's link with Britain together with democratic local institutions . " If the majority of the people vote in favor of the first alternative , " Mrs. Hart said , " the Government will be ready to enter into negotiations with the Spanish Government accordingly . " If the majority of the people vote in favor of the second , the Government will regard this choice as constituting , in the circumstances of Gibraltar , a free and voluntary relationship of the people of Gibraltar with Britain . " But she said that a vote to retain the link with Britain would not be forever binding . She declared that in the future the Gibraltarians would again have an opportunity to choose to join Spain and that Britain would respect that later choice . Observers to be Invited The Government made clear that it wanted to impress the world with the impartiality of the plebiscite . The proposal will be described to Secretary General Thant of the United Nations and he will be invited to send an observer . Spain also will be asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Franco Government to take up that invitation . The deputy Conservative leader , Reginald Maudling , challenged Mrs. Hart to say what practical steps Britain was taking to deal with Spain 's economic pressure on Gibraltar , especially the question of flying rights . She said that there had " in practice been little or no interference with the traveling of passengers and tourists to Gibraltar in spite of the restrictions . " She noted that Britain was giving considerable economic aid to the territory . Gibraltar was captured by the English in 1704 in the War of the Spanish Succession . It became a British colony in 1713 under the Treaty of Utrecht . Gibraltar 's present locally elected Chief Minister is Sir Joshua Hassan .                     