@@725388

txt President de Gaulle 's decision to defect from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 's integrated ' command raises a tangle of political and military problems , centering on the Gordian knot of Germany . Legally the French President can not change the status of French forces stationed in West Germany except through consultation with the United States , Britain , and the Federal Republic . These three powers together with France signed agreements in 1952 and 1954 sanctioning the stationing of Allied troops on West German soil . These documents ended the postwar occupation of West Germany , except for Berlin , and introduced new arrangements linked with NATO . It is this whole web of agreements which General de Gaulle will disrupt by removing German-based French units from NATO command . . The impression received from Paris that France would need to negotiate only with the Federal Republic is denied here by German and Allied legal experts . French stay urged A legal brief prepared by the West German Government implies , without saying so directly , that France legally is bound to deal with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concede , however , that General de Gaulle is unlikely to do so . The important thing , one official declared , is that French troops remain in Germany . Otherwise , he asked , who would replace them ? For the Federal Republic to raise two new divisions would be costly and would require broad Allied agreement . Seen in this light , the official remarked , one could expect that a French-German agreement might be worked out to which the United States and Britain would not object . French forces in Germany comprise two Army divisions totaling 60,000 to 70,000 men and a number of Air Force squadrons . The 3,500-man French garrison in Berlin is not affected for West Berlin still operates under Allied occupation . Military sources say the two French divisions are under strength and have not been // *De Gaulle NATO move stirs German problems // modernized since the end of the Algerian war . They are held to be less combat ready than American , British , and West German troops in the Federal Republic . Legal problems apart , General de Gaulle 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces in Western Europe . So far , Bonn 's 12 divisions and its 1,000-plane Air Force are locked within a NATO framework . All West German forces except territorial defense units ( 28,000 men ) are assigned to NATO . To small members of the alliance  --  Norway , Denmark , the Netherlands , and others ? this " solution " of the German problem is vital . It seems the best guarantee against a resurgent national German army . By withdrawing French forces , President de Gaulle weakens this integrated concept . He can not by himself destroy it , but this action gives a precedent to any other members who might wish to withdraw . The natural inclination of NATO 's smaller powers as seen here will be to cling more tightly to what is left of integration to keep Germany within an international framework . ' The West German Government appears to believe in integration . German defense experts agree this nation 's best prospects for security lie in close alliance with the United States through NATO . But already some Germans ? notably former Chancellor Konrad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calling for revision of NATO . Dr. Adenauer does not specify what changes he would like . Dr. Strauss calls for the creation of separate but allied American and European commands . West Germany would play an important role in the latter . Dr. Strauss presents his plan from a positive point of view . Europeans , he says , including Germans , should do more for their own defense , thus releasing American forces to fight in Vietnam . German control watched Some sources , without doubting the good intentions of Dr. Strauss , see a possible danger in his solution . A European force , which would include a nuclear arm , would be more subject to future German domination than is NATO . Diplomats here believe President de Gaulle does not intend to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty but simply from its military commands . This might mean the retention in Paris of the political headquarters of the alliance centering on the North Atlantic Council . The council Is the top authority of the alliance to which the Supreme Commander Allied Powers Europe  --  American Gen. Lyman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 members is represented on the council by an ambassador . Twice yearly the council is elevated to ministerial rank . Will France be allowed to retain the benefits of treaty membership without discharging French obligations ? Specifically , one high Allied source questioned , will France still be covered by Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty ? Air umbrella remains This article specifies that " an armed attack against one or more members in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all . " Whatever the legalities , one diplomat remarked , France in fact still will be covered by the NATO umbrella . For one thing , the French apparently hope to continue participating in NATO 's coordinated air-defense system . Diplomats concede they can not prevent the French leader from pulling his soldiers out of NATO and forcing Allied troops out of France , But NATO members will seek to convince Frenchmen that their nation is being isolated by General de Gaulle . There has been a swift hardening of President de Gaulle 's position since his press conference of Feb. 21 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " April 4 , 1969 . " Now he has drastically stepped up his timetable . French policy consists of two parts . General de Gaulle wants to place under French command all Allied forces on French soil . This involves only the United States and Canada . Both governments have indicated they will withdraw their forces from Francs awkward and costly though this would be , rather than submit their units to French command . President de Gaulle 's second aim is to withdraw remaining French forces from NATO . This involves only the two divisions and Air Force units stationed in Germany , All other French forces long ago were re . moved from NATO command .                     