@@724587

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. 22 ? Government officials are at the end of their patience . They said over the weekend that they are tired of having Embassies wrecked around the world and will retaliate if it keeps up . The instrument of retaliation will be an exciting new cold war weapon already undergoing secret tests in Nevada . It is called the Disposable Embassy . As the name implies , the Disposable Embassy is designed to be thrown away . It is in the great tradition of the obsolescent car , the zip-top beer can and the throwaway plate and would , therefore , be a fitting symbol of modern American life in the foreign capitals where it would be installed . New Embassy for Old Every American mission abroad would be kept liberally supplied with the things . Immediately after each stoning , looting or burning , the used Embassy would be put in the trash and a fresh one installed in its place . Practical advantages : no more nuisances about repairs , no more tiresome demands for restitution . The design under test in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as effortlessly as the average Christmas toy . The first test model was 100 per cent plastic , but this proved unsatisfactory in riot tests . Satisfying the Rioters Rioters who volunteered for the tests complained that the building fell to pieces or melted away before they could generate any real enthusiasm for demolishing it . To provide a more satisfying sense of destruction , the engineers have built in cheap glass windows which give a rewarding tinkle when smashed and added quantities of old newspapers and rags to gratify the student rioter 's normal yearning for a bout of arson . Psychologists , who were deeply involved in the project , explain that an Embassy which goes flaccidly to pieces under the first matchstick or brick has the same deficiency as a pillow when it comes to gratifying the urge for violence . It simply does n't offer enough resistance to a man whose glands are in turmoil . It leaves rioters feeling frustrated and unfulfilled . In this state of mind , they may easily turn away from the American Embassy and wreck something else ? perhaps the student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department man explained , " This would be intolerable . It would infuriate the host government , which would accuse us of meddling in their internal affairs . " The question was how to build into the Disposable Embassy enough destructive satisfaction to leave a typical Indonesian or Hungarian rioter feeling that he had really done a good day 's work against the United States . This ticklish problem was solved with matchless American ingenuity . The third-floor windows , for example , are equipped with clever spring devices which , upon being struck by bricks , eject plasticene effigies of Dean Rusk , Carl Rowan and Robert S. , all suitable for easy hanging . Edible Flag At the first cry of " imperialist swine ! " the Embassy front door opens automatically and fouls I life-size , hard-rubber , batterypowered mannequins dressed like American correspondents emerge on wheels for stoning . For the more primitive cowl. tries , whose rioters may want to vent spleen by eating a flag , styrene file cabinets will contain a few frozen spun-candy replicas of Old Glory on dry ice with printed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( The Government does n't want any damage suits . Bad image . ) Many people here feel that the Disposable Embassy is too brutal a weapon to be used without warning . The Embassywrecking powers will never forgive us , these men argue , if we callously take all the meaning out of a good Embassy bash . If we do that , they believe , nobody will ever love us.                     