@@728225

txt The World Comparison of U.S. and Soviet Nuclear Weapons Systems ? . esysngemxgg -- -tiemegatC ft. , ? ? Sc  --  i , Intercontinental Bombers U.S. 536 Soviet 150 Land-Based Missiles U.S. 1,054 Soviet 1.350 .1 . ? ? ? ? Submarine-Based Missiles U.S. 656 Soviet 205 Arms 1 : It Will Take More Than Toasts At Helsinki HELSINKI , Finland  --  For what J. Robert Oppenheimer once described as " two scorpions in a bottle , " the two superpowers were being remarkably affable last week as they set about hopefully to take some of the sting out of their nuclear arsenals . In the first week of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks ( SALT ) , the United States and the Soviet Union succeeded in establishing a new ratio in distarmament  --  five hours of drinking to three and a half hours of formal discussions . In what are expected to be long and difficult negotiations , it probably was not a bad ratio , for 90 proof bourbon and vodka now may help ease some of the problems of proof and verification that will arise later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the convivial ratio also tells much about the initial Soviet attitude to the SALT talks , Neither side obviously came , for partying , but the willingness of the Soviet delegation to clink glasses seems to reflect a cooperative attitude toward the most serious , complicated . disarmament negotiations of modern times . It was . a striking contrast to the mood 11 years ago when the two sides sat down in Geneva to their first serious arms control discussions on how to stop atomic testing . Then the two sides were mutually suspicious , and Semyon Tsarapkin set the tone for the Soviet side with a gruffness that soon won him the nickname of " Old Scratchy . " It was not until the first technical conference was successfully concluded that the two sides got around to drinking together ? and then under the most formal , stiff circumstances . Now Vladimir S. Semyonov , a deputy Foreign Minister who heads the Soviet delegation , is winning the title among reporters of " Old Smiley . " From the moment that champagne was supplied by the Finnish Government at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smile . Probably the high point in conviviality came ' when the American and Soviet Ambassadors  --  in what must be something of a precedent in peaceful coexistence ? jointly rented a leading night club to throw a private party against a backdrop of red brocade for the two delegations . Like college mixers , the parties are serving a useful purpose in establishing a personal acquaintance and rapport between members of the two delegations . The two sides tend to pair off at parties by rank and interests . Mr. Semyonov , for example , naturally gravitates to Gerard C. Smith , the head of the American delegation , who normally wears a bulldog grimace befitting the wealthy Yaie alumnus that he is . Mr. Semyonov is taking a cooperative , matter-of-fact line in his public statements , remarkably free from the polemics and propagandistic proposals that have beclouded past disarmament discussions . Indeed , in the opening Soviet and American statements there was remarkable similarity in language , with both sides emphasizing the preliminary nature of the opening round and stressing the objective of a limitation , followed perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security interests of each country . It was an encouraging start since at this point and even later the semantics can be as important as the technical details . Back in Moscow there were grumblings in the Soviet press about how the " military-industrial complex " in the United States was threVening to impede an arms agreement . One suspects that the grumblings are a mirror image of civilianmilitary differences in Russia . In explaining Russia 's seriousness in the negotiations , Soviet representatives are emphasizing the rising necessity to reallocate resources from military to domestic needs and hinting that the arms talks can provide a watershed in turning Soviet policy in the direction wanted by civilian leaders . In their apparent eagerness for some agreement , the Soviet representatives already are beginning to raise questions about " spheres of trade " such as destruction of Soviet mobile landbased missiles in return for decommissioning of a comparable number of Polaris missile submarines by the United States . That may be going a little too far , too fast for the Nixon Administration , which from all indications at this point is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not reducing them . When the two sides get down to specifics , the cooperative Soviet attitude undoubtedly will change to a tough bargaining stance . But one suspects the reservations may come as much from the American as from the Soviet side . In giving the American delegation a noncommital , strictly exploratory mandate for the opening round , the White House has papered over differences between the Pentagon and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the State Department over how far the United States should go in an arms limitation agreement . If there is a favorable Soviet response in the opening round , such as to the idea of a moratorium on testing of multiple missile warheads , then the White House is going to be confronted with some tough divisive policy decision on disarmament that it has avoided thus far . To that extent , the Soviet Union , by its cooperative , convivial attitude in the opening round , may have taken the initiative in pressing the issue of disarmament upon the United States . ? 70FEsi W. FINNEY      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      