@@726052

txt SAIGON , South Vietnam , Jan. ** forces have mounted the largest combat operation of the war in an effort to disrupt the organi7atinn that direets insnrsent activities in the Saigon area , military spokesmen said tonight . While conducting the operation , code - named Cedar Falls , the allies also hope . to deprive the Vietcong of one of their oldest and most utilized sanctuaries . Military officers said they expected that during the operation up to 10,000 South Vietnamese peasants would be moved into refugee centers in Government-controlled areas . The battle area is 60 square miles of jungle about 25 miles northwest of Saigon . It in // cludes the Thanhdien Forest reserve . Troops began moving into position Sunday.morning and by this evening more than 15,500 ringed the oblong patch of jungle nearly 10 miles in length . Twenty-five infantry battalions , six of them South Vietnamese , and 30 artillery batteries , with about 150 howitzers , were directly committed to the engagement along with countless thousands of support troops . A battalion may have between 400 and 600 men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied operation , 17 battalions were committed , including support troops . American military officers estimated the total Attleboro force at about 20,000 men . That operation churned along for six weeks in the jungles 65 to 70 miles northwest of Saigon and the allies reported having killed 1,106 enemy soldiers . The men directing the new ' operation do not expect to kill nearly as many enemy soldiers . Their primary target areas are the Thanhdien Forest Reserve and what the Americans call the Iron Triangle , because of the difficulty in penetrating it . The southern tip of the triangle is only 10 miles northwest of Saigon . The spokesman reported tonight that 115 Vietcong had been killed and 28 captured , with 230 suspects detained , since the operation began . The total was higher than some officers had anticipated . " There are probably no more than 100 there all the time , " one American intelligence officer said last night of the Vietcong in the Iron Triangle . " There have been reports right along , " the officer said , " that the people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure is in the Iron Triangle , have been planning to increase the terror and attacks in Saigon . These are the people we want to get at . There are n't many of them , but they 're important . " The Vietcong have used the Iron Triangle as a rest camp for more than 20 years , steadfastly resisting attempts by forign troops to pry them out . The last large-scale United States venture into the area was carried out by troops of the 173d Airborne Brigade in OctoIber , 1965 . I That brigade is also a part of the allied force now searching the Iron Triangle . Elements of the 173d , the 25th Infantry Division and the 196th Light Infantry Brigade , along with South Vietnamese troops , are positioned at the west , south and east sides of the battle area , set to block the escape of enemy troops pushed through the jungle by battalions of the First Infantry Division . In a three-day operation that ended Sunday , 50 bulldozers leveled the 370-acre Caudinh Forest at the southeastern edge of the Iron Triangle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said one American officer . " They wo n't now . " Most of the fighting troops joined the operation yesterday . The bulk of them , under the command of Maj. Gen. William E DePuy , commander of the First Infantry Division , scrambled out of the helicopters precisely on schedule all morning . Before the 60 helicopters carrying each battalion eased into the grassy landing zones , tons of high-explosive artillery shells and bombs dropped by jets battered the area . The battalions landed in an arc at the top of the T:lanhdien Forest and the bombardments moved ahead of each of them . " It 's like a Cecil B. DeMille production , " said one observer . " General DePuy does things big . " B-52 's Strike 10 Times In the first three days of the operation , 276 fighter-bombers flew attack missions and by today ** had hammered the battle area 10 times . Other actions reported by military spoksernen included the following : United States pilots flew 60 strike and reconnaissance missions over North Vietnam yesterday , primarily in the southern panhandle region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed 17 enemy soldiers in scattered fighting yesterday about 30 miles northeast of Saigon . On the coastal plain 340 miles northeast of Saigon , South , Vietnamese troops killed 45 enemy soldiers while repulsing two enemy attacks . In one attack , a Government company of about 120 men suffered moderate casualties . U. S. Lists Vietnam Dead WASHINGTON , Jan. 10 ( UPI ) ? The Defense Department today identified 22 United States servicemen who have been killed in action in Vietnam . Among them was Specialist 4 Paul A. Benkert , an Army man from Saugerties , N. Y. Among four servicemen listed as dead from causes not due to hostile action was Pfc . Robert W. Barton Jr. , an Army man from Unadilla ,                     