@@725409

txt Premier Fidel Castro indicated today that a Cuban break in relations with Communist China was imminent . In a dramatic four-and-a-halfhour speech that appeared to augur greater international isolation for Cup and ? to foreshadow an internal purge , Mr. Castro charged that China was trying to provoke a rupture and said he was ready for it . In evident allusion to the Peking regime , he said revolutionary leadership should not remain past the point of " senility . " He added : " Some day the Chinese will rid themselves of their rulers . " Only then , he indicated , will it be possible for Cuba and China to have friendly relations . Vice President Humphrey made a similar point yesterday in saying that an easing of United States relations with China might be possible only after the passing of the current aging leadership . Mr. Castro , foreshadowing a repetition of the process that led to the breaking . of relations with the . United States in 1961 , said he would ask the Chinese to reduce the size of their embassy staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IASTRO ' 011ARGES CHINA SEEKS RIFT ; ontinued From Page 1 , Col 4 ing to remove valuables from Cuba under diplomatic cover . Cuba 's quarrel with China ame into the open earlier this rear when Mr. Castro said the 3hinese had cut shipments of ice to Cuba and charged that ; he Chinese Embassy was tryng to subvert the Cuban Army . Soft Living Denounced The Premier 's speech , delivered at Havana University , confirmed that a purge of Cuban ) fficials was under way . Mr. Castro denounced what he described as vice and corruption among 50 officials . Some of them will be jailed , he said , and others will be drafted into the army or sent to rehabilitation camps . He said there was too much soft living among many who had served the revolution in the past . Mr. Castro linked his disclosure of corruption to the recent trial of Maj. Rolando Cubelas , a revolutionary leader and a former president of the University Student Federation . Major Cubelas and four other men were convicted of having participated in a Central Intelligence Agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial was that Major Cubelas had been led astray by drink , drugs and other vices into becoming easy prey for the enemies of the Revolution . The evidence offered by the trial and by Mr. Castro 's speech suggests that a relatively liberal and cosmopolitan group of officials , hitherto tolerated by Mr. Castro , is being removed from positions of responsibility . These officials , young men of middle-class background who are not even token Communists , occupy posts in the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Trade . Mr. Castro said European embassies were centers of con ruption . He specifically men . tioned a French Embassy offi. cial who supposedly told anti . revolutionary jokes at his par . ties , and accused Spanish busi ? nessmen of lavishing beautiful actresses on a visiting Cuban trade mission .                     