@@722777

txt Two Republican leaders charged yesterday that wholesale election frauds existed Nov. 6 thru the collusion of G. 0 . P. precinct captains with the i r Democratic machine counterparts . " This is how the Democrats carry Chicago and this is why we have to do something about it , " declared Mrs. C. Wayland Brooks , national Republican committeewoman from Illinois . Mrs. Brooks and John Waner , head of G. 0 . P. watchers at the official election board canvass , showed a reporter scores of Republican precinct captains ' tally books f r o m Democratic stronghold wards indicating that the captains of both parties had decided in advance of the opening of the polls on a precise doling out of the votes  --  all to the detriment of G. 0 . P. candidates . G. 0 . P. in Name Only " These were Republican capthins in name only , " Waner charged . " In many cases , they were plants of the Democratic machine or took a dive in exchange for promises of money or patronage jobs . " In wards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watchers on the job , and where there were responsible election judges and positive police enforcement , we received about 28 per cent of the vote , even tho the locations were Democratic strongholds . " In wards where we had no poll watchers and questionable precinct captains , we received only about 5 per cent of the votes . " Analyze Tally Books Mrs. Brooks and Waner based their charges on an analysis of the G. 0 . P. precinct captains ' tally books sent to the Republican county committee Nov. 7 , the day after the election . In precinct after precinct , in certain wards , Mrs. Brooks said , G. 0 . P. candidates received almost exactly the same number of votes  --  always lower than 30 ballots ? while Democrats received exactly the same number of votes but usually well in the 500s . " It is impossible that there should not have been some variation , " Mrs. Brooks . " It is impossible that there were no split tickets . It is impossible that some Democrat or Republican did not have some favored candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Waner aid Mrs. Brooks charged the " so-called G. 0 . P. precinct captains " made their agreements with the Democratic captains , then turned their backs or took a walk while Democrats herded voters in and gave them illegal assistance in voting straight Democratic tickets . In a precinct of the 29th ward , a G. 0 . P. captain 's tally book shows , without variation , 282 for all Democrats-30 for all Republicans . In a 25th ward precinct , the tally book shows all Republicans received 18 , 19 , or 20 votes the Democrats a 11 received 561 , 562 , or 563 votes . Cite Another Example In one of the examples cited by the two G. 0 . P. officials , in another precinct of the 29th ward , Democrats all received 458 , 459 , or 460 votes . Republicans received 4 , 5 , 6 , or 7 votes . " This represents the greatest display of mathematical gymnastics I have ever seen , " said Edward Saltiel , a former state legislator who was a G. 0 . P. candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ward committeemen are reluctant to admit the weakness of some of their precincts , " Waner said . " They refuse to admit they 're unmanned or may have a turncoat or a sellout in their ranks . They believe this will reflect on their ability as committeemen . In s tea d they should admit their weaknesses and ask the county committee for help . " ' Rips Machine Infiltration The charges by the officials , leveled at their own party organization in some wards , was the strongest ever made on the bipartisanship of Democrats and Republicans in certain Democratic strongholds . Both Mrs. Brooks and Waner , in their appraisal of their findings , blamed Democratic machine infiltration of their party ranks as a prime cause of the vote stealing they charged went on Nov. 6.                     