@@723833

txt Washington , March 9 ? The Supreme court today erased a verdict for $500,000 damages obtained in Alabama courts by a Montgomery police official who claimed he had been libeled by statements in a fullpage advertisement in the New York Times of March 29 , 1960 . The unanimous opinion , read by Justice William J. Brennan Jr. , found that the rule of law applied by the Alabama courts was " constitutionally deficient " for failure to provide the safeguards for freedom of speech and of the press required by the 1st and 14th amendments . - Specifically , the court held that the Constitution limits a state 's power to award damages for libel in actions brought by public officials against critics of their official conduct . Proof of actual malice was lacking , Brennan said , despite some misstatements in the advertisement . Three justices-Hugo Black , William O. Douglas , and Arthur J. Goldberg  --  supported the finding in concurring opinions , bu they urged a more sweeping decision . Even when actual malice can proved in an action brought by a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a state is prohibited under the 1st amendment from awarding damages to the petitioner . Repeated references were made in the opinions to a celebrated libel case involving me city of Chicago and THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE in which the Illinois Supreme court ruled in 1923 that " prosecutions for libel on government have no place in the American system of jurisprudence . " A Tribune Tradition THE TRIBUNE last August filed a brief , as a friend of the court , supporting the Times in its appeal from the Alabama judgment . THE TRIBUNE said it was " vitally concerned not only because it has an obvious an ( ' direct interest as another major newspaper with multistate circulation , advertising , and news-gathering activities , " but also because THE TRIBUNE has a well established tradition of appearing and participating in litigations that threaten a free press . " Friend-of-the-court briefs were field also by the Washington Post and the American Civil Liberties union . THE TRIBUNE brief contended that if the $500,000 libel judgment were upheld , " nationwide news reporting and commentary , particularly in the civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Irreparable damage to the preferred freedom of free speech and press will necessarily occur . " Name Absent from Ad The Alabama case differed from the TRIBUNE case in that the petitioner , L. B. Sullivan , commissioner of public affairs in charge of the police and fire departments of Montgomery ; was not named in the advertisement . In the TRIBUNE case , individual office holders were named in TRIBUNE articres , but it was the corporate city government which filed the suit as plaintiff . Sullivan brought a civil libel suit against the Times and four Negro clergymen in Alabama whose names were attached to the advertisement which charged " a wave of terror " in Montgomery by police and others . There were admitted inaccuracies in the advertisement , and Sullivan , as the man in charge of police , sued for V.00,000 damages . A jury gave In the full amount , and the Alabama Supreme court affirmed the verdict . Freedom Covers Ads The United States Supreme court held that the constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech and the press cover publication of advertisements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were shut off from carrying " editorial advertisements " of this type , an important outlet would be closed to those who wish to express opinion or protest , the opinion read . " We consider this case against the background of a profound national commitment to the principle that debate on public issues should be uninhibited , robust , and Vide-open , and that it may well include vehement , caustic , and sometimes unpleasantly sharp attacks on government and public officials , " Brennan wrote . Falsities Not Greivous " The present advertisement , as an expression of grievance and protest on one of the major public issues of our time , would seem clearly to qualify for the constitutional protection . The question is whether it forfeits that protection by the falsity of some of its factual statements and by its alleged defamation of respondent . " The court ruled that the misstatements in the advertisement were not greivous enough to justify punitive libel action . " A rule compelling the critic of official conduct to guarantee the truth of all his factual assertions  --  and to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  leads to a comparable ' self-censorship , ' " Brennan said . Actual Malice Essential " The constitutional guarantees require , we think , a federal rule that prohibits a public official from recovering damages for a defamatory falsehood relating to this official conduct unless he proves that the statement was made with ' actual malice ' this is , with knowledge that it was false or with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not . " The case was sent back to the lower court , but the Supreme court gave virtual notice that a new trial and judgment would be futile . Proof of malice in the case is lacking , it observed . The New York Times printed the ? advertisement in good faith , the court said , and the evidence at best would support a finding of negligence in failing to check the inaccuracies in the advertisement . Reputation Unhurt The court held that Commissioner Sullivan suffered no loss of reputation or standing as a result of the advertisement . Justice Black put it pungently in his concurring opinion . " Viewed realistically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an inference that instead of being damaged Commissioner Sullivan 's political , social , and financial prestige has likely been enhanced by the Times publication . " Black criticized the majority opinion that a state can subject critics of official conduct to damages if " actual malice " is proved . " The Times and the individual defendants had an absolute unconditional constitutional right to publish in the Times advertisements their criticisms of the Montgomery agencies and officials , " he declared . " The half-million dollar verdict does give dramatic proof , however , that state libel laws threaten the very existence of an American press virile enough to publish unpopular views on public affairs and bold enough to criticize the conduct of public officials . " Total in Millions Black noted that 11 other libel suits by local and state officials against the Times total $5,600 , - 000 , and that five suits for amounts totaling $1,700,000 are pending against the Columbia Broadcasting system . A second $500,000 libel verdict against the Times already has been awarded to another commissioner . " There is no reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the corner for the Times or any other newspaper or broadcaster which might dare to criticize public officials , " he noted . " This technique for harassing and punishing a free press is by no means limited to cases with racial overtones ; it can be used in other fields where public feelings may make local as well as out-of-state newspapers easy prey for libel verdict seekers . Views Right as Absolute " In my opinion , the federal Constitution has dealt with this deadly danger to the press in the only way possible without leavng the ' free press open to destruction ? by granting the press an absolute immunity for criticism of the way , public officials do their public duty . . . . An unconditional right to say what one pleases about public affairs is what I consider to be the minimum guarantee of the 1st amendment . I regret that the court has stopped short of this holding indispensable to preserve ou ? free press from destruction . " In a similar concurring opinion , Justice Goldberg said the Constitution affords to the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to criticize official conduct despite the harm which may flow from excesses and abuses . " Germ of Restraint " If individual citizens may he held liable in damages for strong words , which a jury finds false and maliciously motivated , there can be little doubt that public debate and advocacy will be restrained , " he said . " And if newspapers , publishing advertisements dealing with public issues , thereby risk liability , there can also be little doubt that the ability of minority groups to secure publication of their views on public affairs and to seek support for their causes will be greatly diminished . - " This is not to say that the Constitution protects defamatory statements directed against the private conduct of a public official or private citizen . "                     