@@725770

txt Washington , Sept ** the days when the century was still an adolescent , America 's secretary of state and military brass could have gazed out their office windows upon Pauline Wayne chewing her cud . This was before hot lines and cold wars , and the ranking generals , admirals , and diplomats would never have thought to complain about the cow on their grass . She belonged to the man who lived next door  --  President Taft . Pauline munched on the lawns of the White House and the State-War-Navy building , now the Executive Office building , adjacent to and west of the executive mansion . Perhaps Lingers On This reads like ancient history . But perhaps Pauline Wayne 's influence lingers on . There are congressmen today who allege the Pentagon and the state department to be bovine in their thinking . Like Presidents , Presidential pets have problems , too . For a generation of Americans , Fala , President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 's Scottish terrier , was ' nth . canine VIP . In January , 1945 , the President decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was n't impressed by Fala 's White House credentials . She bit him in a very painful spot , and Fala retreated to Walter Reed hospital for veterinary assistance . His two daughters , Meggy and Peggy , were the product of artificial insemination . Listen to Mockingbird President Jefferson had a pet mockingbird in the White House . So did Mrs. Grover Cleveland . Mrs. Calvin Coolidge tried . But life and laws had changed by the Coolidge era . Grace Coolidge learned a District of Columbia law forbade keeping a mockingbird in a cage and decreed a fine of $5 or a month in jail for violators . The President 's wife decided this was one time a bird in the cage was n't worth two in the bush . The mockingbird went . President Grant cherished good horse flesh , spied fine steed owned by a Washington butcher , yearned to own the horse , finally parted with $600 he said he could ill afford , and proudly installed Butcher 's Boy in the White House stables . Not Enough Dog Lovers - President Hoover might have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' vote alone . He owned nine of them at one time and bad a special kennel built to keep them . President Harrison kept a goat and a goat cart for his grandchildren ; Dolly Madison is said to have owned a parrot ; and , according to one reptile researcher , Marquis de Lafayette , a hero of the American Revolution , parked briefly in the White House east room an alligator given him on his triumphal return visit to the United States in 1824 and 1825 . President Eisenhower owned a Weimaraner named Heidi who spent most of her time on the Eisenhower Gettysburg , Pa. , farm . But Ike goes into animal lore as the President who was vetoed by the White House squirrels . Ruin Ike 's Putting Green Even today , the executive mansion squirrels cadge handouts from Pennsylvania avenue passers-by . In Ike 's view , they did worse . They buried tidbits in the putting green he had laid out on the south lawn . So humane traps were set out for the squirrels , and some of them were exported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard about it . Ike learned fast that co-existence begins at home . And George Washington , fretful as most males on moving day , in 1797 viewed Martha 's parrot and a granddaughter 's dog as excess baggage included to irritate him . A letter from the Father of His Country to his secretary when the Washingtons were returning to Mount Vernon at the end of his second Presidential term from Philadelphia , then the seat of government , is a model of masculine asperity . " On one side , I am called upon to remember the parrot , and on the other , to remember the dog , " Washington complained . " For my own part , I should not pine much if both were forgot . " But for those who cherish the winged , the four-footed , and the slithering , the Theodore Roosevelt administration was the zenith . The affection with which the President held his family is touchingly revealed in " Theodore Roosevelt 's Letters to His Children , " published in 1919 by Charles Scribner 's Sons . If his children  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wrote them notes amusing , chatty , and loving by turn . Suspicions of Eli In 1902. in a letter to a friend , he gave a hint of the menagerie that lived in the White House along with the six young Roose-velts : .. There is Jack , the terrier ; and Sailor Boy , the Chesapeake Bay dog ; and Eli , the most gorgeous mackaw , with a bill that I think could bite thru boiler plate , who crawls all over Ted , and whom I view with dark suspicion ; and Jonathan , the piebald rat , of most friendly and affectionate nature , who also crawls all over everybody ; and the flying squirrel , and two kangaroo rats ; not to speak of Archie 's pony , Algonquin , who is the most absolute pet of them all . " Also One-Legged Chicken But more was to come . From California , Roosevelt wrote son Kermit that someone had given him a " very small badger , which I named Josiah . " On the same trip , he wrote Archie that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " There were the Roosevelt horses ; Tom Quartz , a cat who once detained House Speaker Joe Cannon by a trouser leg ; rabbits ; chickens , one of them one-legged ; and snakes . Of course , like some humans , not all animals have found happiness at the country 's most exclusive address . Mrs. Coolidge set up a matrimonial bureau for Rebecca , the raccoon whom the Coolidges sometimes permitted in the White House and for whom they had built an outside tree house . Reuben won the toss . But he proved a fickle fellow . He deserted Rebecca and the executive mansion . However , that was in the days before people talked about consensus politics , and before Kim and Freckles , the White House Beagles , and Blanco , the Collie , seemed to find the living easy in the command post of the Great Society .                     