@@721678

txt President Kennedy will ask Congress next week to authorize a five-year program of aid to education that is expected to call for about $1,000,000,000 a year in new Federal outlays . The program , to be submitted in a special message Tuesday , is understood to contemplate annual grants to states of about $900,000,000 for public schools . The funds would be made available either to build schools or to pay teachers ' salaries or both . In addition , Federally aided fellowship programs would be expanded with the aim of attracting more and better teachers in elementary and secondary schools as well as colleges , according to Congressional sources . The program to be submitted in Tuesday 's message has been outlined privately to key Congressional Democrats by Abraham A. Ribicoff , Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare . Conservative Opposition The proposals face considerable opposition , mainly from conservative wings of both parties , but are given a fair chance of favorable action , perhaps in modified form . New doubts arose , however , over the prospect of Congres sional action this session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Social Security insurance program to provide hospitalization , clinical and nursing care for persons over 65 years of age . The House Ways and Means Committee , which has first . jurisdiction over Social Security bills , was confronted with a heavy schedule of high-priority legislation and had no plans for hearings on the health insurance proposal . Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Democrat of Arkansas , the chairman , maintained a policy of silence both on the merits of the proposal and on the outlook for approval . He opposed similar health insurance plans last year , and they were rejected by his committee . Congressional sources report- ed that the prospective aid-toeducation recommendations had been patterned on a report prepared for Mr. Kennedy by a special task force on Jan. 6 but involved somewhat smaller Federal outlays . They said the basic school aid grants to be proposed would follow the task force 's recommended formula of $30 a year for each pupil in average daily attendance . These would be supplemented by grants of $15 a child for low-income states and $15 a child for big-city schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task force formula called for $20 grants in each of the supplementary categories . The grants under the President 's program would be limited to public elementary and secondary schools . Congressional sources were uncertain of the cost of other proposals , such as expanded teacher fellowships . They said they understood that the entire package would probably amount to slightly less than $5,000,000,000 over five years . Salaries Are Rey Issue Congressional opposition to such a program is centered on provisions allowing Federal funds to be used for teachers ' salaries . The main argument is that this might lead to Federal control of the public school system and open the way for Federal dictation of curriculums and teaching methods . Sam Rayburn of Texas , the Speaker and chief Democratic leader of the House , was among those who opposed grants for teachers ' salaries while backing school construction grants in the last Congress . The Senate passed a bill covering both in the last session and the House approved a version limited to school construction . The measure died in the House Rules Committee when Congress adjourned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the House is still closely divided over the salary issue . Extraordinary efforts , including Mr. Rayburn 's active backing , are expected to be required to win favorable House action on that part of the Kennedy education program . A Senate majority can probably be mustered with comparative ease . House and Senate committees handling education matters are favorably disposed to general school-aid legislation , including funds for teachers ' salaries . The Rules Committee , which regulates the flow of bills from other committees to the House floor , is now under Speaker Rayburn 's control and is unlikely to block any bill that he favors . A Different Problem By contrast , the Administration 's main problem in seeking approval of health insurance legislation is to get action by the House Ways and Means Committee . Speaker Rayburn has announced his support of the President 's proposal , but a majority of the fifteen-man committee is apparently against it . The problem is particularly troublesome because of the classification of Social Security bills as revenue measures that must originate in the House . The Senate consequently must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would be possible for the Senate to add medical insurance provisions to some other revenue bill passed by the House . But that procedure is regarded unfavorably by the House and might result in rejection of the added features by a SenateHouse conference committee . Some Democratic strategists are considering the idea as a last resort .                     