@@727586

txt Washington , Jan. 19 ? Fifteen anti-war protesters were arrested today after a brief clash with police during a counterinaugural march . Rocks , mud , and sticks were thrown at police as they attempted to clear one side of the march route . The 15 , including three girls , were among 5,000 demonstrat ors who caused a massive traffic jam when they paraded thru downtown Washington and drew jeers and boos from visitors here for the Presidential inauguration. 10 Others Arrested Ten other demonstrators were arrested on charges not related to the march . The charges included assaulting a policeman , carrying a dangerous weapon , and operating sound equipment without a license . The 15 arrested were in a second group of 3,000 marchers during the disorganized parade . The first group was led by 2,000 militant Yippies who br ok e away from the main body as they prepared to leave a tent south of the Washington monument . Police , apparently caught . by surprise , prodded the marchers with riot sticks as they moved in the eastbound lanes of Pennsylvania avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this evening when 1,000 demonstrators attempted to throw rocks and sticks at police and guests arriving at the Smithsonian institution to attend a champagne reception for Vice President-elect Spiro T. Agnew . They were dispersed by 10 mounted park service policemen . More than 2,500 demonstrators staged a counter-inaugural ball tonight in the mud-filled tent near the Washington monument . Rock bands , psychedelic shows , and anti-war movies were featured . It was expected that most of the protesters would spend the night in the tent . Police said the teat permit expires at 10 a. m. tomorrow . The confrontation with police occurred at a reviewing stand at the end of the parade route . It began when several demonstrators linked arms and would not obey police orders . All were charged with disorderly conduct . West-bound traffic came to a virtual halt for 11/2 miles along the street and visitors in cars stopped , got out , and exchanged remarks with the marchers , who carried more than 20 Viet Cong flags . The Yippi es started the march earlier than the scheduled 2:30 p. m. time because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing speeches . " At the time , David Dellinger , chairman of the national mobilization committee to end the war in Viet Nam N. M. C. , was making a speech inside the tent . Oilers Use Sidewalks Hundreds of others , including many visitors , marched on the sidewalk along with the demonstrators , who stayed in the street . At one point during the march , the Yippies stopped at 12th street and decided to turn around , causing still more traffic tie-ups in the west lanes of Pennsylvania avenue . However , police reinforce ; ments arrived and ordered the marchers to turn around . The march ended back at the Washington monument after the demonstrators had covered three miles . Once again the demonstrators attempted t o continue the march on the street but were ordered to the sidewalks by police . They obeyed when two additional busloads of police arrived . Before the march began , United States park service officials expressed concern over the muddy conditions around the campsite , caused by demonstrators milling around on ground softened by two days of rain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States park ser vice police , who estimated the crowd , said that park service officials did not require the N. M. C. to post a restoration bond . The parade and a series of anti-war workshops held yesterday are part of a three-day program sponsored by the N. M. C. Its leaders , Dellinger and Rennie Davis , were the chief planners of the convention week disorders in Chicago in August . Tight security for tomorrow 's inauguration continued . When President-elect Nixon views the inaugural parade from a stand in front of the White House , he will be surrounded by a curtain of bulletproof glass . Workmen finished the glass enclosure yesterday , and secret service agents have kept the area under unceasing surveillance . Smoke Bombs Stolen THE TRIBUNE learned that Washington authorities are concerned about the theft two weeks ago of 13 smoke bombs from a nearby army storage depot . An investigator noted that one smoke bomb could cover an entire square block " if the wind was blowing in the right direction . " Meanwhile , Washington police have begun an investigation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Students for a Democratic Society obtained an eight-page memorandum issued by Police Chief John B. Layton , which tells the number of police and national guard troops to be stationed at posts along the parade route . Hundreds of copies of the memorandum were made and distributed to protesters yesterday at the workshop sessions . Demonstrators plan to take up positions tomorrow at four points along the parade route . The N. M. C. has purchased a bloc of 100 tickets for seats at two reviewing stands . Both are more than three blocks from the White House . But 50 of the tickets are directly in front of the stand erected for television cameras .                     