@@721696

txt ATLANTA , Feb. 18 ? " We 're like lemmings marching off the cliff , " a prominent business executive said , His remark reflected the growing feeling here that many residents have a false sense of security toward the city 's racial problems . This executive and some other persons believe that tension aroused by the dispute over lunch-counter desegregation has already lessened the chance for peaceful desegregation of the schools next September under a Federal court order . Moreover , extreme segregationists apparently have singled ota this metropolitan complex a 1,000,000 persons as a major battleground in their fight against integration . Atlanta is regarded as one of the South 's most progressive cities . Its race relations have generally had an even tenor . This is attributed in part to the efforts Of Mayor William B. Hartsfield and an alert police force . Most whites apparently have little sympathy with the activities of the bitter-end segregationists . However , observers contended that the Negro student demonstrations , which began here last March , might bring a crisis to the city . Frustrated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at lunch counters , the students have become increasingly mili-1 taut . More than seventy-five are now in jail as a result of their refusal to post bonds on trespass charges growing out of // the demonstrations . Many adult leaders have voiced support for them . Merchants conceded that a Negro boycott of the downtown area had been almost 100 per cent effective . Department store sales in the central-city area for the full week period ended Feb. 4 were down 12 per cent from last year , the Federal Reserve Bank reported . The receipts of some variety stores have shown a far greater drop . Since the sit-ins began , a Negro school has been bombed , the Ku Klux Klan has trooped through the business section twice and a small group of anti-Semites has started distribution of hate literature . Leading white supremacists from Little Rock , New Orleans and other Southern , cities have paraded across the speaker 's platform of a new - segregationist organization . This is Georgians Unwilling To Surrender , or GUTS , . as Re mem- , bers call it . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi Citizens Council and secretary of the Citizens Council of America . " Atlanta is practically the nerve center in the South for the integration movement , " he told the new organization . Major Test Predicted Liberal whites also see an important skirmish developing . Harold C. Fleming , executive director of the Southern Regional Council , said : " As school desegregation nears In Atlanta , the desegregation of organized bigotry in the South are clearly concentrating their efforts here . The apostles of anti-Negro , anti-Semitic end anti-Catholic prejudice are gathering for what , - they evidently see as a rimier test of their extremist- doctrine . " Events at a meeting of Georgians Unwilling To Surrender Thursday night at the Tower Theatre seemed to bear out this conclusion . ' The audience included Calvin F. Craig , Georgia Grand Dragon of the U. S. Klans , Knights of the Ku Klux Klan , Inc. ; J. B. Stoner , an avowed anti-Semite and head of the Christian Knights of the Ku Kux Klan , and at least four of the five persons indicted for the bombing in 1958 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's largest Jewish congregation . Before the program began , copies of The Thunderbolt were distributed . This organ of the National States Rights party is published by W. R. Fields . He described himself as a Birmingham , Ala. , chiropractor who was once in " the reducing-salon business " in Louisville , Ky . One article in the four-page paper said : " The Jews have long believed that they would have to integrate Atlanta before they could integrate the rest of the South . " Two inside pages recounted the murder of an Atlanta girl in 1913 and the subsequent lynching of Leo Frank . The headline read : " Leo Frank Case and , Today 's Jewish Rape of the South . " Lester Maddox , a local restaurant operator and chairman of Georgians Unwilling To Surrender , said that The Thunderbolt had not been approved for distribution . Nevertheless , the program that followed had antiSemitic overtones as well as tirades against Negroes . The first speaker was Roy V. Harris , once a political kingmaker in this state who now heads the Georgia States Rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Legislature for discarding the state 's policy of massive resistance to desegregation . Favors Going to Jail " I 've always wanted to see one Southern Governor who had the nerve and the courage to let the Federal Government put him in jail , " he said . The keynote address was made by Leander Perez , former District Attorney of St. Bernard and Plaquemines Parishes ( counties ) in Louisiana . He is a guiding light of the Citizens Council movement there . He once spoke at a council rally in New Orleans that preceded an anti-desegregation riot . Mr. Perez called out the names of a number of prominent members of the legislative , executive and judicial branches of the Federal Government , while some in the audience shouted " Communist Jews . " He referred to these officials as " another pinko , " " that Zionist , " " a smart mulatto , " and that ' " eighteen-time Commie front member . " Mr. Perez said that the sometimes violent protests over desegregation in New Orleans marked " one of the most worthy demonstrations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rebel yells . " How would you like it if your little girl came back home ravished from a forced racially ' integrated school ? " he asked . Assails Government ' overnment When he said , " The national Government is the enemy of our people , " the audience shouted , " Yes ! Yes ! " Without segregationist political leadership , he contended , Southerners have no choice " but to rise up in physical opposiAs the crowd left the theatre tion " a detective remarked , " The rats were sure coming out of all the holes ? tonight . " He estimated that at least 25 per cent of those in the audience were Klansmen . The activities of Georgians Unwilling To Surrender and similar groups present a potentially dangerous problem . Arthurf J. Levin , director of the southeastern regional office of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith , called on responsible residents to seek a solution to this problem by eliminating the cause . " Bigots feed on tensions and crises , in which atmosphere they can best peddle their hysteria of lies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Therefore , it becomes imperative that the real leadership ? economic , civic , religious , educational ? resolve whatever tensions and crises exist in the community so that we can get on with our business of growth and progress . " Leading merchants have said that they are willing to desegregate their lunch counter ; a move that is considered inevitable . But they argue that they can not do so because Rich 's , Inc. , the city 's largest department store , has refused to go aloRnige h. ' s is a family operation that had an excellent reputation among Negroes prior to the sit-in dispute . This was because of the family 's many gifts to Negro educational and charitable causes and the store 's courteous treatment of Negro shoppers . Rich 's was the first major store in Atlanta to address Negroes as " Mr. " and " Mrs. " Few Customers in Store But on a walk through the spacious first floor this week it was possible to find only two Negroes  --  one customer and a candy counter clerk . There were few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began , Richard H. Rich , president of the store , and Frank H. Neely , the board chairman , were said to be willing to desegregate once the school desegregation problem had been solved . However , they took no action after Governor Vandiver and the Legislature cleared the way for local communities to comply with Federal gout rulings . Several attempts have been made to reach both Mr. Rich and Mr. Neely . A subordinate , who declined to permit the use of his name , refused to outline the store 's present position . " We 'd rather not talk about it , " he said . " We 're in a dilemma . " He also said , " There 's not ping to be any change in the immediate future . " Other merchants have said that they would lose many white cusomers to Rich 's if they led the way in desegregating lunch counters . Some observers have called this view questionable . Meanwhile , most agree that every downtown merchant is suffering . " The most important thing that can he done is ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruin the downtown area , " one executive said . " The effect is not going to be confined to the retail stores . It will hit the banks , the office supply concerns , the insurance firms , the real - estate interests and all the . rest . " ? Negroes ' Stand Is Firm The Negroes ' determination has been reiterated by their leaders , Lonnie C. King Jr. , chairman of the Student Committee on Appeal for Human Rights ; the Rev. William Holmes , Borders , chairman of the Student-Adult Liaison Committee and pastor of Wheat Street BaptistChurch , and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. , head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and symbol of the student movement , Mr. Borders has served notice on whites that Negro adults are giving full support to the sit-ins . " Right - now , the community would n't go to Heaven without the students , " he once said . Those familiar with the present situation have made these points : OPeaceful school desegregation depends upon a calm and harmonious climate of race relations . IINegroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a specified and reasonably early date . nA. continued stalemate wine increase the militancy of WIT the protest movement and the segregationists . " The city 's business leadership has so far failed to recognize the dangers of the unresolved sit-in dispute both to the local economy and to law and order , " Mr. Fleming of the Southern Regional Council said . " Peaceful school desegregation will depend in large measure on Atlanta 's joining more than one hundred other Southern cities in the orderly settlement of the sit-in protests by opening eating facilities to all . " Negroes report good housing is difficult to obtain in middleincome neighborhoods of Utah 's major cities . They call job opportunities " poor . " However , " education is free and equal with " no strings , " representative Negroes say .                     