@@723907

txt London Soviet troops are still garrisoned in six countries in Eastern Europe  --  East Germany , Czechoslovakia , Poland , Hungary , Romania , and Bulgaria . The Red Army brought communism and Communist regimes to these countries and has ever since kept the Communist regimes in power . Twice , once in East Germany and once in Hungary , the Red Army went into action to defend the regimes imposed by Moscow . Until the week of the Cuban crisis it was universally taken for granted that these six countries of Eastern Europe were in truth not so much satellites as actual frontier provinces in the Soviet empire . They were governed by persons usually trained in Moscow and assigned to their jobs from Moscow as obviously and almost as formally as viceroys or governors from London to the colonies in the heyday of the Victorian empire . A A A Nikita S. Khrushchev has returned to Moscow from 10 clays in Hungary which is one of those six countries and which to this day is garrisoned by troops of the Red Army . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungary had joined the list of those " loyal friends " who have announced their public support of the Moscow plan to call a conference of all Communist parties . The presumed purpose of such a conference would be to excommunicate Red China formally from the official Communist movement , Poland , another country still garrisoned by Red Army troops has , like Hungary , agreed publicly that Moscow is correct in its dispute with Communist China and China wrong . But , like Hungary , Poland has not yet endorsed the conference . Romania has gone much further . It has not even yet published the Soviet case against China . It has greeted a new Chinese ambassador with more than routine cor- ' We Always Look to Moscow ! ' diality and made friendly remarks about Mao Tse-tung , who is of course anathema to Moscow . The Romanian position today is in some respects further away from Moscow than is that of Yugoslavia . This pattern is not the pattern of a true satellite system or even of a dominion status relationship . Only three of the six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their borders have toed the whole Moscow line -- East Germany , Czechoslovakia , and Bulgaria . At one time the will of Moscow was absolute and decisive " from Stettin to Trieste . " Indeed , Moscow 's possessions included everything from the Gulf of Finland to Turkey . Vienna was just another victim of conquest . Soviet submarines were based in Albania . From Yugoslavia Italy was threatened . Greece was nearly gone and it seemed doubtful that Turkey could be saved . A A A That once vast empire of conquest is gone with the wind . Finland is again in truth a Western country . Albania has become a satellite of Communist China . Yugoslavia enjoys equally good relations with East and West . Romania has defiantly seized independence . This does not yet mean release from local communism . In several of these countries the local tyranny is actually tighter now than for some time . This is true in Poland and Czechoslovakia . This is not the complete liberation from communism which Westerners have always hoped for , Rather it is the process so familiar in history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradually asserting increasing independence and in extreme cases breaking away entirely . Sometimes the people are worse off . However , the process of independence from the imperial center means freedom to deal with other countries of other faiths . The prospects in the satellite area are for ? tradual evolution away from communism as the governments themselves achieve greater independence .                     