@@722565

txt New York , July 24 - The United States , by massive support of the regime of President Ngo Dinh Diem , has helped arrest the spread of communist insurgency in South Viet Nam . But victory is remote . The issue remains in doubt because the Vietnamese president seem : incapable of winning the loyalty of his people . From the military point of view , the situation has improved . " We are now doing a little better than holding our own , " was the assessment made by Maj. Gen. Charles J. Timmes , chief of the United States army element of the military assistance and advisory group . No Turn This Year However , no decisive turn in the military struggle is expected this year ; Combat effectiveness of the South Vietnamese has been temporarily weakened by robbing rifle companies of good officers and noncoms to provide cadres for two new divisions being created . The new divisions will increase the strength of the regular forces to more than 205,000 by the end of 1962 . In addition , the civil guard will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 80,000 .. Assuming that the Viet Cong Vietnamese communist guerrillas do not receive substantial outside aid , there would seem to be reason for optimism . For in 1963 South Viet Nam will put well-equipped forces totaling more than 350 , - 000 men against 25,000 guerrillas who have only basic infantry weapons . To Be Better Staffed Also by 1963 the Vietnamese military forces should be adequately staffed with officers and noncoms and be somewhat better trained for fighting in jungles and swamps . They will have more helicopters , armored personnel carriers , and other gadgets to aid mobility , more sentry dogs to sniff out guerrillas , more plastic boats for the delta region , and more American advisers with fresh , new tactical doctrines . Yet visions of ultimate victory are obscured by the image of a secretive , suspicious , dictatorial regime . American officers are frustrated and irritated by the meddling of the president and his brother , Ngo Dinh Nhu , in the military command . The president assumes direction of military operations . All major troop movements and all officer promotions must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also has marked the president 's use of general reserve troops . These have been dispatched on futile one-shot operations based on faulty intelligence and conducted with slipshod planning . In situations demanding fast action or improvisation , the president 's tight control of the army has killed initiative . In June , guerrillas wiped out a convoy 40 miles north of Saigon , killing two American officers . The only soldiers available for pursuit belonged to the general reserve . Hours elapsed before presidential consent could be obtained for the use of general reserve troops , and it was early evening when United States marine helicopters put the troops down on the guerrillas ' trail . The guerrillas got away easily despite their heavy booty in guns and ammunition . Waited for 3 Hours This episode was a revelation for Americans . The ambush was on the outskirts of Bentre , a garrison town , and on a heavily traveled highway . Yet the guerrillas moved into position in daylight , prepared the ambush in full view of the road and waited for three hours for the convoy to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet no one informed the garrison in Bentre . The Viet Cong probably would not have undertaken this action without full confidence that the peasants were with them , or at least indifferent . In April , the Americans proposed tha a trust fund equivalent to 110 million dollars be set aside from counterpart funds ? local currency equivalent to American aid funds for direct application to the provinces , districts , and villages . They wanted to cut thru the burocratic fog to insure that emergency relief , food , blankets , medicine or perhaps defense materials , would reach the new villages in the critical first weeks . A Lure to Tribesmen This so-called " impact aid " would be handled at the scene by local Vietnamese officials and Americans would not be hanging around looking for gratitude . T h e peasants presumably would believe that the manna came from the presidential palace . There was urgency for action , since thousands of Montagnards , the primitive tribesmen of the central plateau , were streaming into the garrison towns . Some were fed up wan Viet Cong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports of medical attention and other amenities . offered by the American special forces . The Americans saw an opportune moment to win over tribesmen who had been ignored for years by the regime . But the plan was rejected by Ngo Dinh Diem . He did not like the political implications , an aid said . The president apparently suspected an American plot to undermine his control over local officials . Similarly , the president has scuttled other American proposals that might have softened his image .                     