@@725259

txt Mayor Lindsay said yesterday that he and his staff were developing " sound and sensible " procedures intended to avert crises in the city 's labor relations . The new approach will continue to support fully the right of city employes to organize and bargain collectively it was indicated , but will also provide for the establishment of impartial and independent machinery for handling labor problems . In the aftermath of the 12-day transit strike , the Mayor was asked at a news conference at City Hall yesterday whether he had some new labor relations approaches in mind . He replied that his staff was drafting legislation to set up new and modern proce- dures . " Those procedures for municipal employes have got to be modernized and sanity put in them , and that legislation is being drafted and I shall introduce , I shall ask that the Legislature introduce it and act upon it , " Mr. Lindsay said . Asked what kind of legislation he had in mind , the Mayor emphasized that the key element he wanted to introduce into the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have , " Mr. Lindsay said , " is the kind of thing that we had as the first step and for the first time in New York City in connection with the transit settlement . " And that is an independent , highly qualified panel , whether lyou call them fact-finders or whatever you call them  --  in this case , they were known as mediators  --  being in a position to make firm and final recommendations . " He emphasized that he was not proposing compulsory arbitration , although he - did not exclude it altogether . Fact-finding or recommendations by a highly qualified , impartial panel , he said , would not be binding or mandatory but could be supported by the weight of public opinion in critical disputes . Study Now Under Way Ole reiterated his belief that . he 15-cent fare could be re-ained on the city 's subway and ' xis lines . If there has to be any adjustment , he said , it should ' 3e.made in connection with the unification and integration of the whole transportation system Df the city , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early next week the make-up ' nd functions of an interim City Transportation Council , which would make the initial plans tration staff work is being for integration of the city 's done on the same matter does transportation facilities . not in any sense downgrade Administration sources have confirmed that Arthur E. Palmer Jr. , a lawyer and investment banker , will be chairman of the council . Following the Mayor 's news Mayor Lindsay , in discussing conference yesterday , Victor his approach to the city 's labor Gotbaum , executive director of relations , did not mention the District 37 of the State , Counwork now under way by a panel ty and Municipal Workers , exof city , union and public mem- pressed some confusion about hers . The panel is making a the administration 's attitude long range-study of the city 's toward the panel , particularly labor policies in dealing with in view of the Mayor 's remarks nearly 200,000 public employes about drafting legislation for However , Deputy Mayor anew labor relations procedures . Timothy W. Costello , a mem- Mr. Gotbaum , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor committee that the new administration on the three-part panel , had was cooperating fully in this , previously been enthusiastic study . about Mayor Lindsay 's proAmong the objectives of the posals to improve and modernpanel 's study will be to arrive ize the city 's labor relations and emphasize " impartiality . " In the past , leaders of many unions of city employes have been critical of municipal labor relations policies in which they felt the city too often acted as both employer and arbitrator or judge in disputes . In discussing the city 's transportation problems at his news conference yesterday , Mr , Lindsay said that state legislation creating a central authority to oversee the city 's entire transportation system would be ready by early or mid-February . He foresaw no trouble in getting it passed in Albany . Meanwhile , he said . he plans to go ahead with setting up an interim Transportation Council to begin making plans for an integrated transportation system . He said that Robert Moses , chairman of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority , would be invited to serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study panel , the Deputy Mayor said . at recommendations for handling representation elections , collective bargaining , deadlocked negotiations and contract administration . Met During Strike Mr. Lindsay has directed the city representatives on the panel " to work toward the establishment of impartial grievance arbitration procedures , independent of the city . " He said also that he wanted to see the development of impartial fact-finding mediation of deadlocks over new agreements and the establishment of " a neutral agency to conduct bargaining elections and make determinations on the appropriate bargaining unit . " The panel , which was developed with the assistance of Jesse Simons , director of the Labor Management Institute of the American Arbitration Association , held a meeting earlier this week as the transit strike bit more deeply into the city ' &; economy . In that context the group decided to put the problem of developing procedures for dealing with deadlocked negotiations at the top of the list . Dr. Costello emphasized that Mayor Lindsay had encouraged his participation and that of other city employes on the panel . The fact that adminis missing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            