@@722418

txt Letters to The Times BURTON M. COHEN , M.D. , F.A.C.P.SIDNEY S. LEE , M.D. , Dr. P.H. , FORBES BURNHAM , S ... Letters to The Times Physicians ' Strike ' Upheld M. D. Says Medical Care Bill Works Hardship on Profession Tenn EDITOR OF THIII Nsw YORK Tam : This writer , speaking not as a representative of the American Medical Association or any of its constituent bodies , feels constrained to comment concerning the misunderstanding of the so-called " strike " of doctors at several New Jersey hospitals against the Kennedy . Administration proposals for medical care of the aged . I am engaged in the private care of my own patients in a moderatesized industrial community with a long tradition of respect for the dignity of honest labor . Three independent privately operated community hospitals have long maintained " public " or " ward " services for the medically indigent or those of modest means . Because most physicians are members of the attending staff at two or more of these hospitals , they have actively participated in outclinic or in-patient care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions with which they are affiliated . In many instances doctors are in attendance upon public wards at several hospitals simultaneously or sequentially . Disturbing Trends Despite the traditions of the physician 's role in the regular and consistent care of the medically indigent and those of limited personal means , many doctors have become disturbed concerning trends which have become visible in the last several decades . " Ward " or " public " beds have become increasingly occupied by patients with hospitalization policies but without provision for payment of physicians ' fees from third-party forces . Ward hospitalization is requested as an alternative to payment for private attendance . In addition , many have become aware that the institution itself is reimbursed fully , or in large part , for the hospitalization of every " ward " patient , through welfare , private insurance or other sources . " Service " patients are " free , " " charity " or " public " only in the sense that the physician , not the hospital , must take time from the private care of his own patients to donate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed King-Anderson bill , which provides only for hospitalization costs and excludes the payment of physicians ' fees , would seem a further extension of an undesirable trend by fostering the citation of large ward services necessitating the donated services of attending physicians to many individuals fully capable of retaining the services of a regular or " private " physician . This further imposes upon the physician segment of the community a responsibility for the care of the senior citizen which is not shared , and has been rejected , by other segments . Notice to Hospitals The so-called " physicians ' strike " at the New Jersey hospitals cited is merely notice served upon hospital administrations that their staffs will not participate without the fee of which they are worthy , in such situations where private care , rather than ward care , is appropriate . The confused and emotional interpretation of this by other groups , none of whom has called attention to the final statement by the doctors involved that they will " continue to reader free care to the medically indigent , both young and old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conscious or unconscious lack of understanding . May I add that I am not on the staff of any of the hospitals involved . BURTON M. COHEN , M.D. , F.A.C.P. Elizabeth , N. J. , May 6 , 1962 . Administration Bi11 Backed To THS EDITOR or Tax NM YORK TIMES The recent declaration of a group of New Jersey physicians that they will not participate in Governmentfinanced medical care of the aged justifies the growing antipathy toward the medical profession . Organized medicine , regrettably , does not feel responsive to what is in the public interest , even though it should be aware of the fact that the public supports a large proportion of the cost of medical education which would be impossible without such support , and that it is the public which provides most of the expensive resources for the practice of medicine in the form of hospitals and clinics . No other profession benefits from resources provided so liberally from the public purse . No careful student of the problem of medical care of the aged can fail to see that there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that new solutions need to be found ; that voluntary agencies and commercial insurance companies can not hope to meet the need ; and that some form of governmental action is essential . Unless physicians participate constructively in the planning for meeting these needs , they will lose what voice they have in the process . Fortunately , many of the real leaders of the profession  --  the teachers , key medical planners , as well as many physicians who have no voice in the inner councils of the American Medical Association  --  understand the needs and are actively endeavoring to support constructive action . The Federal Administration 's position in this matter is on the side of the angels ; it is directed at enabl'ng people to obtain medical care in their latter years by paying for it during their earning years . The aim is to provide some security to an insecure segment of the population without dictating the choice of physician or how the physician will treat his patient . The measure merely provides that the public will finance the care of the aged in an eminently better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this effort . SIDNEY S. LEE , M. D .. Dr. P. H. , General Director , Beth Israel Hospital . Boston , May 9 , 1962 . Opposition to Jagan Political Opponent Assails Prime Minister 's Plan for Economy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Permit me to express my disagreement with some of the statements in your May 3 editorial " British Guiana Must Wait . " The members of the Peoples National Congress party and a number of other citizens of British Guiana have been sharply critical of the budget introduced by Prime Minister Jagan . We did not object merely because of the fact that the budget was " unaccustomed " or because it " demanded sacrifices . " Our citizens are strongly conscious of the need for building the fiscal integrity and the national economy of our country . Thus , the Peoples National Congress party , of which I am political leader , did support those sections of the program calling for taxes on capital gains , on gifts and on net property . But Dr. Jagan 's budget in many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Actually it was a rather foolhardy proposal and of questionable economic value . Thus , the P. N. C. did not agree with the proposed heavy tax on consumer goods , in the light of the very low wage schedule in British Guiana and the nonavailability of local alternatives . We are plagued both by unemployment and under-employment , and the Jagan tax plan would make things worse , In addition , we objected to the proposal for compulsory saving which Dr. Jagan sponsored , both because of its compulsory features and because it would be fastened on very low income families  --  down to those receiving more than 100 British Guiana dollars per month income . The enthusiastic devotion which Dr. Jagan and a number of his supporters have shown to Communist thinking , and their support for Communist activities , are not likely to arouse enthusiasm in my country for his harsh and compulsive economic program . I find it surprising that The Times shows so much faith in Dr. Jagan 's economic policy in view of his philosophy and of his inefficient administrative record while in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone and jungles do cover part of its area  --  as your editorial pointed out  --  the weather in our capital of Georgetown is , by and large , no more " steaming " than in your Washington during the summer months . Perhaps even cooler ! FORBES BURN II AM , Peoples National Congress , Georgetown , British Guiana . Washington , May 7 , 1962 . Federal Aid to Transit TOMS EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your editorial plea ( April 30 ) for passage of the $500,000,000 mass transit bill currently before Congress you make the same evasion that invalidates the arguments for most Federal aid programs . While in effect asserting that the existence of a problem automatically proves the necessity for Federal funds as a solution , you neglect to examine the source of such funds . Who will pay for Federal aid to New York public transportation ( or similar redistribution-of-wealth programs , such as Federal aid for , as The Times put it , " educational slums . . . in mid-Manhattan " ) ? New York will  --  and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STEVEN L. BRECHER . Hollis , N. Y. , May 1 , 1962 . Flight Engineers ' Union Government Interference Seen in Denial of Bargaining Rights TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES There has been much comment re the President 's action in dealing with the steel companies and their intended price rise . As the president of a union which may well be next in line for the " White House treatment , " I would like to prevent a few aspects of what this intervention at all levels of bargaining by the Government can mean . As long as the parties to the negotiating are aware of the fact that the Government will " step in " there will be no serious negotiation . I offer as prime examples this union 's negotiations with Pan American , Trans World , and Eastern Air Lines over the past year . We have not progressed one inch  --  for the simple reason that the management is aware that this Administration will not stand by and let an airline be struck . Bringing in Government Government interference will insure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices . As long as the bigger union bent on raiding knows that it can expect Government intervention up to and including compulsory arbitration , it knows that it can not lose 100 per cent in its attempts to take over other jobs ; therefore , why not keep trying ? The law of the land becomes the whim of a particular Administration . As it stands right now , the Railway Labor Act is being bypassed continually by the appointment of special " neutral " boards . Without any sort of legal footing these " boards " make recommendations regarding wages , rules and working conditions . These recommendations are then approved publicly by the Administration and forced through the media of press releases down the throats of both parties . Pressure Cooker Tactics But most important of all in the pressure cooker of such tactics , the basic tenet of our Government is being overlooked  --  the protection of the individual 's rights . I do not think there is a thinking person who will deny that in this country every man who works for a living has the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain collectively with his employer . Yet this right is being denied to the three thousand members of this union . And being denied by Government pressure unfounded in law . The facts of the matter are these : The Air Line Pilots Association wants our jobs for its own men who are being furloughed because of the . increased productivity of the jets . The only way they can secure these jobs is to first establish control over our representation  --  that is , our union . On the three airlines where we have in the past two years lost our representation rights we have lost our jobs to junior pilots . This despite experience , seniority and safety requirements . Problem Stated But the Government has never once evaluated the right or wrong of this situation . It has merely said a problem exists , let 's find a solution . The solution for the Government is an obvious one  --  destroy the smaller of the two unions and there can be no further disputes over the issue . And this is true and expedient ? all you have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers to have a union of their choosing , the rights of the flight engineers to keep on working at jobs they have held for more than thirty years , the need for these men for reasons of safety , and the rights of every American to expect to be treated by the Government as a first-class citizen . I think before anyone urges any more Government " help " in labor management affairs he should give it careful consideration and see what lies down the road . R. A. BROWN , President , Flight Engineers ' International Association  --  A. F. L.-C . I. O. Washington , May 7 , 1962 . Zelenko 's Work on Grange TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMRS : The editorial praise you accorded Senator Javits on May 2 for his , work on the Hamilton Grange project is unquestionably well merited . We on Washington Heights who long labored , with Congressman Zelenko to crystallize opinion found our inspiration accented when he introduced the original legislation and devoted himself so earnestly to seeing it through to success . We think that he richly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave . LEON J. RUBINSTEIN . New York , May 4 , 1962.                     