@@724678

txt President Johnson pinned medals today on America 's Gemini astronauts and on two ground Lling administrators of the space program . Maj. Virgil I. Grissom and Lieut . Comdr . John W. Young landed on the South Lawn of the White House in a helicopter , received their medals in a ceremony in the spacious East Room and rode in triumph in a parade to the Capitol . President Johnson called them " brave , patriotic , gallant and exceptional young Americans . " In  --  Moscow , the Soviet astronauts said a system failure aboard their Voskhod 2 had forced them to make an extra orbit and to land by manual controls , which caused them to overshoot their target They also said the Voskhod was capable of changing orbits , as the Gemini is , but had not done so in last week 's flight . Page 8 . In what appeared to be an indirect reference to world acclaim for the feat of a Soviet astronaut who somersaulted in space , Mr. Johnson said : " We are not concerned with stunts and spectaculars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steady success . " Major Grissom is the first man- to receive the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Distinguished Service Medal twice since he is the first man to make two space flights . The space agency administrator , James E. Webb , said with a , smile that " there never will be another American ? or young man of any other nationality ? to go into space twice first . " Major Grissom and Commander Young both received the agency 's Exceptional Service Medal for the Gemini flight , made earlier this week . President Johnson also pre ? sented the agency 's Distinguished Service Medal to Dr. Robert C. Seamens Jr. , the agency 's general manager and third-ranking official , for his direction of space efforts . An Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal was presented to Harris M. Schurmeier of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Pasadena , Calif. , for his direction of the Ranger program , which has produced 17,000 photographs of the surface of the moon . The white-and-gold East Room was jammed with spectators and cameras for the ceremony . Mr. Johnson personally stage-managed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her two children , Scott , 14 years old , and Mary , 11 , and to Mrs. Young and her children , Sandra , 7 , and John Jr. , 6 . When the astronauts alighted from the helicopter on the South Lawn they looked up in surprise at the six-f oot-tikreeinch President . " We look like shrimps next to him , " said Major Grissom . Mr. Johnson said that for 165 years the East Room had " witnessed great moments of our history " from John Adams to John Kennedy . " A sense of history Is present strongly here today , " he said . " All of us are conscious that we have crossed over the threshhold of man 's first tentative and experimental ventures in space . The question of whether there would be a role for man himself in space is already firmly and finally answered , and answered affirmatively . " Major Grissom , speaking on behalf of all of the medal winners ? said " we accept these awards as tokens of affection from this nation , not just to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country who are involved directly and indirectly " in the space program . The astronauts rode with Vice President Humphrey and House Speaker John W. McCormack from the White House to the Capitol in a Presidential limousine . Washington school children had been let out of class for the day and some of them ran joyously along with the procession as it passed thousands of persons assembled on Pennsylvania Avenue . At the Capitol they and their families , plus those of Dr. Seamens and Mr. Schurmeier , lunched on steaks with about 40 members of Congress . The party was given by Senator Clinton P. Anderson , Democrat of New Mexico , and Representative George P. Miller , Democrat of California . They are the chairmen of the two Congressional space committees . Speaker McCormack told the astronauts " you have lifted the flag of America high in a manner of which every American is proud . " Major Grissom said , in reference to his first space flight and previous honors , " even though we have gone this route once before , it 's certainly gratifying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families . " So brief were the remarks of Major Grissom and of Commander Youry , that Senator Anderson joked " Let that be a model for all Senators . " The astronauts and their families will be in New York Monday for a ticker-tape parade .                     