@@721312

txt HE WAS THERE See page 10 for recollections of the Korean war by Walter Simmons , CHICAGO TRIBUNE corr espondent , who was the only newspaper man to cover the war from start to finish . PANMUNJOM , Korea , June 24 ( UPD ) A half million troops lined the bunkered ridges of a truce front Friday , alert for the shot that might reopen the Korean war and trigger World War III . That shot is not expected by American or Republic of Korea military chiefs Saturday , the war 's 10th- anniversary , or any other day in the immediate future . But neither do they foresee any safe way of letting down the guards which make this frontier one of the most heavily armed in the world . Half Trained and Armed Ten years ago Friday night Russian directed , North Korean communist troops moved into jump-off positions be . hind jagged ridges just north of here for a dawn invasion that awoke the world . The small army of the American sponsored Republic of Korea ' was caught half trained and half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by demobilization and economy drives of the late 19405 had officially written off Korea as a place to stand and fight a land war with communism . War in Korea awakened the noncommunist w o r 1 d , sparked the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty organization , reversed the process of demobilization in the west , and put the idea of collective security to a test . Last Open Aggression The war ended in stalemate on July 27 , 1953  --  a false peace . without victory at a cost of some 433,000 South Korean , American , and other allied lives , and at least twice that many North Korean and Chinese Communists . It served notice to communist war planners . They have not tried open aggressions since . The Republic of Korea was preserved intact and today it is as secure as a small country on the rim of a communist empire can be . To keep it that way- the United States is staying in Korea with the 1st army corps , 8th army command headquarters , and its biggest aid program in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly 4 billion dollars have helped South Korea support the world 's fourth largest ground army . Reds Have Reserves Its nearly 600,000 men decisively outnumber North Korea 's Russian armed and Chinese controled army of 350 , - 000 . Just across the Yalu river in Maiichuria , however , is a Red Chinese army which could quickly move back into the Korea war zone . . And in air power , North Korea , a few minutes ' flying time from Seoul , has more than 600 jet fighter planes ? four limes South Korea 's air strength . To correct this imbalance , the United States 8th army is getting Nike-Hercules and , Hawk anti-aircraft missiles . United States 5th air force planes based in Japan and Okinawa could quickly return to Korea , and the 7th fleet 's 1,800 carrier based planes and marine air wing are in ready reserve . Some Weak Spots On the ground , the 1st cavalry and the 7th infantry divisions and the 1st corps artillery pack an atomic wal- , lop with Honest John rockets and 280 mm. rifles . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy artillery and tanks , despite some recent reinforcements . Both United States divisions are below strength in American troops . But the military balance sheet added up by the overall allied commander , Gen. garter B. Magruder , generally supports the official assessment that the Communists would not dare attack South Korea today unless they were ready to risk atomic World War III .                     