@@724074

txt Juana Castro , the 31-year-old sister of Cuba 's Premier Fidel Castro , was described here tonight as a provider of " useful , tidbits " of information to United States operatives in Cuba for the last four years . The information aided the Central Intelligence Agency . According to qualified in formants , Miss Castro had turned against her brother and his regime as early as The begining in 1960 . Since 1960 , she had devoted much time and energy to hiding and helping anti-Castro Cubans as well as supplying United ' States intelligence with occasional information on general , affairs . In Havana , Premier Castro accused United States officials of having put in his sister 's mouth the censure she delivered against him in Mexico Monday . The Embassy in Mexico City denied the charge . Qualified sources here familiar for years with Miss Castro 's activities emphasized toAssociated Press Juana Castro night that under no circumstances could she be regarded as a " controlled agent " of the Central Intelligence Agency or any other United States Government organization . The C.I.A . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Castro 's personal friends , she had warned Cuban and American friends in July , 1959 , that her brothers Fidel and Raul were leading Cuba toward Communism . Raul Castro is Armed Forces Minister in his brother 's Government . Those friends reported that Miss Castro , after returning from a long trip into Cuba 's interior , especially in Las Villas Province , told friends with alarm that old-line Communists were taking over all the key positions in cities and villages in Cuba 's provinces . She sought out personal friends , including several high officials in the Castro regime , pleading with them to put her in touch with Premier Castro so that she could apprise him of this information . She told friends that she did not believe that her brother Fidel was actually aware of the extent of the communism infiltration . Early in 196o , Miss Castro , who owned at that time a small commercial radio station in Havana developed personal contacts with several members of the United States Embassy in Havana . This correspondent also maintained occasional contacts with her at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was able to receive from Miss Castro indications on how affairs were developing within the Castro family and in regard to developments within the regime . Miss Castro was known early in 1960 to have likewise developed contacts with the antiCastro underground organization , On one occasion , in mid1960 , Miss Castro participated in a meeting with several American operatives . A few minutes after leaving a house where she and several Cuban plotters were present , the two American officials were ar-. rested by the secret police and . subsequently expelled from Cuba . Plan to Leave Cuba In November , 1960 , Miss Cash- ) told friends that she seriously considered leaving Cuba at that time because she could no longer participate in life under her brother 's regime . However , she expressed fear that her departure would be , misinterpreted both in Cuba and outside , and she therefore decided to remain in the country . After the interruption of United States-Cuban diplomatic relations early in 1961 , Miss Castro became an occasional supplier of " useful bits " of information to C. I. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because her own access to Premier Castro was extremely limited , she disposed of only occasional and rather superficial bits of information , it was said . During that period , it was understood , Miss Castro had only a few opportunities to see her brother Fidel . One of them occurred in 1961 when she encountered him , stopped at a red light at the Havana intersection next to her car . She jumped out of her car and entered his , and spoke to him for an hour , seeking to persuade him to abandon the pro-Communist line . However , she reported later , Dr. Castro only nodded and gave no replies . After most . of her friends left Cuba for exile , Miss Castro arranged to have the control of a number of private homes in Ha- , vana 's residential districts where she hid numerous persons who were seeking to evade the secret police . At the same time she had been active in assisting people in leaving the island . Her decision to leave Cuba on June 20 was understood to have been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government to do so , and flew out aboard a Cubana Airline aircraft in the cImpany of another Cuban woman . Highly qualified sources insisted tonight that neither the C.I.A . nor any other United States agencies had anything to do with her departure , and were as surprised by her arrival in Mexico as everybody else . However , it is known , Miss Castro had immediately established contacts with United States representatives in Mexico , although she is not believed to have been in a position to supply any vital new information . Miss Castro 's whereabouts are not officially known , but certain contacts have been kept between her , United States authorities and certain private friends .                     