@@726335

txt The floral decorations at a " Mary 's Day " mass last week at Immaculate Heart College in Los Angeles were displayed in 76 deep oil cans as a symbol of " Christian involvement . in the world . " An Ash Wednesday service this year began with the reading of New York Times headlines . " ' Bootblacks Hurt ais 35e Shine Cuts Business , ' " said the clergyman . " ' Army Opposition to Mao Reported . ' This is the day the Lord has made . " At a recent outdoor vesper service traditional music gave way to a tape-recorded anthem that included disconnected bits of electronic music , newscasts , strange clanging sounds and a commercial for a detergent . Earlier that afternoon the congregation had put together a 12-foot-high assemblage of old tires , beer cans , a hockey glove and other pieces of junk . Such far-out liturgical innovations are part of a growing interest in pop art and other contemporary forms that has led to the modification or re-. placement of traditional liturgies in scores of churches and educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " happenings " to theological interpretations of the cartoon Peanuts , a " Missa Bosse . Nova " and a pop art chapel designed to destroy itself . To some churchmen these new liturgical forms constitute a crass attempt to increase attendance and to make religion superficially relevant by diluting the Gospel with secular values . L'Osservatore Romano , the official Vatican newspaper , de-1 ? ? , , rso Mnrifork Tithes ure is the Rev. Malcomb Boyd the Episcopal chaplain-at-largi to the nation 's colleges wh ( read ' prayers and answerec questions at the hungry i , night club in San Francisco . Father Boyd , whose theology is considerably more orthodox than his methods , says his aci is " a way ti reach people whc would never go near a church . ' Mr. Sununerlin , however , said Father Boyd " Is circum. casing the night club and try . ing to impose his clerical collar on something that should be accepted in its own right . " Numerous clergymen have found religious meaning in recordings by the popular folk . rock group Simon and Garfunkel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agreed in an interview that this was legitimate . " The general outlook of some , of the songs concerns morality and love , " he said . " The problem is that some religious people are like English majors and can find religious significance in ' Ba Ba Black Sheep . " A Matter of Seriousness One advertisement for their records says , " They get to the fundgmentals , love , justice , beauty , salvation . " Most churchmen , including critics of ' pop religious forms , agree that churches must employ contemporary artistic ' forms , Mr. Henry , for example , acknowledges that " there may be room for folk music in some churches . " The differences occur over the question of how seriously one should take the message that accompanies some of the new forms . Should the churches , for instance , accept the preoccupation with the mundane that pop art necessitates ? The Rev. Dr. Martin , E. Marty , a church historian at the University of Christian Divinity School , is among those who see validity in these messages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are protesting the exhaustion of old theological forms and seeking a new sense of joy and contagion . " Conceding that religious pop art is " candidly ephemeral and self-defeating , " he adds : " But it is helping to enlarge our vocabulary for a new language of worship if it ever comes into being . We 're all , a little jazzier than we thought we 'd be . " has performed his compositions in churches . Recently , however , jazz has largely given way to the teenage genre of folk music and rock . More than 150 Roman Catholic parishes and other institutions in Chicago now use folk music , and records in the field include a " Rock and Roll Mass " and a " Missa Bossa Nova . " A recent Vatican pronouncement was initially interpreted as banning such new forms , but subsequent statements indicated the warning was directed only at " abuses . " One of Italy 's top " rhythm bands " recently performed during a mass in a church near Udine , in Northern Italy . Synagogues have shown little interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ folk music . Rabbi David Hartman of Montreal , who has experimented with Hasidic folk songs , said they " make worship and learning a vital thing . " The search for new liturgical forms also extended to electronic and random music . " Anthem Number Two " by David Ahlstrom and Roger Ortmayer , for instance is based on the theme , " now is the time for the word . " It lasts 4 minutes and 1 second , and requires singing and speaking voices , operating " all at different tempos , different rhythms . " Turn to New Media Mr. Summerlin , a Methodist who spends most of his time working with the new liturgies , conducts choirs of " nonmusicians " in anthems of clicks , sighs , and other vocal effects . Churches such as St. Clement 's have been involved with the theater for many years , and now other churches and religious groups are turning to new " multimedia " techniques of expression . The Rev. Ronald Schlegel , pastor of St. Philip 's Lutheran Church in St. Louis , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a piece of sculpture was covered with balloons , which were popped during the sermon as an expression of how God " shatters contemporary secular patterns which separate us from the love of God . " Most churchmen involved in the use of pop religious forms see parallels between trends in contemporary art and contemporary religion . For example , Robert Rambusch , an Episcopal layman in New York , believes that both are involved in a " search for identity . " Pop art , which began , to flower five years ago , focuses on the banal and the commercial aspects of the contemporary qwq In a noontime procession there were hundreds of balloons , miniskirts and blue felt pennants on which students had pasted words and pictures from newspapers and magazines . The Ash Wednesday service using newspaper headlines took place at Western Maryland College , in Westminster , Md . A jazz combo led by Ed Summerlin , a saxophonist , provided the music while dancers moved down the aisles and hurled paper plates at the congregation . Random sentences from the Bible , newspaper ads and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who caught a plate was instructed : " Sometime , during the next four minutes , stand up and read . " The Rev. Roger E. Ortmayer , the National Council of Churches official who led the service , explained that " the content of this new-style prayer book is not the point so much as the fact that the people participate in the service and make interesting sounds . " The Rev. James M. Boyd , chaplain at Drew University , organized the vesper service on the campus of the Methodist institution , at which the junk assemblage and pop anthen. were part of a " celebration of creation . " - " It 's a way of saying that the ordinary and the imperfect can be nade beautiful , and the God we worship is a nittygritty God who is involved in everything , " he said . Several religious happenings have been staged , including a " Eucharistic happening " at St. Clement 's Episcopal Church in Manhattan . A jazz band was perched high above the congregation , which moved among a series of booths to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eugene A. Monick Jr. , the rector , called the occasion " an experiment in worship without direction . " Barton Benes , a young artist who Vent a year at the New York Theological Seminary , is among those who have used pop art to express religious themes . A Smokehouse Chapel ligion  --  which tends to grow roots  --  to , take the ordinary seriously , to assimilate and celebrate it and then to move on . " B. J. Stiles , editor of the Methodist student magazine Motive , suggested that the new liturgies , especially religious happenings , represented a " resurgence of emotion in worship . " " Religion has become too verbal and rational , " he said . " But the young person today is no longer interested in intellectual games over whether God is dead or alive . He wants religion to be an extension of his feelings and his social concerns . " Others , however , view the new liturgies as too worldly to be useful to religion . The Rev. Carl F. H. Henry , editor of the fundamentalist Protestant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The junk assemblage and other pop art forms glorify the natural and do n't call for a new spiritual birth . Thus it 's impossible for them to express the core of the Gospel message . " Some feel that in embracing the new pop forms the churches may misuse the arts . The Rev. Howard Moody of Judson Memorial Church , for example , observes that religion has traditionally tended to become " imperialistic " and insist that something has to have religious significance before it could be accepted as legitimate . One controversial figure on this point is Robert Short , a University of Chicago Divinity School student who has written a best-selling book , " The Gospel According to Peanuts , " which is based on the comic strip . In the Peanuts cartoons Mr. Short finds illustrations of religious themes such as original sin and salvation . " It uses cultural language that people can understand  --  like ' the parables of Jesus , " he said . Another much-disputed fig scribed pop art in general as an expression of the " total and general defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always used contemporary ' art forms to express itself and that Bach in his day was considered as far out as the hippy . The liturgical use of junk and , other pop forms , they say , is a hopeful sign that churches  --  long criticized as being too otherworldly ? are now succeeding in giving profound religious meaning to the ordinary and the commonplace in human life . From congregations the use of pop and folk forms draws mixed reactions . " I do n't feel like I 've been to church , " a worshiper commented after listening to a folk-rock group called the Drunken Lords sing at St. James 's Episcopal Church , at 71st Street and Madison Avenue . But another worshiper said : " I suppose some people are shocked by it , but I think that anything that drags people into church . Is O.K. " The best-known example of the new marriage of piety and pop is " Mary 's Day , " an annual festival at Immaculate Heart College that Gerald Huckaby , an associate professor of English , has described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the products and processes by which we live . " This year 's theme was " Survival With Style . " The celebration began Wednesday evening with the mass and a ' soup-andbread dinner symbolizing the college community 's concern for the poor . The next morning partcipants wound their way through a 50-by-60 foot " Survival " maze made out of seven-foot walls of brightly decorated paper boxes . On the boxes were phrases and quotations such as " I Must Be What I Am " and " Get With the Action . "                     