@@724103

txt San Francisco Which way will a victorious Sen. Barry Goldwater turn ? Toward party reunion and conciliation of the Republican moderates whom he is so decisively defeating ? Or toward the realignment of the two parties into conservative and liberal ele-ments ? Thus far the Arizona Senator 's attitude toward his Republican rivals has been relentless , He has made no substantial concessions on procedures or on platform points . He has been stung , understandably , by his rivals ' sharp attacks and in turn his quick tongue has flashed out against all of them from the Eisenhowers to the Lodges to the Rockefellers to the Scrantons to the Nixons . Moreover , the very basis of his political appeal is for the " clear choice . " To move in the moderate direction now would be a change of character . A A ' Nevertheless , scores of Republican candidates from coast to coast aspire to office in areas where the conservative position appears to be far from a majority . They believe , from experience and analysis , that their only hope is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldwater move toward the center enough to permit these many Republicans a comfortable place on the ticket with him ? Can he persuasively do so ? Or can his heavily conservative position attract ever-widening support , as his ardent followers are convinced it can ? The alternative is to assume that the " white backlash " vote , which comes largely from normally Democratic partisans in working-class districts , will support the Goldwater ticket . And here the sinister shadow of interracial fear and hate enters the picture . Senator Goldwater 's posi- tion on race relations is relatively liberal compared with the stark elements of racial feeling which produced Alabama Gov . George C. Wallace 's showing in several Northern states . The white backlash is surely one of the most dangerous elements that has recently been unleashed in American politics , Already the Negroes are picketing Senator Goldwater at San Francisco . There seem to be proportionately fewer Negroes on the delegations here than at any Republican convention in memory . To have the overwhelming part of the Negro population represented in a single political party , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces a very divisive issue . It is unhealthy . For American political parties to have sharp racial or religious or ethnic differences helps divide the national society rather than harmonize it . A A Some of Senator Goldwater 's supporters are trying to push him further to the extreme . There is no compromise in them . Republican middle-roaders who have to run on the ticket with him are struggling to bring him in their direction . If after the nomination he does not make conciliatory gestures he will be the first presidential nominee for many years not to do so . But this is the first time for many years that the nominee for either party has been on the extreme wing of his party . So all the rules may conceivably be changed . Even if Senator Goldwater decides to follow tradition and be conciliatory , it is uncertain how effectively he can carry out the role . He is virtually committed to a basically opposite course . A A A It may be argued that Republican moderates are no worse off now than Republican conservatives were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in , similar years . But the difference is that right-wing voters , saddled with a middle-road candidate . had nowhere else to go . Middle-road voters facing a right-wing candidate can slip easily over to the Democrats . All these things seem not to deter one whit the earnest and zealous Goldwater majorities . They are defeating what they describe as the Eastern establishment , at whose hands they feel they have suffered for long years , and they are pretty happy .                     