@@721992

txt Mayor Wagner demanded the immediate resignation of all nine members of the Board of Education last night . He acted after receiving a report from his special board of inquiry that the " best interests " of the school system would be served if the members resigned . If any member declines to resign " voluntarily , " the advisory group said , the Mayor should request the resignation . The inquiry panel explained that , while it knew of no legal grounds for the removal of the board under the present circumstances , the members should step down because the school board did not have the confidence of the public . Charles H. Silver , president of the board , declined to comment on the Mayor 's request until he had seen the full report . He said he would discuss the matter with his fellow members at a special meeting today . The meeting was scheduled before the report was made public . Mayor to Await Action Mayor Wagner at first indicated that he would personally go before the board at today 's meeting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Later , however , he said he did not believe a personal request was necessary . Asked what he would do if the members failed to resign , the Mayor said he would " cross that bridge " later . All of the members of the board were appointed or reappointed to their posts by Mayor Wagner . If the members do not resign , they face certain removal by the state next week . Governor Rockefeller has called a special session of the Legislature for Monday to abolish the present city school board and to give the Board of Regents the authority to appoint an interim board . State Plan Assailed The Governor 's plan for an interim board , which was based on the recommendations of Dr. James E. Allen Jr. , the state Education Commissioner , was criticized by the Mayor 's advisory unit . The panel , which was named Thursday by the Mayor , consists of Dr. Henry T. Heald , president of the Ford Foundation ; Max J. Rubin , former president of the New York State Citizens Committee for the Public Schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor 's panel said that the state 's interim board would only be " a caretaker type of body , " and that a temporary board would not be able to come to grips with the major problems confronting the city schools . or to adopt the " drastic changes " necesary to improve the school administration . " During this period of interim stewardship , there would almost inevitably be an impairment of staff morale , " the report declared . Instead of resorting to stopgap measures , the advisory group said , it would be better if the Mayor could appoint as soon as possible a permanent nekv board " of the highest type . " The report called upon the Mayor to ask civic , educational , business , labor and professional groups in the city , " active or interested in the field of education and child welfare , " to make recommendations for new appointees to the board . A panel of nine outstanding citizens , the report continued , should be set up to screen the recommended candidates . The Mayor would then make his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according s to the recommendations . Mayor Thanks Group In releasing the board of inquiry 's report , Mr. Wagner thanked the three members for carrying out their assignment " with precision and dispatch . " The Mayor noted that when he appointed the members last week he said he wanted their plan for action " no matter whom it helped or whom it kurt , and I pledged I would accept it , " he said . " They have now given me their plan , and I accept it , " he aid . The report was drafted at a lour-hour meeting yesterday afternoon at Dr. Heald 's office at the Ford Foundation , 477 Madison Avenue . After it was completed , it was sent by messenger to the Mayor , who made It public a little later . The inquiry group was appointed by the Mayor after the Governor had rejected Mr. Wagner 's proposal for a sixmember board to be appointed .. ) 37 him and Mr. Rockefeller . Both Dr. Heald and Mr. Rubin were members of a state committee appointed by Commissioner Allen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations , particularly in the construction field . Mr. Preusse , at the Mayor 's request , conducted a similar study at about the same time . Both studies led to recommendations for sweeping revisions in the structure and operation of the school system . The only ' school board member to offer immediate comment on the report was the Rev. Gardner C. Taylor . " I am interested in knowing the basis upon which my resignation is being sought , " he said . " If there is some good reason for the welfare of the children , I will gladly resign . If , however , the reasons are bogus and part of a dreary drama of office-grabbing , I will not resign . " Comment by Adams Earlier in the day , before the report came out , Francis W. H. Adams , another member , declared he had no intentions ofi resigning . Mr. Adams , who has frequently been critical of his fellow board members , charged that the Governor and Commissioner Allen were trying to oust the board for " partisan political purposes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance , could make the necessary improvements in school operations . State Controller Arthur Levitt , Mr. Wagner 's rival for the Democratic nomination for Mayor , issued this statement after learning of . the city commission 's recommendations : " Let 's stop looking for scapegoats . The Mayor leads the list of those who are responsible for the school crisis . If resignations are being called for in order to assign blame , then - Robert . Wagner should be the first to resign . " Earlier in the day , Mr. Levitt met with Democratic legislative leaders to discuss next Monday 's special legislative session . After the conference , Mr. Levitt endorsed the proposal to have an interim authority take immediate charge of the city school system .                     