@@722440

txt Washington , May 14 Congressional leaders of both parties tonight were asked to meet with President Kennedy tomorrow morning for a discussion of the crisis in Laos and southeast Asia . Earlier , official sources disclosed that Thailand has consented to admit a combat force of United States marines from the 7th fleet to strengthen the Asian country 's defense s against possible communist penetration from neighboring Laos , Those summoned to the White House conference were the chairmen and ranking minority members of the Senate and House armed services committees , Senate foreign relations committee and House foreign affairs committee . Experts to Attend It was expected that experts from the defense and state departments would join in the conference . The chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee is Sen. J. W. Fulbright D. , Ark. , but : he is ill and probably will be represented by Sen. John J. Sparkman D. , Ala. , second ranking Democrat . Sen. Alexander Wiley R. , Wis. is the ranking minority member . Rep. Thomas E. Morgan ID. , Pa. . heads the House foreign affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Chiperfield R. , Ill . . Chairmen and ranking minority members of the two armed services committees are Sen. Richard B. Russell D. , Ga . , Sen. Leverett Saltonstall R. , Mass . , Rep. Carl Vinson D. , Ga. , and Rep. Leslie C. Arends R. , Ill . . Confers in Bangkok The emergency White House meeting on Laos forced a postponement of the President 's weekly breakfast with Democratic leaders in Congress to , Wednesday morning . Official informants said that Gen. Paul D. Harkins , United States military advisory commander in South Viet Nam , conferred yesterday with Thai government authorities in Bangkok and obtained their approval to land'combat marines , if such a move becomes necessary . Pentagon sources said today it is up to the United States to decide whether to land the marines in Thailand and that this decision had not . yet been reached . Await Kennedy Order It was reported that about 1,000 marines would be landed from the 7th fleet if the Kennedy administration gives the go ahead . These marines would augment the 1,000 American troops of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the vicinity of the Mekong river in northeast Thailand . In that area , the Mekong river forms the border between Thailand and northwest Laos where communist forces have scored major advances since breaking a cease-fire agreement eight days ago . The American troops arrived in Thailand last month for Southeast Asia Treaty organization maneuvers . Thailand 's supreme military command announced yesterday that these troops would remain indefinitely . The announcement coincided with the communist offensive in Laos , which brought the advancing rebels to the border of Thailand . Can Take Action Pentagon sources said today the American troops  --  and ' the 7th fleet marines if they are landed in Thailand ? " could be expected to take physical military action " to prevent communist forces from crossing the border from Laos if Thailand invokes the eight-nation SEATO defense alliance or a bilateral defense agreement between Thailand and the United States . Besides Thailand and the United States , other members of SEATO are Britain , France , Australia , New Zealand , Pakistan , and the Philippines . Last March , following a visit of Thailand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its pledge to help Thailand repel communist attack without the prior agreement of the other SEATO members . The United States and Thailand agreed that the obligation to fight communist attack under the SEATO treaty is " individual as well as collective . " - Hope for Settlement White House and state department sources said today that while the United States is taking " precautionary measures " in the latest crisis in Laos , this country is still seeking and hoping for a political solution to the problem . A White House spokesman said administrtion studies and consultations on the Laos situation " are still under way " after conferences of late last week and yesterday between President Kennedy and his top military and diplomatic advisers . Direct United States military intervention in Laos to keep the embattled kingdom from falling completely to the communist rebels is one of the courses of action under study . At the state department today , a spokesman said the United States and Britain still have had no reply from Russia to their appeal that the Soviet Union use its influence with the Laotian rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1961 international conference 6n the future independence and neutrality of Laos . Awaits Envoy 's Report Lincoln White , department press officer , said that Russia " is in a position to exercise leverage on the Communists in Laos . " He said that in the past Russia supported a unified , coalition government for Laos , but pending a reply to last week 's appeal the state department " has no clear-cut indication " of Russia 's present position regarding restoration and maintenance of the cease-fire agreed upon by the communist rebels and the royal government of Laos a year ago . White said Llewellyn E. Thompson , United States ambassador to Russia , had not yet reported on his discussion with Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev yesterday regarding a cease-fire.                     