@@724375

txt Some Stalinist practices have made a comeback in the Kremlin . Unable to improvise in the free-swinging manner , made famous by Nikita S. Khrushchev , the new leaders have gone back to the political style in which they were steeped prior to the Khrushchev era . This was the impression of Western European Communist delegations . They had gone to Moscow hoping to obtain explanations for the sudden shift in Soviet leadership . Many facts point in this direction . Inethe best Stalinist manner Mr. Khrushchev , figuratively speaking , was dropped into . a deep well covered with a heavy lid . Passages referring to the former Premier 's merits in statements or resolutions of foreign parties were cut out in the versions printed in the Soviet press . Chinese Communist publications carried the full text . Adzhubei Ouster Cited The mott blatant step back to Stalinist practices so far was the ouster of Mr. Khrushchev 's son-in-law , former Izvestia editor Alexei Adzhubei , from the Central Committee . According to the rules , a member of the Central Committee can be expelled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nearly 30 years ago Stalin himself had to indict former Premier Alexei Rykov and Nikolai Bukharin criminally to obtain their expulsion . V. M. Molotov , G. M. Malenkov , and L. M. Kaganovich were demoted for alleged " antiparty " activities in 1957 . But they remained in the Central Committee until October , 1961 . That was when the 22d Party Congress elected a new Central Committee . The virtual immunity of Central Committee members was meant to enhance the committee 's authority . Mr. Adzhubei 's expulsion " because of serious mistakes " has diminished this authority . According to the French party delegation , the Kremlin has restored many of the security rules of the Stalin era . The French delegates . before being adniitted to the anteroom , repeatedly had to show their passes . They had to fill out forms giving their names and the reasons why they demanded an audience . Leonid I. Brezhnev , Nikolai Podgorny , Mikhail A. Suslov , and B. N. Ponomarev received them in cavalier manner . They refused to answer the questions of the French party . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resignation would be published . The Frenchmen 's demand to see Mr. Khrushchev was i ) rusquely turned down . " Khrushchev belongs to the past and must remain buried in the past , " Mr. Suslov is reported to have said . " Should we ever see him again , it will be to hear him give an account of 10 years of criminal mistakes , " he is said to have added . Impression of Division When the French delegates on the following day again demanded to meet Mr. Khrushchev , Mr. Podgorny 's reply was : " Why turn around a dead man in his grave . " The Italian party delegation was received by the same four men . On the first day , the Soviets listened silently to the questions of the Italians ; on the second day , they attacked the Italian party for having published the memorandum of the late Italian party chief Palmiro Togliatti . In that memorandum Mr. Togliatti had pointed out mistakes in Soviet policy and hinted at differences within the Soviet Communist Party . Like the French , the Italians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among themselves . Luigi Longo , the present Italian party chief , also had spoken of " differences within the Soviet leadership . " These differences apparently make it difficult for the new leaders to maneuver in internal party matters . It may explain their Stalinist stance in dealing with the Western party delegations in seeking to blot out the memory of the former Premier and in Mr. Adzhubei 's unprecedented expulsion from the Central Committee . Such rigidity in internal party matters contrasts strangely with the Kremlin 's economic policy which is admittedly one of experimentation . It also is likely to shock the younger generation . It has become accustomed to Mr. Khrushchev 's informal style . It is strongly set against a return to Stalinist practices .                     