@@725201

txt The Gemini 7 astronauts , alert and smiling but stiff from their record-breaking 14-day space jotirIney , returned to earth today in a safe and accurate landing in the Atlantic Ocean . Lieut . Col. Frank Borman and Comdr . James A. Lovell Jr . splashed down within 17 miles of the aircraft carrier Wasp , about 700 miles southwest of Bermuda , almost precisely as planned , at 9:06 A.M. , Eastern standard time . In a few minutes they were hoisted aboard a hovering helicopter and at 9:37 they stepped from the helicopter to the flight deck of the carrier . They were greeted by the strains of " Anchors Aweigh , " played by the ship 's band , and cheers of the sailor ' How Happy We Are ' " You do n't know how happy we are to be here , " said Commander Lovell , as the two pilots waved , shook hands all around , stretched and flexed muscles they had not used for two weeks . They were unshaven and dirty , but as Colonel Borman said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the astronauts a preliminary medical check-up , physicians pronounced them " in very good shape  --  better than expected . " On their record-setting mission , the Gemini 7 astronauts made 206 complete turns around the earth , logging 5,716,000 miles in 330 hours , 35 minutes and 26 seconds  --  just short of 14 full days . The previous record was set on the eight-day Gemini 5 trip in August . Besides serving as Gemini 6 's target in man 's first space rendezvous , Colonel Borman and Commander Lovell proved that man can endure and work effectively on the kind of longduration flights that will be required for moon exploration . Both Gemini 6 , which returned Thursday , and Gemini 7 also proved that astronauts can guide their craft to near-perfect landings . This is another prerequisite for moon flights . An air of triumph and satisfaction swept through the mission control room here as soon as Gemini 7 landed . Praising the astronauts , Dr. Robert Gilruth , director of the Manned Spacecraft Center , declared : " It has been a fabulous year for manned space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has put 10 men into orbit on five Gemini missions , setting new endurance marks , proving that rendezvous is possible and returning a wealth of scientific and technical data . Five more Gemini shots and the first unmanned Apollo mooncraft launching are scheduled for next year , The Gemini 7 astronauts together had spent more hours in space , since their launching Dec. 4 , than all the other United States astronauts together . But they were ready to return to earth today . They awoke at about 1:49 A.M. They ran checks of the electric power system , communications and computer . As they passed over Australia in the early morning hours , a ground controller radioed : " Only three and a half hours to go , huh ? " " Are you ready to come home ? " mission control asked the astronauts . " Ready ! " cried Colonel Borman . " Righto . " Commander Lovell said . " The carrier will feel good . " Then Colonel Borman and Commander Lovell finished stowing the remaining loose gear into compartments , " The cockpit 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All the while computers on ' the ground poured out last-minute calculations for the re-entry ' based on a steady flow of radio data from the spacecraft . Its exact center of gravity had to be determined to plot the precise amounts and timek. , of rocket thrust during re-entry . Shortly before re-entry , the craft 's " adapter module , " the cylindrical rear section that contains much of the support equipment , including the electricity-generating fuel cells , was jettisoned , exposing the heat shield . The remaining systems were then being powered by storage batteries . At 8:28 AM. , the four retrograde rockets fired automatically by computer and in sequence , each providing a braking thrust of 2,500 pounds . Gemini 7 was about 180 miles above the Pacific southeast of the Philippines ? 11,500 miles from its landing target in the Atlantic . Colonel Borman reported , " All retros normal , " ' Looks Real Good ' " Looks real good , " ground control replied . A few minutes later , Elliott See , the astronaut who was acting as ground communicator with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fuel cell lights out now ? " he asked , jokingly . From the first to the last day of the flight , the amber warning lights had blinked on and off with puzzling frequency . Toward the end , the craft was operating with two of its six ! fuel cell sections out . ! " Affirmative " came the reply . The fuel cells had already been jettisoned . I Gemini 7 at this time was plunging from its 185-mile orI bit toward the earth 's atmosphere , its blunt-end heat shield ; pointing downward and aslant . ' By Ering bursts of his maneu- , vering thruster rockets , Colonel ! Borman kept the craft from I tumbling . Passing over Hawaii , down to ! an altitude of 115 miles , Colonel Borman said , " Good-by , Hawaii . " ' From its orbital velocity of about 17,500 miles an hour iw space , Gemini 7 had slowed toll 5,700 miles an hour and over ! the Gulf of Mexico when , asl expected , its communications ! blacked out . At that point the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created the ! " fireball effect , " a sheath ofl flame enveloping Gemini 7 . Radio waves can not penetrate the sheath . About five minutes later , ! within seven minutes of splashdown , Gemini 7 passed out of the blackout and Colonel Loin man reported that they were ! " right on nominal , " as the ! Wasp 's radar picked up blips of the craft . At an altitude of about eight : miles , the small drogue para. chute unfurled to brake the , craft 's fall to 200 miles an hour . A minute later , the main chute billowed and Gemini 7 began dropping horizontally . It hit the ' water at about 20 miles per ! hour . I The Gemini 7 astronauts were between 11 and 17 miles from ' the Wasp and just 7.6 miles ' from the predicted splash point . ' Christopher C. Kraft Jr. , the , flight director , said later , " Al-I most every point of re-entry ! came within a couple of seconds of when we predicted it Would ; occur . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , the Gemini 7 astronauts had bet the Gemini 6 astronauts that they wuuld come closer to the splashdown target . A computer error had caused Gemini 6 to be slightly farther off course in relation to the target  --  the exact distance is uncertain . The Gemini 6 came down 15 miles from the Wasp . Space officials would not say tonight which team of astronauts won the bet . Within five minutes of splashdown , Navy airplanes circled the bobbing craft and a recovery helicopter with a doctor aboard hovered over . Colonel Borman and Commander Lovell elected to leave the craft and be lifted into the helicopter for the flight back to the Wasp , which Os steaming in at 30 knots . Frogman Dropped Three frogmen dropped into the water from the helicopter , and inflated a rubber flotation collar around Gemini 7 . Opening his hatch for a breath of fresh air , Colonel Borman gave the frogman a thumbs-up sign . Both astronauts then climbed out and into a rubber liferaft . Harnessed to a plastic-coated steel line , Colonel Borman was lifted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An hour after their descent began and 32 minutes after splashdown , Colonel Borman and Commander Lovell touched down on the flight deck of the Wasp . The band struck up and banners on the deck read " Spirit of 7/6 " and " Season 's Greetings " ' Flashing wide grins , the two astronauts walked stiffly down ' the red carpet on the flight ' deck . Colonel Borman flexed his leg muscles , scratched his chest , and waved to the space officials and naval officers who gathered ! around . " Hey , you all look good , " he : said . Commander Lovell stroked his dark beard . " The deck's1 moving , " he said . A Marine guard escorted the astronauts to the ship 's hospital . for the first of many intensive ' medical examinations . Colonel Borman told doctors he needed a shower " something awful . " Both astronauts got their showers a few minutes ' later . After medical examinations ! on the carrier , the astronauts will be flown to Cape Kennedy ' tomorrow for debriefings and ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Major Thomas P. Stafford and Captain ' Walter M. Schirra Jr .. the Gemini 6 astronauts , whom they ! last saw 185 miles in space last Wednesday . The Gemini 7 mission was essentially a test of how well man can endure the rigors of two weeks in the strange environment of space . In the Apollo moon program , ! the United States plans to send ! men on lunar missions that could take as long as 14 days . Not only did the Gemini 7 astronauts endure , but they also proved that man can remain alert and apparently healthy for such a period . During their 14 days in space , the Gemini 7 astronauts coped with the problems of the balky fuel cell system , a tape recorder that refused to rewind and two thruster rockets that played out . Their beards itched , their skin became greasy and their limbs stiffened . Some nights their sleep was fitful . They lost weight . But they continued on . j Excapt for some anxious mo'ments on Thursday when the ' fuel cell trouble threatened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much of the time they flew with their space stilts off in the comparative comfort of their long underwear . It was the first time astronauts have undressed in space . They tracked the firing of a Polaris missile fired from a submerged submarine 35 miles off Cape Kennedy . They followed the fiery path of a Minuteman 2 dummy warhead as it streaked across the Pacific . It was the first time that astronauts had picked up the infrared " signature , " or emissions , of a war , head in flight . The next United States manned space mission . Gemini S. is scheduled for March . On this mission , astronauts are to rendezvous With an unmanned target vehicle , probably an Agena rocket , and then physically link up with it . The mission should last two days .                     