@@723351

txt Letters to The Times Madame NGO DINH NHU.JULTUS VENNER . ( Rev. ) ALONISTUS MCCALL , O.F.M. CAP.CHURCHILL ... Letters to The Times Mrs. Nhu Defends Stand Diem 's Sister-in-Law Reiterates Views on Buddhists To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TWEE : With reference to your gratuitously and unnecessarily insulting editorial on Aug. 9  --  the tone of , which amazes me , coming from a paper such as yours  --  I wish to ask : When unworthy people dare make a farce of religion , should those respecting religion play the game of the sacrilegious or should they denounce them for what they are ? If one has no. courage to denounce , if one bows to madness and stupidity , how can one ever hope to cope with other wrongs of humanity exploited in the same fashion by Com-munists ? I may shock some by saying " I would beat such provocateurs ten times more if they wore monks ' robes , " and " I would clap hands at seeing another monk barbecue show , for one can not be responsible for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say when the world , under a mad spell about the so-called " Buddhist affair "  --  and much thanks to the good offices of papers like yours  --  needs an electroshock to resume its senses and come better to understand the reality of the situation ? Sacrilege Denounced Moreover , why should anyone be so bewitched and subdued that he can not see that " monks , " exactly because of presumed " holiness " and " culture , " are more guilty , more unpardonable for such sacrilege which I find it my duty to denounce ; sacrilege indulged in with the aim of prompting unrest in a country at war  --  daring to break laws not only of their country but of their own faith , in pretended defense of a cause which has never been contested and , further , which my Government has always done its best to protect . Some even say " everything went smoothly until Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu broke everything with her attacks . " Those persons must be reminded that things could not go smoothly anyway . The proof is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebels . Indeed to please and appease disguised " monks " ? which means to get a smooth situation  --  the price is to present to them , on our knees and on a silver tray , our country with all our achievements . Such has never been my aim . It is only to unmask the enemy under whatever label he may hide . Buddhists ' Strength I have , then , called a cat a cat , and a traitor a traitor . But you , overwhelmed by a complex about what the American press has effectively labeled the " Buddhist affair , " see nothing but the pagoda and the robe of the bonze . Why not look instead at the man in the robe and at the activities of the pagoda behind the facade ? Besides , if one must take those " monks " for what they are not , just because it is their will and because one fears their pretended strength  --  why , then , make such great force much stronger ? I too claim the defense of my religion and of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have said or done which brings tarnish to that defense . Because of the alliance between your country and mine , I urge that you make an effort to understand friends and allies before rushing headlong into the trap of enemies common to both . The most obvious trap which we must avoid is not to get panicky , practicing masochism in our own ranks and , above all , not fear to unmask those who dare exploit , just to trick us , what we consider as most sacred  --  religion . Madame NGO DINH NHU . Saigon , Vietnam , Aug. 11 , 1963 . An editorial on this letter appears elsewhere on this page . Ruling on Councilmen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of Aug. 9 criticizing the decision of Justice Irwin Davidson which invalidated the City Charter provision concerning the election of Councilmen at Large is unsound . The issue is disenfranchisement and not greater minority party representation . Your editorial and the City Charter provision are both based upon the erroneous concept that all persons who vote are members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction . At a general election a voter enters the voting booth not as a party member but as a citizen entitled to vote for all officers who are to be elected . From the point of view of an unaffiliated voter the unfairness of the denial of the vote is clear . The charter provision is equally unfair to members of political parties . Two distinct positions are to be filled in each borough . As a party member my first choice may be foreordained , but why should I be denied the right to choose my other representative from among the candidates of the other political parties ? JULIUS VENNER . Mnnrna N Y. Aug ' . 9. 1963 . The Birth Control Issue Church Position on Prevention Is Declared Not Subject to Change To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The series of articles " Catholics and Birth Control " was very interesting and stimulating , but at times misleading . Although it was mentioned in the articles that the Church 's position on birth preven , tion is not an arbitrary Church law , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nevertheless there was an implication that the Church may yet change this law radically , and thus permit something now explicitly forbidden . It is certainly true that the Church grows in an understanding of its doctrines and mission . This is demanded in the concept of a " continuing Church . " But this is not to say that the Church can teach contradictions in the matter of faith and morals . If this were true , then the whole mission of the Church as the " guardian and dispenser of the mysteries of God throughout the ages " is completely incomprehensible . The Church as a human organization can have defects which may make it unattractive to others . But to imply that it can be defective in transporting the will of Christ to men in matters of faith and morals is to say that Christ wasted His time in instituting a Church which was to last forever . Promoting Discussion It is good that these series of articles appeared in a paper like The New York Times . It will certainly promote discussion on this topic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no doubt that the Church 's position on birth prevention is a stumbling block to many . But so was Christ Himself . As discussion and research continue in this field , a clarification of the Church 's position will certainly emerge . But a doctrine which has been taught by the Universal Church , which of itself makes it de fide from the ordinary teaching authority of the Church , can not be changed . It is certainly to be hoped that the miseries of the world and the anxieties of families will be relieved . But to say that birth prevention ' by artificial means will do it is to avoid the problems , not solve them . There is an old adage , " Man sometimes forgives , God always forgives , but nature never forgives . " There are answers to our present problems , but artificial birth prevention is not one of them . ( Rev. ) ALOYSIUS . MCCALL , O.F.M. CAP . Garrison , N. Y. , Aug. 8 , 1963 . Implication of Series CO THE EDITOR of THE NEW YORK TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Catholics and 3irth Control " points up , I think , m interesting similarity between the ) urgeoning attitudes toward religion Ind thenew concepts regarding edu:ation . Both emphasize the use of he brain as a dynamic organ rather : han a mere depositary for ideas and : acts dredged up by someone else . This , of course , means going to he sources , whether in religion , or n philosophy or in history  --  anayzing , comparing , concluding  --  all as the result of one 's own , and not someone else 's toil . Mr. Barrett 's reference to St. Thomas Aquinas and his often misquoted ideas on natural law and reason is a cogent example . In all religious denominations , as in many student bodies , a solid core is unable or unwilling to make the required effort . These are people who prefer to have their thinking done for them . But those that do make the effort will become their leaders , and the conclusion seems inevitable that eventually religious teaching and educational systems will have to face change in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Because our ancestors mixed so much error with religion does not mean that we should leave off being religious . " With a simple paraphrase , this dictate can be applied equally to education . Let 's stop perpetuating those errors that to any thinking man can have no validity today . Mr. Barrett 's articles offer encouraging evidence of a trend in this direction . CHURCHILL S ATTERLEE . Quaker Hill , Conn. , Aug. 8 , 1963.                     