@@723861

txt Washington , March 24-Democrats of the Senate rules committee were sweeping the Bobby Baker scandal under the rug behind closed doors today , the Republicans charged , and were preparing for a public session tomorrow intended to embarrass the Republicans . Indications were that the Democrats would then shut off the investigation , with no further business except the writing of a report . Sen. Hugh Scott R. , Pa. , who has been complaining that the Democrats have ignored the Republicans ' rights to call witnesses , said he hopes the Republicans will not be deprived of the right to protest what they call a whitewash in a minority report . Refuse to Call Two The Republicans ' position was stated in a Senate speech by Sen. Karl Mundt R. , S. D. , who is not a member of the committee but is a member of the Senate permanent investigations subcommittee , which is headed by Sen. John McClellan D. , Ark . Mundt said : The investigation was shut off yesterday , to all intents and purposes , when the Democrats voted down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson 's Top Aid One was President Johnson 's top confidential aid , Walter Jenkins , who has been labeled a key figure in a perjury case . The other was Matthew McCloskey , ambassador to Ireland and former Democratic national treasurer . While Johnson was Vice President , Jenkins was on the payroll at $18,000 a year as Johnson 's administrative assistant . Don B. Reynolds , who sold President Johnson life insurance policies totaling $200,000 , has testified that during the negotiations for the sale Reynolds bought $1,208 worth of advertising time he could not use from the Johnson family 's broadcasting station at Jenkins ' urging . Automatic Perjury Escape Jenkins has denied any hand in the urging , which Republicans have called a shakedown . But he was permitted to make his denial in an affidavit , without appearing as a witness . This device , it was disclosed yesterday , automatically gave immunity to Jenkins against prosecution for perjury in case his was the untrue story . Reynolds has recently submitted an affidavit asserting that Jenkins and Baker called upon him , in the name of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Howard Cannon ID. , Nev. , acting committee chairman , ruled the affidavit irrelevant today and the outnumbered Republicans did not call for a vote . Cannon also ruled Reynolds ' proffered testimony on the subject irrelevant . The Republicans appealed and were voted down . Got Stadium Contract McCloskey owns a construction firm which landed the contract for the 14 million dollar District of Columbia athletic stadium after there had been some diff iculty getting the building project approved by Congress . Reynolds has testified that McCloskey engaged him to arrange the performance bond . after a conference with Baker . Reynolds ' story is that he earned a $10,000 commission and gave $4,000 of it to Baker . Baker was the $19,600 a year secretary to the Senate majority until his use of his political influence in his get-rich-quick schemes that netted him 2 million dollars was exposed .                     