@@725653

txt Algernon D. Black and Thomas R. Farrell Jr. , both of whom have been associated with interracial and civil rights causes , are scheduled to be appointed by Mayor Lindsay to the police review board today . The Mayor has scheduled a news conference for 9 A.M. at City Hall to announce the appointment of ' four civilians to the seven-man board , which will investigate charges of brutality and other misconduct by the ! police . ? ' 1 It could not be learned yesterday who the other two civilians besides Mr. Black and Mr. Farrell would be . Three police officers who will be on the review board are to be appointed by Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary . Mr. Leary has just returned from Europe and is to be at City Hall for the announcements . Ethical Culture Leader Mr. Black is senior leader of the New York Society for Ethical Culture and has been chairman of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing since 1950 . He is a vice president and member of the board of directors of the National Association for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Civil Liberties Union and the Citizens Committee for Children . Mr. Farrell is former president of the Bronx chapter of the Catholic Interracial Council . He served as a special consultant to the Board of Education to help it reform school operations . He is a graduate of Colgate University and Columbia Law School , where he was an editor of The Law review , and is now associated With the law firm of Paul , Weiss , Rifkind , Wharton &; Garrison . The appointments come at a time when . MC ... Lindsay is embroiled in controversy with the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association and the Conservative party over the review board . On Thursday , the police organization and the Conservatives filed . separate petitions with more , than 92,000 signatures asking for a review board referendum ( in the November elections . i On Friday , the Mayor held a news conference in City Hall ' in which he charged that " highly organized , militant , right-wing groups " were trying to ' kill the plan for a civilian-controlled review board . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which , he asserted , could create an " inflammatory situation . " The policemen regard any civilian-led complaint panel as a sort of kangaroo court . They say it will lead to unwarranted citizen complaints against them . Mr. Lindsay was joined yesterday in his opposition to a referendum by Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. , who is seeking the Democratic nomination for Governor . Speaking on the taped WCBS " Let 's Find Out " radio interview program , Mr. Roosevelt said : " I am for a civilian review board and I would campaign against this referendum if it finally gets on the ballot to outlaw a civilian review board . " The old board consisted of three deputy police commissioners . Civil rights groups have complained that police-controlled review boards always side with policemen in disputes involving civilians . The board became a strone. political issue last year and Mr. Lindsay promised in his fall campaign to appoint a civilian panel in its place . The new board officially came into being July 1 but full operation has been delayed pending the naming of its members . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared illegal ; lost a suit in State Supreme Court and is preparing an appeal to higher courts . While the police line organization and the . Conservative party contend that a civiliandominated panel will hamstring the police , some civil rights groups maintain that it will not go far enough . These groups say a review board should consist entirely of ' civilians , including representatives of minority groups . The signatures collected by the P.B.A. and the Conservative party have to be validated by the City Clerk , after which the City Council would have the option of authorizing the referendum . If the Council takes no action , one or both petitioning parties would have to gather 15,000 more signatures . Once these were certified , the Board of Elections , under the Munici- , pal Home Rule Law , would have to place the issue on the ballot .                     