@@727677

txt The Apollo 9 astronauts are rapidly putting space Planners ' concern about their prowess behind them . . At this writing ; 24 hours after their launch at D. a.m. e.s.t . Monday , their performance promised the kind of smashing success that could spur those planners to Send the next Apollo crew to the moon . Lt. Gen. Sam C. Phillips , Apollo program director , acknowledged this when the astronauts had scarcely left . the . pad . He told the postlaunch press - conference that , with its smooth entry into orbit , the mission already Was " far enough along now that I'm. quite optimistic that we will achieve substantial objectives . " He said that the reasons for waiting to repeat the mission " are rapidly getting behind us . " Since then , the astronauts have linked their mother ship with the lunar module , the " LM " that one day will land men on the moon . They have maneuvered the linked spacecraft . And ground controllers have restarted the third stage of the Saturn rocket twice . Reliability tested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send an Apollo craft to the moon . By restarting it twice , once more than was required for the Apollo 8 moon trip , engineers have shown the reliability of its design . These achievements , racked up before Astronauts James A. McDivitt , Russell L. Schweickart , and David R. Scott finished their . first work day , opened their mission with brilliant success . In an intimate , personal sense , reporters here at the manned spacecraft center ca n't really cover the adventures of these men . They are too remote . We sense their feelings daily by listening to noisy radio chitchat and coldly official commentary . We judge for ourselves the moods of the ground controllers . We are caught up in their excitement . Coming off the . first shift that guided the astronauts through the accomplishments already listed , flight director Eugene Kranz joyously exclaimed : " I am very happy ! Very happy ! " His ecstatic outburst told far more about the mission than the reams of tran* // National Aeronautics and Space Administration Spider ' emerges from its cocoon Artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) from Saturn 5 's third-stage rocket , with spider-like lunar module attached . Command-service module then turned around , docked with lunar module , and pulled it away from third stage . *Apollo 9 docking stable . . flawless ' // scripts the National Aeronauts and Space Administration had already handed us . . Master alarm sounds And the report of his control team showed how tricky it can be to try to judge the tenor of the flight by monitoring the radio circuit . When Apollo a docked with its LM , for example , the master alarm sounded . We caught the astronauts ' instant report of this danger signal and wondered if disaster threatened . Mr. Kranz exclaimed that this had happened before in docking tests . It signified no danger . Perhaps some switch , overly sensitive to the mild shock of docking , had been pushed slightly beyond a preset limit and sounded the alarm . Analyists would run this down . Mr. Kranz felt no real concern about it . Likewise , a report by ' he astronauts that they had an unusually high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a leak in the spacecraft . Actually , the astronauts had neglected to reset a control when they removed their helmets to breathe cabin air . Their slip had caused the system to pump more oxygen through their suits than needed . Enthusiasm vented Thus , incidents that to earthbound reporters seem to cast a shadow over the flight 's success often turned out to be inconsequential . The control team was especially pleased with the performance of the command-service and lunar-module combination . Joined together they make an ungainly vehicle that engineers had feared might bend dangerously at the interface . But Neal Hutchinson , guidance officer , said the combination proved " stable , " " ab- ? solutely flawless . " And he said it with an enthusiasm which indicated . that a muchdiscussed technical bugaboo had been removed from the Apollo program . The astronauts still have a demanding schedule to complete in fully testing the LM . Mr. Schweickart must undertake an extensive space walk . " Gumdrop " and " Spider " must execute an intricate ballet to simulate landing on the moon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquired these colorful code names for use during the rendezvous exercises because of their distinctive shapes . The conical command-service module looks very much like a gumdrop , while spider aptly describes the spindly lunar module . Yet , while these challenging tasks lay ahead , Apollo 9 's first working day had infused the mission team with optimism . As General Phillips said , it looked more and more as though the next flight would carry astronauts and their LM to the moon . There , they would at least come within 50,000 feet of the lunar surface in a simulated landing if , indeed , it were not decided to bypass this exercise and land directly .                     