@@721617

txt American diplomats pulled down the Stars and Stripes , and all except a dozen sailed homeward tonight , ending 6C years of diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba . The embassy office was lef ! to ' Daniel M. Braddock of Grand Rapids , Mich. , charge d'affaires , and the f e v helpers staying behind to clear away final tasks . Les : than 24 hours before , Pres ? dent Eisenhower had broken with the regime of Cuban Premier Fidel Castro . Good ? by Is Refused As the party went aboard for the night cruise to Florida there were no demon . strations at the dockside . Cuban customs officials refused to let Braddock go aboard the ferry to bid goodby to the embassy staff until he obtained a special pass . Newsmen were kept . off and were unable to determine how many of the embassy staff of 87 were among the Americans leaving after the break in diplomatic relations . Travel agents in Havana reported an increasing number of Americans were preparing to leave . Exast figures were unavailable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flights were booked solid . Women Guard Embassy Forty-eight Castro militiawomen carrying Czech-made automatic weapons took up ' Positions around the United States embassy building . Officials remaining at the embassy said they understood the militiawomen were sent by the government to prevent hostile demonstrations . The embassy personnel left behind will clean up details , then hand over United States Property and the conduct of affairs to Swiss Ambassador Walter Rossi . Many Are Undecided Despite the ? embassy 's urgings many Americans still appeared to be undecided whether to leave . " I 've seen lots of revolutions here in my time , but this is the first time I 've ever seen Old Glory pulled down , " said an American business man w hose property was seized last year by Cuba . " I 'm trying to make up my mind whether my wife and I should stay or leave , losing everything we have here . " 3,000 Americans Left The state department estimates that 3,000 to 3,500 Americans are in Cuba . But the embassy says this includes all parsons who might have any- claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500 to 800 Ameri : . ans who came from the Unit // STARS , STRIPES COME DOWN TO END CUBAN TIE // ed States and remained part of the foreign community . A formal note from the Cuban government offered American officials whatever time they need to complete the withdrawal . As personnel left the embassy for the ferry , Cuban applicants jammed the front and side entrances in a frantic last-minute attempt to get American visas . Shows Service Record One man held up a certificate  --  his war-time service record in the United States army  --  and waved it repeatedly to get the attention of the embassy guards . A woman came supported by two friends , her fractured leg in a cast . Fifteen young Cubans approached the front door , pushed aside Cubans seeking visas and began singing the rebel hymn of Premier Fidel Castro . They shook their fists at embassy employes inside . Many of the waiting Cubans turned aside , shaking their heads . There was a brief burst of gunfire near the Nacional hotel and the Associated Press office . Woman Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militiawoman guarding the hotel went off . Before the shooting ended apparently without casualties ? more gunfire came from several points near the West German and Japanese embassies . Many Cubans found it hard to believe the news of ruptured relations . Many telephoned or visited the Associated Press office seeking confirmation and asking , " What conies next ? " As American officials left , the Cuban government continued to tell its citizens they face attack from the United States , a charge ridiculed by Washington . The Swiss embassy will take over issuance of American visas . But officials ' here said the limited size of the Swiss staff will permit handling only a few urgent cases among the 50,000 applications stacked up and awaiting disposal .                     