@@727654

txt Nixon 's Trip A ' Quiet American ' Goes Forth to Woo a Neglected Alliance WASHINGTON ? On every other page on the massive briefing books that President Nixon will carry through Western Europe this week , there must be a boldly inscribed injunction saying simply , " LISTEN ! " For Mr. Nixon is rushing to Brussels , London , Bonn , Berlin , Rome and Paris after only one month in office primarily so that it will be said that he cared and that he listened . He is going to listen partly because he does not yet have much to say to the Allies . And he is going to listen because he is convinced that such flattery of oft-neglected partners can best reassert American interest and influence in Europe , The President headed across the Atlantic after a hectic fortnight of preparation . His trip provoked such a frenzied review of policy positions that a number of officials wondered whether he was not attempting too much too soon and too quickly . The effort required to study up on the leading issues and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Nixon was misplacing his energies and neglecting some vital domestic matters . But no matter how loosely reasoned the decision to go may have been , once made it led to an inexorable process of advance work ? political , logistical and security ? and turned a good part of the United States Government into a trip team resembling the one that supported Mr. Nixon in his travels during last year 's campaign . Teams of White House foreign affairs officers , under Henry A. Kissinger , lined up the subjects to be covered , or avoided , in each capital and the emphasis to be given in American reports on everything from Vietnam to Suez . Teams of diplomats , under Secretary of State William P. Rogers , scouted the host governments for signs of special interest or sensitivity and lectured the President on the major European problems in five half-day sessions last week . Teams of travel agents , under White House Counsel John Ehrlichman , paced off the intinerary to avoid surprises , to minimize the hazards of protocol and demonstrations and to perceive the propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a campaign tour , it had the even more remarkable effect of focusing the President 's attention on Europe for the better part of 10 days before he ever left the ground . The best explanation for it was probably to be found in one of Mr. Nixon 's campaign speeches : " It 's time we began paying Europe more attention , " he said in a radio address in October , " And if our ideals of Atlantic interdependence are to mean anything in practice , it 's time we began lecturing our European partners less and listening to them more . What we need is not more proclamations and declarations , but a greater attention to what our Allies think . " Accordingly , there will be no proclamations and declarations on this " working " journey , not even the tedious communiqu  --  s that usually flow from the pens of diplomats accompanying heads of government in their international travels . Mr. Nixon plans only two ceremonial speeches ? to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and to the beleaguered people of West Berlin ? and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the minimum in oratory on the summit trail . He will lay a few wreaths to a few unknown soldiers , pay his respects to a King in Belgium , a Queen in Britain and a Pope in Rome and deliver some pep talks to the staffs of American embassies . But he will pass most of his time with the major political leaders of Europe , much of it alone with the sundry heads of government , submitting to their questions and listening . He will listen for an hour in each place also to unofficial personages from different walks of life . Though this may seem to be a modest approach to the announced goal of " strengthening and revitalizing " the North Atlantic community , Mr. Nixon proceeds from the conviction that the alliance " has suffered from American neglect " and that the best remedy lies in a demonstration of attention and a solicitous effort to beg of the Allies " their experience and their judgment " on affairs throughout the world . This is , in a sense , Mr. Nixon 's way of objecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to press upon the Allies for European unification , including a multilateral nuclear navy and other divisive projects launched from across the sea . It also reflects Mr. Nixon 's view that President Johnson too often let the Europeans think he was too busy in Asia to heed their views . And it bespeaks Mr. Nixon 's sympathy for the European complaint that the United States had too often engaged the Soviet Union in discussions of common concern without adequate consultation . Setting a Pattern Mr. Nixon expects that after this week 's elaborate transAtlantic gesture he will have set a pattern of diplomatic interchange and earned sufficient goodwill to make possible whatever direct negotiation with Moscow he deems appropriate in the months to come . Like its predecessors , of course , the Nixon Administration has more specific objectives in Western Europe . If the trip goes well , these may be promoted in some measure , but they will not be specifically negotiated in this first round . From the entire community of Western Europe , the Nixon Administration would like a greater measure of polictical and eco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations with the Soviet Union and the many serious defense and monetary issues before them can be treated in a mature process of consultation . The Administration would like especially to see an end of the petty squabbling that attended last week 's row in the Western European Union and the subsequent disclosure of President de Gaulle 's proposal to supplant the Common Market with a looser European trade area and political association among France , Britain , West Germany and Italy . Mr. Nixon was set to endorse the Common Market and Britain 's application for membership , but he was also determined to avoid the appearance of American meddling in strictly European affairs . The new proposal may command excessive attention simply because it is new . More narrowly , Mr. Nixon would like to see the West Germans resolve their doubts about the treaty to halt the proliferation of nuclear weapons and would like to encourage them to discuss the number of American troops on their soil on the merits , without regarding every soldier a hostage to American promises of support . He would like to arrange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strategic forces . He is prepared to give promises of full consultation before negotiating with Moscow and hopes for similar assurances in return . He wants to compare impressions of the Middle East situation and other world issues . He is ready to outline American views of monetary questions , though he has no larger objective in that field at the moment . But he is carrying no initiatives and is not likely to wish to give the Europeans very precise answers to some . of their specific questions at this stage . He is going , in the official phrase , to start a process , not to complete a negotiation . Above all , he does not wish to exacerbate the internal tensions and political insecurities among his hosts by injecting himself into their controversies about the Common Market or nuclear proliferation or gold depletion . Mr. Nixon shares the postwar American dream of European union and strength that would make of 180 million people on the Continent another superpower , arrayed on the American side in dealings with the Communist world . But he has said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomacy and will probably repeat that " it is not our place to meddle , to prescribe , or to sponsor schemes to bring it about . " As a " Quiet American " who thus pretends to know his place , he is sure to be respectfully received , particularly in General de Gaulle 's France . As an American who pretends to have come to listen , he may even discover that good manners at this juncture represent the best , perhaps the only , possible diplomacy toward a halfcontinent greatly transformed since World War II but still unified only in name .                     