@@724078

txt Harrisburg , Pa. , July4-Henry Cabot Lodge , who resigned as ambassador to South Viet Nam to come home and campaign for Gov . William W. Scranton for the Republican Presidential nomination , apparently is regarded by the Scranton forces as a liability At a strategy meeting today in Scranton 's official residence at Indiantown Gap , Pa. , tentative plans for Lodge to help the governor in his final political assault on Illinois , Monday and Tuesday , were abandoned . Lodge will appear with Scranton at a press conference here tomorrow and later at a ' rally at the Scranton , Pa. , airport , but they will separate when Scranton arrives at Chicago 's O'Hare airport tomorrow night . Lodge first embarrassed Scranton by saying South Viet Nam should not be an issue in the campaign this year , after the governor had said repeatedly that the necessity for a determined resistance to communist imperialism , particularly in southeast Asia and Cuba , is a major issue . Lodge Smears Dirksen It was even more embarrassing for Scranton when Lodge made , a smearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate 's Republican leader , to nominate Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona for President . Lodge noted sarcastically that . Dirksen nominated Sen. Robert A. Taft , who was defeated by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower at the 1952 convention in Chidago . In Chicago last Tuesday Scranton ' identified his own political philosophy with that of the late Sen. Taft and said Sen. Goldwater is not a true conservative but an irresponsible extremist . Conservative Republicans in Illinois have not ? forgotten Lodge 's part in the character assassination of Sen. Taft in 1952 . Hence it was decided that he would have only a negative appeal to the 58 members of the Illinois delegation which gave Goldwater 98 votes and Scranton none in a poll last Tuesday . An Eastern Movement Scranton 's embarrassment by Lodge is one of many circumstances that have identified his stop-Goldwater crusade as an eastern-establishment operation and doomed it , in the opinion of some ardent Scranton supporters . Gov . Nelson Rockefeller of New York has said that the eastern establishment is backing Scranton . At a Scranton strategy conference , one week ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller and George Hinman , New York 's national committeeman . Scranton is supported by the eastern press and by the radio-television industry , controlecl in New York .. A young St. Louis lawyer , who is a devotecr'Scranton worker , noted sadly that even Scranton 's chartered Lockheed Electra prop-jet airplane has . Eastern Airlines emblazoned on its sides . It is a superb aircraft with an excellent crew , but the political symbolism might have been better if a plane had been chartered from some other air line . Seeks a Nominator Scranton would like to be nominated by an influential noneastern Republican but so far he has found none who is both willing and sufficiently distinguished . Hence Dr. Milton Eisenhower , president of Johns Hopkins , an eastern university , may be asked to make the nominating speech . Lodge tried to persuade Gen. Eisenhower to nominate Scranton , but was unsuccessful . Altho disappointed , the Scrantonites at least will not be worried about the danger that Eisenhower would forget their candidate 's name and nominate someone else . Scranton 's wealth and aristocratic background and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the midwest , south and far west the impression that he looks upon the whole country west of the Alleghenies as the hinterland . Yet , Scranton calls Goldwater a regional candidate . Scranton Lacks Funds One important resource of . the eastern establishment which has disappointed Scranton is its financial power . With Sen. Goldwater 's nomination for President all but a certainty , the easterners have lost control of the Republican party and they are not nearly as generous with their campaign contributions as they have been in previous election years . Scranton 's backers have found it difficult to raise even $500,000 for his stop Goldwater drive . Urgent appeals for contributions , sent to almost 2,000 Republicans across the country last Sunday , were signed by such eastern establishment leaders as Thomas S. Gates , banker and former secretary of defense ; James A. Linen , president of Time Magazine and brother-in-law of Scranton ; Walter N. Thayer , president of the New York Herald Tribune , and Thomas B. McCabe , chairman of the Scott Paper company . Financial control of the Republican party has moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles , and the fat cats in these cities are predominately pro-Goldwater . If Scranton fails to make any inroads on Goldwater 's support in Illinois , he will cohtinue his fight at San Francisco , where he will address the convention 's platform committee on Thursday .                     