@@723534

txt The Supreme Court indicated today that it might apply retroactively its decision of last March requiring states to provide lawyers for poor criminal defendants . Such a step could have an impact in every state . There are thousands of prisoners who were convicted at a time when counsel was not constitutionally required and who would now , presumably , demand new trials . The issue was brought to the Supreme Court by 10 Florida prisoners who were convicted without lawyers before last March 's decision . In a cryptic order today , the Court directed the Florida Supreme Court to reconsider their cases in the light of the March ruling . Protest by Harlan This disposition drew a strong protest from Justice John Marshall Harlan . In a lone dissent , he said the Supreme Court itself should now consider " this important and far-reaching subject " of ( retroactivity . The Florian dissent was the one note of sharp controversy in the Court 's first business day of the new term . The nine Justices disposed of many of the applications for review that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 550 . The Court also began hearing oral argument . First in line were five sit-in cases potentially raising the most prickly of questions : may a state enforce store-owner 's decision not to serve Negroes by prosecuting sit-in demonstrators for tres-pass ? As the sit-in arguments conclude tomorrow , the Justice Department will suggest that the Court can resolve the cases without reaching that broad question . In comments from the bench today the Justices showed no eagerness to reach it . Registration Issue A significant case in the racerelations area was one on which ! the Court . granted review today . It concerns an Alabama order barring the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People from that state . Alabama moved against the association in 1956 for assertedly failing to register as a foreign corporation . A series of temporary state court orders issued without hearing kept the association out of business there . The Supreme Court has stepped into the case three times before . Once it reversed a contempt finding against the association // for refusing to disclose its membership lists . When the Alabama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaffirmed . Then the Federal courts1 were directed to give the assocition a hearing unless Alabama . promptly did so . The association has now , finally , had a hearing and has ' been permanently ordered out of the state . The Alabama Su- , preme Court refused to consider the merits of this order , holding that the association had not , listed its arguments properly in its brief . The Alabama Supreme Court threw out another appeal , by a Birmingham Negro leader , the Rev. Fred L. Shuttlesworth , on the ground that his petition was on the wrong kind of paper . The Supreme Court today also agreed to hear this case . Mr. Shuttlesworth drew an eight-month sentence for allegedly interfering with a Birmingham policeman during a Freedom Ride incident . Justice Harlan 's dissent in the right-to-counsel cases noted the several recent occasions on which the Supreme Court has overruled previous constitutional decisions . One of these was last March 's ruling assuring paupers counsel at state criminal trials . Another , at the same time , extended the counsel guarantee to appeals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegally seized evidence in state criminal trials . " In the current swift pace of constitutional change , " Justice Harlan said , " the time has come for the court to deal definitely with this important and farreaching subject " ? whether the new decisions apply to past convictions . Retrospective application of the new decisions , he said , " may well require the reopening of cases lone since finally adjudicated in accordance with the then applicable decisions of this court . " Justice Harlan concluded that the question of retroactivity was " one that should be decided only after informed and deliberate consideration . " It has been suggested from time to time that the Supreme Court , in laying down new constitutional doctrine , make it applicable only prospectively ? from that day onward . But the court has never done so . The court 's opinion last March in the counsel case , by Justice Hugo L. Black , did not mention the problem of application to persons previously convicted . Today 's brief order might have gone virtually unnoticed but for the Harlan dissent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of retroactivity , but some observers saw in it ? especially in light of the dissent ? an invitation to the Florida courts to apply the counsel rule to prior convictions . In another case today , the court agreed to re-examine the question of Federal Constitutional protection for persons called as witnesses before state proceedings . In the past , the court has held that the Fifth Amendment 's guarantee against compelled self-incrimination appliesi only in Federal proceedings . The case in which review was granted today involves two longshore union officials , Johi Moody Sr. and William Murphy They refused to answer ques tions put by the New Yorl Waterfront Commission , al though the commission hac granted them immunity from state prosecution . Mr. Moody and Mr. Murphy said they were constitutionall3 entitled to immunity from Fed . eral prosecution also , if compelled to testify . This is the claim that the Supreme Courl will consider .                     