@@721839

txt APPELLATE COURT UPHOLDS WAGNER ON CHARTER PLAN Unanimous Ruling Also Bars City Council From Setting Up a Rival Commission MAYOR ' VERY PLEASED ' Verdict Given in 5 Minutes to Avoid Delay if There Is Further Litigation By PETER IiHISS The Appellate Division upheld yesterday ail of the state law under which Mayor Wagner has set up a Charter Revision Commission . The court , acting with unusual speed , took only a five-minute recess after hearing oral arguments before handing down its ruling . The decision included a ban on a City Council effort to set up a rival Charter commission . The Council plan has had the backing of the Democratic county organizations and a majority of the Board pf Estimate . The five-member appellate court 's action reversed part of a decision returned May 5 by Supreme Court Justice Irving H. Saypol . He had upheld the Mayor 's right to appoint a commission , but had ruled invalid a clause in the new state law aimed at barring any competing commission . Further Appeal in Doubt Whether the case would be carried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor had not been decided last night . It ' appeared that any such effort might have hard going , in view of the unanimity of the Appellate Division . Lawyers with more than three decades of experience could not recall a time when the Appellate Division decided a constitutional question the same day it heard arguments . After hearing arguments for seventy minutes , the court told the contesting lawyers to stand by . When the justices returned to the courtroom , Presiding Justice Bernard Botein declared : " This court may function in something like an ivory tower , but we are not entirely unaware of what goes on in the outside world . " He said that in view of the " time urgencies involved , " the justices had intensively studied the record , the briefs submitted on Tuesday and ' the reply briefs handed in yesterday morning . Each , he continued , had reached a tentative conclusion on the papers , and " despite the elo // quence and erudition of all of the arguments , we have just learned that none of our individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly whether to go to the Court of Appeals , Justice Botein said he was announcing the decision , leaving the writing of an opinion for later . The unanimous decision modified Justice Saypol 's ruling by sustaining " the so-called noncompeting provision , " and declared that " the statute is in all respects constitutional . " Emil K. Ellis , counsel for Francis R. Di Prima , a Brooklyn lawyer who challenged the law as a taxpayer , said he would confer with his client on " what to do in the future . " At City Hall , Mayor Wagner commented : " I am very pleased , and Charter revision now can go ahead . " In faf.st , the Mayor 's commission , headed by John T. Cahill , had held its second public hearing yesterday morning in the Supreme Court Building in Brooklyn . To get a draft of a new Charter before the voters this November , the commission must file a document by Aug. 9 . Yesterday 's charter hearing indicated that the commission was weighing ways.of assuring minority representation in the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gerard M. Weisberg , testifying for the Liberal party of Kings County , called for reviving the proportional representation method of election . Louis Broido , a member of the commission , suggested that " the worst evil " might be taken out of that system by limiting candidates to those whose parties had polled 100,000 votes M the previous election or inde- , pendents with 50,000 signatures.1 Joseph lf . Callahan , also a ' member of the commission , suggested adding two Councilmen- ' at-large for each borough , with a proviso that no one party could control all of a borough 's representatives . The Appellate Decision The Appellate Division decision was by Presiding Justice Botein and Justices Benjamin J. Rabin , Francis L. Valente , Harold A , Stevens and Aron . Steuer . ' Arguing the city 's appeal to , sustain the entire law , Corporation Counsel Leo A. Larkin contended that " if the Legislature has complete powers to designate an agency as an instrument for Charter revision , necessarily it has power to designate that agency as the sole instrument . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backed the city by arguing that the wisdom of the non-competing clause was " for the Legislature , and not for the court , to decide . " Reuben A. Lazarus , counsel for the Cahill commission , contended that the Legislature had availed itself of reserve powers to give the city " an alternative method to achieve Charter revision . " The Opposition View On the other hand , Mr. Ellis , ' for the suing taxpayer , chal- , Ithiged the entire law , saying ! it " does not apply to all cities alike . " He held that it granted power only to a " Mayor , " and that fourteen or fifteen of the state 's sixty-two cities had city managers as executives , the Mayors being merely " ceremonial . " Justice Botein suggested that Ythe Legislature was not restraining cities , but merely making a distribution of powers among elected officials . " At the Brooklyn hearing of . the Cahill commission , Daniel B. Berkson of the West Brooklyn Independent Democrats , affiliated with the group known as " reform " Democrats , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a post-audit officer . Mrs. Samuel D. Spatt of the , League of Women Voters called for abolishing the Board of Es- ' timate without any substitute . Calogero Taibi of District Council 37 , American Federation of ' : State , County and Municipal Employes , urged that a labor , relations code for public employes be- added to the City Charter .                     