@@724746

txt Nassau County Executive Eugene H. Nickerson charged today that District Attorney William Cahn had attempted to get the assistance of the county police in the commission of a crime . Declaring that the alleged incident was " another sorry chapter in the history of the maladministration and abuse of his office , " Mr. Nickerson , a Democrat , added at a news conference that Mr. Ca/m , a Republican , " has further attempted to coerce and harass the police so as to cover up his proposed crime . " He did not say what the crime was . Mr. Cairn said in an interview later in the day that he did not know of any crime that he had committed . He called Mr. - Nickerson 's charge " a smokescreen to hide his attempts to frustrate and abort the will of the grand jury of Nassau County in a vital investigation involving possible official corruption . " The Prosecutor said that he was planning to investigate reports that narcotics and whisky were being smuggled into the county jail in East Meadow with the aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are also under scrutiny , Mr. Cahn said . At this point in the news conference the District Attorney pulled a pack of cigarettes from his pocket , saying that one like it had been used to smuggle narcotics to prisoners . He opened the pack to show a celophane envelope that could be used for heroin between two rows of cigarettes . Mr. Cahn said that such packs were , used in this fashion : A visitor to the jail buys cigarettes from the jail vending machine . He switches the freshly bought pack with the one containing the drugs and asks that it be given to a specific prisoner . The District Attorney also said that hypodermic syringes have been found in the jail . - Despite repeated questioning by reporters , Mr. Nickerson refused to divulge the nature of the alleged crime , stating that to do so was not in the public interest at this time . He said it ' involved an investigation now , before the grand jury . In reply . Mr. Cahn said : " I feel it is a tragic time for , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lib eral tradition of Roosevelt , Truman , Kennedy and Johnson dares to publicly accuse the District Attorney of committing a crime and then refuses to specify the nature of the crime . so that the District Attorney might defend himself against the charge . " " This , of course , is McCarthyism at its worst , " Mr. Cahn said . Explanation Sought Mr. Nickerson said at the news conference in his office that he was sending a confidential memorandum to Governor Rockefeller " stating the nature of the District Attorney 's criminal conduct and requesting that the Governor take immediate steps to see that it is prosecuted . " " Police Commissioner James J. Kelly and four other highranking Police Department officials discussed the incident with Jack B. Weinstein , the County Attorney , and me. and it is our opinion that Mr. Cahn ' probably committed a series of ' crimes in violation of the state 's Penal Code , " Mr. Nickerson asserted . " I 've long felt that he should be removed from office , and I asked the Governor to remove him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest to have him removed . " Mr. Cahn said he had planned to use two police officers from St. Louis County , Mo. , as undercover agents in the investigation , under strict security ar'rangements , This plan was told to high police officials , including Police Commissioner Kelly , and they were told not to discuss the plan with anyone . The prosecutor said Mr. Kelly , on two separate occasions , discussed the plan with the County Executive and Mr. Weinstein , despite his request to keep the matter silent . " He not only lied but deliberately and with malice aforethought withheld from the District Attorney informations which may have proved vital ) to the lives of two men , " Mr.i Calm declared . Mr. Cahn said he subpoenaed the Nassau County police to find out whether they had divulged the plan . He described their testimony under waiver of immunity as " a normal procedure . " He said the grand jury ordered that both Mr. Nickerson and Mr. Weinstein be subpoenaed , but attempts were unsuccessful to serve them last Friday . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand jury on Wednesday . Mr. Cahn said that the St. Louis police had withdrawn from the investigation of the jail because of the publicity . " County Executive Nickerson , using the Police Department , thwarted and destroyed the grand jury investigation of the jail . . . County Executive Nickerson has seen fit to destroy an investigation dealing with a subject most vital to the safety of the people of Nassau County ? narcotics . He does this in an attempt to satisfy his appetite for political gains , " Mr. Cahn said . Sending Memorandum He asked why he was not arrested by the Police Department , " if it is true that I attempted to get the five lead ' , ng police officers of Nassau County to aid me in the commission of a crime ? " Mr. Nickerson said that when Commissioner Kelly and the I other officers " declined to be Iparties to the unlawful and im ! proper act , " Mr. Cahn sought to " punish and humiliate them . " " This harassment took the form of Mr. Cahn demanding that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under orders of subpoena and after a havin signed waivers of immunity , " having Nickerson said . " Thus police officials who had never , in more than a quarter of a century of service , been asked or required to sign waivers of immunity , were subjected to the humiliation of being treated like common criminals . " Mr. Nickerson said that police officials testified before the grand jury last Thursday " and were subjected to insulting questioning by the District Attorney over a period of hours . " " I can not allow the District Attorney 's treatment of the police to go unchallenged , " Mr. Nickerson said . " His unwarranted and improper action toward them is but a continuation of the vendetta he has been conducting for some time against the department . " Asked why Commissioner Kelly did not order the arrest of Mr. Cahn if a crime had been committed , Mr. Nickerson replied " I think it 's senseless to arrest him and have him prosecute himself . " Mr. Nickerson said he had long suspected that his office and private home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the District Attorney 's office , but he said he had been unable to discover a tap . " I do n't say anything confidential over the phone , because I know the character of the District Attorney and know he would be capable of doing so , " Mr. Nickerson said . Mr. Cahn denied ever having tapped the phones of either Mr. Nickerson or the police officials . He termed the charge " ridiculous . "                     