@@723710

txt Gov . Richard J. Hughes asked the Legislature today for $194 million to construct buildings for penal and mental institutions and colleges . He said in his annual message that a greater sum was needed to give New Jersey an adequate highway program and to permit it properly to assist the public schools . But he deferred until his budget message next month any suggestions as to how the necessary revenues might be raised . To meet the problem of high school graduates and dropouts who find it difficult to obtain employment , he disclosed that he was about to initiate a pilot project . Under it a group of Newark youths would be sent to a state forest to build recreational facilities while continuing their education under a state-sponsored program . If the project is successful , it will be expanded , Mr. Hughes said . Hughes Faces Legislature The Governor , a Democrat , made his remarks in a 12,000-'word annual message that he delivered in person before a joint session of the Legislature . Both the Senate and the Assembly are Republican-controlled this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million for college dormitories , laboratories and classrooms and $60 million for housing ? at penal and mental institutions . Before he spoke Senate President Charles W. Sandman Jr . and Assembly Speaker Alfred N. Beadleston outlined Republican goals for the new year . These included a $50 million bond issue to expand state mental and penal facilities , a pay-as-you-go plan financed by dormitory fees to expand college facilities , and proposals to meet highway , transit and state economy problems . The G.O.P. leaders insisted that only a sales or income tax could provide sufficient funds to increase state school aid and warned that neither tax would be approved by the Legislature . The Republicans also proContinued posed a merger of the turnpike and the parkway agencies as an economy move . They said further they would support a referendum in November on a constitutional amendment to lengthen to two years the traditional annual legislative session . The legislative majority , they continued , would also move to establish a " Little Hoover " commission to study means of increasing economy and efficiency in the state government . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would make mandatory the registration of all legislative lobbyists . The Governor urged the lawmakers to support his proposal for a jetport at Bearfort or Bowling Green to serve the New ? York metropolitan area , 1 if the Port . of New York Authority , now studying both sites rules either location adequate . He again asked for approval of a tristate transportation compact that would give legal status to the tristate committee created in 1961 by the Governors of New York , New Jersey and Connecticut . The Governor said he would urge that the compact be broadened to permit the tristate body to study air and water pollution and would ask further that the representation be altered so that New Jersey 's votes would equal those of New York City and State combined . Citing the assassination of President Kennedy , Mr. Hughes urged the tightening of the state 's restrictions on the sale , distribution and ownership of firearms . He renewed his plea for a fair , housing bill modeled after the , New York State law and designed to reduce sharply racial prejudice in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called for legislation to combat rent gouging by landlords to welfare recipients , to prevent misuse of **25;1869;TOOLONG funds , and to make easier the apprehension ' Iand prosecution of parents who desert and fail to support their children . The Governor told of plans to organize " technical action teams " composed of industrial and business executives to entice industry to locate in New Jersey . And he asked for the creation of a state international commerce agency to develop the " full potential " of Port Newark , Port Elizabeth and the Delaware River ports as far north as Trenton . For the second successive year , Mr. Hughes requested the establishment of an autonomous state housing authority to finance and build middle-income housing . He also outlined a state Icommunity affairs department he had previously proposed . The agency would take over virtually all joint state-municipal acivties . He said that despite a " painful rebuff " from New York State , New Jersey would con , tinue to seek to induce that state to bring about a minimum drinking age that " conforms to- that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1.25 minimum wage for all workers in the state and the creation of a state labor relations board . Both proposals were advocated by the G.O.P. lawmakers in their legislative program made public last week . The present state minimum wage law applies only to women and children . Mr. Hughes proposed legislation to combat conflicts of interest and to assure the registration of all legislative lobbyists . He asked that pre-appointment training be made mandatory for municipal policemen and that a uniform system of crime reporting be established in the state . He asked for a modernization of the state 's mental health laws and a tightening of the laws that apply to drunken drivers . He disclosed that under the state 's green acres program , negotiations were under way to purchase from the Federal Government 450 more acres to enlarge Sandy Hook State Park and added that the state would soon build 1,000 more campsites in its forests and parks .                     