@@723626

txt Letters to The Times D.F . SHAUGHNESSY.FELIX FRANKFURTER.GRACE RENEE FERGUSON , M.D.guished . JAMES T ... Letters to The Times No Maritinie Arbitration Congressional Failure to Deal With Merchant Marine Policy Seen To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TWEE The current attempt by Congress to impose a compulsory arbitration law upon the oceangoing maritime industry , reported in The Times on Dec. 5 , is merely another , superficial effort to deal with a problem arising from Congressional failure to implement the Federal merchant marine policy as set forth in the Merchant Marine Act of 1936 and the Ship Sales Act of 1946 . In a letter made public last year , Senator J. M. Butler characterized the merchant marine as a victim of " official faintheartedness , doubletalk , meaningless platitudes and evasive generalities . " Since that time , nothing has happened to alter this indictment . This statement appeared in a ' letter to Donald Alexander , the recently resigned Maritime Administrator . In the same letter Senator Butler wrote to Alexander , " I find no evidence that your stewardship of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthened merchant fleet as required by existing statutes . " Ironically , this same Alexander , according to The Times , now testifies in behalf of the compulsory arbitration bill . Admiral Wilson 's testimony , also in favor of the proposed law , is even more disturbing . Anyone with his present responsibilities who considers that the root of the inter-union difficulties is merely " a personality clash , a personal struggle for power , " is n't sufficiently acquainted with the economics of the maritime industry . The unjust burden of these interunion difficulties upon management would not be eased one iota if both Mr. Curran and Mr. Hall were to resign tomorrow . Whoever filled their chairs would be confronted with the same shrinking industry , the same manpower problems and the same problems stemming from Congressional failure to give meaning to Federal laws , and would have to act accordingly . No further studies are needed to support these assertions . The maritime industry has been studied , probed , investigated and examined more than any other single industry during the last decade . The documentation available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacking , merely the Congressional will to implement the already existing statutes . D. F. SHAUGHNESSY . New York , Deb. 7 , 1963 . The writer of the above letter is an impartial arbitrator in the maritime industry . Tribute to Professor Miller To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I claim the privilege of at least a short space in the columns of your valued paper to say a few words of admiring salutation and farewell to Prof. Perry Miller , whose death you recorded the other day . It smacks almost of impertinence for one whose field of competence is so far removed as is mine from that of Professor Miller 's , but his noble tolerance would , I am sure , forgive even a crass layman like me to indicate , however inadequately , what the significance of his writings was . I wonder if the specialists in Professor Miller 's field would disagree with me that there are few men in the world of scholarship whose untimely death would be such a loss to die Amerikanische kultur geechichte , particularly in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightful , honorable and worthy place in the complicated conglomerate out of which evolved the distinctive American civilization . FELIX FRANKFURTER . Washington , Dec. 13 , 1962 . Lack of Aid for Youth To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Considerable attention in the press has been given to Lee H. Oswald 's difficulties while he lived in the Bronx at age 13 . His truancy brought attention ; from school authorities , and subsequently from children 's court . He and his mother were offered probation services through the court , and he spent one month at Youth House , which offered him only temporary shelter and a psychiatric examination . Recommendations for psychiatric treatment were made by four judges and the psychiatrist . It should be pointed out to your readers that-there were in 1953 , and still are , no public long-term residence-treatment facilities for wayward youths in this area . If such centers existed , ? troubled children , adolescents and young adults of both sexes could be removed and treated ( when a parent is uncooperative or the home is unsuitable ) before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a setting they would benefit from lengthy boarding in a carefully structured environment , and at the same time receive schooling , social counseling , and prolonged psychiatric study and treatment . Such resources would make it possible for the recommendations of judges and psychiatrists to be effected . Well-equipped and professionally staffed , the residence-treatment centers would be expensive . But through preventing long terms in penal and mental institutions , there would be an ultimate saving to the taxpayer . Such a program would benefit the individuals involved and also the community . GRACE RENEE FERGUSON , M.D. New York , Dec. 8 , 1963 . Finletter 's Record Cited His Part in New York 's Democratic Reform Movement Recalled To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES This is riot an attempt to answer what would appear to be the rhetorical question put by The Times on Dec. 9 in the concluding sentence of its editorial " Party Reform 's Empty Seat . " But it is both remarkable and incomprehensible that that editorial on the Democratic reform movement in New York failed to mention Thomas Knight Finletter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Lehman were still alive both of them would be writing The Times in the same vein . Thomas Finletter stood and fought shoulder to shoulder with Mrs. Roosevelt and Governor Lehman in the Democratic reform movement in the city and state , In a very real sense , he himself was a political casualty of the good fight in 1958 ? an unfortunate event which did much to insure at least the intermediate victory of reform . In . mourning Governor Lehman and in appreciating anew the immeasurable contributions of Mrs. Roosevelt , forward-looking Democrats can still and all the more be grateful that United States NATO Ambassador Finletter is very actively and effectively on the scene , although necessarily precluded by his present assignment from taking an active part in the New York reform movement at this time . A man of great capacity , wisdom and experience , Mr. Finletter served his country quietly and with exceeding distinction and skill in the State Department in World War II , as a member of the United States delegation at San Francisco at the birth of the United Nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which helped so greatly to secure for air power the recognition to which it was entitled but which it had been denied , as Marshall Plan Ambassador to Great Britain and as Secretary of the Air Force . His present service as our Ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is equally effective and distinzuished . JAMES T. HILL Jr . New York , Dec. 10 , 1963 . Tibetans and Human Rights To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We are celebrating this week the eighteenth anniversary of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights . No memprial to this historic document could be considered complete without remembering the one group of persons whose human rights are most constantly and grievously ill jeopardy  --  the world 's thirteen million refugees . Reference was made in The New York Times of Dec. 8 to the 75,000 Tibetan refugees in India and Nepal . The conscience of the world was touched when the Chinese Communists annexed Tibet after forcing the valiant , ill-equipped defenders of that little country into brutal submission . However , many of the Tibetans followed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The sight of those ragged , possessionless refugees and their holy leader flashed across the conscience of the world as fast as modern electronics could carry their story . There was a worldwide cry of indignation at the usurpation and humiliation of a proud and historic people . But conscience has a short memory . Although the plight of the Tibetan refugees has worsened , the sympathy of the world has turned to other things . Now is . a good time , the anniversary of the U.N . Declaration of Human Rights and the Christmas season , to reaffirm our spiritual kinship with oppressed peoples everywhere .. Besides remembering the nearly forgotten Tibetan refugees , the need of millions of other homeless people should not be passed over . R. NORRIS WILSON . Executive Vice President , United States Committee for Refugees . New York , Dec. 9 , 1963 . Against Litho City Planned Development in Lincoln Center Area Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : That hardy perennial , Litho City , has returned to haunt us afresh , according to your Nov. 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity mills of the Lithographers Union have chosen the autumn season to announce their latest plan to utilize the air space over the New York Central freight yards from West 60th to West 70th Street . Its first incarnation featured Chinese-Wall architecture housing some 25,000 people at building heights ranging from 41 to 47 stories at what were announced as middle income rentals . Provision for senior citizens , artist housing and family living were highlighted . This idea was distinguished both by ifs apparently laudable motives and by its bad planning . Problems of excessive population density , traffic congestion , lack of mass transit facilities , removal of the last open space reserve in the area to meet existing community expansion needs ? these were ignored then and are ignored in the present scheme . This , in the face of the city 's 1962 830,000 traffic survey which indicated that Litho City would impose saturation traffic conditions on the surrounding area . In its successive incarnations the proposal has undergone changes . It has shed its desirable middle-income family features in favor of a basically luxury rental structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such apartments in Manhattan . Replacement Illogical ? Artist and senior citizen housing has been replaced with the international student center , with as much logic as that which accompanies seasonal window-box plantings . If the Lincoln Center community is to remain ethnically , economically and culturally diversified , some action must be taken to preserve the air space in question for the legitimate expanding needs of the existing , already densely developed community . If any housing is needed here , it is middle-income family housing . On the other hand , great ner .. , 1 exists for more neighborhood reep -- ation , including parks , and community and school facilities to keep r pace with the mushrooming devel-opment opment of this Lincoln Center area . A much-needed municipal peripheral parking facility with ingress and egress limited to the West Side Highway , on a deck below could well defray some of the cost . No private group should be permitted to usurp the city 's legitimate planning function by arbitrarily erecting huge developments in their own , and not the city 's , interest . Possible increased construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city services ) are no substitute for sound planning . The city has refused Litho City any tax abatement or other financial aid . The Federal Housing . Administration should now similarly refuse any mortgage guarantees for this undesirable and financially dubious nroient RASIIELLE G. AXELIIANK . New York , Dec. 1 , 1963 Foreign Investments Here To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TI m ES : While Congress ponders stringent new tax laws to keep United States citizens from investing in foreign shares , nothing is being done against existing laws discouraging foreigners to invest money here . One of the most pernicious violations of common sense is the United States estate tax on United States shareholdings . While the tax can easily be evaded by keeping shares in corporate . names or in the name of foreign banks , a foreign taxpayer whose representative is honest will- pay a heavy penalty for holding United States shares at his death . A similarly ill-advised rule taxes foreigners on the sale of United States investments if such sale is transacted while the owner sojourns in the United States or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more here . This senseless rule discourages United States investments or United States travel , or both . Neither the estate tax rule nor the income tax rule has its counterpart in any other tax legislation ; both are probably remnants of times when investments by foreigners in the United States were regarded with disfavor . It would seem appropriate to discontinue them for the sake of our image abroad as well as our dollar balance . OTTO L. WALTER . New York , Dec. 4 , 1963.                     