@@721695

txt AIR TIER GROWS AS ENGINEERS FAIL TO RETURN TO JOBS Men Defy Union and Court Orders-6 Major Lines in U. S. Hit by Strike PICKETING HALTED HERE Secretary Goldberg Urges End to Walkout , a Protest Against U. S. Ruling By EDWARD HUDSON Domestic and international airline service was drastically curtailed yesterday as flight engineers ignored union and Federal court orders to end a spreading wildcat strike against major United States airlines . By late yesterday six airlines had been forced to cancel hundreds of flights throughout the country . Thousands of e ' passeners were stranded or incon-r , venienced . The unauthorized stoppage virtually shut down American , Pan American . Trans World and Western Airlines . Eastern Airlines , the nation 's largest carrier , was badly hit , and Natiional Airlines suspended all operations except for a limited number of jet and two-engine flights between Miami and New York . A seventh line , Northwest , continued severely crippled by a strike started last month by its engineers , who are represented by another union . Men Report Sick Engineers were reporting sick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Mediation Board decision of Feb. 6 . The decision is regarded as a threat to job se- ' curity . Virtually every major city in the country felt the strike . The effects were due to spread to foreign points as planes failed to complete overseas flights . Fog closed the three major metropolitan airports here during the day , forcing the diversion of $ the planes flying and adding to the confusion . As airports became scenes of upset and frustration , airlines not affected began preparations for extra flights . Telephone switchboards were jammed . Twin - engine airliners remained flying for the most part , because they do not require a flight engineer . Some four-engine flights were operated by the struck lines yesterday with supervisory engineers . And in a few cases union engineers manned planes returning to home bases . Union Pessimistic The stoppage spread from four to six lines during the day despite orders sent out by the union , the Flight Engineers ' International Association , directing members to return to work . A union spokesman in Washington was pessimistic on the immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got in touch with union officials by telephone from New York to urge them to obtain the compliance of members . Moves in Federal Courts around the country by the stricken carriers failed to bring the engineers back on the job . In Miami , Eastern Air Lines obtained a temporary Federal Court restraining writ , ordering its engineers back immediately . In Brooklyn , Pan American World Airways also obtained a // temporary restraining order in Federal Court . American obtained an order in the Federal Court in Dallas , Tex. , ordering the union to I show by tomorrow why the walkout should be continued . In Kansas City , Mo. , Trans World Airlines received permisision from a Federal judge to take depositions tomorrow from union officers . And in Los Angeles , Western Airlines obtained a Federal restrainin order calling for an immediate end to its stoppage . The walkout was touched off ' Friday night after engineers of ! Pan American World Airways ' had set up ' picket lines at Idlewild , Queens , . in a wage-andhour dispute with that airline . The picketing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Presidential order two hours earlier aimed at delaying the walkout for sixty days . Union officials did not call off the picketing until shortly before noon yesterday . They said they had not received notification of the order by the 5 o'clock closing time of their Washington offices . Meanwhile a wave of sympathy strikes had begun on the other lines . Major airlines with engineers represented by the pilots ' association and unaffected by the strike included Braniff , Capital , Continental , Delta and Northeast . Pan American flew a jetliner out of Idlewild late last night for Paris with a supervisory engineer on board . A second Pan American jet with Dr. Heinrich von Brentano , West Germany 's Minister of Foreign Affairs , aboard , was canceled at 11 P. M. last night due to fog . Dr. Brentano , returning home after talks kith President Kennedy , had been delayed here all , day following cancellation of his ' scheduled morning flight . Ron Brown , president of the engineers ' union , termed the walkout by the engineers a protest against the mediation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tha men " against their Will into the Air Line Pilots Association . " The decision ordered a bargaining representation election among flight engineers and pilots on United Air Lines to select a single flight crew union instead of the present two . Since pilots outnumber flight engineers on all airlines , the order could mean , if eventually applied to all carriers , the collane of the 3,500-member engineer union . A spokesman for the flight engineers said approximately 2,700 members were taking part in the walkout . They monitor certain gauges and controls and are responsible for the functioning of electrical , hydraulic , turbine and pneumatic systems .                     