@@723434

txt London In a private room behind the scenes of the Trades Union Congress at Brighton the TUC has wrestled with its conscience and won . The result is an important , perhaps historic , victory , too , for economic common sense . Unfortunately , however , it was hardly a win for clarity , On Wednesday , under the glare of television lights , an edited version was played over again in the form of the set debate on economic planning . One wonders how many viewers there were in the middle of the clay and how many got the essential point . That point , of course , concerns wages ( and other incomes ) and the standard of living . It is that the latter can go up faster when the former , on average , seem to go up more slowly : that the aim of an income policy is to increase real incomes , which means holding costs and prices down . In its report to the congress the general council originally had stated simply that it accepts the view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money incomes as a whole must rise less rapidly than in the past . " This was not acceptable to some militant union leaders , notably Frank Cousins , leader of the largest union , the Transport and General Workers . But at first George Woodcock , TUC general secretary , would not alter the phrase , It seemed to him that in all honesty the facts had to be put . to union members bluntly in this way . Compromise Formula Yet Mr. Cousins and Mr. Woodcock were brought together in the end by a simple , sensible compromise : it was pointed out that the aim of an income policy actually is to raise " real wages " faster than in the past , Why not say so ? Why speak instead only of money wages and in terms of a slower rise ? A 4 percent growth rate in the long run is a very fast growth rate indeed . With stable prices it can be a " real " 4 percent per annum growth of the standard of living , including wages . Common sense about increases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Check on Wealth Vital This is what the compromise formula now says : " One of the necessary factors in economic growth must indeed be an expansion of real purchasing power . " To restrain real increases in wages and salaries could defeat such a program . Equally to allow prices and profits to ' rise unchecked would undermine the foundations of a policy of planned growth . " As part of any such policy it would be essential , moreover , for the NEDC to reexamine the present inequitable distribution of the nation 's wealth , with which it so far has dealt only inferentially when , discussing the pattern of taxation . The NEDC report on conditions favorable to faster growth had emphasized the need to run the economy at a high level of demand and the social and economic advantages of full employment . " It drew attention , however , to the ways in which a high level of employment . when coupled with a slow increase in productivity , have in the past affected costs and raised export prices faster than those of Britain 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievement of more rapid economic expansion would require more exports . This was why the NEDC pointed to the desirability of creating a situation in which money incomes ( profits as well as wages and salaries ) did not rise more rapidly than output . " As the NEDC emphasized , the purpose of this would be to achieve a program of faster growth and to secure a much faster rise in real incomes per head than in the past . Even its present target of 4 percent per annum ( and the aim must be to raise this target ) would enable real ' incomes to be doubled in a little ? over 20 years , " the statement asserted .                     