@@725963

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 36 Letters to the Editor of The Times To Review State Adoption Laws To the Editor : My involvement in the Liuni case has taught me that for all practical purposes the state has not one but 62 different sets of adoption laws , in the sense that each individual County Welfare Commissioner enjoys extraordinary freedom in interpreting existing regulations . As the Liuni family has discovered , when an unjust or questionable decision is made , often the only recourse is costly and , time-consuming legal action , which takes an additional toll in the breakdown of normal family life . In the present case , for example , the Liunis ' court record clearly states that the difference in complexion and hair coloring was a major consideration in denying the Liunis the right to keep four and one-halfyear-old Beth . And yet State Welfare Commissioner Wyman has stated that such considerations are in violation of state policy . Nevertheless , the state has so far been powerless to force the Ulster County Welfare Commissioner to change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court to defend their rights . The fact that the County Welfare Commissioner has no professional training for making such delicate decisions has also been assailed , but has not made it easier to overturn them . Subjective Determinations In New York State , adoptions and foster child care are guided by innumerable layers of " policies " which are plastered over a flimsy skeleton of law . Local welfare commissioners and judges have a disturbingly free hand to make subjective determinations ? to " shoot from the hip " if they are so inclined  --  without the restraints and guidance of carefully drawn laws . The Liuni case illustrates the pain and disruption this situation can bring to a happy family . And it is safe to assume that what is happening in Ulster County has also been happening throughout the state . As a result , on Nov. 13 I wrote to New York State 's executive and legislative leaders urging an inquiry into the state 's adoption laws and procedures , with a view toward strengthening and clarifying them . Anthony J. Travia , Speaker of the Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requesting that the Hon. Henry L. Ughetta , Chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Judicial Reorganization , undertake such a study as soon as possible . Governor Rockefeller has also demanded an investigation into the Liuni affair by State Welfare Commissioner Wyman . It is to be hoped that when New York State takes a fresh look at its adoption laws , as other states already have , the Legislature will place a higher priority on human considerations , and make stronger requirements for compliance by local officials . JOSEPH Y. RESNICK Member of Congress 28th District , New York Washington , Dec. 1 , 1966 ? Training of Nurses To the Editor : The Board of Education 's recent proposal to make Bellevue School of Nursing part of Hunter College is a wolf in sheep 's clothing . Superficially the change would seem to add the prestige and discipline of a college education to nursing training while sacrificing nothing . The disadvantages of converting a three-year hospital program into a fouryear college program are less apparent but more compelling . Becoming a nurse will take more time and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those equipped to acquire a college education . Frequently , too , nurses graduating from baccalaureate programit have had less bedside training and require additional , expensive supervision by the hospitals before they become truly proficient . College programs may have a role in educating nurses whose broad perspective and firm understanding of medical theory will equip them for leadership . With a shortage of nurses everywhere in the country , however , it is foolish to erect unnecessary academic and economic barriers for those wishing to enter the profession . With rising medical costs , it is as foolish to inflate the personnel expenses of hospitals by depriving them of the aid of student nurses and necessitating the additional supervision required by some graduates of college nursing programs . PETER ZORACH New York , Dec. 1 , 1966 ? Democrats ' Future To the Editor : Now that Lyndon Johnson has presided over the most disastrous defeat the Democrats have suffered in Congress since 1946 , it is time for the party to give serious consideration to his qualifications for renomination in 1968 . The legislative victories of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed him by an Inept opposition , should not be allowed to obscure the failures of the Administration abroad and the lack of confidence in the President at home . There seems to be a tendency toward ebb and flow regarding the vitality of the two parties . For fifty years after its first victory in 1860 the Republican pE .. rty was the vehicle through which most new ideas were put into effect , climaxing with the reformism associated with Theodore Roosevelt . In 1912 the G.O.P. stood at the crossroads . They had the choice of standing pat and renominating an unpopular incumbent , or choosing a more inspiring figure whose very name symbolized youth , vitality and imagination . When they turned their backs on Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 , the Republicans insured a most significant defeat . G.O.P. Decline After 1912 the vitality passed out of the Republican party . The reforms advocated by Roosevelt were enacted by the Democrats , who received credit for them and became known as the more progressive of the two parties . Though the Republicans were able to win a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominated and the policies they pursued indicated that they had lost touch with the times . In two years the Democrats may be where the Republicans were in 1912 . They too will have the choice of renominating an unpopular incumbent or selecting a candidate of great vision and imagination , as well as greater popularity . Complacency , inertia , and stand-pattism are already evident within the party , Recent elections saw older , tired Democrats , bogged down in outmoded New-Deal rhetoric ) or mindless cold-war slogans , losing to younger men with no better credentials except new faces and greater vitality . No one can look at the Percys , the Hatfields , the Lindsays , the Brookes and the Agnews without realizing this . Public opinion polls are unanimous in showing among the Democratic voters a preference for Senator Robert Kennedy as the Presidential nominee in 1968 . If this continues , the men who run the party will eventually have to face the question of whether they will select a man whom the majority of the party does not want as did their G.O.P. counterparts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him who are unafraid of breaking the chains of the past is what is needed to save the party from a future of frustrating defeats and meaningless victories . If the Senator chooses to wait until 1972 , he may well find the Presidential nomination to be worthless . Bold thoughts are needed in the months ahead if the Democratic party is to break the cycle of history and remain the party of youth and imagination . LYNN HUDSON PARSONS Instructor Department of History Wayne State University Detroit , Mich. , Nov. 19 , 1966 ? War Crimes Tribunal Defended To the Editor : Your Nov. 22 editorial describes me as " the fanatical anti-American American . " Let us see whether The New York Times is so unfanatical as to give me the right of reply for the first time in its columns despite many such attacks . Your editorial has an air of d ? j ? vu . Three African Presidents have resigned ( not four ) as sponsors of the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation . Their names have never been used in connection with the tribunal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent undertaking but because the tribunal does not accept such support . You regard opposition to the American war in Vietnam or the cover-up of the death of President Kennedy as fanatical anti-Americanism . I consider that I have as much right to my country as those who debase it . We Americans who resist the global policies of our imperialist rulers feel a conscious responsibility to our people . It is this which compels us to oppose the crimes in Vietnam which are committed in the name of the American people by ruthless men who defile our nation . I understand your fear of Bertrand Russell . It does not matter to you that he spoke for half an hour at the press conference . All this childish sniping only harms the reputation of The Times . The tribunal 's investigation in its full exhaustiveness and complete verifiability will be our answer to the slander of The New York Times and other apologists for the United States power structure  --  a power structure which , unlike the American nation , commands the loyalty of The Times and the determined opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crimes Tribunal London , Nov. 24 , 1966 ? No Church-School Aid To the Editor : You are to be commended for your strong stand  --  your Nov. 18 editorial ? on the church-state issue regarding public and parochial schools , When are people of this nation going to wake up ? It was 1949 when Cardinal Spellman said that all the Roman Catholic Church wanted was bus transportation and auxiliary services such as health and lunch benefits . According to Section 3 of the recent Vatican 's Declaration on Christian Education , and Sections 5 and 6 of Declaration on Religious Freedom , the Roman Catholic Church wants full aid for its parochial school system and special benefits and special favor given to its church . AMBROSE ARNOLD Morristown , N. J. , Nov. 28 , 1966 ? School Aid Backed To the Editor : The United Federation of Teachers does not speak for this member when it opposes Federal aid for disadvantaged children attending nonpublic schools . The Federal Act provides funds to help disadvantaged children attending nonpublic schools . The U.F.T. position penalizes these disadvantaged children whose parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantees freedom of religion and the " free exercise thereof . " H. V. GEOGHAN Sr. Flushing , L. I. , Dec. 4 , 1966 ? Future Smog Crises To the Editor : The Thanksgiving air pollution crisis was the first in which a Commissioner of Air Pollution Control clearly labeled what was happening . At least two previous air pollution crises which took over 200 lives have been documented , much after the fact . The discrepancy between the sense of emergency that existed and the action that the department was enabled to take aroused public concern that more effective measures could not be taken sooner . We therefore urge that the city immediately be empowered to act independently in future air pollution crises  --  without waiting for recommendations from the Interstate Sanitation Commission , that cutbacks in pollution-producing activity begin at much lower levels , and that they be made mandatory . This , of course , should be part of the attack on the conditions which create such emergencies . CAROLYN KONHEIM President , Citizens for Clean Air New York , Nov. 29 , 1966    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        