@@725493

txt One of these months , Britain will no longer need to station its 55,000 troops in Southeast Asia , defending Malaysia against the " confrontation " attacks of Indonesia . As Indonesian President Sukarno 's shadow dwindles , so does the immediate need for a powerful British commitment " east of Suez , " Answer apparently ' No ' The question facing Whitehall planners , usually on short supply in men and munitions , is actually what to do with these British troops , some 14,000 of them tough little Gurkhas on hire from Nepal . Washington 's Pentagon is interested , wondering if any of them could be sent to Vietnam , as South Korea and Australia have sent troops . Could Prime Minister Harold Wilson 's support of American policy in Vietnam be stretched that far ? The answer is a pretty definite " No , " and there are many reasons . According to authoritative sources here , Washington never has asked for British troops for Vietnam . True , visiting American officials have made an occasional loose remark to the effect that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Vietnam alongside the American . Indeed , American officials would definitely like to see a British medical unit , or similar auxiliary force , sent there . But Washington understands the British unwillingness to commit fighting forces . In the first place , Mr. Wilson has his restive left wing , now augmented by newly elected recruits , to consider . Even some middle-road British opinion would strongly object if Britain got militarily involved in Vietnam . In short , British public opinion is against such commitment . Britain is not pro testing the heavier bombing in the vicinity of Haiphong and Hanoi , but its restraint does have limits . Second , the Foreign Office believes that any ? persuasion it can muster to bring the Vietnam participants to the peace table would be destroyed if it took an active war role . ? Peacemaking role stressed To be sure , the Soviets are arming the missile sites in North Vietnam , and giving other aid to Hanoi . Still Mr. Wilson holds he can not be any kind of effective peacemaker if British troops are committed . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its forces were already engaged in Southeast Asia , in defense of Malaysia . Now the confident expectation in Whitehall is that Indonesia is going to abandon the " confrontation " against Malaysia . This will be done quietly , perhaps even while a general or two in Jakarta talks about increasing the " crush Malaysia " campaign . The fundamental fact is that if , Indonesia is to get out of its economic mess , it must adopt much more of a " not-hostile-to-theWest " attitude . It must heed the advice of the World Bank and similar orthodox economic authorities . It must realize that neither the Soviet Union and its satellites , nor Communist China has an effective formula for Indonesia 's rehabilitation . The West does have . Sukarno a figurehead ? This formula requires , very obviously , that Jakarta abandOn all such fantasies as President Sukarno 's anti-Malaysia cam-paign , President Sukarno is complaining that he is being treated like a constitutional monarch without power . That precisely describes the situation . He is a figurehead and little else , according to advice reaching London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those 55,000 troops ? actually they have been drawn upon from time to time and the total is often nearer 50,000 . British officials say frankly that " it has not been worked out where they shall go . "                     