@@723010

txt President Kennedy was welcomed here today by the largest turnout within Costa Ricans ' memory . He promised that his three-day visit would increase the hemisphere 's capacity to prevent infiltration of Cuban agents , money and propaganda . Opening his conference with the Presidents of six Latin American countries , Mr. Kennedy declared that " we will build a wall around Cuba  --  not a wall of mortar or brick or barbed wire , but a wall of dedicated men determined to protect their own freedom and sovereignty . " A throng estimated by the San Jose police at nearly 250 , - 000 persons flowed into the streets , disrupting most of the prepared welcome parade . The crowds overran police and guard lines . They filled every square foot of the street and sidewalks for most of the four miles from La Sabana Airport to the Presidential Palace . The President 's car got through without difficulty but the rest of the cavalcade , including the cars of other visiting Presidents , was held up for half an hour . Flight Avoided Cuba One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearly that long while waiting for Senator J. W. Fuibright , who had become lost in the crowd . Mr. Fuibright , who is the head of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate , walked the entire way from the airport into the center of the city . The President arrived here from Palm Beach this morning in his jet plane , which was accompanied by a jet fighter escort and took a route that gave Cuba a wide berth . In brief remarks on his arrival , Mr. Kennedy said that he hoped the meeting would " demonstrate that economic prosperity is the handmaiden of political liberty . " This demontration , he told his cheering audience , " is the responsibility of all of us . " He added that , if that responsibility were met , " then this country and all the countries like it in this hemisphere will remain free . " The alternative , he said , would be one of " enslavement by those who already have indicated their desire to crush out independence in this hemisphere . " He did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist-dominated island repeatedly in his talk opening the conference at the Presidential Palace . He coupled his warnings of the encroachments of " one of the oldest of our enemies " with a drastic need for economic development . More Speed Urged The Alliance for Progress , the promotion of which is high on Mr. Kennedy 's agenda for this conference , was praised for its present accomplishments in Latin America . The President warned , however , that " yet we can not be satisfied with the progress we have made . " " Peoples who have waited centuries for opportunity and dignity can not wait much longer , " he added . " Unfortunately , while this new endeavor goes forward , we are also confronted by one of the oldest of ( ) Ur enemies . For at this very time that newly independent nations rise in the Caribbean , the people of Cuba have been forcibly compelled to submit to a new imperialism , more ruthless , more powerful and more deadly in its pursuit of power than any this hemisphere has known . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puppets has poured the Cuban nation into its despotic empire and it now seeks to extend its rule to the shore of the continental shelf . " The welcoming ceremonies this morning were typically Latin American in their pageantry and solemnity . President Francisco J. Orlich of Costa Rica appeared on the reviewing grounds before the Presidential dais a little after 10 A.M. He stood at attention while the national anthem was played . A little over 30 minutes later , all the Latin American visiting Presidents had marched in as their respective national anthems were played . Order of Appearance The order following President Orlich was Julio A. Rivera of El Savador , Miguel Ydigoras Fuentes of Guatemala , Dr. Ramon Villeda Morales of Honduras , Luis Somoza ' DeBayle of Nicaragua , and Roberto F. Chiari of Panama . The last one received was Rene Schick Gutierrez , the President-elect of Nicaragua . Panama is not considered a part of the Central American group . It usually is represented at Central American meetings by observers but it does not belong to the Central American common market or any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is more oriented to the United States because of the Panama Canal . The weather was almost perfect for the welcoming ceremonies . The air was typically brisk and cool and the sun shone softly through scattered clouds . The only marring element was the excessive amount of volcanic dust in the atmosphere drifting in from the sporadically erupting volcano Irazu , about 20 miles away . The volcano , which virtually destroyed the city of Cartago in 1910 , began erupting last week for the first time since then .                     