@@724448

txt WASHINGTON , Dec. 22 ? Preiident Johnson 's new policy of " patience and generosity " toward the allies is now being put to a hard test by the military leaders of South Vietnam . In effect , Lieut . Gen. Nguyen Khanh and the young colonels in his command are insisting that the United States should go.on- financing-the war there at the rate of $1.5 million a day  --  but should keep out of the internal squabbles over the make-up of the Saigon Government . This puts President - Johnson and his Ambassador in South Vietnam , Gen. Maxwell Taylor , in a most difficult position . The legal basis for American military intervention in that country is . that it is being asked to intervene by the legitimate Government of the country . General Khanh , however , is demanding the right of the military to change that Government at will , and is - publicly condemning the United- States for opposing his ' demands . The situation as seen in official quarters here , therefore , is that those who . have the power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country themselves , while those who are expected to govern have no power and are subject to removal whenever Khanh and the colonels give the word . The Legal Tangle This , in effect , destroys whatever legal basis the Saigon Government has and therefore weakens the American Government 's argument that it is acting in Vietnam on behalf of the legally constituted authorities of the state . More than that , General Khanh 's decision to support the young colonels who fired key members of the High National Council makes it all the more difficult to bring about a reconciliation between the Government and the Buddhist leaders . In fact , there is reason for believing that ' the military acted to purge legal High National Council members precisely because progress was being made toward a political compromise with the Buddhists . Accordingly , President Johnson must ' now decide how ? to react to this demand for a free hand by the military to do what it likes with the Saigon Government regardless of the wishes of the U.S. Government . In effect , he is now confronted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under Premier Tran Van Huong and what is left of the High National Council on the one hand , and the military leaders on the other . High Council 's Role ? The High Council was formed three months ago to steer the country from military to civilian rule and to serve as a temporary legislature . The U.S. approved of this in the hope that it would bring about political unity and help in the war against the Communists , in which 22,000 Americans are engaged . President Johnson is in a particularly difficult position now because he has given two quite different reasons for his policy in Vietnam . On the one hand , he has said that the U.S. was there to help a legal government - defend its freedom . He has stated repeatedly that the war could be fought effectively only by the Vietnamese themselves , led by a determined and unified govern ' ment . This , he emphasized , was the reality and the legality of the situation . The U.S. was there to help the Vietnamese-win the war , not to re -- place them or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the President 's request , ' the Senate and , the House of Representatives passed a Joint Resolution which defined U.S. aims in Vietnam in much different terms . " The United States , " the resolu. tion stated , " regards as vital to its national interest and to world peace the maintenance of international peace and security in Southeast Asia . . " The United States is , therefore , prepared , as the President determines , to take all necessary steps , including the use of armed force , to assist any member or protocol state of the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty including Vietnam requesting assistance in defense of its freedom . " Fight or Negotiate ? This resolution clearly places a much higher-strategic value on the war in ' Vietnam , ' and it ? remains to be seen which objective President Johnson will now pursue . If General Khanh 's views prevail , the President would be free on his original commitment to conclude that the Vietnamese Government was neither legal nor competent to carry on the war . If he follows the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regard Vietnam , as vital to America 's national interest and to world peace , regardless - of the actions of General Khanh and the army colonels . More than likely , the President will try to restore the High Council as before , but if the first official reaction here is any guide , this latest action by the military leaders will strengthen the belief here that political stability in Saigon ie a hopeless objective , and Washington must either fight or negotiate a compromise settlement .                     