@@721851

txt WASHINGTON , May 26 ? Republican Congressional leaders sharply attacked today the proposed tractors-for-prisoners exchange with Cuba and President Kennedy 's support for it . The Republican statement was made as several Senators in both parties said they were receiving an increasing volume of mail denouncing the exchange ' as " blackmail " and a " humiliating " submission to Premier Fidel Castro . There appeared to be a possibility of some Congressional action to prevent a private citizens ' group , encouraged by President Kennedy , from raising funds to buy 500 tractors . These would be exchanged for the 1,200 Cuban invaders captured by the Castro regime last month . The deal was proposed by Dr. Castro in a speech May 17 . Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana , the majority leader , // conceded that " feeling is running pretty high " in Congress . He said he could not predict what it might . ead to . Senator Mansfield , who has supported President Kennedy , said his own mail on the subject was heavily opposed to the exchange . This was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added . Two resolutions , aimed at halting or hindering the tractor deal , have been introduced by Senator Homer E. Capehart , Republican of Indiana . The Congressional opposition contrasted wtih reports being received here that the willingness of United States citizens to help redeem the 1,200 prisoners was being well received in the other American nations . At the White House , Pierre Salinger , press secretary , said that about 600 letters and telegrams had been received so far as a result of the President 's appeal for Americans to support the Tractors-for-Freedom campaign . Mr. Salinger said that about half the messages supported Mr. Kennedy and half opposed the tractor plan . Private fund drives are under way in some areas of South America to help buy the tractors . There have been demonstrations favoring the exchange in Bogota , Colombia , and Sao Paulo , Brazil , and the usually anti-United States student groups are supporting it . Some Communist publications in Brazil and Chile are said to have denounced the plan . The Republican statement declared that the " price " of the transaction was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed for the tractors . " The price is another loss in prestige , another blow to our fast diminishing world leadership , " the statement said . The statement was issued after the joint minority leadership conference by Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois and Representative Charles A. Halleck of Indiana , the Senate and House Republican floor leaders . Senator Dirksen read the formal statement before television cameras . It charged that " the disastrous handling of the Cuban invasion " already had caused an " enormous loss in prestige abroad . " " But President Kennedy has ! compounded that loss by dis closing his official sponsorship of a so-called citizens ' movement for the American people to make blackmail payments to Fidel Castro , " Mr. Dirksen said . Paying " the ransom money , " he continued , " is far more likely to do untold damage than good to the cause of liberation both inside and outside Cuba . " 1 Mr. Halleck added that it was " getting on pretty thin ice " to lay that the Government was not involved in the fund-raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President , he said , " some very considerable part of the money " will come out of the Treasury . Both Republican leaders said they had received a great deal of mail unfavorable to the exchange , but Mr. Dirksen asked : " What can Congress do except to protest ? " One of Senator Capehart 's resolutions would express the " sense of the Senate " that contributions to the tractor fund should not be tax-exempt . It was referred to the Finance Committee , whose chairman , Senator Harry F. Byrd , Democrat of Virginia , has been critical of the exchange . The other resolution would make it the " sense of the Senate " that dealings by private citizens with the Cuban Government to effect a prisoner exchange would violate the Logan Act . Broadly speaking , this act prohibits private correspondence with foreign governments . The second resolution went to the Judiciary Committee , whose chairman , Senator James 0 . Eastland , Democrat of Mississippi , also opposes the exchange . Senators Eastland and Byrd were out of Washington today . Senator Albert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finance Committee , said he doubted it would approve the tax resolution . Local Leaders Ask Funds The leaders of the New York unit of the national drive to buy tractors to exchange for imprisoned Cuban rebels met briefly yesterday at Gracie Mansion and called for public contributions . The Greater New York Citizens Committee of the tractor campaign is headed by Senator Jacob K. Javits , Mayor Robert F. Wagner and Leo Cherne . The local group said that , while it had no specific dollar goal , it wanted to raise money to buy as many tractors as possible . A light Ford tractor that costs $2,860 was displayed in the driveway of the Mayor 's residence . The committee asked that contributions be sent to Operation , Rescue , P. 0 . Box 16 , Times , Square , New York . Receipts will be issued by return mail by the International Rescue Committee , whose staff will handle the paper work for the committee .                     