@@724588

txt An inexcusable stalling action by Chairman Adam Clayton Powell has been blocking approval of President Johnson 's aid to education proposals by the House Education and Labor Committee . The Administration suspects that Mr. Powell is holding the bill hostage to force the House to give his committee junket money and other expanded appropriations . The committee has a duty to repudiate any such unconscionable maneuver by insisting on an immediate appraisal of the strengths and weaknesses of this crucial piece of legislation . The major provision of the proposals ? $1 billion in aid to districts with many children from low-income families  --  has met with virtually universal acclaim . It offers an opportunity to redouble educational efforts where they are most urgently needed and most frequently neglected  --  in the urban slums . To those who object on the grounds that this is an attempt to tell the states how to distribute the education dollar the answer must be that the state legislatures have generally been deaf to urban needs . There is , however , a technical defect in this part of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are to be defined as fitting into the low-income bracket . The maximum of $2,000 in annual income is too low . It would eliminate thousands of families who , as in New York City , get more than that amount in annual welfare payments . Surely no community should be penalized for a relatively liberal welfare policy , as New York would thus be . The substantive controversy stirred up by the President 's proposals arises from two facets of the aid program . One involves grants for textbooks and teaching materials . The other provides shared facilities , benefiting both parochial and public schools , in the proposed new supplementary education centers . The President 's intent was clearly to offer a compromise which , while reassuring those who want to preserve the vital principle of separation of church and state , would placate the opposition , largely Roman Catholic , which has been successful in the past in blocking all Federal school aid . The question here is whether the Johnson proposals go too far toward compromising the principle of church-state separation and the spirit of the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to remain whether Federal aid to other than public education benefits individual children or supports institutions . The first , as the Supreme Court has ruled in the case of school lunch programs and even the provision of textbooks , appears to be constitutional , while direct support of church-related schools is not . In states like New York , which have exceptionally specific and strict prohibitions in their Constitutions , the courts will undoubtedly have to give the final verdict on some parts of the Johnson program . Administrative rules that accent the distinctness of church-state separation can help to insure against court upset of the new plan . The supplementary education centers , which are a high spot in the President 's proposals , are one of the brightest ideas on the educational horizon . They give promise of drawing into the education process a vast array of new talent  --  volunteers , scholars , scientists and artists  --  to lift schooling out of the rut of the routine . Along with new stress on preschool education for underprivileged children and the infusion of funds into slums and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be built into . a more generously financed , continuous effort , make education the foundation of-new national strength .                     