@@724509

txt Washington , Jan. 19 ? Mayor Daley accompanied the Chicago fire department band to Arlington cemetery this afternoon to place a wreath on the grave of President John F. Kennedy . Gov . Kerner joined 17 other governors at breakfast for a briefing on President Johnson 's legislative program . Others of the hundreds from Chicagoland here for the Johnson inauguration tomorrow recounted their adventures in getting home last night from the Democratic gala at the National Guard armory . Rep. Dan Rostenkowski chartered an 18-passenger bus to transport his guests to the irlL augural affairs . On a Beautiful Day The mayor and the fire department band had a beautiful midwinter day for the trip across the Potomac river to Arlington cemetery . Not a cloud could be seen . The temperature at 1 p. m. was 27 degrees . The fire department band marched in the Kennedy inaugural parade four years ago . As they stepped smartly past the White House reviewing stand , they put their hearts into their own signature tune , " The Fire House Special . " As their sirens wailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the air , the President applauded appreciatively . When they learned they would march in the Johnson inaugural they determined to pay homage to Kennedy by making a special trip to Arlington to put the wreath on his grave . Family at Side Mrs. Daley and daughters Eleanor , Mary Caroline , and Pat , and son-in-law , Dr. Robert Vanecko , stood at his side as the mayor placed the large wreath of red and white gladioli and blue porn poms inside the wooden fence surrounding the grave . The band stood at attention on the hillside above the grave . Judy Pelzman , the mayor 's secretary ; William Lee , president , Chicago Federation of Labor ; Col. Jack Reilly , the mayor 's aid , and scores of others stood silently " long enough to repeat the Lord 's Prayer to yourself ' after the wreath was placed . Rostenkowski , leader of the Democrats from Illinois in Congress , represented his colleagues at the wreath-laying ceremonies . Ald. Matthew Danaher , accompanied by his wife , represented the Chicago city council . The mayor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the inaugural committee for the governors here for the inaugural . Gov . Kerner was assigned a special booth at the reception to receive the honored guests . From the governors ' reception , the mayor and others from Chicagoland went to the Sheraton-Park hotel where the mayor was the guest of honor at a reception given by Mr. and Mrs. Rostenkowski , and by Mr. and Mrs. Danaher . Danaher represents the mayor 's home ward on the city council . Another Chicagoland mayor showed up for the inaugural activities . He was Mayor Ernest Maxey of Robbins , who with his wife will be guests of Rep. Edward J. Derwinski R. , Ill. , at the swearing in ceremonies . Kerner to Return Kerner said the press of the inaugural festivities prevented him from accomplishing any other work in Washington . But he planned to return Feb. 3 when the steering committee of a midwestern organization meets to map its campaign to win a greater share of federal spending for the area . Meanwhile he said , he will continue to press the Illinois legislature to approve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff a permanent liaison office here . He said he was confident this would be done by July . Iowa Gov . Harold E. Hughes said he would return for next month 's meeting of the midwestern organization , and predicted it would work to good effect . " There is no partison interest in this , " he said . " It 's an area development ? we intend to work together . "                     