@@727360

txt Dr. James E. Allen Jr. , the State Education Commissioner , yesterday ordered the city Board of Education to temporarily take charge of the schools in the Ocean HillBrownsville Demonstration School District and to temporarily transfer 10 teachers whom the district 's governing board had " dismissed " The Commissioner said the local governing board should be restored to power " as soon as the issues which gave rise to the current dispute have been resolved among all the parties and the present tensions have been alleviated . " 3 School Days Lost His order came at the end of a week in which more than a million pupils lost three days of schooling during two teachers ' strikes stemming from the Ocean Hill-Brownsville controversy . Dr. Allen also announced that he would appoint a committee to devise a permanent agreement to end the controversy over community control of schools and teachers ' rights to due process and tenure . The committee will make recommendations to the Commissioner within 30 days . Mayor Lindsay last night urged all parties in the dispute , including parents , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's directive . " Shanker Withholds Comment Albert Shanker , president of the United Federation of Teachers , said last night that he would not comment on Dr. Allen 's edict to the city board until today . The union leader said he could not indicate whether the action taken by the Commissioner would halt the strike that crippled the city 's schools last Monday and Tuesday , and again on Friday . The Rev. C. Herbert Oliver , chairman of the Ocean HillBrownsville board , said that " I 'd have to be taken to Siberia and brainwashed " before he could accept Dr. Allen 's order . Leonid I. Brezhnev , General Secretary of the Communist party in the Soviet Union , " could n't have done better " than the Commissioner , he charged . Mrs. Rose Shapiro , president of the city Board of Education , said she hoped all parties would accept Dr. Allen 's directive . She said the board would meet this morning " with a view in mind to have all schools open Monday morning and operating on a regular schedule . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him by 6 P.M. today on its progress in carrying out his order . The long-brewing school crisis , a fundamental clash between predominantly Negro community forces and the large- , ly white United Federation of Teachers and other professional ' organizations , was touched off last May by the " ouster " of 19 teachers and administrators by the Ocean Hill-Brownsville board . Some of the original 19 educators have transferred out of the demonstration district and it is uncertain whether those remaining number 9 or 10 . But the 10 teachers against whom charges of unsatisfactory performance were filed by the local district were subsequently cleared by a trial examiner , former Civil Court Judge Francis E. Rivers . The union , the Board of Education and the Mayor have demanded the reinstatement of the 10 instructors to classroom duties , along with 100 other teachers who have supported their " ousted " colleagues . The governing board has agreed with the Mayor not to prevent the return of the instructors to the district , although not necessarily to regular classroom positions . However , it has said it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community feeling " toward the teachers . A number of the instructors were blocked from entering district schools by parents , community residents and black militants on Wednesday . The police ushered some of the teachers into the schools , and the union ordered a resumption of its earlier strike . Allen Called In Commissioner Allen was called into the worsening situation by the Board of Education on Thursday night after new efforts by the Mayor had failed to produce a settlement of the issues . Dr. Allen , in disclosing his directive to the Board of Education last night , said that " immediate steps are essential to resolve the primary causes of the current impasse and to set in motion a procedure for attaining longer-range solutions . " He said his formula was intended , first of all , to " remove the immediate irritants . " The Commissioner asserted , in a four-page statement , that the governing board 's means to rid itself of the disputed teachers was " not in conformity with law , with the provisions of agreements to which the board is subject , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , " he said , " the action of the union in staging a strike is not only unlawful but disregards the legitimate concerns of the people of the city . " The Commissioner urged an end to the strike at once . The Mayor , in his statement last night , also appealed to the union to cancel a mass rally planned for tomorrow at 5 P.M. at City Hall . Mr. Lindsay termed it " an unnecessary demonstration that could trigger a chain reaction of the magnitude we have been so fortunate to avoid in our city . " Dr. Allen said that his objectives in the controversy had been threefold : " Immediate resumption of school in all parts of the city , achievement of a meaningful and workable plan of decentralization and assurance that teachers and other professional staff members will have freedom and security in the carrying out of their duties and responsibilities , " The Commissioner said that his edict to the Board of Education to " assume direct control and administration " of the Ocean Hill-Brownsville district did not necessarily affect Rhody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. McCoy 's interim role would be determined by the city board . Dr. Allen , an ardent supporter , of school decentralization here , said that the committee he was going to establish in the next day or so would deal primarily with a permanent settlement of the Ocean Hill-Brownsville mat- , ter , but its work , he indicated , would be useful in future decentralization measures . Conferred With Kheel The tall , 57-year old Commissioner conferred for five hours yesterday with Theodore W. Kheel , the labor mediator . Mr. Kheel attempted to resolve the controversy in the special Brooklyn district several months ago . Dr. Allen 's announcement last night was made at the headquarters of the State Education Department , 261 Madison Avenue . It was there that he had met with factions in the dispute late Thursday and Friday . The Ocean Hill-Brownsville district is one of three multischool units established by the Board of Education in July , 1967 , for decentralization and local control of schools . Officials of the three districts have often contended , however , that their units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Education . While the issues in the crisis are extraordinarily complex and interwoven , the governing board of the Ocean Hill- Brownsville district says it is defending a vital " right " to run its district with the personnel it wants . The union , which claims to represent 55,000 of the 60,000 teachers in the city system , and the school systems ' groups of supervisors argue that basic guarantees for teachers have been flouted in Ocean HillBrownsville . They say these guarantees must be protected there now to assure future rights . They fear that the action in Ocean Hill-Brownsville will be duplicated in other parts of the city under decentralization and that one outcome could be the decimation of a citywide union . Mr. Lindsay swore in three new Board of Education members yesterday morning in a 20-minute ceremony at Gracie Mansion . The Mayor , who has advocated speedy , thorough school decentralization , has now appointed a majority of the 13 members of the enlarged city board . The city board was expanded from nine to 13 by the Legislature last spring to give Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on decentralization . The " old " board has backed decentralization , but as a gradual move . Mr. Lindsay 's appointments are especially important at this time because the city board has been ordered to devise both an interim and a permanent decentralization plan . Taking an oath of service yesterday were John M. Doar , a former Government civil rights aide who is president of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Development and Services Corporation ; Mrs. Ana Alvarez Conigliaro , a social worker who was born in Puerto Rico , and Walter Straley , a vice president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company . Galamison Backs Lotz Mrs. Conigllaro wore a black and white " Give a Damn " button on her beige , lace-sleeved dress . Mr. Lindsay noted that her husband , Vincent , was a psychoanalyst and said goodhumoredly that " we 're getting two for one . " " I think some of us can use a little of that , " he said . After the ceremony , the Rev. Milton A. Galamison , a member of the school board , said that he favored John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election to choose a successor to Mrs. Shapiro is expected soon . Mr. Galamison said that Mr. Lotz would be " a bridge " between the old and new members of the board . Mr. Lotz , who was renamed to the board by the Mayor last year , generally agrees with Mr. Lindsay on decentralization . The Mayor went from the Gracie Mansion ceremony to Robert F. Wagner Junior High School , 220 East 76th Street , to address a meeting of 400 members of the United Parents Associations . Often slapping a clenched fist into the palm of his other hand , the Mayor told the delegates that " it would be unwise for any of us to kid ourselves about the extent of tensions and passions that have been aroused " as a result of the school crisis . In his appeal for moderation he said that " it is not necessary , when dealing democratically , to drive things to such extremes " and to permit " polarization . " Mr. Lindsay received a mixed reception from the parents , who shouted " that 's not true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the whole the teachers were allowed to return " to classes in Ocean Hill-Brownsville . Mr. Shenker has said that none of the approximately 110 teachers were reinstated to regular assignments . Mr. McCoy has said that all but 39 were given teaching duties on Wednesday , although as second teachers in ) classrooms . Before Mr. Lindsay spoke to ' the delegates , Mrs. Blanche Lewis , president of the association , which says that it represents 400,000 parents here , said : " We are not afraid of parent power . We promise you that this silent majority will become visible and audible . " The phrase " silent majority " was apparently a reference to the bulk of parents , whose opinions , Mrs. Lewis has said , are not being considered enough in school decisions . Mr. Shanker said yesterday that he had not been served with a court order calling on him and the union to show why they should not be prosecuted for criminal contempt . " Maybe the marshal does n't want to spoil my birthday , " said the union leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obtained on Friday by the city under provisions of the state 's Taylor Law , which forbids strikes by public employes . Last year Mr. Shanker served 15 days in jail and his union was fined $150,000 for conducting a 14-day walkout at the beginning of the school term in defiance of a restraining order . The maximum penalty that Mr. Shenker could receive if found guilty of criminal contempt is a 30-day jail sentence and a $250 fine . The union could be docked $10,000 a day , or the equivalent of a week 's membership dues , whichever ' is less , for each day of the strike .                     