@@726003

txt Industrial production declined in November as output of automobiles , other consumer goods and iron and steel dropped . The decline , reported today by the Federal Reserve Board , added industrial production to the growing list of economic indicators that have turned down or flattened out in the last several months . Chief among these are retail sales , housing starts , wholesale prices and bank loans to business . In Detroit , Ford and American Motors announced that they were cutting back production to match lagging sales , according to The Assoc:ated Press . Page 26 . The Federal Reserve Board 's monthly index of industrial production declined three-tenths of a point in November to 158.3 per cent of its 1957-59 base , which is taken as 100 . Cars Down 6 Pet . The biggest drops were in automobile production , which was off 6 per cent from the October level , and iron and steel output , which declined by 7 per cent . Between 20 and 25 per cent of the steel industry 's entire output is sold to the auto industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least n part , related . The decline in steel production , combined with a smaller lecline in the output of other . lonstruction materials , caused 3 decline in the output of the ' materials " category of the ndex . Production in the " consumer roods " category also fell , party but not entirely as a result 4 the decline in automobile production . While the output of teleiision and radio sets rose from ? ecently depressed levels , proiuction of furniture and appliances declined  --  a phenomenon hought to be related to the lepression in home-building hat has been brought about by sigh interest rates and searity of mortgage money . In its analysis of national esiness conditions that reguarly accompanies the release of the production index , the Federal Reserve indicated that it expected further declines in the output of furniture and appliances . The board noted that " stocks of major home goods , " rose in October , but that " output continued at advanced levels in November . " A rise in stocks without an accompanying rise in sales would , sooner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board observed that some major producers of household durables had " announced curtailment in production schedules " around the end of November . The output of business and defense equipment continued strong in November . The discrepancy between patterns of business and consumer spending could be seen in the fact that production in the over-all furniture category  --  which includes business furniture  --  rose , whereas the board believes , on the basis of preliminary figures , that output of home furnishings declined . - Auto Production Cut DETROIT , Deo. 14 ( AP ) ? The Ford Motor Company and American Motors today announced production cutbacks over the next few weeks to match lagging sales . General Motors and Chrysler had announced such cutbacks earlier . Ford 's announcement came as Henry Ford 2d , the chairman , held his annual review-preview meeting with the press . American Motors , which has been having rough going in the market place with a loss of $12.6-million in the fiscal year 1966 , announced earlier today that it would cut back production during the next two weeks . Mr. Ford said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 22,000 cars " to bring car stocks in the United States in line with present sales rates . " Ford , G.M. , Chrysler and American Motors announced yesterday that their sales were down 10 per cent in the first 10 days of the month compared with the like period last year . But they said the sales rate was still the second best ever for the period . Only Chrysler. third ranking auto maker , reported sales up over the record 1965 pace . Mr. Ford said about half of his company 's cutback would be ! accounted for by less overtime . " We do not have any presort ' plans for substantial layoffs , 1 we will have some short time , " he said . " Many of our plants , air ex. - ample , will not be working on Dec. 23 and 30 , and our St. Louis assembly plant will be closed between Christmas and New Year 's Day . We also expect to have some short time in January , particularly in the St. Louis plant and in Falcon , Fairlane and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mo . . " American Motors said it would suspend production of Rambler American bodies at its Kenosha , Wis. , plant all of next week and . shut down . all of its bodymaking and assembly operations during the following week at both Kenosha and Milwaukee , its only auto plant sites . The company employs 2,000 persons in American body making and 16,000 production workers in all . The American ' body cutback next week will be for only four working days . Under the company 's contract with the United Automobile Workers , its employes get Fridays off when they fall the day before Christmas Eve or New Year 's Eve . Thus the shutdown of all operations the following week will be for only three working days , since workers normally have Monday off as the Christmas holiday . On Nov. 21 , American Motors-shut down Rambler American body production for four days . Following the shutdown during the Christmas-New Year 's week , according to William V. Luneburg , group vice president , full production of 1,600 cars a day will be resumed on Jan. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realign field stocks . " Besides the American , its compact , American Motors also produces Rambler Rebels , Ambassadors and Marlins . At his meeting with the press , Mr. Ford said that many suggested Federal auto safety standards . were " unreasonable , arbitrary and technically unfeasible " and could lead to shutdowns on auto production lines .                     