@@727773

txt The Landmarks Preservation Commission was asked yesterday to permit the demolition of Grand Central Terminal 's south facade and allow a 59-story office building to be erected over the station . It was the second version of a proposal put before the commission last September by the Penn Central Company , which owns the terminal , and a British developer , Morris Saady . The first plan , which would have saved the facade , was rejected by the Landmarks Commission last Sept. 20 . The railroad and the project 's chief architect , Marcel Breuer , argued at a City Hall hearing that the essence of the station 's value as a landmark was really the spacious main concourse inside , not the facade . Penn Central pledged to restore and preserve the concourse if its request for the 59-story building was granted . But the City Planning Commission immediately reiterated its opposition to any construction atop Grand Central , insisting that it would shut out " the only existing reservoir of sunlight and air " in that part of Manhattan . Instead , Donald H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , offered to change zoning rules so that Penn Central could put up large office buildings on the railroad-owned land around the station . This would compensate the railroad for the revenue it seeks from leasing the air rights over the terminal , Mr. Elliott said . Although the Planning Commission has no direct jurisdiction in the matter , the influence of Mr. Elliott , who is close to Mayor Lindsay , often extends into city agencies other than his own . The railroad 's initial plan was submitted for a " certificate of no exterior effect , " which the Landmarks Commission rejected . It was resubmitted along with the new proposal yesterday for a " certificate of appropriateness . " Facing south down Park Avenue , the Beaux Arts facade , built in 1913 , consists of high , steel-framed windows surrounded by triumphal arches ; massive Greek columns , and a 48-foot-high group of statues of Hercules , Mercury and Minerva around a clock 13 feet in diameter . Breuer Testifies " There has always been some question in the minds of informed people , " Mr. Breuer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Terminal is worth preserving . " " The best part of the present station , " he said , is the main concourse ? " the last one of New York 's great interior spaces . " Mr. Breuer said at a previous hearing that he intended to eliminate the clutter of advertising signs there , including the huge Kodak transparency high along one wall . A vice president of Penn Central , Samuel H. Hellenbrand , after close questioning by several commissioners , said the railroad would commit itself in writing to carry out plans to be drawn up by Mr. Breuer for the concourse . This would be done in return for the approval of the 59-story building . Mr. Hellenbrand observed that such -a procedure might be the only way of protecting the concourse , since the Landmarks Commission had no jurisdiction over the interiors of buildings . Another possible deterrent to the commission 's rejection of the plans was introduced by the railroad 's counsel . Murray Drabkin , who indicated that Penn Central would be willing to challenge the constitutionality of the landmarks law in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the terminal , Mr. Drabkin said , and needs the income from the air rights . In January , 1968 , Mr. Saady , the developer . agreed to lease the rights for 50 years at $3-million a year . Issue of Congestion A major point of contention between opponents and proponents was whether the new building would further congest the area or facilitate pedestrian traffic . Mr. Breuer said the new design envisioned four additional passageways from the terminal and the office building into the subways , " without loading the surrounding streets with pedestrians . " In addition , the architect said his plan provided for enlarged subway mezzanines , a sidewalk along 42d Street to be widened by a covered plaza ; escalators instead of stairs , and a new and wider roadway to replace the tortuous ramp that now carries automobile traffic around Grand Central . However , Jaquelin T. Robertson , of the Planning Department 's design group , said that despite all these amenities , " the building 's 12,000 workers would throw insupportable stress at this time on the already grossly inadequate Lexington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that putting the building atop the terminal would superimpose " vertical over horizontal circulation at the very point of maximum congestion . " He said the Lexington Avenue IRT subway line survived " mostly because the inefficiency of the street and pedestrian system above acts as a brake to the rush and to congestion of the platforms . " Furthermore , Mr. Robertson said , the space above the terminal , south of the Pan Am Building , is " a sort of air park , " opening to the south and the sunlight . " It is in fact the area 's only window to the sun , " he said . The proposed building would be only a few feet taller than the Pan Am , on the northern end of the terminal . Speaking for Mr. Elliott and the Planning Commission , Mr. Robertson recommended that development rights be transferred to adjacent blocks around the terminal , and office structures be put up on two or four sites . This , he said , would minimize congestion , leave a hole in the center of the area for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Penn Central Ownings Mr. Robertson produced a map showing that Penn Central owned an extensive swath of land surrounding the terminal , from 42d to 50th Street . The holdings include land under several hotels , such as the Waldorf-Astoria , the Biltmore , the Roosevelt and the Commodore Hotels . Mr. Hellenbrand said that though the railroad owned the land , it was tied up by longterm leases that expired at various dates from 1987 to 2062 . These can not be broken , he contended . Mr. Robertson countered that they could be bought out , as he said such leases were bought ' " all over New York . " At the daylong hearing , each side had an array of architects arguing for or against the proposal .                     