@@722343

txt Edward M. Kennedy , 30 , youngest brother of the President , today announced he will be a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the seat in the United States Senate which his brother relinquished to become President . The announcement had been widely anticipated and caused Edward M. Kennedy , brother of the President , with his wife in Boston . no surprise . Young Kennedy , known as Ted , said he will seek Democratic party indorsement at the state convention in June and the nomination itself in the open primary in September . In both the convention and the primary , Kennedy will have vigorous opposition from Massachusetts Atty . Gen. Edward J. McCormack Jr. , 38 , nephew of House Speaker John W. McCormack D. , Mass . . A Lodge in Race The winner of the Democratic nomination will be pitted in the November election against a Republican nominee chosen from candidates including George Cabot Lodge , son of Henry Cabot Lodge , former senator and United Nations ambassador , and Rep. Laurence Curtis R. , Mass. . - Kennedy made his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room of his home near Boston 's esplanade on the Charles river. - His wife , Joan , wearing a royal blue sheath dress , stood beside him while he read a prepared statement promising to " begin today a campaign ? on the issues pledged to build the future of Massachusetts . " He said he realizes charges will be made that he is running just " because my brother is President and my other brother is attorney general . " He added that he does not ex-. pect his brothers to be active in his campaign but that his sisters may help . In Washington , President Kennedy told his news conference " Teddy , as stated is running on his own . " Atty . Gen. Robert Kennedy expressed pleasure and said he thought Ted would make an outstanding candidate . He added that once Ted gets thru the primary he would expect the President to campaign for him , as he would for all other Democratic candidates . Fight to the Finish McCormack said at a news conference in Springfield , Mass. , that it will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He referred to his rival as " just a kid three years out of college . " Only last month did Ted reach the 30 year minimum age set by the Constitution for eligibility to the Senate . Ted Kennedy is a graduate of Harvard university and has a law degree from the University of Virginia . He was active in his brother John 's Senate campaign of 1958 and in the 1960 Presidential campaign . He is at present an assistant district attorney for Suffolk county Boston at $1 a year , and has prosecuted about 50 criminal cases . McCormack has been state attorney general since September , 1958 , and previously served five years on the Boston city council . He is both a lawyer and a graduate of United States Naval academy .                     