@@724466

txt PARIS , Jan. 4 RIPD - The French government confirmed today that it is studying the possibility of converting a large part of France 's dollar reserve into American-owned gold . Government circles rejected widespread assertions that the financial step was a public slap at the American currency or reflected P resident Charles de Gaulle 's effort to affirm France 's independence in the financial field . Opposition newspapers seized upon the reports to attack the government . They said any large conversion of dollars would deplete the diminishing United States gold reserves . Helped Shore up Pound Authorized sources said France long had provided proof of its solidarity with Washington and London and took part in the recent shoring up of the pound sterling with international funds . They said the contemplated French move would be a technical step and involve " much less than 400 million dollars " - not 1 billion 300 millions as reported . ( Reuters reported that finance ministry sources said that the French government is carrying out a gold reserve policy for its currency dictated in part by a desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources said that in the coming weeks and months another 200 or 300 million dollars of French assets will be converted . France is strengthening its gold holdings to make its own currency as immune as possible from future economic or financial difficulties in the United States and the pound sterling area ) Inflow Tops 500 Millions The inflow of dollars in 1964 , estimated at more than 500 millions , has decreased the proportion of gold in the Bank of France reserve from 74 per cent to 70 per cent , officials said . French reserves of gold and foreign currencies total more than 5 billion dollars . France now plans to catch up with the past level by exchanging some of its paper dollars against the gold in the United States federal reserve system and possibly increase somewhat the ever-al gold coverage , they said . Officials said the contemplated adjustment will be made gradually so as not to weaken - the United States dollar .                     