@@725781

txt Judging by the posters , the Great Hall of the Moscow Conservatory was dark last night . No concert was publicly scheduled . But Moscow 's intellectuals knew better . Extra policemen were on duty in the lobby , and ticket checks were doubly enforced . At least 1,500 music , lovers sat in uncertainty , giving way to excited fascination through an extraordinary concert of liturgical music from the Russian Orthodox past . In the officially atheistic Soviet society , this music is almost never performed . Long centuries of the Russian musical tradition are totally unfamiliar to the Communist generations . The discreet performance of religious music was therefore highly unusual . Kirill Kondrashin , conductor of the Moscow Philharmonic Orchestra , was in the audience . So were professors of the conservatory , young music students and a number of officials from the Ministry of Culture . Many of those in the hall did not know what they had come to hear . The intellectuals ' grapevine , always a more reliable guide to coming events than public announcements , had told them only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw a capacity crowd . No programs were passed out . From the arrangement of the chairs on the stage it was clear that this would be a choral evening , not an orchestral performance . Onto the stage walked the 40 men of the Russian Republic Choir , conducted by Aleksandr Yurlov . One of the singers Limped forward to give a bland Iratouncement of the first selection . It was a canonic work , he said , from a Christmas oratorio . Astonished whispers came from the Soviet audience as he spoke the name of the selection , from the first line of its text , " Glory Be to Him on High . " When the song stopped , people looked around in confusion , unsure whether the unfamiliar music had in fact ended and not knowing whether to applaud . Isolated clapping broke off quickly as the announcer stepped forward again to recite the Gospel text of the second selection , using the old Slavonic words of the Orthodox Church , strikingly different in sound from today 's spoken Russian . Women 's Voices Join In Later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the choir , one of Moscow 's most distinguished choral ensembles . They had sung modern , secular , works with the Moscow Philharmonic under Mr. Kondrashin 's direction only two days before in the same hall . A few older people in the audience looked at one another in silent recognition as long neglected works were heard once again . The young applauded with spontaneous enthusiasm works the existence of which they had only suspected . Since most of the selections were drawn from medieval church tradition , there were few composers to be identified . Of those that were named only one , Dmitri Bortnyansky , a late 18th- century composer , sounded familiar to today 's Russian concertgoers . Applause filled the hall at the end of the concert , with shouts of " bravo " and the rhythmical clapping with which Russian audiences summon their performers back from the wings . After taking several bows , Mr. Yurlov stepped to the front of the stage and said simply with unemotional dignity , " We , thank you for your kind attention , good-by . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chorus would represent the Soviet Union at a festival of Slavonic music to be held in Warsaw and that last night 's concert was in effect a public rehearsal for that appearance . But they gave no indication that the program would be repeated in Moscow . Tickets for last night 's concert were available in advance , as for any other concert , through the box office , but evidently only to people wh knew enough to ask for them . The fact that this music was performed at all raised hopes that cultural authorities would gradually relax their efforts to , discourage interest in Russia 's religious tradition . Steps in this direction have already been noted in official programs to restore some of the old churches in Moscow and other cities . The growing attitude is to honor these remnants of the Russian past as architecture divorced from religious functions . Religious works of recognized composers such as Bach or Mozart or Verdi have long been performed in the Soviet Union since their musical worth was appreciated in a secular context . After last night 's concert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance of being rediscovered by modern Communists , for its musical interest if not its religious meaning .                     