@@725002

txt FOCUS on world affairs What 's ahead ... United States pursuits " out of this world " may help mend some down-to-earth relations with Africa . Two American astronauts will sweep through Ethiopia , Kenya , the Malagasy Republic , and Nigeria on goodwill missions in the next two weeks . African opinion of the United States dipped after American intervention in the Congo  --  aid to the regime of Prime Minister Moise Tshombe and the Belgian-American rescue of whites last November from Stanleyville . The Vietnam war and charges  --  still unproved and publicly unspecified ? of an American plot against the Tanzanian Government have darkened relations further . Visits from Astronauts Gordon Cooper and Charles Conrad may take the accent off politics for a while and present another face of America to suspicious Africans . CD Mexico City , the second-largest metropolis in the Western Hemisphere , may soon decide to dig a subway . President Diaz Ordaz mentioned it in his recent state of the union address . It would n't be easy . It would cost a mint and the technical problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sits astride porous subsoil that has trouble sometimes even holding up buildings . The center of the city , where the subway is most needed , is sinking  --  slower than before , but still sinking nonetheless . Moreover , Mexico City straddles a major earthquake zone . Trends ... Peking , while advancing its influence in Africa , has had less luck in the Middle East . It is working to improve on this before the Afro-Asian summit conference in Algiers  --  now rescheduled for Nov. 5 . The Communist Chinese ultimately hope to open diplomatic ties with Turkey , Iran , Jordan , Lebanon , Kuwait , Saudi Arabia , and Libya . Peking 's chief aim otherwise centers on Egypt and the Arab-Israeli proble ? It has offered Cairo a $90 mill And it loudly supports Arab att. on Israel . Peking claims cleaner credentials in the last regard than its Communist rival , Moscow . The Soviets helped carve out Israel in the middle of the Arab world and still maintain cool but correct Israeli diplomatic tics . Peking , however , has never recognized the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kashmir crisis is good feeling between India and Indonesia . Relations between the two have nose-dived . President Sukarno has left little doubt that Indonesia 's sympathies are with Pakistan all the way . The Pakistanis are delighted and the Indians are angry . Many observers see the situation as new proof that in international affairs Indonesia now parrots the Peking line . Most nations , both capitalist and Communist , have tried to balance themselves impartially between Pakistan and India . But Peking has blasted Delhi daily and backed Pakistan . Jakarta has been quick to follow suit . How and whY ... Radio Moscow has loosed ' a salvo against former Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's American farmer friend , Roswell Garst . Mr. Khrushchev toured Mr. Garst 's Iowa corn farm during his American visit in 1959 . Now the Soviets knock the Iowa farmer for having pushed the Soviet Union toward continuous cropping , which " may be suited for Iowa but is not suited for the U.S.S.R. " Behind this blast lurks Moscow concern over a severe feed shortage . This is now blamed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his campaign for continuous cropping . The Soviets need a new scapegoat , since the news has now leaked out that many farm managers ignored the former Premier 's sweeping instructions and continued instead growing grass on their fallow lands . 0 When it comes to backing their resolve against Israel , the Arabs may be willing , but their muscle has been weak . Months ago the Arab nations decided to raise a joint army to deal with Israel . Egyptian Maj. Gen. Ali All Amir was made cornLiander in chief . But no army has yet showed up for him to command . No Arab government has assigned any troops . Egypt , Algeria , Iraq , and the Yemen Republic promised some , but never sent them . Other Arab states have simply said they wo n't . Arab heads of states will hear more about this failing of muscle as they meet this week in Casablanca .                     