@@723980

txt Homosexuals have gone beyond the plane of defensiveness and now argue that their deviancy is " a desirable , noble , preferable way of life , " according to a report issued yesterday by the Committee on Public Health of the New York Academy of Medicine . The report is the first authoritative study of homosexuality by a recognized organization representing all branches of medicine , a spokesman for the committee said . Public comment on sexual variance has been confined heretofore to the psychiatric branch of the profession , he declared . Homosexuality is an " illness " that can be treated successfully in " some cases " but is more easily dealt with by early preventive measUres , the . report concludes . The study takes strong issue with the contention of spokes : men for homosexuals that their aberration makes them merely " a different kind of people leading an acceptable way of life . " Organized homosexuals now go even further than this , the committee found . " They would have it believed that homosexuality is not just an acceptable way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life , " the report goes on . " For one thing , they claim that it is the perfect answer to the problem of the population explosion . " The committee 's findings were said to apply to homosexuals everywhere , not just in New York . Various authorities have estimated the number of // sexual deviants in this city at between 100,000 and 600,00Q . " There is . . . an impression that at the present time the practice of homosexuality is increasing among the population at large , " the report says . " Certainly , if there is not more homosexuality than in the past , it appears to be more open and obstrusive . " More plays and books are having homosexual characters , and more homosexuals seem to have taken to writing autobiographies . Furthermore the homosexuals seem to have become . more formally organized , with a central office and a magazine of their own . " Allusion to Organization This was apparently an allusion to the Mattachine Society , a national organization of homosexuals with headquarters in San Francisco and branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The group publishes a monthly magazine , Mattachine Review , devoted to problems of sex inverts . " These developments , " the report continues , " stand out in sharp contrast with the situation which existed in New York 20 years ago , when the subject was less frequently and less openly presented and its votaries rallied once a year to hold their well-known Fairy Ball . " The study on homosexuality was a by-product of the committee 's investigations of two other public health problems ? the increases in salacious literature and venereal disease . The committee found that " a substantial portion " of the objectionable publications were of a homosexual nature and that homosexuals were apparently " playing a larger role in transmitting " venereal disease . ' Indeed an Illness ' Society , including the medical profession , " has not really confronted " the problem of homosexuality , the report asserts . " The Committee on Public Health , believes that of all groups the medical profession should state clearly its position , " the report says . " It should declare what homosexuality is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Homosexuality is indeed , an illness , " the medical committee declared . " The homosexual is an emotionally disturbed individual who has not acquired a normal capacity to develop satisfying heterosexual relationships . " Consequently overt homosexuality may be an expression of fear of the opposite sex and of inability to accept adult responsibility , such as marriage and parenthood . " In other words , the report says , the homosexual is a victim of " arrested development . " As main /actors in early environmental life leading to deviation from customary sexual behavior , the report lists " neglect , rejection , overprotection , overindulgence " by parents . Homosexual inclinations begin earlier in life than is generally realized , and their appearance is often motivated by defective parental relationships , the report states . Psychotherapy Urged Recognition of deviant tendencies may be difficult , the committee found . Personal mannerisms and characteristics can be deceptive . " Although treatment is difficult and prognosis is guarded , it can be successful and of value , " the report continues . " Psychotherapy offers the greatest probability of benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective . " Treatment works better the earlier it is started , the report states , and it is a prerequisite to success that the deviant possess a genuine desire to correct his condition . " There is a widespread need and desire for proper and authoritative sex education , " the report goes on . " But here the reaction of society manifests an interesting ambivalence . " This ambivalence is illustrated by a prevailing " superficial , immature and artificial attitude toward sex " in the midst of general " preoccupation with sex as a symbol , " the report says . " The argument most commonly advanced is that sex education belongs in the home . But if the home is not providing that education , where will it be found ? " the report asks . The medical committee recommended that sex education in the United States be " examined realistically . "                     