@@721540

txt Pierre Wigny , Belgian Foreign Minister , said today that the United Nations operation in the Congo was a " failure . " He served notice that Belgium would leave the United Nations if in the future its functionaries did not exercise what he called " the rule of restrictions imposed on them by the protocol of public officials . " M. Wigny referred to Rajeshwar Dayal , Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold 's special representative in the Congo , who issued a report - last week criticizing the return of Belgian officials and experts to the Congo . Mr. Hammarskjold included in a report to the General Assembly the texts of his letters demanding that Belgium withdraw the officials and experts and that future Belgian aid to the Congo be channeled exclusively through the United Nations . M. Wigny termed these demands " stupid even for the United Nations . " He insisted that the 2,1,00 Belgians now in the Congo were there at the request of the central or provincial governments and not through any sponsorship by Belgium . Accord on Roles Asked The Belgian said an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective roles of the United Nations and Belgium . Asked what this should provide , he replied abruptly that he would not disclose this information because it was a matter to be settled by diplomacy . Patrice Lumumba , the Premier who was deposed in September by Joseph Kasavubu , Congolese Chief of State , appealed today for the United Nations to set up elections to choose a successor to Mr. Kasavubu . Mr. Lumumba , in a letter to Frederick H. Boland , President of the General Assembly , also suggested that the Congo adopt a " Presidential system . " The existing fundamental law , - or Constitution , of the Congo , provides for a Cabinet system of Government , under which the Chief of State is usually concerned with ceremonial functions . The Premier , subject to parliamentary approval , . is ' supposed to conduct the Government . In addition , Mr. Lumumba suggested that a President be , chcsen- by popular vote instead of by Parliament . He requested that a United Nations coMmission supervise a referendum to consider such a change in the Congolese governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lumumba called this " the one and only way of restoring immediate peace arid order to the Congo . " Mr. Lumumba attacked Col. Joseph D. Mobutu , who exercises military control in the Congo . lie criticized also what he called a " curious line " taken by the United States , which has defended Belgium against Mr. Dayal 's charges . In addition , Mr. Lumumba said , he regretted that he had to inform the General Assembly " that the 30,000,000 francs seized recently at Stanleyville from a group of persons plotting to take over the power by means of a coup d'état came from United States sources , as the documents seized prove beyond a doubt . " A spokesman for the United States declined to comment on the charge , referring inquiries to the State Department . Issuance of Letter Assailed Some Western delegates took exception - to the fact that Mr. Lumumba 's letter had been issued as a United Nations document . Although Mr. Lumumba has been deposed , the Soviet Union , Ghana , Guinea and some other African states contend he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter had been circulated to delegates in accordance with the organization 's policy of not passing judgment on the opponents struggling for power in the Congo . Reliable sources disclosed that Mr. Kasavubu , who came to New York last week to ask the Assembly to recognize him as the chief Congolese delegate , had an angry meeting Saturday with Mr. Dayal . Mr. Dayal went to see Mr. Kasavubu to tell him that a United Nation conciliation committee , made up of African and Asian states ' , . hat supplied contingents to the United Nations Congo force , planned to leave for Leopoldville this week . Mr. Dayal , it was understood , told Mr. Kasavubu , in effect , that he should hurry back to the Congo so that he would be on hand to take part in the committee 's work . Members of the conciliation committee had previously disclosed that they would confer with Mr. Lumumba , Mr. Kasavubu and other Congolese political figures in an effort to end the parliamentary crisis and call the Congolese Parliament back into session . A source close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead with his plan to call his own conference of the Congolese political figures to try to achieve stable conditions . Chief Meets Advisers Mr. Kasavubu told the Assembly recently that Moise Tshombe , President of Katanga Province , who favors a confederation rather than a unitary state , was to be included . According to , sources close to Mr. Kasavubu , Mr. Lumumba would be permitted to attend the conference , but only as a deputy , not as Premier . Mr. Hammarskjold met with his advisory committee on the Congo to consider a report from Mr. Dayal on his talk with Mr. Kasavubu . The advisory committee is composed of the fifteen members of the conciliation committee , plus Ireland ; Sweden and Canada . At his news conference , M. Wigny sharply denounced the attitude taken toward Belgium by the United Nations and related agencies . As an example , he cited an announcement by the United Nations Educational , Scientifid. and Cultural organization that it was seeking 5Q0 French-speaking teachers for the Congo but that Belgians were not eligible . ?      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      