@@727259

txt James W. Cook , president of Illinois Bell Telephone comj ) any , rejected renewed de-'mends yesterday to submit the 73-day-old dispute with the striking electrical workers union to binding arbitration . Assurances by Mayor Daley and Vice President Humphrey that the Democratic convention will be held in Chicago on Aug. 26 failed to allay rumors that there would be a shift in the site because of the threat to communications coverage . The latest effort to persuade Bell to accept binding arbitration came from the Democratic national committee . Statement Is Issued John B. Criswell , party treasurer and executive director of the convention , issued a statement here directed at the Bell company . It read : " We share Mayor Daley 's keen disappointment that Illinois Bell Telephone company did not accept the offer made by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers for binding arbitration . " It was a solution that would have quickly brought to an end a labor disagreement that threatens to seriously impair the operation of the 1968 Democratic national convention in Chicago  --  to say nothing of the embarrassment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention is placed in the center of this dispute , thereby making what might have been a home town problem into a very important national problem . " Commends the Union Criswell said the national committee was taking no sides on issues in the dispute , but added : " We commend Mr. Robert Nickey and the union he represents for their spirit of cooperation in trying to settle this dispute so the 1968 Democratic national convention may be held in Chicago . " We sincerely hope that Illinois Bell will assume this same spirit of responsibility and reconsiner the proposal for binding arbitration . " It is our judgment  --  in spite of the figures which are so easily bandied about on the subject  --  that a very few days remain in which an agreement could be reached , and thus the conduct of the convention could move ahead without serious harm " Martin Hauan , press spokes. man for the national committee , said John Bailey , the national chairman , will travel to Chicago early next week , possibly Monday or Tuesday . Daley Makes Plea Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's top labor leaders that Bell accept binding arbitration . A company spokesman said : " We crossed the arbitration bridge several times and we feel it 's best for all concerned , and that includes the public , that we not arbitrate . We have no intention of arbitrating . It will not resolve the dispute . It 's a one-way street . " More than 500 strikers paraded around company headquarters at 225 Randolph st . Strikers ' children were in the march with signs of protest . , In Washington , Humphrey said the convention will be in Chicago as Dinned . Makes a Correction Humphrey 's office issued a statement correcting reports attributed to Sen. George A. Smathers D. , Fla. that the Vice President wanted to shift the convention to Miami Beach . Humphrey 's statement read : " Sen. Smathers is Florida 's No. 1 booster and a good friend of mine , but Chicago will be the city of the national convention . " The National Labor Relations board continued its investigation into charges by the striking Systems Council T-4 , International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargain in good faith . The unfair labor practice charge stems from the allege- ti on that the company position thruout talks was fixed and predetermined by an agree ' meat imposed by American Telephone and Telegraph company .                     