@@726334

txt Republicans and Southern Democrats , old allies in the House of Representatives , are becoming bitterly estranged in the 90th Congress . The reason is that the Republican leadership has decided that it must keep its distance from the Southerners if the party is to gain control of the House in the elections in 1968 . Of a total of 435 members , there are 248 Democrats in the House and 187 Republicans . Representative Gerald R. Ford of Michigan , the minority leader , gave this appraisal in a speech last Thursday at Bowling Green University in Ohio : " We need 31 more seats to take over the House  --  and , I think there 's a good chance we 'll make it . We have a good chance for many reasons . One of these is what might be called my Southern strategy . " The strategy is to drive Southern Democrats in the House into the arms of the Administration , where they belong , on votes that will hurt them in their , home Congressional districts . " Representative Ford pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Southern Democrat-Republican coalition that prevailed over Administration forces in the House for a number of years . " But I think it is far better to lose a few legislative battles and win the next election , " he said . " We wo n't win as many legislative fights as we could if we resorted to the old coalition tactics , but it 's the big prize that counts , and that 's what we 're after . " Mr. Ford also said he believed his Southern strategy gave Republicans a chance to stake out " responsible constructive positions . " However this stand , never so forcibly expressed before , has angered a number of Southern // ers who had hoped to renew the coalition and defeat the Administration programs that they find most objectionable . Representative Joe D. Waggoner Jr. , Democrat of Louisiana , who is emerging as a leader of the conservative Southern bloc , expressed the following view : " Mr. Ford traditionally places the welfare of his party ahead of the welfare of the people wherever the subject of a coalition with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this partisan , political philosophy in any degree . I have always been willing to participate in any coalition on any issue when there is a substantial benefit to the people to be obtained . " I regret that Mr. Ford 's dedication to party politics overshadows his dedication to the best interests of the people and I doubt sincerely that the people will take kindly to this selfish , purely political stand . " Concessions Sought The Southerners are working with Administration Democrats , to bargain for concessions in return for their votes , which are needed to pass any Administration legislation that the Republican bloc opposes . The Southerners hold the balance of power between the main Democratic and Republican forces . The first result of this has been seen in the secondary school legislation now being worked out in committee . Rather than join the Republicans in their move to seek grants to the states without strings attached , the Southerners are bargaining for lessening of civil rights enforcement . Thus far Acbninismaking concessions to win 1Southern votes . Republicans and Southern Democrats are still expected to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leaders involved say when this happens it will be without any strategy agreement . Prior to 1965 , former Representative Howard W. Smith of Virginia , leader of the Southern bloc , and Charles A. Halleok of Indiana , then minority leader , worked together almost every day to defeat Administration legislation . Mr. Ford does not want to renew the coalition because he believes Southern Democrats have profited from it in the past and the Republican Congressional candidates have consequently suffered .                     