@@722148

txt The college campus is slowly breaking the cocoon of political apathy and cynicism that has encased it through most of the post-World War II era . An undergraduate of a decade ago might have spent his leisure moments in panty raids or water fights . Today 's student is more apt to be unleashing his excess energy in turning out conservative propaganda , picketing against racial discrimination or the H-Bomb , or ? most likely ? spending endless hours over coffee or beer , thrashing out the state of the nation and the world . The most obvious evidence of reawakened political interest is the highly-articulate , efficiently-organized and usually well-financed campus conservative movement centering on Sen. Barry Goldwater as a leader . But this is by no means the limit of collegiate political activity . The campus left wing has revived , concentrating on promoting pacifism and racial integration . The political renaissance is liveliest at these two extremes . But the great mass of students falling in between also seems to be stirring from a long lethargy . Tulane . Illinois and Yale These conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three geographically-separated , widely dissimilar colleges : Tulane. the University of Illinois and ? Yale . Significantly , none of the three is regarded as a traditional hotbed of political activity or as a pace-setter in campus political thought The political reawakening is most pronounced at Ivy League Yale , but it is evident in less advanced stages at Illinois , roughly typical of the huge Midwestern state universities , and at Tulane , a privately-endowed institution in New Orleans combining characteristics of the Southern college and of the big-city nonresidential , university . Because only a small minority of undergraduates actively engage in political activity , it is difficult to gauge the political consensus on the campus . Most students and faculty members , however , label the dominant leaning as conservative " The student body here always has been predominantly conservative , " asserts Richard Carroll , dean of undergraduate students at YaIe . Harry Tiebout , a University of Illinois philosophy professor with liberal leanings , and the faculty adviser for the campus chapter of the National Association for Advancement of Colored People , puts his assessment more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any students more conservative , more conformist or more provincial than the ones we have here " Through most of American history , this nation 's colleges  --  unlike their European counterparts  --  have neither significantly influenced great events nor reacted vigorously to them The depression of the 1930s and the New Deal changed this momentarily , spawning a vociferous campus left-wing movement that included a number of Communists and fellowtravelers But veterans returning to college after World War II seemed more interested in finishing their education than in influencing the world , and they were followed by the " silent generatiori " of the 1950s . Now another switch in campus mood is under way . Desire for Public Service . Perhaps the best evidence of this change is a new-found desire for public service by undergraduates " It used to be said that the Yale graduate would take the Merritt Parkway right to Wall Street ; now , I could name you a hundred students who are interested in getting into government or politics . " reports Lance Liebman. 20. a Frankfort , Ky , senior who is editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of a political career ( liberal Democratic variety ) after he finishes law school . Interviews indicate that campus conservatives generally think of trying for elective office or party leadership ; liberals tend more toward the foreign service or some other government career In part , it 's the vigorous campus conservative movement that seems to be trigg ? -n mg activity elsewhere along the collegiate political spectrum . In Washington , Dick Lambert , who heads the newly revived campus division of the liberal Americans for Democratic Action , concedes that right-wing activity has helped stimulate the left . " All this publicity about college students being for Goldwater infuriates me , " says Dave Schotts , 20. a Galesburg , Ill .. junior and president of the University of Illinois Young Democrats . " That 's one reason we 're working so hard . We want to show that there are plenty of liberals on the campus . " But even more , the campus political reawakening may reflect awareness of the Communist menace and thoughts of nuclear annihilation . Wade Freeman , 20 , an admirer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the student newspaper at the University of Illinois , says : " Even though we 're off here at an isolated Midwestern university , we know that the bomb can fall on us too . I 'd say most students are really more interested in that than why the football team has lost all its games this season . " Some Student Apathy To be sure , a public opinion pollster might even now find apathy and preoccupation with parochial campus matters to be the prevailing mood among Illinois and Tulane students . Some Tulane undergraduates , bemused by verbal wrangling between campus conservative and liberal clubs , placed an ad in the student newspaper announcing that a fictitious Tulane apathetic society would not meet that week . Larry Hansen , 20. an Elgin , Ill. , senior who is president Of the Illinois student senate , contends he ca n't get into a good bull session on world or national affairs at his Phi Delta Theta fraternity house because " all the talk is about social matters or sports " " You often hear it said that Yalies are concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a Yale senior from Washington , D.C. But he himself is committed enough to belong to the campus Young Democrats , sign up for two years in the Peace Corps and plan a political career after that . And on balance , there 's unmistakable evidence that the campus is tending to throw off both parochialism and detachment . The Daily Illini. which has been more a workshop for journalism students than a journal of opinion , is gingerly taking an interest in things political It has instituted in its Saturday edition a section devoted to controversial matters and sometimes takes an editorial stand . " We admire the picketers who marched outside Civil Engineering Hail . rot their courage and convictions , but hardly for their straight thinking , " the paper editorialized after members of the Students Peace Union , a pacifist group , demonstrated against a universitysponsored short course for evaluating fallout shelters . At Tulane , the left and right wing student groups busy themselves with ' propaganda . The Conservative Club published an expensive professional-looking magazine frankly modeled after the conservative National Review ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society . The Liberal Club puts out a lowbudget mimeographed publication ; one issue was dominated by articles friendly to Fidel Castro . Politically Arthe Yale Yale is inundated with speakeis of all political opinions and student organizations representing almost every shade of political thought except communism . Civil rights-conscious Yale students participate in " sit-out " demonstrations against Negro slum housing in New Haven , Conn. , the home of the college . Right-wing Yale students are considering a trip to the New London , Conn. , submarine base , scene of picketing against nuclear subs by student pacifists last year , to show their backing of American atomic power . It Is clear that the most intensively interested and thoroughly committed students tend to take extreme positions  --  and are proud of it . Significantly , the middle-of-the-road party in the Yale Political Union  --  a mock parliament that meets once every two weeks  --  is near extinction " I 'm somewhere to the right of Goldwater , " proclaims Richard Cowan. 2t , a Fort Worth . Tex , senior at Yale who proposes that all public schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Calliopean Society , originally formed by Southern students prior to the Civil War and revived in 1955 as a conservative discussion Troup with a closed membership . Asked to describe his political philosophy , Bill Argus , a 22-year-old senior from New Orleans and president of the Tulane Student Council , replies : " I guess I 'd call myself a reactionary . " On the left , the leaders of Tulane 's Liberal Club are avowed . socialists . and Yale left-wingers refer to themselves as radicals . In the same vein , many of the campus political activists deploie moderation . " If there 's any group I despise more than the Communist. , its the so-c ailed middle-of-the-readers , " snaps Prentice Smith , 20 , of Houma , La. , a Tulane junior who is active in the conservative club there . Jim Tillotson , 21 , a Berkeley , Calif. , senior who heads the Yale Political Union , explains his distaste for the Yale Young Republicans organization in this way : " They tend to compromise , and I 'm not ready to compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed the young Republicans ' endorsement of former Labor Secretary James Mitchell for governor of New Jersey  --  on the ground that his victory would have been a shot in the arm for liberal Republicans , Straying From Center Even among the Young Democrats and the Young Republicans , there is a tendency to stray from the political center . The Tulane Young Republicans Club is solidly pro-Goldwater . Many of the campus Young Democrats fall left of President Kennedy . charging him with overly ' - aggressive tactics in dealing with Russia But the collegiate arms of the two national parties , concerned mainly with helping the local party organizations ring doorbells and address envelopes , show less vitality than other campus political groups . Attempting to explain this , 21-year-old Yale junior , Tony Rogers , son of the former attorney general and a member of the Young Republicans , says- " Any extremist tends to be more vocal " Given a broad base of conservative students and ready financial support from adult right-wingers , it is no surprise that campus conservative groups are thriving " We 've had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sommerschield , 20. of Elmhurst . Ill , an Illinois senior who is leading in formation of a student conservative organization and heads the campus YMCA , long considered a liberal sti onghold at Illinois . In contrast , the collegiate liberal movement seems poorly coordinated and widely splintered . " The liberals here are always charging off in different directions , " concedes 18-year-old Dennis Weeks , an Illinois sophomore from Dekalb . III ? who spends much of his ' free time on pacifist causes . Liberal groups draw heavily on graduate students to fill their ranks . Graduate students , some of them in their late 20s and early 30s , dominate the leadership of the Tulane Liberal Club ; Bill Harrell of Dallas , the president of the club , is 28 years old . Liberals Out of Main Stream At Tulane and Illinois , and to a considerably lesser extent at Yale . the liberals appear to be removed from the main stream of campus life " The liberals nowadays seem to be composed of a sort of fringe group of students . " comments Ray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is some stigma attached to some of the campus liberal organizations , in the opinions of some students . " You try to get somebody to sign a petition and you get answers like ' I 'd like to , but it might hurt if I ever want to get a Government job ' or ' I ca n't do that because I 'm in Air Force ROTC , ' " complains Rudy Frank . 19 , a junior from Shandaken . N.Y .. and a liberal leader at Illinois . Fred Ilfeld of Beverly Hills , Calif. , a 21-year old senior who heads the Yale NAACP , reports " Most of the students here are pretty well fixed with a good job in the future . Why should they risk it by joining the NAACP ? That 's their reasoning . " Though collegiate conservative activity sometimes is described as a revolt of youth against its elders , there is remarkable identity between an undergraduate 's political views and the opinions , he 's heard at home . At Yale , Frank Ayres , a 21-year-old senior and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father 's moderately conservative policies as president of the campus Young Republicans . Ken Harding , the young Democratic leader , is the son of the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee . Jay Rhodes . the 18-year-old freshman son of Arizona 's rigidly conservative Republican Congressman , is a member of the Yale chapter of the right-wing Young Americans for Freedom . Asked if he ever disagrees with his father , young Rhodes replies : " Not very often . And when 1 do , he usually convinces me he 's right " If there is any element of rebellion in the young conservative movement , It is often tlirected against Ilheral-dominated faculties . That , at least , is the view of Henry Mason , a political science professor who Is a leader in liberal activity at Tulane " This is partly a matter of a student opposing his professor ? acceptable conduct in college , " Professor Mason comments .                     