@@726960

txt Until a month ago some liberal members of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders were seriously contemplating a dissenting report . They believed , and to some extent still believe , that the report lacked a sense of urgency and proposed few innovative government programs in such areas as education and welfare . But in the last weeks of the commission 's life the liberals won several key victories , and the conservative group was threatening to issue a dissent until the moment the report was released last Thursday . This is the basic story of the internal politics of the commission pieced together from conversations with its members , the commission staff , and other well-informed sources . In making its drive for a stronger report , the liberal group had the advantage of being led by Mayor Lindsay of New York , the commission 's vice chairman , and Senator . Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma . Mr. Lindsay was not only the most prominent political figure on the commission but was also considered one of the leading experts on city problems . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicitly , was a powerful lever in the final weeks of bargaining . Probably the liberals ' most important triumph was the adoption of the summary of the report . This document , which was released last Thursday , stated starkly  --  perhaps more starkly than in the report  --  that " Our nation is moving toward two societies , one black , one white  --  separate and unequal . " The summary was important , the liberals believed , because it focused the attention of newsmen  --  and thus the nation ? on the responsibility of white society for the riots and the necessity for it to make " hard choices " to reverse the trend toward racial separation . In addition , the liberals won several key votes setting specific goals for national program // recommendations , such as 600 , - 000 housing units in the next year ( twice as many as proposed by the President ) and two million jobs in the next three years . The conservatives had first wanted no specific goals , and then pushed for lower totals . One well-informed staff member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They had been working on the report chapter by chapter , page by page , " he said . " There had been no votes at first , only discussion . But when they began to read the full text , and see the , breadth and scope of what they , were saying , they began to worry whether they could sign the report . " Despite the militant tone of the summary and several other chapters , the report is essentially a series of compromises among 11 very different individuals . But it is not the report the same commission would have written eight months ago . " Most of them never in their lives would have signed a report like this at the outset , " said one staff aide . " In the first meetings most of the talk was about Rap Brown and Stokely Carmichael militant Negro leaders and conspiracies . But they heard witnesses , they read , they visited the ghettos . And they began to understand the depth of the problem . " The liberal and conservative groups in the commission were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members on every issue . But there is general agreement that the sixmember liberal group included Gov . Otto Kerner of Illinois , the commission chairman ; Mayor Lindsay ; Senator Harris ; Roy Wilkens , executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People ; Senator Edward W. Brooke , Republican of Massachusetts ; and Herbert Jenkins , chief of police in Atlanta . The five conservatives were Representative James C. Corman , Democrat of California ; Representative William M. McCulloch , Republican of Ohio ; Charles B. Thornton , chairman of Litton Industries ; I. W. Abel , president of the United Steelworkers of America , and Katherine Graham Peden , Commissioner of Commerce in Kentucky . Most of the program recommendations represent a compromise between liberals and conservatives . For example , the liberals wanted the commission to support a plan for a " guaranteed income " but had to settle for a suggestion that the Federal Government " seek to develop " a system of " income supplementation "  --  a distinctly more limited approach . The liberals were also defeated when they proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in proposing elimination of new welfare laws that would cut Federal funds available for aid to dependent children . Even questions of language were closely argued . The introduction says there should be " no higher priority for national action " than the problem of the cities ? thereby avoiding the question of whether it is more or less important that Vietnam . In general , the commission decided to recommend what should be done , rather than what the members thought could be done under current political circumstances , but the problem of money was never far away . While it was debating billiondollar programs the commission 's budget was limited to $1.6-million in the wake of government economy moves . As a result , several dozen staff member were dismissed prematurely , in December and several elaborate research contracts . had to be curtailed , commission spokesmen said . Some younger staff members continue to believe that the dismissals in December were made under pressure from the White House , which was said to be upset that the commission report would be too radical . Commission spokesmen flatly deny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although they say that the President 's staff was kept informed of all developments . Reliable sources said that after White House aides received the final report , they expressed displeasure on grounds the reports did not complement current efforts to aid the poor . Several commissioners were surprised when the final copies of the report contained a frontispiece that quotes President Johnson on the need to " attack . . . the conditions that breed despair and violence . " They could not recall ever approving the quote . " Maybe some did n't see it ; it was all , done in a rush , " said a commission spokesman . " But there was no attempt to put anything over on anybody . '                     