@@727166

txt column missing indictments , to counsel , aid , and abet young men to evade the draft , to aid and abet young men to turn in their draft cards , and to hinder and interfere with the selective service system . The case was prosecuted by Assistant United States Atty . John Wall , 36 , a former paratrooper and army intelligence officer . Coffin turned toward his wife as the jury was being polled and gave her a slight smile . Speck 's wife was seated among the 30 spectators . After the verdict , Speck said : " My particular defense was that I believed a citizen must work against the war he feels contrary to international law . The court has decided to feel differently . " Mrs. Spook said she was " not surprised " at the verdict . " I expected it all along . " Goodman was hugged by his wife , Denise , but said upon advice of his lawyers he would not comment . " I 'll comment for my husband , " said Mrs. Goodman , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing what was right . " Raskin Shows Tears " My belief has always been , " Coffin said , " that the issues we wanted to bring before the court were never a r g u e d . That 's the legality and constitutionality of the war and the draft . " Raskin left the courtroom with one of his lawyers , his head down , and tears in his eyes . " I feel very good for myself , " he said , " and badly for the others . " Raskin was embraced by Mrs. William Sloane Coffin , the defendant 's mother , and Coffin 's sister , Mrs. Margot Lindsay . Ferber Expected It Michael Ferber , the only defendant of draft age , said he had " mixed feelings all along " about the verdict . " I sort of expected this , " he said . Raskin 's acquittal , Ferber said , " is good for the peace movement because it shows that the conspiracy laws are not absolute . " Coffin agreed . He said if Haskin had been convicted " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictments  --  they would have reached epidemic proportions . " In giving instructions to the jury , Judge Ford said the prime question to be decided was whether the defendants agreed to violate federal laws . " We are not trying the morality , the legality , or the constitutionality of the Viet Nam war , nor are we trying the morality , legality , or constitutionality of the selective service law , or the right of a person to protest the war , " Ford said .                     