@@721894

txt WASHINGTON , June 22 ? To search for an alternative by which war could be averted , without sacrificing the honor or the treaty obligations of the United States , is the highest duty of statesmanship . When the threat from a status quo to which such an alternative might be found is nuclear war , the obligation of government is even more demanding . But it was for suggesting a specific plan to solve the Berlin crisis , and a plan out of line with the United States policy , that Senator Mansfield is being criticized . The premise of his critics is that because Mansfield is the majority leader of the Senate the Kremlin will take his public and detailed proposal of a possible Berlin policy alternative as a semi-official hint the United States is preparing to retreat from the prospect of a showdown ; that , therefore , Premier Khrushchev will decide he needs only to stand firm on his demands to attain them in full without any risk of war . In view of the fact that the Kremlin made this miscalculation before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin airlift , it is entirely possible that Mansfield 's critics are right on that point . But it is not sufficiently conclusive to serve as a silencer of the Senate debate on the Berlin is sue in its constitutional foreign pol- , icy role . This week Senator Cooper of Kentucky made an impressive comment to that effect , accompanying it with a highly constructive proposal . After reviewing the basic positions of the United States and the U. S. S. R. , as recently restated by the President and Premier Khrushchev , he said to the Senate : It is inevitable and correct that this issue must be debated in the Congress . Several Senators have presented views , alike in their patriotic purpose , but nevertheless far apart concerning the policy this Government should undertake . As the debate proceeds , it is possible that we will have a polarization of views in the Congress  --  one to hold without deviation the position the United States has asserted in the past , and the other to find an alternative . Because , he continued , the German and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that confront our nation , with the possibility of * ? * a thermonuclear war , " the American people who would be among those cast into this incinerator of civilization must , like Congress , previously be assured that " tha best consideration has been given by the Administration to every aspect of the issue . " This , he said , will enable the President to rely on that " full support of his ultimate decision by a unified Congress and a unified country . " This is indisl pensable and is strongest when it is voluntary and not a forced submission to an official fait accompli . That was the spirit of Senator Mansfield 's highly visionary suggestion that a " free city " made of both the Berlins , its independence guarded by an international treaty to Which the U. S. S. R. was signatory , and access to it guarded by interna1 , tional arms , might be a negotiable alternative . It is wholly likely , as his Senate critics predicted , that the U. S. S. R. would then use its familiar tactics to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " freedom , " as the West defines it . But it is not improbable that , if no alternative to the East-West status quo is found , the seeds of war will sprout the day the U. S. S. R. is ready . And , in view of the military fact that West Berlin could not be successfully defended by the West if the Soviet armed forces mean business , its free inhabitants and their cities would be immediate casualties . To mention such a fact is denounced by many as " appeasement . " But it is one of those the American people have a right to know . This right is emphasized by the other fact that their Government , not they , agreed to in wartime secrecy , if it did not originate , the monstrous zoning of Germany which set Berlin 110 miles within the Russian zone and thereby created the perilous problem which could involve them in the horrors of thermonuclear war . This is the possibility which led Senator Cooper not only to term senate discussion " inevitable and : orrect , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " men who have ipecific and practical knowledge of he issues , who have dealt with hem face-to-face , and are broadly epresentative of our country " ( he ientioned several ) should assist he President and the Secretary of tate in reviewing " every aspect " f the problem , including all possile ways of easing it . Maybe it ca n't be eased . But to ? arch intensively for it , as Manseld was , is n't " appeasement. "                     