@@721964

txt Premier Khrushchev declared today that his Government believed there would be no war over Berlin . The Soviet leader stood firmly by his demands for a German peace treaty and a change in the status of West Berlin . But he added that the Soviet Union was ready to negotiate the issue with the Western powers . An official Western source said Mr. Khrushchev had expressed these views in discussions in the Kremlin with Premier Arnintore Fantail " of Italy . The meeting lasted three hours and fifteen minutes . The Italian Premier and his Foreign Minister , Antonio Segni , arrived here by air today at 3 P. M. Moscow time on a fourday state visit . Political talks began soon afterward in the Kremlin . Concluding an hour-and-ahalf statement on the international situation , Mr. Khrushchev declared : " We believe that there will be no war . A German peace treaty is necessary , and so are negotiations . " Fanfani Gives West 's View The source said the discussions had proceeded in a frank and sometimes cordial atmosphere . As Mr. Khrushchev began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but without acrimony . Premier Fanfani , in reply , reiterated the Western position an Berlin in a half-hour statement . The Italian Premier and his Foreign Minister sat opposite Premier Khrushchev and the soviet Foreign Minister , Andrei A. Gromyko . After the opening statements , an animated discussion of one hour and fifteen minutes followed . It was devoted in considerable part to defining a possible basis for negotiation of the Berlin problem . Western experts here were examining the possibility that Mr. Khrushchev might utilize ' his talks with Signor Fantani for a new approach to the Western powers . The initial exchange of views IA the Kremlin lasted one hour more than had been scheduled . The talks are to be resumed tomorrow at 10 A. M. An authoritative source said Mr. Khrushchev did not put forward any new proposal for a Berlin settlement . The importance of his discussion with Signor Fanfani was said to lie more in his emphasis on the need for a negotiated settlement . The Western powers already have rejected the division of Germany . The United States and its allies insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany through free elections . Within this context Mr. Khrushchev has declared his intention to sign a separate peace treaty with the East Germans and to transfer to them control of the allies ' supply lines to West Berlin . Although Italy does not have occupation rights with the United States , Britain and France in West Berlin , Signor Fanfani was able to speak to Mr. Khrushchev with a measure of authority . Italy is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . In addition , Rome is privy to the Western Big Three diplomatic position on Berlin as well as to military planning to meet any threat to the city , Premier Khrushchev was said to have described in detail guarantees his Government was ready to extend to the West to assure free access to Berlin n the event that a separate Soviet peace treaty was signed with East Germany . Mr. Khrushchev also spoke on disarmament and dwelt at length on the need to grant freedom to the colonial peoples . On this latter question , Signor Fanfani made it clear rather sharply that the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Signor Fanfani completes his discussions here , he will be making a report to the other interested Western Governments . On Saturday , when the Soviet-Italian talks end , the Foreign Ministers of the United States , Britain and France will be assembling in Paris for a three-day conference on the Berlin crisis . Visit Stirs Speculation It has been something of a mystery precisely why Premier Khrushchev chose this time to invite the Italian leader to Mos ' cow . There had been some speculation that Moscow would seek to lure the Italians away from their Western allies as the crisis over Berlin mounted . Signor Fanfani 's reasons for coming to Moscow are more apparent . The Italian Premier must contend at home with a large Communist vote . Before lining up militarily with the other Western powers in the Berlin crisis , Signor Fanfani has been eager to demonstrate to his electorate that he has made every effort to achieve an understanding with the Soviet Union .                     