@@727731

txt Nigeria fig Powers Fl old the . fey in a Proxy War XXVIUAHIA , Biafra  --  The Nigerian civil war , having dragged on now for more than 20 months , is drawing the Great Powers into a conflict by proxy . The British and the Russians , as the arms suppliers on the Federal side , are locked in hot competition for Nigeria 's allegiance , with the British desperately trying to protect their foothold in their former colony . Nigeria enjoys Washington 's full diplomatic backing , but the United States has embargoed the sale of arms to either side . France has backed Biafra 's " right to self - determination , " and covertly is financing a modest airlift of small arms and ammunition from nearby Gabon , one of four African states to have recognized Biafra . None of the outside powers is likely to reverse its position . Every day the war continues , the more policies for or against Biafra tend to harden . Yet there is little likelihood of any meaningful movement towards the conference table until the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict . There have been suggestions that Britain might take the first step by stopping her arms deliveries to Nigeria , thereby deescalating the military side of the war . Prime Minister Wilson has refused to take such a step , however , contending that it would end all British influence over Nigeria and that the Nigerians would soon find other sources of suppIy  --  probably Russia . In a debate on Nigeria in Parliament last week , the Tory leader , Edward Heath , supported Mr. Wilson 's stand but suggested that England at least put Russia on the spot as the only world power still interested in prolonging the war . Mr. Heath proposed that Britain call for a meeting of the United Nations Security Council and recommend an embargo on arms shipments to both sides . " The Russians might well veto it , " said Mr. Heath , " but at least it would show where Moscow stands . " Chances Are Slim But even if the two sides were pressured into talking , the odds on a lasting agreement at this juncture are slim . Nigeria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ojukwu , not only renounce secession but accept a landlocked Ibo state one third the size of the former Eastern Region ? the boundaries that formed Biafra before the Nigerians invaded . Colonel Ojukwu is willing to make some boundary adjustments and has offered to permit the minority areas in the south to hold a plebiscite . But he will not renounce Biafran sovereignty and would almost certainly demand access to the sea . For either Colonel Ojukwu or Maj. Gen. Yakubu Gowon in Lagos to back down on their fundamental positions would amount to political suicide . There are no doves in Biafra , and the hawks still predominate in Lagos . There is a tendency abroad to think of a settlement in abstractions , without weighing either the local political realities or the intangibles of emotion . The war has left deep scars on both sides . Biafra 's secession was preceded by the massacre of 30 , - 000 Easterners in Nigeria 's Northern Region , with General Gowon powerless to stop it . " After all we 've been through , " says Colonel Ojukwu , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of others . All we ask is to be left alone . " Defied Precedent All this has defied precedent and prediction . African precedent ( the Congo is a good example ) suggested that the side with the superior firepower usually won . And if you threw in some foreign assistance , victory was assured . Nigeria has had nearly all the firepower and , until recently , nearly all the foreign support . The Russians have provided rockets , trucks , and their latest automatic rifles . The Egyptians fly the MIG 's and Ilyushin jets . Mortars , artillery and armored vehicles are British . Biafra is still relying mainly on single shot bolt-action rifles , home - made mines , mortars and rockets  --  with no armor , no artillery , no planes . Despite the loss of around a million people , most of them from starvation , Biafra is still very much alive . The Biafrans talk of a war that could drag on for five years . If it were to boil down to a war of wills , the Biafrans would have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GARRISON Dana Davies from Bethel RIAFRAN TROPHY : Biafrzn troops , fighting mainly with single-shot rifles and home-made mortars , rely for heavier equipment on what they can capture from federal forces . Biafrans are shown with captured British-made armored vehicle .                     