@@721987

txt ALBANY , Aug. 14 ? Governor Rockefeller has decided to defer ilong-range reform of the New York City Board of Education until the 1962 legislative session , which opens in January . Mr. Rockefeller plans to ask the special session , which meets here Monday , to confine its actions to the following : ( Abolishing the present city Board of Education . ( authorizing the Board of Regents to appoint an interim city board to function until a reorganized board is created next year . ( appropriating money for a study of the extent to which the new board should be reorganized and of methods of improving citizen participation in the city 's school system . When Mayor Wagner 's decision to press for resignations of the Board of Education became known tonight , it could not be determined whether Governor Rockefeller would still insist on replacement of the board by the special session . It was noted , however , that Mr. Rockefeller has committed himself to the selection of a new board in which Mayor Wagner would have little , if any , voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with goals in mind that go beyond the substitution of new Wagner ap-pointees for the old Wagner appointees on the Board of Education . Curtailing the agenda of the special session will ? defer until , after the November election sev-i eral controversial features of the Governor 's proposed reorganization plan . These include plans to strip the Mayor 's office of its unrestricted power to appoint members of the city Board of Education and to grant the reconstituted board a degree of independence in raising and spending tax revenue . Postponing these steps until J , nuary or February will permit a more thorough study of the , legislation that is necessary . It also will tend to keep the sub-1 ject out of the municipal elec- , tion . The special session , which will convene in the Capitol at noon Monday , is expected to last one day or , at most , two days . The regular session normally runs from January to late in March . Another subject that will be deferred is the reorganization and stimulation of local school boards in New York City . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no power and are used largely for honorary appointments . In addition , local board members are appointed by the Borough Presidents rather than by the Mayor . Mr. Rockefeller 's education advisers see this practice as making board members too subject to political considerations . One of the minimum functions the administration would like to see given these local boards is that of holding an annual meeting at which taxpayers could present their views and participate more directly in running the school system . Governor Rockefeller received a pledge of cooperation at th special session today from %Va. ! ter J. Mahoney , RepublicaMajority Leader in the Senate . Senator Mahoney promised that the Senators would give serious consideration " to any reasonable emergency measures " proposed by the Governor . " Every citizen and taxpayer in the State of New York has been shocked and distressed by the recent revelations of longstanding neglect , inefficiency and ineptitude in the administration of the New York City school system , " Senator Mahoney said . He said that the Legislature was providing about $250,000 , - 000 a year in education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' investment of the taxpayers ' dollars must be preserved and protected . " In dealing with the city school system , the Republican majorities in the Senate and Assembly will not be hampered by the home-rule restrictions in the State Constitution . These provide that the Legislature can not pass laws with respect to the property , affairs or government of a city without a request from its Mayor and City Council . In addition , a home-rule bill requires a twothirds vote of both houses of the Legislature , and the Republican majorities are not that large in either house . However , the Constitution also specifies that the Legislature is not restricted by these requirements when it is dealing with " the maintenance , support or administration of the public school system in any city . "                     