@@722924

txt Harold Wilson , foreign affairs spokesman for the Labor party and one of its most skillful tacticians , was elected party leader tonight to succeed the late Hugh Gaitskell . The 46-year-old Socialist , who became the youngest leader in the party 's history , defeated George Brown , the deputy leader , by 144 votes to 103 in a poll of the Labor members of Parliament . In selecting Mr. Wilson , a suave , pipe-smoking intellectual , the Opposition party chose the man it felt would have the widest appeal in the general election that many predict will be held later this year . The vote was regarded as a satisfactory , but not overwhelming , majority for Mr. Wilson , whose basic appeal was to the left wing of the party . Mr. Brown , with the strong backing of the right wing , received enough support to remain a formidable force in the party and to retain his post as secmid in command . In a preliminary poll last Thursday Mr. Wilson got 115 votes , 8 short of an absolute majority and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Tames Callaghan , the shadow ! . hancellor , received 41 . Mr. Callaghan was eliminated in the final vote . Mr. Wilson told a parliamentary party meeting after his victory had been announced that his first plans were to maintain the unity of the party , to continue Mr. Gaitskell 's policies , and to lead the party to victory in the coming election . tion . Mr. Gaitskell died a month ago , at the height of his pdpularity , from heart and kidney infections . He had unified a party traditionally split by internal feuds and , according to all the public opinion ' polls , could have led Labor to victory in the next election . More recent polls have shown that Labor is still 10 to 15 per cent ahead of the Conservatives . Mr. Wilson 's pledge to continue his predecessor 's policies was reported to have pleased the party members because the two men had differing views on a number of subjects , including the degree to which the nation should support North Atlantic Treaty Organization and United States policies . At one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unilateral disarmament . NATO Support Affirmed He told a news conference tonight : " This party stands firmly by NATO . " He also said he hoped to visit Moscow if the invitation that Mr. Galtskell had received was extended to him . Later , in a television interview , Mr , Wilson indicated that if he became Prime Minister he might cancel Britain 's recently concluded arrangement with the United States to purchase Polaris submarine missiles . Referring to the " shambles " left behind by the Government in Its negotiations with the United States and other NATO powers , he said . " We should not want to continue arrangements under which Britain was having nuclear submarines for some future private war . " Mr. Wilson , echoing the line taken by the Labor party in a recent defense debate in the House of Commons , said it was " nonsense " for Britain to try to be a nuclear power . He said it hindered international agreements on nuclear weapons . Party leaders have argued that the Polaris deterrent could not be independent because of Britain 's reliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parliamentary meeting and ' news conference , Mr. Wilson paid tribute to Mr. Brown for keeping the party together in the interval since Mr. Gaitskell 's death . The new leader also dismissed the idea that his victory was a mandate for any section of the party . By tradition , Labor likes to balance an intellectual like Mr. Wilson , who graduated with honors at Oxford , with a rank and file member of the party such as Mr. Brown . This was the case when Mr. Gaitskell had Mr. Brown as his deputy leader and when former Prime Minister Clement Attlee , now Lord Attlee , and the late Aneurin Bevan dominated the party . Mr. Wilson is one of the party 's most experienced politicians and its most brilliant debater . He has also been accused of changing his position depending on how the party winds were blowing . Although he has always been associated with the left , his winning vote included some support from the center and right . Political experts who predicted his victory with accuracy have been less sure of his future policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the center , partly as a gesture of conciliation , partly to gain support and partly to prove more attractive to the independent voter whose support the party will need to carry it into office .                     