@@725427

txt Chesty Manly has returned to Viet Nam for another assessment of the political and military situation there , mith particular attention to American problems . BY CHESLY MANLY . Chicago Tribune Press Service NHA TRANG , Viet Nam , March 24 ? The army 's special forces , celebrated by the popular " Ballad of the ? Green Beret , " have added do-gooding to their normal role of killing by " unconventional war fare " methods : In both roles , : hoWever , they are not . only living up to but enhancing their reputation . The recent heroic defense of the small Ashau special forces camp , which finally was overrun by a regular regiment from North Viet Nam , is an example of the courage of the men who wear the green beret . Examples of Risks The location of this camp , in a remote valley in the northern part of South Viet Nam , near the Laotian border , is an example of the risks these small special forces teams accept in their dual function of killing Communists and civic action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Viet Nam , regiment might not have - beenithere if the special forces had been permitted by the Johnson administration to do what they were designed to do . Infiltration of Laos-to blow up bridges , mine trucks , and ambush communist infiltrators on the Ho Chi Minh trail-is the kind of " unconventional warfare " for which the special forces were created . Hot Pursuit 0 . K. Washington has authorized limited border crossings in " hot pursuit " of enemy troops , who use the territories of Laos and ? Cambodia , otherwise known as Chaos and Lambodia as sanctuaries and avenues of aggression . Deep penetrations are not permitted . Consequently , the enemy continues to infiltrate troops from North Viet Nam into South Viet Nam at a rate of about 4,000 a month . American military leaders believe it will be necessary eventually to put two- divisions in Laos , to block the Ho Chi Minh trail by conventional warfare , unless this infiltration is stopped by special forces action and strategic bombing of North Viet Nam . Otherwise , the military leader say , the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 years , the cost in lives and resources will be staggering , and the American people will get sick and tired of it , as the French did in 1954 . That , of course , is precisely what North Viet Nam 's communist leaders have said they are counting on . If not permitted to go into Laos , the special forces do go into the most dangerous areas of South Viet Nam . Increasing Their Strength The army is increasing the strength of the special forces in Viet Nam , which soon will number 2,000 . The number of camps is approaching 100 . There are three kinds of teams in these camps ? A , B , and C. There is one C detachment , largest of the teams , in each of the four corps areas . They are commanded by a lieutenant colonel , have a conventional staff organization , and a total strength of about 3D . They work with the Vietnamese corps commanders and supervise the A and B teams in their corps areas , under the control of Col. William A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his headquarters staff here at Nha Trang . The B teams , normally 6 officers and 17 enlisted men , advise the Vietnamese province chiefs , in addition to their other duties . The smaller A teams , normally only 12 officers and enlisted men , advise the- Vietnamese district chiefs . Train Defense Guards Each camp has about the same , number of Vietnamese special forces personnel as Americans . The Americans advise and train their Vietnamese counterparts . Each camp also has a much larger force ? usually 300 to 400 ? of civilian irregular defense guards CIDGs and their dependents , who are paid , fed , armed , and trained by the special forces teams for reconnaissance , sabotage , ambushing , and other harassing operations against the Viet Cong . They are especially useful in obtaining intelligence of Viet Cong movements from fellow tribesmen . The total strength of the CIDG is 35,000 . Besides their work with the CIDG , six of the B teams have the additional duty of advising and training Vietnamese regional and popular forces , which are controled respectively by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , one for each corps and one for the Nha Tr a n g headquarters , which are used as security guards when new camps are under construction or held in reserve for the relief of camps under attack . Then there is a super-secret special force of airborne companies and reconnaissance squads , based here at headquarters , which operate anywhere in the country in close cooperation with the regular combat forces . There is rarely an operation by any American fighting unit that is not preceded by extremely hazardous reconnaissance missions by the special forces . Casualty statistics for the special forces are not announced . It can be said , however , that their casualties are higher , in proportion to their number , than those of the regular combat forces , and that their kill ratio is much more favorable . The primary unconventional warfare missions are border surveillance , interdiction of enemy infiltration routes , and operations against the enemy war zones . Have Second Function This is the kind of unconventional warfare methods for which the special forces were designed . In Viet Nam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? civic action and psychological operations . They are trying to train and motivate these people to help themselves by rooting out Ile Viet Cong and building a political and social structure of their own , from the grass roots up . In that field they are duplicating work done by the United States aid mission , the United States embassy , the regular armed forces , and a dozen other agencies of the United States government . More than some other American agencies , the special forces seem to be aware of the danger of doing so much for these people that they will become a nation of sheep . Instead of building schools , for example , the special forces teams persuade the chiefs to , provide materials and hire teachers and then help the people build their own schools . This promotes local civic responsibility and pride , as well as loyalty to the representatives - of the central government . The people are encouraged to undertake all kinds of selfhelp programs , using local materials wherever possible and doing the work themselves . Technical assistance and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consist ' of educational and moti-1 vation work with the people . The teams explain why we 're fighting communism and try to develop a spirit of patriotism and nationalism . They encourage the establishment of local newspapers , or at least local government information services , so the people will be informed about the government 's programs and purposes and less susceptible to communist propaganda . This certainly is unconventional work for men who are specially trained to kill by unconventional methods , such as garroting , karate , or a knife between the ribs . But they seem to be just as dedicated to it as to their normal duties .                     