@@725507

txt CIVILIAN CONTROL OF POLICE REVIEW IS SET UP BY CITY Lindsay Names Panel of to Help Him in Choosing 4 Outsiders for Board NEED FOR CHANGE CITED New Procedures to Provide ' Thorough Investigation ' of Charges , Mayor Says Texts of Lindsay and Leary reports are on Page 38 . By PAUL HOFMANN Mayor Lindsay and Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary announced the creation of a civilian-controlled board last night to examine complaints against policemen . The Mayor said the board , whose members have not yet been selected , would provide " independent and thorough investigation for the citizen who charges his rights have been violated . " The Mayor named a panel of 11 men , including three Negroes and a Puerto Rican , to recommend civilian candidates to be appointed by him to the revamped review board . His reform plan calls for the board to have three police officials and four civilians with a civilian executive director , its own investigating unit of police officers and conciliation procedures . Change in Procedure Civilians will be able to start actions by making complaints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of to police , men at the board 's offices , as is the practice now . More civilian court methods will be adopted , giving both policemen and complainants the right to cross-examine witnesses . The board will not be able to recommend specific punishments for policemen but will recommend whether the Police Department should prefer charges . No record of proceedings will be put into a policeman 's record unless he is found guilty . Up to now every complaint was recorded in personnel files . The old review board , which consists of three deputy police commissioners , will continue to hear complaints until the new panel is in operation . Praise and Opposition Civil rights leaders generally hailed the announcement of the new board , but the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association , which has said that civilian review would hamper police efficiency , said it would oppose the move . The Mayor , who announced the plan in a televised speech , acknowledged that the proposed reform of machinery to examine complaints against policemen had been " born in controversy and discord . " Mr. Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several city areas . " A widespread cause is the suspicion that citizens who fgel they have been mistreated by police officers do not receive a fair , impartial hearing of their complaints , " he said . However , the Mayor praised // the Police Department , saying that " it has the , reputation of being the best in the world . " Mr. Lindsays plan carried out a pledge made during his election campaign last fall . The details , as disclosed last night by the Mayor and Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary. who appeared with him , showed an awareness of the possible political , legal and administrative pitfalls in the way of reorganizing the board . City Hall had clearly been at pains to strike an ethnic balance in the selection committee for the review board and to seek to maintain police morale . No timetable was given last night for establishment of the new board . However , the Mayor left little doubt that he regarded its creation as pressing . Executive Order Issued The structural changes and new procedures for the board were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police Commissioner , which will require no action by the City Council . In a general order prefacing amendments to the Police Depatment 's Rules and Procedues , Mr. Leary established how the board 's members would be named and laid down the composition and functions of the Istaff working for the revamped ' board . It said that the members of the board appointed by the Mayor should be entitled to a $50 fee for each hearing or meeting they attend . It was understood that the civilian board members would receive no other payment for their services from the Police Department or any other city source . It . was thought that members of the board 's staff would be paid by the Police Department . John J. Cassese , the president of the P. B. A. , which includes most of the city 's 27,000 policemen , said that " we consider the Mayor 's proposal improper , undesirable and illegal . " He warned that the association ' would make " every effort to see that his board is never established . " As outlined by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things : 9The seven-member review board will be composed of three , police officials , including a : member of the uniformed force , to be chosen by the Commissioner , and four civilians ap-1 pointed by the Mayor . 9A civilian executive direc- , tor will be appointed by the Commissioner on recommendation by the Mayor . 9 An investigating unit of police officers will be set up to work exclusively for the board . 9A conciliation procedure supervised by a civilian assist-1 ant director , will be established in attempt to reach a quick , fair settlement of groundless complaints . Mr. Leary pointed out in his statement that the inclusion of a member of the uniformed force would " bring to the board for the first time the knowledge and experience of the line officer . " The present board is composed of the following deputy commissioners : Edward J. McCabe , who has been chairman since last October ; Franklin A. Thomas , who is in charge of the department 's legal affairs , and Theresa M. Melchionne , the city 's highest-ranking policewoman . Mayor Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board had been developed " over many months of careful , intensive study , consultation and revision . " This was understood to be a refeence to City Hall efforts to make the plan invulnerable to legal attack . Mr. Leary recalled last night that under the City Charter the Police Commissioner had sole authority for discipline within his department . " This will continue to be true , " he said . " The new review board has been created to advise and assist me in maintaining departmental discipline . " The Commissioner stressed that the board would not make any specific disciplinary recommendations in those cases where it found a member of the department at fault . It was understood that it would be the prerogative of the Commissioner to impose sanctions . Mr. Leary also said that the present three-man board was administered by police officials and that " the possibility that the inquiry could be less than wholly objective certainly extion for the Advancement of Colored People . Vincent J. Cuttita , a member of the Catholic Lawyers Guild . John Patrick Hogan , assistant principal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , minister of the Community Church of New York . Orin Lehman , a Democrate who was defeated in a special election to fill the Congressional seat vacated by Mr. Lindsay when he became Mayor . William Hughes Mulligan , a law professor at Fordham University . new screening committee . The members of the commit . tee are : Herbert Brownell , the chairman , former United States Attorney General and one of Mr. Lindsay 's close associates and campaign advisers . Morris B. Abram , United States representative to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights . William H. Booth . the chairman deleted 14 lines Sandy F. Ray , minister of the panels of board members or by C. ornerstone Baptist Church civilian hearing officers emin Brooklyn . deleted 4 lines Street , to make his address , w lc was also carried live on duct the hearings , " he said . WNYC-TV and other stations . " Outstanding New Yorkers " Rebroadcasts were carried are to be appointed as civilian over WNYC-TV , the city 's stamembers of the board , accordtion , and over WNJU-TV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter station ment . Candidates for the four provided a running Spanish posts are to be proposed by the ? translation . The Mayor 's concluding remark about " controversy and discord " was omitted by the translator . The term " civilian review board " was rendered in Spanish as " junta civil de revision . " The Spanish version reflected a City Hall effort to reach those among New York 's more than 700,000 Puerto Ricans who speak only that language . Puerto Rican groups have been among the most vocal critics of police practices here , charging mistreatment of members of minority groups . Earlier yesterday , the Mayor had voiced confidence that police morale would not be impaired by the reorganization of the complaint board . He made ilight of opposition to his plans by Mr. Cassese 's association , but said he expected it to " go through the motions " of trying to block the plan . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association has repeatedly warned that it would fight the proposed civilian-controlled review board in court , by its influence in the Council and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the November elections . The Conservative party , too , has threatened legal action . The Mayor answer newsmen 's questions on the review board after a ceremony at the Police Academy , 235 East 20th Street , in which 88 department members received merit promotions . Three men ? Joseph J. , Alexander Kahn and Michael J. Chimenti  --  were pro-1 moted to assistant chief inspector ; five to deputy inspector , six to inspector , nine to deputy inspector , 13 to captain , 20 to lieutenant and 32 to sergeant .                     