@@721203

txt Thirteen prominent Protestant clergymen declared today that antiCatholicism in the Presidential primary campaign posed " a serious danger that the forces of hate and uninformed hostility may be loosed upon our people . " They issued a strongly worded open letter to " fellow pastors in Christ , " urging and begging them " to use every opportunity at your command to commend to your flock that charitable moderation and reasoned balance of judgment which alone can safeguard the peaceful community of this nation . " It was the broadest Protestant statement to date on the religious issue involving the candidacy of Senator John F. Kennedy , Democrat of Massachusetts , a Roman Catholic . ' The letter was written by the Very Rev. Francis B. Sayre Jr. , dean of the Washington Cathedral ( Episcopal ) , and signed by most of the Protestant leaders to whom he sent it . Among the signers were the Rev. Edwin T. Dahlberg , president of the Natoinal Council of Churches of Christ ; Bishop ? G. Bromley Oxnam , Bishop of the Methodist Church for the Washington area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Protestant Episcopal Church , and the ' Rev. Dr. Eugene Carson Blake , stated clerk of the United Rresbyteriasi Church . - - Senator Kennedy said , " L certainly am grateful that this letter was sent , and my , hope- is that this will eliminate religion as an issue . " In ? addition to those mentioned , the following signed the letter : The - Rev. Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick , minister emeritus of New York 's Riverside Church ; the Rev. Dr. John C. Bennett , dean of . Union Theological Seminary ; - the Rev. Arthur L. Miller , moderator of the United Presbyterian Church , and the Rev. Halford Luccock , professor emeritus ; Yale Divinity School . Also , the Rev. Dr , James E. Wagner , president of the- Evangelical and Reformed Church ; the Rev. Dr. Edward Hughes Pruden , minister of the First Baptist Church here ;  --  the Rev. Dr. Fred Hoskins , minister and secretary of the General Council of the Congregational Christian Churches , and the Rev. Gaines M. Cook , executive secretary of the International Convention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blake and Bishop Oxnam , said in an article in the current issue of Look magazine that they felt " uneasy " about a Catholic candidate for President , but that they would consider voting for him . Like today 's letter , the article deplored injection of the religious issue into politics " to stir up prejudice and bigotry . " But it defended the public 's right to ask " honest questions . " Following is the text of the clergymen 's letter : Fellow pastors . in Christ : - In both Wisconsin and West Virginia it has been reported that - unnamed Protestants have been drawing religious lines in political primaries in a way that can only lead to , injurious dissent among our people . Sometimes openly , more often secretly , one of the candidates has . been attacked ( and , by some , supported ) merely because he is a Roman Catholic . We find this profoundly disturbing ; and quite apart from what our attitude toward the Roman Church may be , to classify any candidate for public office in this way threatens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our democratic government and the broad unity of our people . Our ministry is answerable to God alone , and is exercised in a land that protects this integrity . It was out of the cauldron of religious warfare that our forebears stepped into the new world to lay the foundations of this peaceful liberty . Any step that we may take now to recall those intolerant passions and unchar- itable suspicions can only damage us all , Protestant and Catholic alike . Thus may the cohesion ' of our people be smashed into factions of hate , and old issues resurrected that have precious little to do with the worth of any candidate or his fitness for leadership . Let us ask of each man where he stands , no issues being barred . But let us not condemn him before he answers . We are convinced that each of the candidates has presented himself ? before the American people with honesty and independence , and we would think it ' unjust ' to dis-count any one of them becopse of his chosen taith . Such unfairness is not worthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our democracy , which hitherto . has guaranteed in its very Constitution - - that no religious , test shall bar a man from Federal office . ' Because it seems to us that there is at this moment a serious danger that the forces of hate and uninformed hostility may be loosed upon our people , . we urge and bey you as companions in the Lord 's service to use every opportunity at your command to commend to your flock that charitable moderation and reasoned balance of judgment which alone can safeguard the peaceful community of this nation . " May God grant us all the grace to love our neighbors as ourselves difficult as it may sometimes seem ; and that we may de this truly and now .                     