@@728018

txt Paul R. Screvane , the former Deputy Mayor and former City Council President , urged his " friends and associates " yesterday to join him in a " crusade " to elect Controller Mario A. Procaccino as Mayor . Mr. Screvane , who was campaifrn manager for former Mayor Robert F. Wagner in the Democratic primary that Mr. Procaccino won , said the Controller had " a sensitivity and respect for the needs of all of our people . " Mr. Procaccino also was praised and endorsed yesterday by James A. Farley , the former Postmaster General and former Democratic National Chairman : former Controller Lawrence E , Gerosa , State Senator Abraham Bernstein of the Bronx , Assemblyman Hulan Jack of Harlem and District Attorney John M. Braisted Jr . of Staten Island . Shortly after they had taken their stand , David Livingston , head of the 30,000-member District 65 of the Distributive Workers of America , announced its support of Mayor Lindsay for re-election , A ' Great Disaster ' Feared Mr. Livingston told Mayor Lindsay at a City Hall news conference that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons but out of the deep belief of our stewards that your election is necessary and that the election of one of your opponents would be a disaster . " " We think your opponents have embarked on a campaign of division , developing hostilities and tensions which could explode into a great disaster , " Mr. Livingston asserted . In the recent primary campaigns , District 65 supported Mayor Lindsay for the Republican mayoral nomination , which he lost to State Senator John J. Marchi . In the Democratic primary , District 65 , backed Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo . Manhattan Borough President Percy E. Sutton told newsmen yesterday that the endorsements given to Mr. Procaccino by Mr. Jack and Assemblyman Mark T. Southall , also a Harlem Democrat , were " not in accord with the community they live in . " Sutton Likes Lindsay Mr. Sutton has not yet taken a stand in the mayoral race , but he said that Mr. Lindsay " looks definitely better every minute " and that the more he saw of Mr. Procaccino , " the better Mr. Lindsay looks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a Commodore Hotel breakfast meeting attended by Democratic public and party officials and representatives of civic organizations . Mr. Southall attended but did not address the group . Mr. Procaccino said later that the endorsements dispelled the , " notion , " which he said Mr. Lindsay and his supporters were trying to spread , that he was a " loner . " It showed , the Democratic candidate said , that 99 per cent of the Democratic party was behind him . Mr. Screvane told newsmen he did not know whether Mr. Wagner would follow his lead and back Mr. Procaccino . But he noted that his appeal was addressed to all his associates land friends and that Mr. Wagner was both an associate and friend . In his speech Mr. Screvcrie said " categorically " that Mr. ' Lindsay was " the most inept Mayor in my memory , which spans more than 30 years of service in city government . " " To picture Mr. Procaccino as less sensitive than the incumbent Mayor is a political ploy designed to divide and conquer , " he asserted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had worked for Mr. Wagner in the campaign because he believed he could restore nrogressive , enlightened and efficient government here but that the Democratic voters had seiected Mr. Procaccino and he accepted their decision . " Following several discuscussions with Mr. Procaccino , I am convinced that he can bring to our city the kind of government that will meet the challenges of the nineteenseventies and again restore New York City to its preeminence as the capital city of the world , " the former Council President declared . Local Issues Stressed He said that since the primary he had heard considerable discussion " about Vietnam , the A.B.M. , the devaluation of the franc and other national and international issues , but very , little about the fundamental and basic responsibility of any Mayor ? and that is just making municipal government work . " He told a questoner later ' , that Mr. Lindsay and " some of his cohorts " had been discussing Vietnam and the A.B.M . He also said he had been told that the Mayor or one of his aides had spoken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country and city , but he could not recall just who had discussed this subject . Mr. Screvane 's endorsement , like the others , extended to the rest of the Democratic ticket ? former Controller Abraham D. Beame for Controller and Council President Francis X. Smith to remain in his present post . Both attended the breakfast . Farley Praises Ticket Mr. Farley called it a " splendid " ticket and said he was " terribly annoyed " when he heard that " so -- called liberal Democrats " were not supporting the Democratic nominees . " Those fellows are only interested in themselves , " he continued . " Those fellows do n't know what it is to be a Democrat . They have no loyalty to the party . Their only loyalty is to themselves . " He said Mr. Lindsay was " one of the worst Mayors the city ever had , " while Mr. Procaccino was a man " who has demonstrated his capacity , his ability and his knowledge of city affairs . " Mr. Gerosa , under whom Mr. Procaccino served in the Controller 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonderful job " there . Mr. Bernstein said that he had known Mr. Procaccino " all my political life " and that his support was based on this knowedge and " not on the distorted picture of him by the news media . " Mr. Jack , who was repeating a previous endorsement , predicted Mr. Procaccino would bring unity to the city . And Mr. Braisted said the Democratic candidate would restore safety and security from criminals . In a brief talk , Mr. Procaccino again charged that Mr. Lindsay was dividing the city . He urged blacks and Puerto Ricans " to look carefully at the motives of those trying to use them for their own political puposes. "                     