@@725854

txt The House handed President Johnson one of his biggest legislative victories of the year tonight when it approved by 178 to 141 a billion clonal attack on city slums and urban sprawl . The margin of victory for the measure , known as the Demonstration Cities Bill , was larger than most Administration strategists had expected . Observers attributed this to the fact that by the time the final roll-call arrived , the bill had been thoroughly purged of any racial overtones . The bill , which has now survived nine months of trimming , amendment , apathy , and confusion , has only one more minor hurdle to cross before it reaches President Johnson 's desk  --  a Senate-House conference that is expected to meet next week to reconcile differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill . Fino Amendment Beaten Before the vote , the measure endured eight hours of occasionally bitter debate and survived a motion to return the bill to committee as well as two Republican-sponsored amendments that would have drastically limited its size and scope . One amendment , sponsored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have slashed nearly $900-million from the Senate-passed authorization , reducing it to $24-milLion in " planning " funds . The attempt failed , 141 to 110 . The second amendment , of ! ered by Representative Paul A. Fin ? , Republican of the Bronx , would have stricken from the neasure Title II , which is de ; igned to encourage city planting on a metropolitan-wide tasis . It lost , 93 to 63 . A motion to send the bill back o the Banking and Currency 3ommittee , with instructions to . ut $900-million and delete Title I , was defeated , 175 to 149 , minites before the vote on passage . Mr. Johnson has long retarded the bill as the keystone of his efforts to reduce urban blight . In both the Senate and , House versions , the measure 's main provision would authorize the distribution of $900-million among selected cities of various sizes to help them upgrade badly blighted neighborhoods and , in the process , develop new techniques of urban rehabilitation . The major difference between the Demonstration Cities concept and urban renewal as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Federal Government , working together , will make an effort to tie the social and welfare programs of the Great Society airectly to the physical rebuilding of slum areas . Other sections of the measure would authorize $24-million to help the cities chosen for the program plan their demonstration projects and $75-million to encourage metropolitan planning . The bill would also broaden Federal help to developers of so-called " new towns . " Administration strategists , who set up a command center in a small room near the House floor , agreed to two amendments explicitly designed to neutralize a charge raised yesterday and again today by Mr. Fino that sections of the bill could be used to change school boundaries , transport children from one school district to another and otherwise promote racial balance in public schools . Although the Administration insisted all along that nothing in the bill granted the Federal Government any such authority , officials were worried that the charge might cause defections in a chamber already nervous about the political impact of the white backlash . Fino Heads Opposition Accordingly , in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brooklyn , introduced and won acceptance by voice vote of an amendment explicitly stating that nothing in Title I of the bill , the urban rehabilitation section , could be used to require or promote racial balance . Later , the House accepted a similar amendment , also sponsored by Mr. Multer , writing the same prohibition into Title II of the bill . Mr. FIno again led the opposition to the bill . He described the Multer amendment as a " farce " and the bill itself as a civil rights measure disguised as urban renewal , among whose beneficiaries would be the advocates of black power . At one point he introduced an amendment that would have authorized the Justice Department to investigate any local group participating in the program . This last gesture brought an explosion from Mr. Multer , who had been growing visibly more agitated by Mr. Fino 's charges . The Brooklyn Democrat first objected to Mr. Fino 's request for more time to extend his remarks  --  he said it was the first such objection he had lodged since entering the House in 1947 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Chairman , I 've had it up to here . I 'm nauseous . " He said that Mr. Fino , having failed to find any legitimate " civil rights issues " in the bill , had resorted to the issue of " black power , " which Mr. Mutter called a " smear " against the great majority of Negroes . Mr. Fino 's amendment failed by a rousing voice vote . The Administration also agreed to delete from the bill a section authorizing the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to appoint a " metropolitan expediter " in areas receiving funds under Title II . The purpose of the section was to set up a liaison between the metropolitan areas and Federal agencies , thereby speeding and coordinating the flow of Federal funds . However , although the section had widespread support among House liberals and in the Department of Housing and Urban Development , there was considerable opposition to it in the National League of Cities , an association of mayors . Some mayors feared that the expediter would begin , sooner or later , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the mayors ' concern was relayed by telephone by Mayor Richard C. Daley of Chicago , an immensely powerful politician with considerable influence over Congressmen from the Chicago area . The Administration decided that it was the better part of wisdom not to risk losses on this issue , and in midafternoon Representative Thomas L. Ashley , Ohio Democrat who is a supporter of the expediter concept , rose and asked that the section be deleted . It was .                     