@@727210

txt British authorities in Hong Kong are quietly making preparations for refugees from Communist China . The government of the British colony , perched on the rim of China , hopes the flood will never come . Hong Kong already is crowded . Many of its four million people are refugees from Chinese communism . But the situation in China 's Kwangtung Province , which abuts Hong Kong , is deteriorating . If political strife there , coupled with the problems of flooding after heavy rains , produces a crisis , then many Chinese will head for Hong Kong . If the flow becomes too great , neither British border troops nor Communist ones on the Chinese side of the border may be able to stem it . Hence the emergency planning in Hong Kong for refugee camps . e New Delhi wonders : Is Communist China planning to heat up the cold war on India 's northern border again ? Peking has accused Indian planes of violating its airspace in Tibet near the Sikkim border . The intrusions are alleged to have taken place over the Chumbi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Indian forces fought a heavy artillery duel last September . Denying that their planes overflew the area , Indians point out that from their outposts at the pass and in the surrounding mountains they can easily observe Chinese military activity in th. ? Chumbi Valley . Indeed , when heavy Chinese troop movements were observed there recently , India put its " Jawans " on alert at Natu La and other passes . Subsequently it has been reported that the Chinese have replaced with units of the regular Army , their border-guard defense forces at the passes . India sees August and September as the dangerous months . This is when Himalayan snows melt in the passes and when the Chinese could be expected to begin any military operations against India . Antismoke signals are rising in Australia . Many citizens are critical that the TV screen presents a one-sided picture . Cigarette ads puff on and on . Yet stations are under no legal obligation to allocate time to present the case for no smoking . Impatient for federal sanctions against tobacco use , some communities and groups are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one private organization has placarded every railway station in Melbourne with antismoking publicity . The Bankstone City Council in New South Wales has launched its own campaign to curb smoking among its big teen-age population . Several national organizations have formed an antismoking council to alert the public to smoking hazards . Pending are results of a federally approved survey of smoking among adolescents throughout Australia . The tobacco industry meanwhile has begun to invest in foodstuffs and other lines of production . Trends .. . Despite turmoil at home , China is keeping a keen eye external trade balance . Most top Chinese officials have been kept home in Peking for about 18 months during the turbulent course of the cultural revolution . Now one has been sent to conduct trade negotiations in Africa and Europe . He is Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade Chou Hua-min . His mission may be the tip-off that foreign travels by other top officials may soon be sanctioned . Some unconfirmed reports have suggested that China 's Foreign Minister Chen Yi might make a trip throughout Asian and African countries later this year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Russians have revived a long-cherished dream of the czars . They are planning an overland trade route between the Soviet Union and India . From their rail terminal at Termez on the border of Uzbekistan , the Soviets will build a highway to Kabul in Afghanistan . There the road will connect with the segment of the Asian Highway which runs through the historic Khyber Pass and on to Pakistan and India . The Russians expect no difficulty getting permission from Afghanistan to build the road to Kabul . The two countries enjoy excellent relations . The question is whether Pakistan will allow trucks bound for India to pass through . ts territory . But since the Soviets have agreed to conttruct industrial complexes in Pakistan , including a $100 million steel mill , it is beleved President Ayub will agree to free passage of nonmilitary cargo from Russia to India .                     