@@726348

txt Withdrawal of United Nations forces from Egypt and the Gaza Strip raises the Mideastern war danger to a high level . Authoritative United Arab Republic sources said May 19 that the 3,500 troops of the UN Emergency Force ( UNEF ) have been banned from the Sinai peninsula to preserve the secrecy of U.A.R. troop move , ments . U.A.R. reservists were alerted on the morning of May 19 . Many in key professions , such as engineers , were told to report or prepare for military duty . Marshal Abdel Hakim Amer , Vice-President and deputy Supreme Armed Forces commander , told the Cairo daily newspaper Al Ahram that the Arabs would strike a " devastating blow " against Israel if hostilities began . " It is high time to put a decisive end to Israel 's policy of bragging and arrogance , " Marshal Amer said . He added that Israel wrongly considered that United States help and U.A.R. troop commitments in Yemen would protect it . Marshal Amer called Israel troop concentrations on the Syrian border " unprecedented " in strength . Other U.A.R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least divisional strength were being diverted from the Syrian border toward Sinai , as United Nations forces pulled back inside Egypt . Announcement made After talks with President Nasser here , Syrian Foreign Minister Ibrahim Makhou returned to Damascus to announce that Egypt and Syria had become " two barracks with the armed forces and population mobilized . " Military experts here believe the nucleus of danger lies in the strategic Gulf of Aqaba , Israel 's outlet to the Red Sea . Once UNEF observation posts no longer impede U.A.R. troop movements , Egyptian coastal batteries and submarines might block the narrow Tiran strait . This controls the passage between the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba . Israel 's only seaport is Eiliat at the top of the gulf . This is its base for seaborne trade with all the world . Israel forces in their 1956 invasion of Egypt fought for this access as one of their main objectives . Neutral military observers feel that Israel might attempt paratroop landings or some other preemptive strike to neutralize the Egyptian batteries at Sharm es Sheikh on the Tiran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Pales- tinian-Arab refugees were reported . Palestine Liberation Organization leader Ahmed Shukairy was in Gaza leading the demonstrators who filled the streets , shouting for " liberation of Palestine . " Units of the 5,000-man Palestine Liberation Army in Gaza and Syria were said by travelers returning here to be in battle readiness , along with regular Arab forces . UNEF troops were expected to be flown by airlift in Canadian Caribou aircraft from Gaza to Al Arish in Egypt and from there to Brindisi , Italy , their main rear base , UN sources here said . The aircraft of Indian Gen. Indadit Rikhye , UNEF commander was a target for warning shots fired by Israeli planes near Gaza May 18 . Israel apologized . It said its pilots were tracking Egyptian reconnaissance aircraft at the time . In Baghdad the Iraqi Defense Minister announced top-level staff talks between Iraq , Syria , and the U.A.R. Related story : Page 12                     