@@727579

txt Key Democrats on the Senate Interior Committee foresaw today a delay in the Senate confirmation of Gov . Walter J. Hickel of Alaska as Secretary of the Interior . Senator Henry M. Jackson , Democrat of Washington , who is chairman of the committee , said he had heard that efforts would be made to delay action Monday when the Senate is scheduled to take up ' the nomination of Mr. Hickel and other nominations of President-elect Richard M. Nixon . The committee will not vote to report Governor Hickel 's nomination until Monday morning . It questioned him today in executive session on his financial holdings and on oil leases he once held . The Senate Democratic leader , Mike Mansfield of Montana , said he would call the Senate into session Monday shortly after Mr. Nixon 's inauguration to confirm the " noncontroversial " appointments as approved by committees . At least 10 of the Cabinet ap- pointments appear assured of. , confirmation on Monday . WilEarn P ' . Rogers , Secretary of State-designate , is expected to be confirmed later in the week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Interior panel and sent to the Senate , but the delay points up the controversy that has caused the committee to examine him for four days in public and private sessions . Conservationists have led the fight to block his nomination . They have accused him of being industry-oriented and seeking the exploitation of natural resources , including vast areas , of his state , which is rich in oil and other minerals . As the session ended today , Senator Jackson said that Governor Hickel had agreed to Mel with the committee a letter stat- , ing that any company in which he had- a substantial interest " would not engage in any business with the Government . " He will not be required to create a new trust for his holdings containing a prohibition against his interference with any business decisions that might be made by a trustee . Mr. Hickel 's holdings , estimated at between $5-million and $6-million , were put in. trust before he became Gover- , nor in 1966 , but the committee questioned the managerial deci sions he had made under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " very few decisions . " He also will divest himself ' of 32,000 shares of the Alaska Interstate Company , a Houston : holding company that Senator , ' Jackson said " could be a conflict . " The company owns a , gas pipeline subsidiary Alaska . Governor Hickel was ! chairman of a gas company , that merged into the pipeline company . Mr. Hickel estimated the worth of the holdings he will dispose of at less than $1-million . The divestiture also includes what he and Senator Jackson described as " minor . " These include 3,000 shares in , an Alaskan seaford company . ' Rumors ' Mentioned Senator Jackson said earlier that he had heard " rumors " that Maryland 's Senators might object to the Senate 's taking up the nomination of Governor Hickel without the customary 24-hour delay in such matters . Maryland 's Senators Charles McC . Mathias , Republican , and Joseph D. Tydings , Democrat , denied that they would seek such a delay . An aide to Senator Mathias said that it was " absolutely un1true . " Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depending on the record , and I may speak against him , but I I do n't intend to use any parliamentary device or filibuster or anything like that . In an effort to push through the nomination , the committee met in an unusual Saturday session to examine the Governor 's financial holdings and how he intended to resolve possible conflicts of interest . After a closed session in which Mr. Hickel 's oil leases were discussed , the committee ! held an open hearing to give the Governor an opportunity to tell about his leasing operations . The Governor , who has been attacked by conservationists as having close ties with oil interests , said that some leases had expired by law and that others had been invalidated by the Supreme Court . They were acquired and expired before he became Governor in December of 1966 , he said . He repeated that neither he nor his family now held any oil interests . Senator Jackson said later that he believed the Governor now held no oil leases . " I do n't think there is any question about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the problem remaining was how the Governor would sequester his holdings to avoid I lany appearance conflict of inIterest . He objected in the public hearing to 4 trust arrangement for Mr. Hickel 's holdings , including a prohibition on the Governor against interfering with any business decision that might be made by a trustee . Mr. Hickel said that he would agree to such a prohibition , but Senator Jackson said he was " not so sure that was the solution " and suggested an agreement that none of Mr. Hickel 's " wholly owned companies real estate and construction will not engage in any business with the government . " Senator Jackson , Democrat of Washington , said that he hoped the committee would hear from the Bureau of Land Management on the state of the Hickel leases . The bureau , an agency of the Department of the Interior , administers Federal lands and oil leases . The public testimony brought out that Governor Hickel had filed for leases on several parcels of land covering 2,560 ' acres in October and November of 1953 . The leases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the ' Governor . Approached by Friend Later he was involved in what appeared to be a speculators ' group on 90,000 to 100,000 acres . These lease filings were what is known as " top filings " because they were filed on top of existing leases . In 1965 , the Supreme Court invalidated the top filings in the ' *anal Peninsula , where two oil fields now exist . The Governor told the corn , mittee that he had been approached by a friend on the top filings . " They wanted to top-file the whole area , " Mr. Hickel said . " I said , ' Fine , I 'll help out . ' Eventually , it was thrown out of court . We got our money back and nothing happened . "                     