@@721092

txt Cheering throngs welcomed President Eisenhower to Argentina today . The crowds exceeded those that had acclaimed him in Rio de Janeiro , from where he flew this morning . The crowds , gathered under ' a hot summer sun , were estimated at 750,000 to 1,000,000 by U. E. Baughman , chief of the Secret Service . The greeting was marred by demonstrations staged by young supporters of the exiled former dictator , Juan D. Perrin . President Eisenhower addressed the Congress here . As he entered and left the National Congress building , groups of demonstrators chanted " Perlin ! Perrin ! Peron ! " and tried to unfurl banners reading " IkePeron . " Several Scores Arrested Several scores were arrested . At least one tear-gas bomb was exploded by ithe police . The President , passing bareheaded in his bubbletop touring car , gave no indication of having witnessed the incidents . Early today , before the United States party 's arrival , five powerful bombs exploded in various parts of the city . One blast hospitalized two persons and the intention of intimidating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower motorcade 's route to Government . House there were posters reading " Ike Go Home " and signed in red paint " Nacionalismo . " However , there was no intimidating the crowds that had turned out two and three deep despite temperatures that soared to 90.2 degrees . Peace Aims Stressed The heat had President Eisenhower red-faced and puffing , but he kept saluting with raised arms and charmed the crowds into cheering enthusiasm with his famous grin . Both in a ten-minute speech to the Congress that began and ended with a standing ovation and in a toast replying to his host , President Arturo Frondizi , at a state banquet tonight , General Eisenhower took pains to brighten the image of the United States as a champion of peace with justice . This image has been tarnished by a steady stream of Communist propaganda . " I wish to emphasize over and over again our passionate desire for permanent , guaranteed peace in freedom  --  peace which will permit the creative talents of mankind to concentrate on finding constructive solutions to economic , social and cultural problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With Reception Before visiting Congress he ' called at Casa Rosada , the Presidential mansion , to pay his respects to Dr. Frondiz ' i . The visitor said during the twelve . minute chat that he was impressed with the warmth of the reception of both the people and the weather , In the address to the Congress , President Eisenhower said he could think of " nothing more useful for our relations " - than the exchange of educators , . students , legislators , business and union leaders and other formers of opinion now taking place between Argentina and the United States . For those who can not travel , better understanding must be pressed through newspapers , school study groups and Governments , he added . This part of the speech had peculiar relevance to Argentina , where university groups , professional societies and unions have been hotbeds of antiUnited States sentiments and where it still is difficult for United States policies to get a hearing . The day began when President Eisenhower 's orange-nosed Columbine III rolled to a stop at Eseiza International Airport at 10:45 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and down the ramp to a smiling greeting from Dr. Frondizi . A small crowd watched from the distant terminal terrace behind some 4,000 policemen deployed around the area . Formal greetings were exchanged . The two Presidents made a brisk review of an honor guard and entered their helicopters for a fifteen-minute ride over the northern suburbs to the embassy residence in Palermo . Another crowd waited there behind police lines . Mayor Herman Giralt presented General Eisenhower with the keys to the city . Dr. Frondizi then left and his guest had a quiet luncheon with Ambassador Willard C. Beaulac and his own staff . Press Halls Visitor The metropolitan press gave the arrival the eight-column headlines reserved for historic occasions . " A new link in the brotherhood of the Americas , " said Democracia , a semi-official newspaper . " Messenger of peace and liberty , " commented La Nacion in an editorial . Observers felt the police had acted with restraint during the Peronist rioting because of the presence of United States television camera men , who filmed the street incidents . The demonstrators , acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress on his way to the United States Embassy . They sang " Peronist Boys , " the march of the outlawed party , and tried to organize a marching column . Either the display was by mavericks or party orders had undergone a last-minute change . Until early this week the Peronists were passing the word not to start trouble during the Eisenhower visit . The party has been outlawed since the 1955 revolution that overthrew the dictator .                     