@@726277

txt The educational problems of the inner city perplex most urban school administrations today . For most , the challenge is to compensate for cultural deprivation , racial isolation of pupils , and overemphasis on discipline . In its search for answers , Boston has turned one of its elementary schools into a " laboratory . " The following article explains the philosophy behind the experiment and explores its success so far . By Robert L. Savage Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor Boston One thing is certain about Boston 's Boardman School : It 's noisy . And this is exactly what its principal , Bernard H. Shulman , wants . He calls it " a busy hum . " Boardman is Boston 's " educational lab oratory . " It is here that new concepts in teaching are tried in a classroom situation . It is from here that many educators in Boston hope will come the classroom of the future . Boardman 's " busy hum " is due to the fact that its students have almost complete freedom in the classroom . Interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play period . But Mr. Shulman assures visitors that there is , indeed , learning going on . Boardman 's classrooms are conducted on the philosophy that a child learns best ( 1 ) what is most important to him , ( 2 ) what he discovers for himself , and ( 3 ) what he is ready to learn . A secondary philosophy in practice here is that course content is not as important as teaching the students how to learn . Boardman is similar in its approach to the New School for Children , a privately operated school also located in Roxbury . Contact between administrators from Boston and the New School 's officials has been minimal . Boston officials , though , do n't consider the New School as competition , and are hoping the two institutions can learn from one another . At Boardman , learning takes place in a relaxed atmosphere . Each classroom is divided roughly into activity areas : one for language arts , one for natural science , etc . Teachers place materials ? microscopes , sandboxes , scrabble games , chemistry sets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are turned loose . The teacher 's job is merely to aid the child and to make sure he does n't spend too much time on one area . High interest level What is achieved ? , Several things , explains Mr. Shulman . " First , the noise level is obviously up . But there is also a social interchange . Interest level is extremely high . " Are the children learning ? Although few test results are yet available , Mr. Shulman thinks they are . So does the creator of the program , Evans Clinchy . Mr. Clinchy , director of Boston 's Department of Program Development , is a lanky , husky-voiced newspaperman turned educator . He is intensely devoted to innovative education and feels research may be the missing ingredient in many big city school systems . Program expanded This is Mr. Clinchy 's second year in the Boardman school , and he has just succeeded in having his department made a permanent part of the Boston ' system . Boardman is an old school , built in 1900 . The dilapidated ' eight-classroom building stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But Mr. Clinchy explains that his department purposely chose the Boardman school for the experiment . " It represented the greatest challenge we could find , " he says . Now the experimental program has expanded onto the junior-high level , and plans are under way to round out the programs with high-school classes . The experimental subsystem now is being funded by the federal government under Titles I and III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act . When it made the program a permanent part of the system , however , the school committee committed itself to support of the project when federal aid ends . Not all is rosy with the experiment . " It 's raising more questions than - it answers , " says Mr. Shulman . Aimed at ghetto For instance , there is the question of standardized tests . Since Boardman 's curriculum does not emphasize content , and since most standardized exams do , the Boardman student may be at a disadvantage when he applies for college entrance . But no one knows for sure yet . The Boardman experiment is being conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is being aimed particularly at the educational problems of the inner city , and of the inner city ghetto . Boston considers Boardman a valuable part of its attack on ghetto education problems ? " extremely valuable , " says School By Gordon N. Converse , chief photographer Wall sitting Across from one of two libraries at the University of California at Los Angeles a student breaks from his studies to scan a daily newspaper . Committee Chairman John J. McDonough . And the school system feels it is learning . Within 50 years , according to Mr. Shulman , some of the ideas now being tested here may be in general classroom use throughout the country .                     