@@721355

txt The strike of the Long The Island Rail Road 's conPerfect ductors is undoubtedly Alibi an inconvenience to scores of commuters. , But it is probably being enjoyed by certain people who can use it as the perfect excuse for not going where they do n't want to go and for not doing what they never wanted to do in the first place . Think of the excruciating dental appointments that have been mercifully postponed , the boring luncheons that have been avoided , and the banquet speeches missed . It 's so simple to realize that the train is not running ; that the traffic would be overwhelming ; and that the car just has n't been acting right these last few days . And if by chance a really interesting project beckons , it is possible generally to find a way to reach it . One can usually manage to do the things one really wants to do . This brings to Delight mind the cheerfulin the ness with which Unexpected children view the possibility of fire , flood , earthquake or some similar holocaust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God or man , no matter how harrowing , is welcomed with glee if it portends the closing of school or the elimination of the means for getting there . Even the best students , and children who really like school , are affected so . The degree of happiness or unhappiness of the home environment seems to have little bearing on this wish for a break in the academic schedule . There is for almost The everyone something atElements tractive about the unConspire expected break in the routine . When the elements contrive occasionally to upset the efficiency of our urban existence , our pioneer spirit is aroused . We rise to the challenge . A good snowfall that brings the city briefly to its knees is somehow a satisfying experience . Even if we are forced to trudge ten blocks in deep snow , it is a salutary thing to realize that the conveyances we use with matterof-fact regularity are not invulnerable to a mild assault by nature . And the unaccustomed air and exercise are invigorating and give us a sense of personal Owen At the height of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed in many parts of the city . That was an assault not so much by nature as by man and his air conditioners . Yet it may have shown us that even a complex and wonderful man-made system could fail , and that the flick of a switch is not always guaranteed to produce results . Who has not felt a kind of thrill when a country thunderstorm doused the lights , for there again nature has asserted herself . This perhaps is part of what we do when we " get away from it all . " We go to a place where we are aware of the power of the elements . The commuter is less The subject to possible borePioneer dom with the city 's deSpirit pendable mechanization . With drives to shovel and leaves to burn , he knows nature 's vagaries as well as her beauty . But he has chosen her unpredictability over the sooty certainties of the city . Having faced up to nature , he must then face the ups and downs of commuting , Unlike the youngsters who greet with delight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from school , the commuter must seek and at all cost find other means of reaching his means of livelihood . This is but another test of his pioneer spirit . After the strike he will not take the train for granted. ? Even if it is late , he will listen with friendly pleasure to the familiar whistle of the t : 55 as it once more wends its way to New York . But with it will vanish , for many , the perfect excuse for putting off until tomorrow what can not possibly be done today .                     