@@721705

txt The New York Forest Preserve , covering some 2,400,000 acres in the Adirondacks and the Catskills , is without question one of the finest publicly owned scenic and recreational areas in the eastern part of the United States . It is still that way seventy-six years after its establishment by act of the Legislature because in 1896 the voters of this state wrote into the Constitution a provision that the lands of the Forest Preserve must be kept " forever wild . " That is why in large parts of the Adirondacks and in smaller parts of the Catskills there still remain some of the most unspoiled , untouched natural beauty in the Northeast . It is - why the Forest Preserve has in fact been preserved for the use and enjoyment of future generations . Will this generation be the one to throw away that heritage and invite into the Forest Preserve the commercial interests , the highway builders , the professional mass recreationists , the people who would make the publicly protected lands of the preserve indistinguishable from the privately owned properties with which it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no " ; yet the growing frequency and intensity of attack on the Forest Preserve should alert the citizens of this state to the danger of their losing it in its present form . Two separate problems are involved . One is the pressure to open the preserve to commercial exploitation , especially lumbering . The other is the pressure to open the preserve to greater mass-recreational developments . This is the kind of invasion that Robert Moses , chairman of the State Council of Parks , would invite by the incredibly bad Forest Preserve amendments he is proposing . Mr. Moses suggests , as one alternative , opening up the Forest Preserve to any highway construction approved by the Legislature , which is the same as signing a death warrant for the preserve . In more moderate mood , he suggests mere construction of " campsites and recreational facilities , " or " enclosed buildings " for recreational purposes as far as 11/2 miles from existing highways . Such sweeping proposals could be as destructive as they are unnecessary . There are plenty of " enclosed buildings " within easraccess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already scattered throughout the entire area . We do not say that there must be no change in the Forest Preserve whatsoever . We do say  --  that each road , each campsite , each ski development , each intrusion on natural beauty and tranquillity must be carefully scrutinized at leisure and in detail before irrevocable decisions are made . We think construction of the Northway through the preserve was a mistake , but at least it was fully debated and the issues partially understood before it was voted . We think the proposed private ski development on Forest Preserve land at Hunter Mountain in the Catskills would be outrageous , and we hope it will be defeated . But the essential thing , as former Conservation Commissioner Lithgow Osborne has pointed out , is to move with extreme caution  --  which is not the way in which the Moses amendments to the Constitution would move against the Forest Preserve .                     