@@727446

txt For the second time in two days , State Education Commissioner James E. Allen Jr . tried yesterday to put together , la plan that would end the teachers ' strike so schools could be opened tomorrow . Dr. Allen , who intervened in the dispute on Friday at the request of Mayor . Lindsay , worked in secret , and neither he nor representatives of the State Board of Regents would give any clues to his.thinking on a new proposal . At a newt conference at Gracie Mansion last night , Mayor Lindsay said that Dr. Allen had been " talking to various people today . " He declined to say who these people were , but he said that ' , he was being kept apprised of ' developments by John M. Doar , the president of the Board of Education . Against Special Session The Mayor said he hoped that Governor Rockefeller would not call a special session to deal with the school crisis . " Jim Allen has come to New York to deal with this situation and I think he will stick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's first proposal was rejected almost at once by Albert Shenker , president of the striking United Federation of Teachers . It was considered acceptable by the Rev. C. Herbert Oliver , chairman of the Ocean Hill-Brownsville governing board , which is at the center of the school dispute . " On the basis of the first plan , " said Dan Sanders , a spokesman for the teachers ' union , " we 're not particularly optimistic anout a settlement . But we are always ready to work toward a settlement . " In the plan offered on Friday , Dr. Allen said he would be responsible for the safety of 79 union teachers if they returned to their jobs in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district . The citywide teachers ' strike was touched off in the predominantly Negro and Puerto Rican Brooklyn district by the refusal of the final school governing board to reassign these teachers to classroom duties . Dr. Allen also called for the reinstatement of the suspended governing board in the controversial district . Mr. Shanker , in rejecting this plan , called it " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board . " He insisted that as conditions of settlement the governing board and Mr. McCoy must be removed along with teachers in schools of the district who had threatened union teachers . The teachers ' walkout , the third of the fall term , began on Oct. 14 . More than a million pupils and 50,000 teachers have been out of school for 21 of the first 33 days . The latest efforts to find a way to end the strike came as relations between Mayor Lindsay and union teachers continued to deteriorate . Some branches of the union began organizing weekend marches outside Gracie Mansion by parr ents and children . The pressure against the Mayor , which a United Federation of Teachers official said was intended to make Mr. Lindsay " act responsibly , " came a day after the Mayor had criticized the union . Mayor Lindsay accused the union of deliberately prolonging the strike until after the election on Nov. 5 to force the calling of a special session of the Legislature at which it hoped to " put an end to any decentralization plan that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The union , through Jules Ko-1 lodny , assistant to Mr. Shanker , denied it was opposed to decentralization . Mr. Kolodny , in a speech at a panel discussion yesterday on ' the subject sponsored by the New York Jewish Labor Committee , at 25 East 78th Street , said the union favored decentralization but opposed any system that " permits extremists to take over . ' Mr. Kolodny called for decentralization that would have " responsible community control , ' with governing boards that respected union contracts . At the same panel , Richard Parrish , assistant to the treasurer of the teachers ' union and a Negro who heads the United Federation of Teachers ' Black Caucus , said that if there was not to be an integrated society and school system " the black people must have a sense of controlling the educational . destiny of their children . " On Friday Mr. Parrish joined . 100 Negro and Puerto Rican labor leaders endorsing the lactions of the Ocean Hill , Brownsville board . Turning to the tension between Negroes and Jews that has been exacerbated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see Jews in charge of supermarkets , at banks , as Merchants , as teachers and as a person he sees holding him back . " In another development , John J. Burns , State Democratic Chairman , criticized both Mayor Lindsay and Governor Rockefeller , and called upon the Governor to " end his petty feud with Mayor Lindsay and intervene in the school crisis . " Mr. Burns issued a statement saying that the strike should be ended not only for educational reasons , but also because it might interfere with the ability of New Yorkers to vote because many polling places are in schools . " The Presidential race in New York State , " he said . " is a very close one and it is imperative that all voters be allowed to vote . The crisis that would evolve if this - were not allowed to happen would be unparalled in our history and would raise the question of the validity of New York 's 43 electoral votes . " Could Impede Voting Education and election officials have indicated that the strike could interfere with voting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike might not allow the placing of voting machines in schools . Another factor is that the Board of Education has proposed that pupils use the schools on Election Day to make up for missed days if the strike were settled by then . This might interfere with voting . The Conference on Civil Service Legislation . which represents civil service organizations , urged yesterday that emergency changes be made by a special session of the Legislature to permit voting in libraries , Government offices , post offices and stores if it appeared that the teachers ' strike would Interfere with voting in the schools . The organization asked Governor Rockefeller to call a special session of the Legislature on Tuesday for this purpose . The Brooklyn Jewish Community Council , which represents 600 organizations called upon the Mayor to " exert every effort to reopen the schools in line with the principles of community participation and the rights of teachers . " The council expressed distress at the racial overtones and polarization of ethnic groups as a result of the school stoppage . Another group , the American Drtho-Psychiatric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it believed in collective bargaining , it wanted the schools reopened so that the children could resume their studies . Differences should be settled after the schools were reopened , the association said . A demonstration against Mayor Lindsay took place at the opening of the Queens Zoo at the World 's Fair site in Flushing Meadow , at which Mayor Lindsay had been scheduled to participate . When Donald Elliott , chairman of the City Planning Commission , said he was representing the Mayor , one man booed and about 150 teachers and their families , carrying " Lindsay Must Go " signs , walked away from the ceremony .                     