@@727366

txt Dr. James E. Allen Jr. , the State Education Commissioner , stepped back into the school controversy here yesterday at the request of Mayor Lindsay . The Commissioner , who immediately rushed to the city , was specifically asked to deal with the problem posed by the refusal of the administrator and governing board of the Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district in Brooklyn to rein ' state 100 teachers who have become a major element in the tangled controversy . Mr. Lindsay , in his telephone conversation with Dr. Allen , was understood to have expressed concern that the school dispute was creating serious racial tensions in the city . Dr. Allen met last night with members of the city Board of Education . The board said that it had requested the session . Meetings Set for Today After a three-hour meeting that ended at 12:20 this morning , a spokesman for the city board said that its members had invited officials of the teachers ' union and the Ocean Hill-Brownsville board to separate meetings today in a new effort to resolve the crisis . He said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said it would consider the invitation . As the teachers ' strike , the second since the start of the fall term on Sept. 9 , went into its fourth day , there were these other developments : 9State Supreme Court Justice Francis J. Bloustein began hearing arguments on a motion to strengthen a court order prohibiting the strike and to punish strike leaders for defying the order . In turning down a request that the proceedings be delayed , Justice Bloustein said Ithe " situation is deteriorating fast and becoming intolerable . . . . This court will not stand by and permit the situation to drift and drift . " Bishop Makes Plea 9The Most Rev. Francis Mugavero , Roman Catholic Bishop of Brooklyn , asked the principals of the 240 elementary and secondary schools in the diocese , which includes Queens , to offer their facilities to public school pupils during the crisis . He called on all striking teachers to return to work and urged support of " the noble and legitimate effort of the people of Ocean Hill-Brownsville to achieve self-determination . " ciThree thousand members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Impasse After Mayor Lindsay Cites Rising Race Tension OCEAN HILL STAFF NOW A CHIEF ISSUE Commissioner Hurries Here to Deal With Problem of Reinstatement // sociations packed Manhattan Center in a show of support for the strike of the United Federation of Teachers . The supervisors  --  principals , assistant principals , department chairmen and others  --  vowed to continue the fight for what they described as ' ' the civil rights and due-process rights " of school personnel for as long ? . Yas necessary . dlihe Board of Education imported that more schools were open and more teachers and pupils were in class than on any day since the strike began . But the system , for the most part , was still crippled , with 52,000 teachers and more than a million pupils staying out of school . The bitter school controversy has pitted predominantly Negro and Puerto Rican forces who are seeking community control of their local schools against what they regard as the white power structure of the school system  --  the teachers union , the supervisory groups and tim , city Board of Education . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal of the governing board of the predominantly Negro and Puerto Rican Ocean Hill-Brownsville district in Brooklyn to reinstate 10 teachers it had ordered transferred last May . On Sunday , the city Board of Education , acting under orders from Commissioner Allen , suspended the local governing board and reassigned the 10 disputed teachers . Dr. Allen , whose intervention was requested last week by the city board , had intended to appoint a special committee to recommend a solution to the controversy while these temporary actions were in effect . But on Tuesday , Rhody A. McCoy , the administrator of the Ocean Hill-Brownsville district , refused to permit the return of 100 teachers who had originally opposed the local governing board 's attempt to " illegally " transfer their 10 colleagues . Dr. Allen 's plan ; which the city board accepted , had provided for the return of the 1001 teachers ( the actual number is ' 1 uncertain ) to Ocean HillBrownsville . The question now is whether the Commissioner and the city board will try to force the reinstatement of these teachers , which could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  that is , to accept the district board 's position  --  which might harden the determination of the union to continue the strike ; or will seek some less drastic solution , which might be acceptable to both sides as a compromise . The Board of Education had been scheduled to hold a public meeting last night to conduct regular school business but it postponed the session for a week because of the emergency . Mr. Lindsay had planned to attend the premiere of the motion picture " Funny Girl , " but did not go , an aide said , so he could keep in touch with the school situation . Mayor Confers on Phone The city board 's meeting with Commissioner Allen , who came here from Albany , took place at the offices of the State Education Department at 261 Madi-I Avenue . It was reported that the Mayor telephoned Dr. Allen three times in the first 90 minutes of the meeting . It was not known what they said to each other . Jerome G. Kovalcik , an assistant superintendent of schools who made the announcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report to Dr. Allen at 4 P.M. today on the outcome of its discussions . Whether the governing board would accept the invitation was uncertain . It had previously said that it would not participate in negotiations while under suspension . The proceedings in State Supreme Court involve the United Federation of Teachers and the Council of Supervisory Associations , and their officers . The request for an adjournment came from Max H. Frankel , a lawyer for the council , who said in his argument , " We do not concede that there is a strike . " " Have vou got your head in the sand ? " Justice Bloustein asked . Wo n't Disqualify Self Justice Bloustein also turned down Mr. Frankel 's application that he disqualify himself because of his past association with governmental agencies , including the Corporation Counsel 's office . The judge said he had practiced law for 40 years and had been in Government service 35 years , including a stint in the Corporation Counsel 's office 20 years ago . " I can be objective , " he said . " Until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merits of the case " Frnest Fleis , ? hrnan , the union 's lawyer , attacked on technical grounds the temporary re- , straining order against the strike that Justice Harry B. Frank granted on Sept. 9 . He contended that the city 's Corporation Counsel , J. Lee Rankin , who is listed as the plaintiff , was without authority on the ground that the Board of Education is a state , and not a city , agency . First Assistant Corporation Counsel Frederic S. Nathan acknowledged that the Board of Education had not authorized the city to bring the suit . He said the Corporation Counsel 's office had decided to bring the action on its own . Justice Bloustein directed all the principals to appear in court today , including Albert Shanker , president of the teachers ' union ; Walter J. Degan , president of the supervisors ' council , and Dr. Bernard E. Donovan , the Superintendent of Schools . The school supervisors who jammed Manhattan Center were told by Dr. Irving A. Gladstone , executive director of the council , that they were " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel . Mr. Shanker , who in the past has not always been popular with the supervisors , received a standing ovation when he took the speakers ' platform . The supervisors , maintaining they were " management , " have worked during previous school strikes here . The 40-year-old union head declared , " We are not opposing changes but they must be along responsible lines . " He said that Mayor Lindsay was the only person who could end the impasse . " Commissioner Allen has been badly burned and the Board of Education is paralyzed , " he continued . " The logjam is with the Mayor . " Mr. Shanker deplored what he said were attempts to " make a racial conflict " of the controversy . He spoke of his own civil rights activities and said that if at any time a white school ousts a Negro principal or Negro teachers , " then we will be back here again fighting their battle . " Dr. Degnan also asserted that injection of a racial issue into the dispute was " a deliberate distortion and snare . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was set up last year as an experimennt in community control , were open yesterday as they have been all through the strike . Some principals said that ppupil attendance . which dipped below 50 per cent on Monday , was climbing but was still below normal . Junior High School 271 , the scene of of community demonstrations last week against the reinstatement of the disputed teachers , had 1,000 of 1,735 pupils presennt . " The police and the vans and the excitement outside last week affected attendance greatly , " William Harris , the principal . said . " Many parents were ' afraid to send their children . We 're sending out flyers to tell them it 's all right now . " Alfred Wurf , executive director of Council 50 , American Federation of State . County and Municipal Employes. said in a statement yesterday that government officials who negotiate with public employe tinions should be liable to the same punitive measures as arc the union officials . " If union leaders can be jailed under the provisions of the state 's Taylor Law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide for the jailing of a government official , including a mayor or a governor , when a court determines that he has circumvented or disobeyed that law . " In other aspects of the strike yesterday , the board of directors of the Puerto Rican Community Development Project assailed the teachers ' union and Mr. Shanker for the walk-1 out . The Rev. Ruben Dario Colon , chairman of the board , said the strike was " another evidence of the attempt by the , union to control the city 's pub-I lie schools . " In a letter to Mr. Shanker , 1 the board said , " There is no ' need for a walkout . There is no need for picketing . There is no need for loud demonstrations at City Hall . What is needed is for the teachers to return to their classrooms and for the opposing sides to sit in good faith and negotiate their ' differences . " The New York Association ) of Black School Supervisors ; and Administrators announced ' last night that its 225 members , were opposed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their schools operating . Taking a stand opposing that of the Council of Supervisory Associations , the Negro group said that it would apply pressure on principals and district superintendents to open those schools where teachers wantecJ to work . Rufus Short , the president of , the association . said at a news conference , " While we are concerned about justice for everyone . including safeguarding the valid rights of teachers and supervisors , in our judgment , the continuation of this strike is unconscionable .. . " The racial and religious tensions accruing as the result of the action taken by the United Federation of Teachers and the Council of Supervisory Associations in closing and , in some instances padlocking the schools can only lead to deeper divisions in our city . " In a related development , Gabe Kaimowitz , staff attorney for the Columbia University Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law , obtained a court order seeking the removal of Mrs. Blanche Kasindorf as principal of Public School 7-8 in Brooklyn . Mr. Kaimowitz , acting as a parent , charged that Mrs. Kasindorf had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow , was granted by Justice Dominic S. Rinaldi in Brooklyn Supreme Court .                     