@@726979

txt Governor Rockefeller was strongly urged yesterday at a meeting of Republican party leaders , most of them moderates , to get into the Presi-dential race " as an announced and active candidate . " The Governor told the group , whom he had summoned to his Fifth Avenue apartment , that he would defer any decisions until after he consulted other leaders in the next few days . Thai would include the decision he must make by March 22 whether to enter the Oregon primary May 28 . It has been taken for granted among politicians that Mr. Rockefeller will not convert his all-but-active candidacy into an official one until after Friday , the closing day for entering the Nebraska primary . Nebraska is generally considered a stronghold of former Vice President Richard M. Nixon , the only announced major candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination . Itr would be foolhardy , politicians agree , for Mr. Rockefeller to get into a primary there by formally entering the Presidential race before the Nebraska closing date . Greater Vote Getter ' Thirty-two persons accepted invitations to the three-hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue . Among them were seven Governors , three Senators , five Representatives and four former national party chairmen . Perhaps most significant was that the group included several conservative Republicans , among them William E. Miller , Barry Goldwater 's running mate in 1964 . Last December , Mr. Miller came out for a Rockefeller Reagan ticket . Yesterday , he confirmed that he was a Rocke feller supporter , saying the Governor " has proven to be a greater vote getter among a greater cross section of Americans " than Mr. Nixon . Also considered potentially significant was the presence of Robert Price , who was Deputy Mayor for the first year of Mayor Lindsay 's term . Mr. Price , now executive vice president of the Dreyfus Corporation , ran Mr. Rockefeller 's Oregon campaign in 1964 in which the Governor defeated Henry Cabot Lodge . then Ambassador to South Vietnam , and Mr. Goldwater . The highly publicized meeting came two days before the New Hampshire primary , a point that was not lost on politicians . Many thought that Mr. Rockefeller had timed the session to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be gained by Mr. Nixon when he wins his all-but-conceded victory in New Hampshire . Otherwise , the reasoning went , why bold the strategy meeting before the matter of staying out of the Nebraska primary had been taken care of ? The size of the group at the meeting was somewhat deceptive because only 21 could properly be termed Republican leaders . The rest were official or unofficial members of the Governor 's staff . Gov . Spiro T. Agnew of Maryland , long a Rockefeller supporter , pointed out that the gathering represented " a bare minimum on the national scene . " News Conference Follows Mr. Agnew , one of six participants in a news conference that followed the private meeting , said that the consensus was " most definitely " in favor of Mr. Rockefeller 's entering the Oregon race . But others reported that the sentiment favoring an entry in Oregon was not nearly so onesided as had been expected . An alternative to the Oregon race ? one discussed at the meeting yesterday  --  would be for Mr. Rockefeller to stay out of all primaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other major issues that may be critical in the elec-tion There has been little doubt since Gov . George Romney of Michigan withdrew from the race Feb. 28 that Mr. Rockefeller was in it , though unofficially . Any lingering doubts were further dissipated by yesterday 's meeting . Mr. Romney , who had been supported by Mr. Rockefeller for the nomination , declined an invitation to attend the meeting , but only because of his policy not to engage in politics on Sundays . On the CBS-TV show " Face the Nation . " which had been prerecorded , Mr. Romney steered a neutral course between Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Nixon . He said he could not decide between the two men until they had made clear their positions on the Vietnam war . The leaders started gathering for the scheduled 3 P.M. meeting shortly after 2 . Nixon supporters were braving the rain across the avenue to tack " Nixon for President " stickers on trees near the curb . Mr. Nixon , who lives in the same building as the Governor . affably greeted reporters as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to New Hampshire . Nixon Not Offended Asked if he was offended at not having been invited to the Rockefeller gathering , Mr. Nixon said : " No , I do n't attend everything the Governor has , even though we 're neighbors . " Mr. Rockefeller was one of the last to arrive , just before 3 , having been held up by traffic on his drive from the home , in Tarrytown , N. Y. With him were his wife and their two young sons . Juggling a brown dispatch case and two brown portfolios as he struggled out of the limousine , the Governor gave them to an aide , waved to some proNixon pickets and slowly moved to the apartment house door . answering questions as he did . The Governor repeated that he was " ready and willing to serve . " Asked if there were any indications that the people wanted him to , he said " That 's right " and disappeared Inside . One of the last to arrive was Mayor Lindsay , who had been delayed by weather on a flight from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts . It was apparently the first meeting between the Mayor and the Governor since their recent public squabbling over New York 's labor dispute with the sanitation union . Both have since gone out of their way to display harmony . In addition to Mr. Miller . there were such conservatives as Representatives Charles E. Goodell of Upstate New York , David T. Martin of Nebraska and Albert H. Quie of Minnesota . Mr. Rockefeller had nothing to say personally after the meeting . Instead , six participants went to the Governor's1 New York headquarters at 22 West 55th Street to give an account of what had taken place . Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania read a statement agreed to unanimously by those at the meeting . But when asked wether if it constituted an endorsement of the Governor 's candidacy by all present , he would say only that the state-1 went spoke for itself . TEXT OF STATEMENT There were approlrimptety 30 national party leaders present . The discussion at the meeting was constructive and productive in every re-spect It was principally directed to the challenge posed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is confronted and to the course a united party should take in offering the country new leadership and new direction . Following the fullest exchange of views , there was very strong sentiment that Governor Rockefeller should get into the race for the Republican nomination for the Presidency as an announced and active candidate . Governor Rockefeller will consult with other party leaders throughout the country in the days immediately ahead . The ultimate decision of his course of action will be made and announced by the Governor .                     