@@721413

txt Premier Patric Lumumba declared today that United Nations forces would have to withdraw from the Congo as soon as the Belgian forces left : The United Nations was asked to come here " solely to drive out the Belgians , " the Premier said . " We do not want another occupation , " he declared . Premier Lumumba said he hoped Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold would " honor his promise " to bring about a Belgian withdrawal within eight days of the Security Council 's last meeting . The Council met on Sunday . " If on the eighth day there is a single Belgian soldier left on our territory , we shall know who committed sabotage , " the Premier said . Congolese troops in Kasai are taking up positions there to insure security in the province , Premier Lumumba said , according to Reuters . The Brussels radio said a pact of federation had been concluded by Kasai and the secessionist province of Katanga . Immediate Action Doubted Mr. Hammarskjold told the Council last Sunday : " I have received the formal assurance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within at the most eight days . " Observers here felt that Mr. Lumumba would not act upon his threat to demand the withdrawal of the United Nations force immediately after all the Belgians left . The Premier has made similar threats before , these ' observers noted . Mr. Lumumba is understood to have told visitors that a period of at least two months would be needed after the completion of the Belgian with-1 drawal before the Congo Army would be able to assure law and order . throughout the . Congo . : , Mr. LUmuraus , called  --  reporters to his residence to ? thank them for doing a fine job in " frequently trying " - circumstances . He , was referring in particular to- an Incident last night during the opening of the Pan-African Conference . Congolese military Policemen fired over the heads of about 1,000 anti - Lumumba demonstrators and dispersed them with rifle butts , Several of the correspondents were roughed up by his soldiers , He told the newsmen , " there is no opposition in the Congo . " " You saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mulling . Meanwhile , the  --  Congolese Senate this morning gave a standing ovation to a speaker who denounced Mr. Lumumba as a " dictator " and called for his removal , The denunciation was made by Senator Sebastian Fele , who had been elected on Mr. Lumumba 's ticket in Oriental Province . Senator Fele was arrested two weeks ago when he tried unsuccessfully to send a telegram to the United Nations protesting ' what he called the dictatorial character of the Lumumba regime . Senator Freed From Jail Mr. Fele was released from prison two days ago after the Senate voted to protest his arrest . He was arrested again yesterday for a brief period when he tried to collect a refund at the post office for the telegram that had been intercepted . Mr. Fele belongs to the Congo National Movement , Mr. Lumumba 's party . Travelers returning from Stanleyville , capital of Oriental Province , reported that Government notices had been ? posted announcing a ban on all political parties in the province . The notices said any group wishing to act as a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the area where Mr. Lumumba 's Congo . National Movement has been strongest in the past . The Premier said this morning he would fly to Stanleyville tomorrow for two or three days with some of the delegates to the Pan-African Conference , which opened here yesterday . Lumumba Writes to Bunche At his news conference today Mr. Lumumba also said he had written to Dr. Ralph J. Bunche this morning asking the United Nations to hand control of the country 's airports to the Congo Government . He said Dr. Bunche 's response to a similar written request a week ago had been " hesitant . " The United Nations force took control of the Leopoldville airport earlier this month after Congolese soldiers , magled a Canadian officer and roughed up others there . ' . A United Nations spokesman said Mr. Lumumba 's letter , had not been received . He Said the airport at Stanleyville was taken over .. from the Congolese by an Ethiopean company yesterday . Stanleyville airport had also been a scene of clashes between Congolese soldiers and United Nations personnel . The Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise . The PanAfrican Conference , scheduled to last until Tuesday , was called at Mr. Lumumba 's suggestion . The Premier - seemed disappointed that only nine delegations out of the twenty he had invited showed up . Most of the delegations present are headed by relatively unknown officials .. Only the United Arab ' Republic and Tunisia sent major , aides . The Cairo delegation is headed by Hussein Zulficar Sabry , Deputy Foreign Minister and , cine of President NasSeris principal advisers on Afriean affairs . Tunisia sent her Foreign Minister , Dr. Sadok Mokkadem , and Mongi Slim , her chief delegate to the United Nations . Both arrived here today . Habib Bourguiba Jr. , Tunisia 's Ambassador to France , has been here for some time .                     