@@722985

txt Premier Khrushchev warned t h e Soviet people today against wrongly interpreting his denunciation of Stalinism . He declared that ' it did not signal any drift toward ideological or political liberty . In one of the most significant definitions of de-Stalinization since the policy was initiated in 1956 , Mr. Khrushchev said that it should not be inter-. preted as meaning that l'the reins of government have been relaxed . " The Russian leader asserted that unswerving conformity with the Communist party line would be . demanded of the Soviet press , literature , fine arts , music , theater and the cinema . He strongly criticized liberal writers , such as Ilya Ehrenburg and Yevgeny Yevtushenko , for defending abstractionism and other deviations from Socialist realism in art . Speaks at Closed Session ts.nrusncnev made his 15 , - 000-word statement on Friday before a closed Kremlin meeting of the top Soviet leaders , outstanding figures in all cultural fields , and party officials from all over the country . The text was published today in the principal Soviet newspapers . Western observers here said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Soviet society that had been encouraged by de-Stalinization . The Soviet leadership had reacted in alarm after an upsurge of ferment in literature and the arts that took place at the end of last year . The speech , which definitively lays down the party line after weeks of public and private debate , also in effect applied the . brakes to the process of de-Stalinization itself . In discussing the leading figures of the S talin era , Mr. Khrushchev made his most damning references to Lavrenti Beria , Stalin 's secret police chief . The Premier charged that Mr. Beria , who was executed in December , 1953 , and Georgi Malenkov , whom Mr. Khrushchev ousted as Premier in 1955 , had proposed the liquidation of East Germany as a Communist state . Speculation Arises There was speculation here that the apparent adoption of a tougher ideological line within the Soviet Union might in part be a reaction to the dispute with Communist China . The Kremlin has been sensitive to Communist Chinese* charges that the Soviet party has abandoned orthodox Marxism-Leninism and become subject t o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers today were ignoring the positive accomplishments of the Stalin era and dwelling too much on " instances of lawlessness , arbitrariness and abuse of power . " Too many manuscripts had , been submitted for publication , t h e Premier added , that dealt with the Stalinist concentration camps . " This is a : very . dangerous subject and difficult material , " the Premier said . While denouncing Stalin 's abuses of power , Mr. Khrushchev defended some of the ' former dictator 's purges of those the Premier described as " enemies of the revolution and Socialist construction . " He said that Stalin had upheld Leninist positions and was supported in the 1930 's " in the struggle against Trotskyites , Zinovyevites , Burkharinites and bourgeois nationalists . " Grigory Y. Zinovyev and Nikolai I. Bukharin , early Bolsheviks , were associated with Leon Trotsky in the struggles for power in Moscow in the 1930 's . Zinovyev and Bukharin were executed as deviationist traitors during Stalin 's show trials and purges . Speaking of Stalin 's purges and crimes in the years before his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ' But after all , comrades , there would have been far more cases if all those who worked with Stalin at that period had agreed with him on everything . " Ile said that Stalin in those years " was a seriously sick man suffering from suspiciousness and persecution mania . " Mr. Khrushchev was First Secretary of the Moscow regional party committee from 1949 until after the death of Stalin . He became . First Secretary of the Central Committee in September , 1953 . Referring to the arrests by the Stalinist police of thousands of Soviet citizens w h o were labeled " enemies of the people , " Mr. Khrushchev said . " The question is asked , d i d the leading people of the party know about the arrests of people at that time ? Yes , they knew . But did they know that completely innocent people were being arrested ? No , that they did not know . They believed in Stalin and did n o t tolerate the thought that repressions were being used against honorable people who were devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the abuse of power by Stalin and the acts of arbitrariness which he committed , only after his death and the exposure of Mr. Beria , this inveterate enemy of the party and people , this spy and infamous provocateur . " Mr. Khrushchev said that Mr. Beria " did not consider it necessary to conceal his happiness at Stalin 's coffin and madly sought power . " It was here that Mr. Khrushchev referred to . Mr. Beria and Mr. Malenkov as having joined in making " a provocative proposal for liquidating t h e German Democratic Republic as a Socialist state . " The Premier said that the two men also had recommended that the Socialist Unity ( Communist ) party o f East Germany " abandon t h e slogan of struggle for building socialism . " " The central committee of the party indignantly rejected these treacherous proposals then and there and offered a devastating rebuff to the provocateurs , " he declared . Mr. Khrushchev 's statement implied that there might have been a link between these asserted proposals and the abortive workers revolt in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Soviet tanks . The arrest of Mr. Beria was announced on July 10 of that year . He was said to have been shot five months later . Mr. Malenkov served as premier from March , 1953 , until he was forced out by Mr. Khrushchev in February , 1955 . ' Moldy Idea " is Spurned Mr. Khrushchev said that the denunciation of Stalin 's cult of personality did not mean " the time had come to let things drift , that the reins of government had been relaxed , that the ship of society is sailing where the waves carry it , and that everyone is free to do and behave as he pleases . No ! " The Premier said that t h e Communist party would not compromise with any ideological wavering . Mr. Khrushchev rejected what he described as the " moldy idea of absolute freedom . " " In my opinion there shall never be absolute freedom for the individual , not even under full Communism , " he said . " Under Communism , too , t h e will of one man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Rejecting any acceptance of Western ideas in the cultural field , Mr. Khrushchev declared " he who preaches the idea of peaceful coexistence in ideology objectively slides down to the position of anti-communism. "                     