@@727666

txt A stumbling block awaits ' the Russians . next month in Moscow when they discuss the final shape of the world conference of Communist parties at present set for sometime in May . That stumbling block is not Czechoslovakia . It is the theory of limited sovereignty among Communist states . It was the invasion of Czechoslovakia which brought the theory  --  a new slant on ideology contrived to justify Soviet efforts to reassert leadership and control of the international movement  --  to the forefront . But its introduction already has promoted a greater split of opinion between the Russians and their invasion partners and most of the rest of the parties which in general , otherwise incline to the Soviets in East-West and Sino-Soviet affairs . 13rezlinev doctrine ' recalled If the Russians persist in the argument , there will be only two possible alternatives , according to " progressive " East Bloc sources . ? On one hand the persistence will make it impossible to fulfill the purpose of the preparatory meeting , which is to draft the limited agenda foreseen for the conference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this stage , it will prove a barricade to meaningful rapprochement on aims // *Kremlin faces sovereignty test // and policies . This has been the Kremlin 's frustrated goal for five years . The Theory lately has been dubbed the " Brezhnev doctrine because the Soviet party leader Leonid I. Brezhnev gave it top-level approval by using it at the Polish Party congress in November in defense of the action against Czechoslovakia . But its original author was a Soviet writer Sergei Kovalyev who in a Pravda article accused Moscow 's critics of evaluating the intervention in an abstract and nonclass way . He went on to elaborate the theory of " limited sovereignty " among Communist states to justify the intervention . The argument is that other Communist states have the right to intervene ? even militarily ? in the affairs of another if the " survival of socialism " is considered to be at stake . The critics , wrote Mr. Kovalyev , " ignore the decisive fact that these allied countries are defending the interests of world socialism and the world revolutionary movement . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense is " common concern " ? of the existing ruling parties . Nobody was interfering in specific measures taken in different Communist countries " to improve socialist society . " But what happened in Czechoslovakia was " an encroachment on the foundations of socialism " and the " fraternal countries " could not ignore it in the name of an " abstract sovereignty . " The theory was immediately rejected by many Western parties as totally contrary to all the international policy declarations made since the passing of Stalin . Right of interference ? Statements , for example , from the 1957 and 1960 all-party conferences down to the deceptive Bratislava declaration  --  only a few weeks before the invasion  --  stipulated that relations between parties be based on the principles of equality , sovereignty , independence , and noninterference . None conferred a right of interference with a Communist country or party whose views or internal affairs strayed from orthodoxy . This approach of " complete " noninterference was endorsed by Mr. Brezhnev himself at the Soviet Party congress in 1966 . The Kovalyev argument was produced in late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their critics were not going to rest on their initial refusals to regard Czechoslovakia as an isolated example . Nonetheless , the theory of " limited sovereignty " was upheld and efforts made to persuade the western parties to accept it . From a Soviet point of view the results are not encouraging . Following the October treaty which gave quasi-legality to the Soviet military presence in Czechoslovakia and the subsequent meeting of parties in Budapest , the western Communists muted their public debate . They made it clear , however , that their position on Czechoslovakia had not changed . But the approach of the Moscow meetings slated for March and May has brought this issue  --  and that of future relations between parties  --  back to the forefront . Like the Austrian and Italian party congresses , Romania and Yugoslavia have indicated that a major challenge to the Kremlin is shaping up . The Yugoslays will have no part in any Moscow-run multiparty conference . Their view will emerge at their own party congress next month . A foretaste of it is given by the latest issue of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing " new and varied forms which can not be ' fitted ' into stereotyped cliches " about socialism . The magazine accused doctrinaire opponents of de-Stalinisation of trying to impose their views on the whole movement in defiance of the equality between Communist parties and countries . . " Relations can not be based on the hegemony of any one party or country or on the superiority of any one 's experience , " it said . " The former declarative unanimity and monolithic unity are things of the past . Instead of formal unity on all matters , different views derived from the variety and diversity of the ways and forms of contemporary socialism must be ensured full expression . " The Yugoslays also have moderated their sharp polemics aimed directly at Moscow in the postinvasion period . But there is no leveled. at whom such demands are The Russians already view Belgrade again as the " bete noire " within the Communist movement and suspect it of trying to build up a " front " against them on the pending clash over party relationships . In this connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Romanian leaders trimmed their criticisms over Czechoslovakia and showed a conciliatory attitude toward cooperation within the Warsaw Pact and its sister economic organization Comecon . Commenting on the Feb. 7 speech in which Romanian leader Nicolae Ceausescu strongly denounced the " limited sovereignty " thesis , a Soviet diplomat remarked to this writer : " It was no accident that he made the speech a few days after meeting with Tito . "                     