@@722129

txt ? Former Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower broke a long period of coolness today when they chat- ! ted amiably for half an hour at the Truman Library in near-by Independence . It was their first talk of any ' length since Mr. Truman briefed I : General Eisenhower at a Cabi-i net meeting in November , 1952 , ' before turning the Presidency over to him . Since then the two have fre- , Auently been at odds . Just last , ! week , Mr. Truman , in remarks ! ' to the National Press Club in Washington , accused General ! Eisenhower of " wrong and ! wise policies " in eight years as ! President . A few days earlier , while in Washington for an overnight ! ; stay at the White House , Mr.I Truman said of President KenInedy that " it 's nice to have a ! fellow in the White House who ! ! can make up his mind . " ' The abrupt softening of re- lations came as a surprise to nearly everyone but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a few days ago . The impetus was provided by a program being conducted here today and tomorrow in which both former Presidents are participants ? the rededication of the city 's Liberty Memorial " to the people of the world as a symbol of international understanding . " Members or a citizens ' committee here planning the affair thought it would be appropriate to add a measure of understanding between the former Presidents . They suggested that it start with an Eisenhower visit to the Truman Library in the lissotnian 's home town . They found Mr. Truman receptive , broached the idea to the general and the meeting was set . All concerned kept the secret . General Eisenhower arrived at the Kansas City Airport this morning and drove directly to Independence . Reporters were not told of the visit until the general was headed for the library . Mr. Truman greeted General Eisenhower cordially at a back door , the entrance near the Truman office in the library . They shook hands , smiled for cameramen who had rushed to the scene and went into Mr. Truman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Truman Is Guide Both emerged smiling and Mr. Truman took his visitor on a tour of the library , which has been the repository for the Missourian 's personal papers and mementos since it opened in 1957 . General Eisenhower asked as he started the tour if he should sign the guest book . " DefiIiitely , " Mr. Truman replied . " Then if anything is missing I we 'll know who to blame . " " This is a very unusual thing , " the general exclaimed when his host showed a fullscale reproduction of the room that was Mr. Truman 's office in the west wing of the White House . It was complete down to the gadgets that were kept on his desk , Similar expressions of interest from the visitor followed as Mr. Truman showed his guest section after section of the library . They stopped in front of a portrait of General Eisenhower , " You know that fellow ? " Mr. Truman asked smiling . The general looked it over and then walked on . Mr. Truman returned to his office before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to others in areas he felt " have too much of me in it . " After the tour , General Eisenhower rejoined Mr. Truman for another private talk . Later he saluted his Presidential predecessor and said , " Good-by , sir . " Asked if the reunion had been pleasant , Mr. Truman replied , " Why of course ; my meetings are always pleasant . " . General Eisenhower said he thought the visit had been " very nice . " " I had never seen the library , " he said . " He Mr. Truman was courteous enough to invite us in , and I enjoyed it . " Joyce A. Hall , a chairman of the committee that arranged the memorial rededication , also reported that both former Presidents had said they were " very pleased " with the get-together . It was obvious to all observers that Mr. Eisenhower had been admitted to the " Former Presidents ' Club . " A week ago Mr. Truman said jocularly in Washington that he and former President Herbert Hoover had formed such a club but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Paths Have Crossed Mr. Truman and General Eisenhower had not been face to face to greet each other since the general 's inauguration Jan. 20 , 1953 . Their last real talk , Mr. Truman said , was two months before that , at the Cabinet meeting . Since then they have crossed paths at such functions as the Kennedy inauguration and the funeral two years ago of General of the Army George C. Marshall . While he would say only that he was " one of the men " who had arranged today 's meeting , Mr. Hall was being given credit for having been the principal peace-maker . Besides heading the committee planning the memorial rededication , Mr. Hall , president of a greeting card company , is to be the chairman of the executive committee of the reorganized " People-to-People " program . This afternoon General Eisenhower told a crowd of 40,000 persons at the midtown memorial that " the greatest danger today to peace is the closed society . " Such societies exist , he said , " under dictatorships that refuse to allow their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know what is going on in the world . " He said this was responsible for much of the misunderstanding and prejudice that " plague the earth . " The best hope for a peaceful solution , he suggested , may lie in large part in the People-to-People program , which he now heads . president Kennedy announced Wednesday that General Eisenhower had agreed to serve as board chairman of a new citizens committee to carry out the program . The former President started the program in 1956 to develop better international understanding . He will conduct the first meeting of the new board here tomorrow morning . The meeting , largely organizational , will also go over plans for projects to be undertaken . One of the most successful in the past was the outfitting of the hospital ship Hope to carry medicine to thousands . of persons overseas . General Eisenhower told the crowd on the mall in front of the memorial that governmentto-government negotiations seldom produced basic policy changes . " But if the peoples represented by these governments are mutually convinced of each other 's goodwill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plainly the voices of their own millions , and even the most arrogant will have . to listen . " The memorial was first dedicated in 1921 by Vice President Calvin Coolidge . to those who lost their lives in World War I. Fifty-five diplomats , including a number of ambassadors , from foreign countries flew here today from Washington to witness the rededication to world peace . Mr. Truman 's role in the week-end ceremonies comes tomorrow , when he will make a Veterans Day speech at the memorial .                     