@@721659

txt Jacob Grumet declared yesterday that the State Investigation Commission had performed a public service by publicizing charges of corruption in the city government , even when the commission had no legal proof . Mr. Grumet , who is chairman of the commission , brushed aside complaints by Mayor Wagner and the city 's five District Attorneys that the state inquiry had damaged the reputation and morale of city employes through politically motivated " smear-and-run " tactics , The Mayor , meanwhile , issued his second statement in four days on the city inquiry and charged that several departments in the state government were " notorious happy hunting grounds for the chiseler . " Standards of Proof And Michael H. Prendergast , the Democratic state chairman , demanded that the state follow up the investigation into wrongdoing by Republican officials in Suffolk County . Mr. Grumet called a press conference to explain the commission 's approach to the inquiry . He said he had invited Whitney North Seymour Jr. , head of the agency 's special unit that is conducting the city inquiry , to appear with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the accusa // tions by the Seymour unit could not have been legally proved in a court . But he said : " The standard of proof required in a criminal prosecution is far different from the standard required to prove an existing condition involving official misconduct . " Recalling his service as Fire Commissioner under Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri , Mr. Grumet said : " I did n't need a case beyond reasonable doubt to take disciplinary measures . If I believed a man was on the take , I 'd do something about it . That 's the difference between a district attorney 's position and a commissioner 's position  --  and I 've been both . " Mr. Grumet has also served as - assistant district attorney under Thomas E. Dewey and Frank S. Hogan . Moral at Top Stressed " It 's the man who is the head of a department  --  the head of a city  --  who sets the moral climate , " Mr. Grumet went on . " If he is indifferent , easy-going , that 's a signal for the boys to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it will seep down to the lower level . " Asked to list the names of city officials who , he said , were " trying to sweep these things under the rug , " Mr. Grumet replied : " I wo n't comment . " However , when reminded that Mayor Wagner recently established a special post office box ( P. 0 . Box 100 , New York 8 ) for persons with information about corruption in the city Administration , Mr. Grumet remarked : " That was the right approach . " The investigation chief was reluctant to discuss specific cases . But he said " there should be prosecution for perjury " in the case of William Rosenthal , , a contractor who told the Sey mour unit last month that lie had paid graft to four employes Of the city 's Real Estate Department . In a departmental trial , Mr. Rosenthal recanted this story and three of the defendants were exonerated . Seymour Unit to End Mr. Grumet said the Seymour unit would be dissolved in June after completing its pending investigations . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission as a whole . Mayor Wagner , still smarting under the Governor 's public statements , declared : " I have consistently fought corruption in government . I have employed every means at my command to ferret it out , close loopholes , and punish malefactors . " Then he counter-attacked : " There are departments in the State Government which are notorious happy hunting grounds for the chiseler . If I were to smear with the abandon of the Seymour outfit , which he Governor Rockefeller Sponsors , I would be justified in saying that the State Government is graft-ridden and corrupt ; give no details ; furnish no evidence ; and then chide the Governor for the corruption in his Administration . " He knows the departments I am talking about . Let him act to get the evidence , as I have in New York City , and let him be sure he publicizes the evidence ? and only evidence ? which is the proper course for any responsible governmental inquiry . " Asked how this countercharge differed in style from the accusations of the Seymour group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we 're not naming the departments . " Asked to do so , the spokesman replied : " Just go out on the sidewalk and ask a dozen people . You 'll find out which departments we 're talking about : " Governor Rockefeller , asked last night to comment on the Mayor 's charge , replied : " I wish if he knows of any corruption he would tell me about it , We 're trying to stamp out any abuse wherever we find it . " The Governor was interviewed at the Temple EmanuEl community house , where he had attended a dinner in honor of Secretary of State Caroline K. Simon . Prendergast Speaks Out In another development , Mr. Prendergast called on the state commission to shift its attention to Suffolk County . " Despite their obvious attempt to create smear headlines on the New York City phase of the inquiry , " the Democratic leader said , " the Republican leaders continue to piously deny any intent to play politics with these monies . " If they are sincere in this contention , then they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County scandals probe . The clean-up is not finished , as Governor Rockefeller knows only too well . " Mr. Grumet had been asked about this at his press conference . He said the Suffolk investigation would continue , but that it had not been decided whether to hold public hearings . The Suffolk investigation , begun under former Gov . W. Averell Harriman , resulted in the Democratic party 's taking control of the county for the first time in more than half a century in the election of 1959 . It is generally believed that voters were especially influenced by the indictment in October , 1959 , of Special Judge Lloyd P. Dodge , a Republican , who was subsequently convicted in a land zoning racket.                     