@@723783

txt Premier Khrushchev pledged today that the Russians would try to restore the monolithic unity of the Communist camp . He vowed to continue the fight against " newly baked Trotskyites " who were making " high-sounding phrases " about revolution and anti-imperialism , while , in fact , they were undermining the Socialist camp with their " splitting activities . " Although the Premier did not mention the Chinese Communists by name , his statement was patently aimed at Peking . The terms " Trotskyites " and " splitters " have long been applied to the Chinese leaders in statements by Soviet officials and newspaper writers . Premier Khrushchev made his statement in a wide-ranging speech to the 350-man Central Committee of the Soviet Communist party in the Kremlin . Session Devoted to Farming The central committee has been meeting since Monday in a special plenary session devoted to the problems of Soviet agriculture . The Premier spoke for several hours . A long summary of his speech was made public by Tass , the official press agency . Its tone was one of exuberant confidence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , amounted to a repeated warning to the West not to take the Soviet Union 's recent troubles in agriculture as a reason for underestimating its over-all economic , political and military strength . Mr. - Khrushchev indicated , that he thought some people in the West had misunderstood Whim when he announced last ' December that the Soviet Union planned to cut the size of its armed forces . Claims Arms Superiority The " ideologists of imperialism , " he said , took the announcement to mean that the Soviet Union " could not simultaneously develop its economy and its defenses . " In fact , he said , the armed forces of the Communist camp are far more powerful than those of the West . He added that the reductions in military expenditures that he mentioned last December had riot affected the strength of the Soviet armed forces . " The Soviet Union is making certain cuts in its military expenditures and the numerical strength of its armed forces , not because of economic difficulties but because of considerations of common sense and out of a sincere desire for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assuming that his recent preoccupation with agriculture and the chemical industry meant that the Soviet Union was going to cut back its efforts in the field of heavy industry . " The party will continue to see to it that heavy industry develops , " he said . The main contest between East and West is economic , Mr. Khrushchev declared in one of his passages that seemed to touch on the Soviet-Chinese conflict . Soviet leaders have often emphasized that they want to give more and better clothes , housing and food to the masses , and they accuse the Chinese of insisting on a sterile " permanent revolution . " The Premier ridiculed again economic estimates of the Central Intelligence Agency , which had said that the growth rate of the Soviet economy had fallen to about 2.5 per cent . The truth is , he said , that during the last two years Soviet industrial production grew by 19 per cent and gross national product by 11 per cent , in spite of last year 's crop failI ure . Mr. Khrushchev said that during the last decade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared with 36 per cent in the United States . He asserted that the gross national product during this period rose by 127 per cent in the Soviet Union and by 33 per cent in the United States . Last year , the Premier said , Soviet industrial output was 65 per cent of that of the United States , while 10 years ago it was one-third of the American figure . The Tess summary devoted only two paragraphs to the Premier 's remarks on China . Observers believe the actual speech dealt more fully with the Chinese problem .                     