@@727977

txt The House Ways and Means Committee took a significant step toward meaningful tax reform when it voted to reduce the oil and gas depletion allowances from 27.5 to 20 per cent . Proportional reductions would also be made in the allowances for other minerals , which now range from 5 to 23 per cent . If adopted by the Congress , those recommendations would add about $400 million to tax revenues . But that figure grossly understates the importance of the reform , both . as a symbolic attack on the citadel of tax privilege . and as a means of ensuring a more efficient allocation of economic resources . The petroleum Industry has long defended on two grounds the depletion allowances and the companion privilege of writing off drilling costs as a current business ' expense rather than treating them , for tax purposes , as investments . One argument relates to the risks of oil exploration ; the other rests on the national defense need for maintaining proved domestic reserves of oil through continuous exploration . A spokesman for the petroleum industry pointed out in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of " 50 new field wildcat wells drilled . . . only about one well is likely to turn out to be a profitable producer . " Assuming that statement to be accurate , it does not follow that oil and gas exploration is so much riskier than other business ventures as to justify special tax treatment . The reasoning about risk Is circular because much of the wildcat drilling would never be attempted in the absence of the tax shelters . The more important question , concerns the national defense . First , it should be pointed out that the link , ? essential to the industry 's case  --  between the depletion allowance and the growth of proved oil reserves has never been convincingly demonstrated . Second , it is doubtful whether the growth of oil reserves within the continental boundaries of the United States is really essential to the national defense . In a nuclear conflict that engulfed the major centers of population , the adequacy of oil reserves would not be preeminent on the list of priorities . In limited , nonnuclear wars , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow of petroleum may for a time be disrupted . But the dangers on that score are being . diminished by the new strikes in Canada and Alaska as well as the very large reserves in Latin America , Indonesia and Australia . The economic fact of the matter is that there is a superabundance of low-cost oil outside the United States . Its flow , to be sure , can be interrupted . But it is highly unlikely that all of the sources of supply would be dried up at the same time . It follows that the American public is shouldering an unnecessarily costly burden by subsidizing the oil industry , not only by special tax treatment , but also through the imposition of import quotas and cartel restrictions on domestic production . As a result , prices to consumers are higher , tax revenues are lower and  --  because of the tax shelter  --  capital flows into domestic exploration that would yield higher returns if invested elsewhere . The proposed reduction in the mineral depletion allowances will provide a crucial test of whether - Congress is willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt the recommendation of the overwhelming majority of the Ways and Means Committee can only lead to the further erosion of public confidence in the democratic process .                     