@@721684

txt Foreign Minister Heinrich von Brentano indicated today that West Germany was beginning to move toward some of the views advanced by the United States in the financial discussions between the countries . Dr. von Brentano outlined Bonn 's latest thinking in a news conference shortly before he left by air for New York . Dr. von Brentano will address a meeting of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and will meet President Kennedy in Washington this week . Asked whether West Germany would go beyond the offer rejected by President Kennedy , the Foreign Minister replied : " I do not want to say either yes or no to this . I want first to hear the American proposals . " Bonn 's offer mainly involved the prepayment of debts owed to the United States and arms already on order or to be purchased in the United States . The debt prepayment suggested was $587,000,000 with $325,000 , - 000 more made available for arms purchases . Dr. von Brentano said West Germany was ready to regard economic aid to developing countries as an " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The United States has been arguing that West Germany , as one of the economically stronger members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , must plan a continuing , longrange program of development aid . The implication of Dr. von Brentano 's words was that Bonn recognized this . But there is a long way between the United States and German conceptions of the best way to extend aid . Bonn , for example , does not believe in the wisdom of the free grants extended by the United States . The Germans would like to see the criteria for specific projects in developing countries made tougher . The development fund that Bonn has put together , Dr. von Brentano disclosed , totals the equivalent of nearly $750,000 , - 000 . The Foreign Minister said also that Bonn viewed the United States balance-of-payments difficulties as a " temporary , genuinely structural problem . " Opposing Views Joined This description joined what had hitherto been opposing views . The Germans had argued that the difficulties were " temporary " and susceptible to solution by the kind of one-time help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were " structural , " meaning that they would continue as long as the United States provided large amounts of foreign aid each year . Washington has insisted that West Germany should undertake a larger share of responsibility . Dr. von Brentano suggested that the United States balance- , of-payments problem should be handled on a multilateral basis within the newly formed Organization for European Co-j operation and . Development ) ( 0 . E. C. D. ) . The Foreign Minister did not say so , but Bonn is eager for multilateral consultations to overcome a widespread impression among West Germans that they are being singled out unfairly . The United States view is that the urgency of the prob . ' lem would be lost in multilateral discussions . The United States believes that some issues involved could he usefully discussed on a multilateral basis . but not the overriding immediate question of redressing the extent of the American deficit . This was $3 , - 800,000,000 in 1960 . West Germany had a surplus of nearly $2,000,000,000 for the same year . The balance of payments shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreigners . Dr. von Brentano expressed the conviction that continued negotiations would " clear up " the differences between Bonn and Washington . He underlined the role of leadership that the United States must fulfill and expressed West Germany 's " moral obligations " because of the help from the United States after the war . The Foreign Minister will deliver a personal message to President Kennedy from Chancellor Adenauer , presumably a reply to the one received by the Chancellor from the President last week .                     