@@724226

txt Senator Barry Goldwater linked welfare state social theories to rising crime rates today . Such theories , the Republican Presidential candidate said , encourage the idea that have-nots can take from the haves . He deplored a wide range of things : " gang rape in California . " Negro civil rights disturbances , the Supreme Court decision ordering reapportionment of state legislatures and what he called the " power mad " Johnson Administration . . , Mr. Goldwater spoke at Boise , Idaho , and Great Falls , Mont. , before giving what was de-1 scribed as a major speech here . He hopped between the cities onl the yiabikin , or " house in the sky , " a chartered campaign jet . At Boise , Mr. Goldwater predicted that the end result of the , Supreme Court decision that state legislatures must be apportioned by population would be a reapportionment of Congress that would deprive small states of their voice in government and ' endanger their land and water rights . In what appeared to be an appeal to the small town , rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be , the Senator deplored what he called " the depredation we see going on in the large cities of the East completely dominated by the Democratic party . " In his speech at a rally here , Mr. Goldwater , as he has been doing consistently , condemned lawlessness and disorders on American streets . But for the first time the ' conservative Arizonian sought to relate this to liberal social welfare attitudes . " If it is entirely proper , " he said , " for government to take from some to give to others , then wo n't some be led to believe that they can rightfully take from anyone who has more than they ? " He criticized what he called " the assumption by the state of the obligation to keep men in a style to which demagogues encourage them . " And he declared : " This can never again be truly a nation of law and order until it is again fully a nation of individual responsible citizens . " Mr. Goldwater quoted a report by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate in the first six months of the year and then deplored youth riots in Oregon and New Hampshire and " gang rape in California . " His next sentence was " And throughout the year , men have gone into the streets to seek with violence what can only be found in understanding . " In an apparent criticism of civil rights campaigns by Negroes , Mr. Goldwater expressed sympathy with " legitimate aspirations of those who have been wronged . " His audience here numbered about 9,000 . Recalls Eisenhower Talk In Boise , Mr. Goldwater spoke from the State Capitol steps and noted that it was the spot where Dwight D. Eisenhower had opened his Presidential campaign in 1952 . Mr. Goldwater said , " We have the sunshine and the weather and if we can just have General Eisenhower 's touch we ca n't complain a bit . " When a balloon popped with a bang , Mr. Goldwater drew a laugh by saying : " You missed . " The good weather failed the Senator in Great Falls where it was a chilly 38 degrees and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light drizzle to about 3,500 persons . The crowds in both cities were warmly enthusiastic . In the Minneapolis speech , Mr. Goldwater painted a chilling picture of the state of the nation if he should be defeated . He said : " Vote to continue this present Administration in power and you will have voted to end the Federal system with its checks and balances ? you will have voted instead a form of Federal tyranny " over jobs , schools and possibly prayers . He asked : " Do you want your children to live in a collectivized ant heap or in the open spaces of freedom ? " Mr. Goldwater , who voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , appeared to allude to that fact when he said : " I charge , with a sincerely heavy heart , that the more the Federal government has attempted to legislate morality , the more it actually has incited hatreds and violence . " He said that pleas by Negro and other leaders for Negroes to forego rioting at this time was " only a patent political strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital was a crime- and fearhaunted city . If he is elected , he promised , it " will become America 's model city . " As he boarded his plane in Seattle , Wash. , this morning , Mr. Goldwater was asked to comment on his endorsement by Democratic Gov . Paul Johnson of Mississippi and said he was " not surprised . " Mr. Goldwater said a politician would " take any kind of a vote as long as it 's not Communist . " And he told his audience that there was " nothing the powermad people in this Government would rather do than gain 100 per cent control of land in the West " ? whether public or private . As he has for the last two nights in Los Angeles and Seattle , Mr. Goldwater evoked a revival meeting spirit in his cheering crowd . But some of the Republican dignitaries on the stage with him were restrained , almost glacial in their response .                     