@@727222

txt Can We Control Aging ? From ancient times man has dreamed of escaping the . effects of old age . Ponce de Leon , pursuing rumors of a fountain of youth , discovered Florida . In Gounod 's opera , Faust , embittered by age , made a pact with the devil to regain his youth . Will we ever be able to defer or eliminate old age ? And , if so , should we use such powers ? A. number of researchers now believe we may at least find ways to mitigate the effects of aging . However , if the lifespan is greatly increased and population growth is halted , . children will become a rarity . Many of us would probably prefer to live in a world with plentiful children . even if it means forfeiting great longevity . In a paper presented on June 26 at a conference in Quebec , Dr. Howard J. Curtis of the Brookhaven National Laboratory at Upton , L. I. , pointed out that despite an increase in average life expectancy of those born today , man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That is , a child born today has a far greater chance of living to old age than did his ancestors of a century ago but , if we escape all the other hazards of life , the effects of aging get us in the end . This upper limit on longevety varies from one individual to another , but it rarely exceeds 100 years . Dr. Curtis , in his paper presented at a Symposium on Medical Chemistry at Laval University in Quebec , argued that aging is probably caused by the deterioration of DNA ( deoxyribonucleic acid ) in the cells . The proper functioning of all the body 's cells is controlled by their DNA . The latter , like the magnetic tape in a tape recorder , not only stores chemical instructions for the cell 's function , but the tape can reproduce itself , providing duplecate archives of information for its daughter cells . Thus DNA provides for continuity of function , not only from one generation of man to the next , but throughout the lifespan of the individual . If information coded into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may no longer be able to function and dies . In man this may lead to impairment of the entire body . Or the damage may affect the control mechanism that tells the cell when to stop subdividing , leading to cancerous growth . Another form of DNA damage may cause the cell to manufacture substances harmful to the body , according to the view of Dr. Curtis , leading to heart disease and a variety of other ailments of the aging . Perhaps , he said , it may be possible to arrest this deterioration of the DNA . Does this mean that it may be possible to treat human DNA to make it more stable ? No such treatment is in sight and its discover* probably could not turn back the years since once the coded information of the DNA has become garbled , it would be too late . It would not , as Ponce de Leon hoped , make us young again , but , for those who are still young , it might defer the effects of old age . Last month a $7.5 - million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of old age . was dedicated in Baltimore . The center began 29 years ago as a twoman laboratory studying changes in kidney function with increasing age . Its new center under Dr. Nathan W. Shock can accommodate 300 researchers and attached to it is a 38-bed research clinic . The center is a unit of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and is being operated in conjunction with the Baltimore City Hospitals . Research at the center ranges from aging in individual cells to a long-range study of changes that take place in the human body with advancing years . For the latter study 600 men , from 18 to 99 years of age , are being subjected to intensive three-day examination every 18 months . The group consists largely of business and professional men who call themselves the Select Society of ? Seeking Scientists , Saints and Sinners , or S.S.S.S. S.S. From this study it is hoped for the first time to construct typical timetables of body changes with increasing age and to establish the extent of deviation from such timetables . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glucose sugar declines so sharply in old age that half of the elderly would be classed as diabetics if normal standards ' were applied . The aging process has been likened to " planned obsolescence " in that every cell of the body is " programmed to die . " Research at the Baltimore center and elsewhere has shown that this is even applicable to microscopic animals . Their life span can be lengthened or shortened by modifying the environment ? for example by raising or lowering the temperature . The animal in these cases may " live faster " or " live slower " but essentially his life span is fixed . ? WALTER SULLWAN                     