@@724946

txt The Federation of Malaysia , staggered by the unexpected departure of Singapore , was pitched today into a political struggle that may separate the three remaining states . Party leaders opposed to what they termed the eviction yesterday of Singapore from Malaysia by ultranationalist Malay leaders agreed at a meeting here to work for re-entry of the independent island state into the federation . The Opposition leaders and members of minority parties in Malaysia , which now consists of Malaya and the Borneo states of Sarawak and Sabah , warned that continued exclusion of Singapore could lead to the dismemberment of Malaysia . Threat of Suppression ? At the Malaysian Solidarity Convention in Penang Sunday they intend to present a multiracial challenge to the extremist Malay wing of the ruling Alliance party of Prince Abdul Rahman , the Prime Minister of Malaysia . D. R. Seenivasagam , leader of the People 's Progressive party in Malaya , asserted that there was every likelihood of suppressive measures by extremists to prevent the convention from spreading its ideas of the equality of the Malay , Chinese , Indian and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dr. Toh Chin Chye , Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore , said that the decision to take Singapore out of the federation was accepted because Prince Rahman had emphasized that he would not be able to control the " explosive situation which would have arisen in Singapore and Malaysia . " Dr. Toh was alluding to the dangers of a resumption of the rioting between the Chinese and Malay communities that erupted in Singapore last summer . Dr. Seenivasagam , the leader of the People 's Progressive party , said he believed that the Prince had not been able to control the situation within his own party and that the extremists were taking control . Jaa Far Albar , secretary general of the United Malays National Organization , has led the ultranationalist wing in demanding militant action to curb Prime Minister Lee 's political activities . Mr. Lee 's move to expand his influence in . the federation had been viewed by Mr. Albar as a Chinese bid to replace the Malays as the dominant political force . At his news conference , Dr. Toh made public an exchange of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Singapore had been evicted from Malaysia . Dr. Toh 's eyes were filled with tears and he contained his emotion with difficulty as he related how he had been summoned at 12:30 A.M. Saturday to Kuala Lumpur to be told of the Prince 's decision that Singapore must leave the federation Shortly after noon Saturday , Prime Minister Lee had met with the Prince and , on the arrival of Deputy Prime Minister Toh in Kuala Lumpur , was able to inform him of the position of the Malaysian leader . When Dr. Toh insisted on further clarification , Prince Rahman wrote ' him ' . Prince Gives Reasons According to a copy of the letter produced at the news conference the Prince said : " I have given the matter of our break with Singapore my utmost consideration , and I find that in the interest of the friendship and security and peace of Malaysia as a whole there is absolutely no other way out . " The letter continued : " If I were strong enough and able to exercise complete control of the situation , I might perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So , while I am able to counsel tolerance and patience , I think an amicable settlement of our differences in this way is the only possible way out . " Dr. Toh announced that he was resigning as head of the Malaysian Solidarity Convention and that the Singapore People 's Action party would not participate in the convention Sunday at Penang because he was no longer a citizen of Malaysia . Dr. Seenivasagam , Ong Kee Hui , a leader of the Sarawak Peoples party , and Dr. Lim Cheong Eu , leader of the Malayan United . Democratic party , announced that they would participate in the meeting , which will be dedicated to creation of a " Malaysian Malaysia " and to reunification with Singapore . British and United States officials , shocked by the abrupt upheaval in the 23-Month-old federation , said that events of the last two days had seriously impaired the interests of antiCommunist forces in Southeast Asia . Indonesia , encouraged by the division of Malaysia , evidently has decided to press her militant campaign against both newly independent Singapore and the remaining members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Prime Minister of Singapore , to re-establish consular and trade ties has apparently been spurned by President Sukarno . Indonesians. aware of Singapore 's eagerness to resume the badly needed trade tie , are exerting pressure on the strategic island to abandon its defense arrangements with Britain . The presence of British naval and air bases is being cited by Indonesian spokesmen as proof that Singapore is still subject to " neocolonialism " and unworthy of recognition . Although the Singapore business community is stirring impatiently to resume the commerce Jakarta suspended five days after the formation of Malaysia on Sept. 16 , 1963 , Prime Minister Lee has reaffirmed the defense arrangements with Britain as " basic and fundamental . " It is a matter of conjecture here how long the Prime Minister can withstand pressure from the business community for a trade arrangement with Indonesia .                     