@@727089

txt A 12-member Columbia University faculty committee decided yesterday to establish a fact-finding commission " to inquire speedily into the causes " of the crisis that has paralyzed the institution for 10 days . Prof. Michael Sovern , a cochairman of the key faculty committee , said the fact-finding commission would be headed by someone from outside the university . He declined to identify any possible choices for the chairmanship . " We want a person , " said Prof. Immanuel Wallerstein , a member of the faculty committee , " who would be able to put in full time  --  active work ? on this commission . " Police Are Withdrawn Professor Sovern 's announcement came after the police were withdrawn from the Columbia campus for the first time since last Thursday and an air of greater normality returned to the educational center on Morningside Heights . Most units of Columbia held no regular classes yesterday . But several units , given the option by the university administration of deciding independently when to resume normal classroom activity , announced last night that they would conduct regular classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made during a six-hour meeting of the 12-member faculty committee behind closed doors on the fifth floor of Fayerweather Hall , one of the five buildings that student demonstrators had occupied until they were evicted Tuesday morning by some 1,000 policemen . Group Gains Authority The committee , headed by ' Professor Sovern and Prof. Alan F. Westin , was created Tuesday , after the police raid , at a meeting of more than 500 senior faculty members . Early yesterday morning it was given additional legitimacy as the major voice of the faculty when the Columbia board of trustees created a subcommittee to study and recommend changes in the basic university structure . The trustees asked the 2-member faculty committee to undertake a similar task , consult with the trustee subcommittee and to make its own recommendations for restructuring the university . After meeting privately in Fayerweather Hall , the faculty committee went to Ferris Booth Hall for a conference with student leaders , many of them supporters of the student strike called in the wake of Tuesday 's police raid . After that meeting , which was closed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbia Student Council and a strike supporter , declared of the Westin comeommittee 's action : " It 's difficult to judge  --  but it 's a beginning . " Professor Sovern said no decision had been made on the composition or size of the factfinding commission , and ne refused to speculate on who might be chosen as its chairman . The professor said the : commission would begin issuing : interim reports almost immedi- , ately , rather than hold off tntil a final report was ready . , In its pursuit of peace the faculty committee will , Meet today with representatives of the Student Afro- . American Society , which occupied Hamilton Hall during the , Columbia siege , and with representatives of the junior faculty , committees of instruction of the university 's 12 faculties , and the Student Council . Classes Extended The deans and faculties of , units of the university dis- ; rupted by the dispute were authorized last night to extend . classes and examinations beyond the previous terminal , date , In order to make up forr lost classroom time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayi 19 . Final examinations are scheduled to begin on May 20 . The Committee on Instruction of Columbia College , a faculty group-that works with students and the administration , voted that no final examinations should be given this semester . However , the decision is subject . to the approval of the full college faculty as well as the college 's acting dean , Henry S. Coleman , Last night , the Students for Columbia University , an organization that grew out of the majority coalition , which had op : : : posed ' the demonstration . asked z for " a resumption of classes as soon as possible . " The organization also asked that " the police continue to remain off this campus . " A short time earlier , 400 students , many of whom had been arrested during the demonstrations , met in Ferris Booth Hall . The meeting was closed to ' newsmen , Progress Indicated The announcement of the ' faculty committee 's action and : ihe cautiously optimistic recep- , tion it got from at least one ' , student government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the ) troubled Columbia campus . Earlier , 16 members of the , 21-member board of trustees had met with the facu'ty com mittee and issued a statement providing for two substantive , actions that many on the cam-1 pus saw as significant moves ) toward resolving the Columbia crisis . The first was the appointment by the trustees of a subcommittee " to study and recommend changes in the basic structure of the university . " The second was their decision " that consultations and negotiations with community ' leaders shall be held before decision is reached as to whether , or not construction " of a con troversiai gymnasium in Morn : , ingside Park " will be resumed . ' The Columbia student protest began on April 23 as an ? attempt to halt construction of : the gymnasium and to force , Columbia to sever its ties with the Institute for Defense Anal- , yses , a 12-university consor- : tium that does military research ' for the Government . Excavation ' of the gymnasium site was halted last Friday at the suggestion of Mayor Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders , led by the Students : for a Democratic Society , i called a strike and demanded , the resignations of Dr. Grayson , Kirk , the president of Colum- ! bia , and Dr. David B. Truman , 1 its vice president . Calls for Strike to Go On Although the university ap-I peered in some respects to ' be moving toward normality , there were still strong calls for con tinuation of the strike from some student leaders and their : faculty supporters . The strike committee , which says it has the support of more : than 80 student government officers and 4,000 of Columbia 's 17,500 students , renewed its demand for the resignations of Dr. Kirk and Dr. Truman . It called also for the creation of a faculty senate that would " have ultimate authority to make major policy decisions of this university " and that could not be overruled by the trustees or the administration . At a news conference , the Student Council president was asked whether the trustees ' plan to study a restructui ing of the university was a sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I see it as a beginning of some thinking by tthe adminis ? tration , " Mr. Pellegrom said , ' " but only a small beginning . " Statement Called Naive John Rousmaniere. a member of the strike committee . said the trustees ' statement " is about 25 years too late . " ! But he went on to say : " Of course the trustees ' thing is a sign of hope . There 's no question . We have to see what comes out of it . " Mr. Rousmaniere described : the trustees ' statement is " very ' naive , " however . He asserted that " if they think this is going to satisfy an awful lot of stu ? dents and an awful lot of fac- ' ulty , they 're mistaken . " Strike support was also voiced : by Edward Schwartz , the tires --  ; ident of the National Student ! Association . Mr. Schwartz de- , Glared that the use of 1,000 ; policemen to clear five ? tellpied buildings on the Columbia campus Tuesday " must rank as ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a univer-1 sity administration in opposi- , : Lion to its student community . " 1 " Indeed , " he went on , " the : brutality of this action hasI pierced through all ambiguities surrounding the issues at Columbia and made it clear that Dr. Grayson Kirk and the uni ? versity administration can deal neither with the Harlem community nor the student-faculty community of the institution . " Mr. Schwartz , a 24-year-old Oberlin graduate , said the N.S.A. had collected pledges of support for the Columbia strike from some 55 presidents of student bodies across the country . Other Strike Backers Continued support for the strike came also from remnants of the ad hoc faculty group , which Professor Westin , now co-chairman of the 12-member faculty committee , had headed until it split in two in a dispute over a resolution of support for the student strike . At a news conference , Eric Bentley , Brander Matthews Professor of Dramatic Literature and a stanch strike supporter , attacked the 12-member , faculty committee . He said , " The Westin Committee is a power play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president . " Prof. Marvin Harris of the ' anthropology department , another strong supporter of the strike , said the 12-member faculty committee was " collaborative " with the administration . The Harris-Bentley group said it had collected 340 faculty signatures supporting the student strike . The total faculty ! , of Columbia is about 2,500 . Still more support for the strike came from more than 100 Columbia alumni who signed , a petition that also called for the resignations of Dr. Kirk and Dr. Truman . " As Columbia University alumni , we are outraged by the ! events on the Columbia campus in the early morning of April 30 , " the petition said . Last night , the hoard of directors of the Association of Alumni of Columbia College , ' meeting at the Columbia University club , called for the im mediate expulsion of students iwho had " committed wanton ' acts of destruction , vandalism and theft , and those students ? who sought to take over Co- : lumbia by force and subvert its : functions for their own avowed political ends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any observer when it announced : " There are now no New York City police on the ! campus of the university except those in Low Library re- ; quired for the security of the central administration build-1 ing . " " Those police In Low , " the : statement added , " are under ! orders that when they go off , to eat or off duty , to proceed ' by the shortest route and with , dispatch . " A force of about 30 men , remained posted at the Am ' sterdam Avenue and Broadway entrances to the university at 116th Street . They continued to permit only those with university identification cards to : I enter . 1 There were few demonstrations by strikers during the day , although " liberation I classes " were held on and off the campus . One student protest focused : on the home of Arthur Ochs : Sulzberger , the president and , publisher of The New York Times . At 5 P. M. 82 young people ? most of them students at the Union Theological Seminary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and picketed for 45 ' minutes . ' Conflict of Interests ' The group distributed a mimeographed letter to Mr. Sulzberger signed by " the Striking Students on Morningside Heights , " and chanted " New York Times  --  print the truth . " The demonstrators said a copy of the letter had been , given to the building 's doorman and to a neighbor of the Sulzberger family . The letter questioned Mr. Sulzberger 's role as a university trustee in the decision to bring the police on the campus and asked his position on the continuation of Dr. : Kirk as president . The letter to Mr. Sulzberger also asked whether " there is a fundamental conflict of interests between your position as trustee of an institution often in the headlines and your position with a most influential newspaper ? " The letter said that the demonstrators " believe that the , editorials in The Times grow out of perceptions consistent , with the perceptions of a Columbia trustee , and that the stories have mirrored accurately a reporting staff which , for the most part . does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We conclude that The Times can not be regarded as the accurate report and interpretation of the events at . Columbia . " Statement by Publisher Mr. Sulzberger , in a statement , said : " Several executives of The New York Times serve on the boards of trustees of universities , museums and other philanthropic organizations . We do not believe that executives of a newspaper need divorce themselves from some service to the community . In no case is there a conflict of , interest . " I concurred in the decisions taken by the board of trustees . " As for editorials in The New York Times , they always reflect the opinion of the pub ' lisher . " However it is a cardinal rule of The Times , and the rock on which the newspaper is founded , that opinions of the publisher , or opinions expressed in editorials , or opinions of any member of the staff , must in no way influence or shape the news coverage of this newspaper . " If we allowed these opinions to affect the coverage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputation for integrity , which is its major asset . " Every member of The Times staff knows this and we believe our readers know it too . " In the coverage of the Co:lumbia situation , The Times has used its resources to pro ) vide full , accurate and discossionate coverage and we shall continue to do so . "                     