@@724125

txt WASHINGTON , July ** is there to say of the America that is not in the headlines this barbarous July ? Very little that is new , and nothing that will stir the passions like the overstatement of the political campaign , the rioting in Manhattan and Florida , the hatred in Mississippi . And yet it is still there , this other country which makes no headlines . You can go out across the continent all the way to the Pacific , and look a1 it , and stand in it , and touch it , and be moved , awed and amused by it . The trouble is that there is nothing to report from it . Consider the MenDeer , docino coast of northBeef , ern California . It is a Water place of important things not worth reporting . Several eons ago nature went wild and heaved the beaches high above the level of the sea and gradually turned them into meadows . The serenity is absolute . In the morning fog deer prance in the cemeteries . Nights are chill and misty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rock . News of the latest rioting in the other America seeps in only slowly , brought by San Franciscans come to have their nerves wound down . It feels a long way to Mississippi , but what else is there to say of it ? Wyoming presents the same problem . The news from Wyoming is that there is nobody there . Or hardly anybody . The train travels a hundred miles between human faces across a deserted moonscape of boulder and scrub , snaking along cracked dry river beds and vistas of ruined cliffs crumbling to dust . Occasionally the train stops . Big men with sunburned faces and big hats climb aboard . Their immediate problem is the beef glut . The West is suffering from a beef explosion that has almost doubled the cattle population since 1950 , but the great dull problem that will plague America long after this summer 's riots are forgotten is water . If there were Country water the West of Old would inherit the Memories earth , but everyone knows that , and what else is there to say ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this other country and seldom engage the attention of a world ready to accept the snarl of the mob as the true face of America . And Iowa . Something important should be said about Iowa . But what is there to say ? Iowa is an emotional experience . The beautifully ordered farms , the summer billow of green corn , the floating haze of wildflowers  --  these things evoke a hopeless sense of regret for the history that has moved America off the land and into the cities . The towns of Iowa , with their tree-lined squares and upright homes and vegetable gardens in the back yards  --  these towns are towns out of the memories of childhood . The mood is not all sentimentality , of course . In Chicago it may be the beery conviviality of a touring group of Milwaukee Braves boosters pausing to rag a Polish bartender about the inferiority of the Chicago Cubs . These other Americans still care more about baseball than about ideology and spend more energy hating the other pitcher than hating the man across town . They are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places that never make the headlines . " How do you like our redwoods ? " any waitress at a greasy spoon in the Sequoia country will ask with a pride that brooks nothing but the most outrageous cries of admiration for Sequoia sempervirens . All are part of the American fiber and they temper the natural strain of violence which has always been part of the American character . It is helpful , during a July like this one , to remind ourselves that there is , as always , another America , and that it is the one in which most Americans live most of the time . Fortunately , there is very little to say of it that is new , and nothing that will stir the passions .                     