@@727019

txt Gen. Creighton W. . Abrams , deputy United States military commander in South Vietnam , arrived in Washington unannounced last night and conferred I this morning with President Johnson and senior Administration officials . His sudden return from Saigon created considerable interest here , since he is regarded as a possible successor to Gen. William C .. Westmoreland , the United States commander , who is to return home before July to become Army Chief of Staff . George Christian , the Presidential press secretary , said General Abrams had conferred with Mr. Johnson and senior advisers to the President in the living quarters of the White House . - Refuses to Identify Advisers Mr. Christian declined to say how long the meeting went on , what was discussed or who the senior advisers were . It is assumed that Secretary of Defense Clark M. Clifford and Gen. Earle G. Wheeler , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , were present . There was no Tuesday luncheon strategy session between the President and his principal advisers and so it also was assumed that the meeting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Johnson 's announcement Friday that General Westmoreland would return to Washington , it had been assumed in military circles that General Abrams would eventually succeed General Westmoreland , just as General Westmoreland had done after serving for a perind of time as deputy to Gen. Paul D. Harkins . General Abrams , 54 years old and a noted tank commander in World War II , has been General Westmoreland 's deputy since April of last year . On Friday , however , President Johnson declined to name a successor to General Westmoreland . A Defense Department spokesman said General Abrams ' visit here would be of " one , or two days " duration . While in Washington , General Abrams will confer with senior military and civilian officials on plans to increase the South Vietnamese armed forces and to re-equip them with later model American arms , the spokesman said . He asserted he did not know whether General Abrams ' visit was connected with the possibility that he might succeed General Westmoreland . Last week , , President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam announced South Vietnam 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this year to bring them to a total of about 900,000 . Criticism of U.S. Arms The United States is now drawing up plans to equip these new South Vietnamese units and to modernize others . ' There has been considerable criticism that most of the South Vietnamese troops are still armed with M-1 rifles of World War II , while their op-1 ponents are equipped with Soviet-designed AK-47 assault carbines and other more modern infantry weapons . In his role as General Westmoreland 's deputy , General Abrams has spent a major part of his time attempting to improve the organization and fighting capacity of the South Vietnamese troops . The Pentagon spokesman said General Abrams conferred with Mr. Clifford , General Wheeler and other members of the joint chiefs at the Pentagon today . He did not see the retiring Army Chief of Staff , Gen. Harold K. Johnson , who is out of town . General Abrams ' departure time is not yet fixed , the spokesman said . Possible Shift on Strategy The announcement of General Westmoreland 's new post has also led to speculation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam . The President , according to this line of speculation , may be considering giving up the search-and-destroy strategy of General Westmoreland . Under this concept , United States forces seek conventional battle with the enemy in remote areas . An alternative and less ambitious strategy would involve the use of , the American forces as a moving shield to protect the populated areas . Behind this shield , the South Vietnamese army and administration would then be given another opportunity to develop a viable society . If such a shift is undertaken , it could affect General Abrams ' chances of succeeding General Westmoreland . General Abrams , it is reported from Saigon , is generally identified with General Westmoreland 's decision to commit the bulk of the American forces to seek out the North Vietnamese forces in the five northernmost provinces of South Vietnam and to defend the Khesanh base there .                     