@@726936

txt The New York State Democratic Committee voted overwhelmingly today an endorsement of : President Johnson for re-election . The action constituted a major gesture of support for the Administration even though the resolution , as finally adopted , omitted direct reference to the President 's conduct of the war in Vietnam and progress at home toward his Great Society I objectives . A substitute resolution upholding Mr. Johnson 's course in Vietnam was tabled , as was a resolution to withhold any Presidential endorsement at this time . State 's Convention Role New York State will cast 190 of the 2,622 votes at the Democratic National Convention , or 14.4 per cent of the total a Presidential aspirant needs for nomination . The state has 43 electoral votes , the highest in the nation . The . State Democratic Chairman , John J. Burns , hailed the resolution as " a tangible evidence of unity within the Democratic party in New York State for the President . " In all , six dissenting votes were recorded on the final ballot after the hour-long debate at Statler-Hilton Hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 300 members w ' ere present but they ' hel ? 163 proxies . Kennedy Backers Pleased There was in the final outcome a measure of satisfaction for all elements of the party . SUP'pOrters ? Of Senator Robert F. - Kennedy , who- backs the President but has repeatedly challenged his course in Viet:nem , were pleased that specific reference to the war had been omitted . Backers ' of Senator Eugene : J. McCarthy of Minnesota , the : President 's opponent in national primaries , also drew comfort from this omission . They had vainly sought to bar any Presidential endorsement at this time . And elements favorable to the nomination of Representative Joseph Y. Resnick of Ellenville for the Senate nomination felt they had achieved : a major point in having the : resolution ' broadened to give the President " vigorous support in the forthcoming election . The resolution as passed said : " The Democratic party of the State of New York Is Justifiably proud of the distinguished ? record of our Democratic ? Administration in Washington . We particularly hail the far-reaching accomplishments of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Robert F. Kennedy and 26 New York State Congressmen . " We extend to President Johnson , Vice President Humphrey and all other Democratic candidates our continued loyalty and vigorous support in the forthcoming election . " The resolution finally adopted was offered by Joseph Crangle , the Erie County chairman . Resolution Is Revised As originally proposed in the call for the meeting , the first held by the committee in five months , the second paragraph of the Crangle resolution had merely said : " We extend to all of them our continuing loyalty and support . We pledge to wage a most aggressive campaign in this election , which is so critical to our country an the world . " Word that the Resnick forces were to offer a substitute resolution of endorsement based solely on the President 's Vietnam record led to the changes in Mr. Crangle 's leadershipbacked resolution late last night . The substitute resolution backing the President 's Vietnam policy was presented by Dr. Gerald P. Gorman , the Ulster County chairman . It said in part : " We support our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early and honorable settlement , praise him - for his firmness and restraint in these trying times , express our admiration and approval of his determination to elevate the quality of American life , and wholeheartedly endorse him for renomination and re-election . " Rockefeller Role Ridiculed In pressing it , Dr. Gorman declared that the Presidential alternative since " Governor Rockefeller swallowed the garbage sandwich is either Nixon or Reagan . " The reference was to the Republican Governor 's role in settling the New York City garbagemen 's strike . A motion to table the Gorman resolution was immediately offered by George Palmer , Schenectady County chairman , and won easily . Tabled even more quickly was the other substitute resolution , by Arnold Weiss , a Reformed Democrat of Manhattan , seeking to avert any support " before enrolled Democrats have voted their preference " in the primaries . As members of the committea arrived for the meeting , they were greeted at the two major entrances to the hotel by pickets representing the Coalition for a Democratic Alternative and Students for McCarthy . The size of the picket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below 20 degrees , varied from 20 to 100 persons .                     