@@724149

txt WASHINGTON , Aug. ** nation has united quickly behind the President 's strong military action in Vietnam , but unity and speed , important as they are in the present crisis , should not muffle some fundamental questions about the future political and military relationships in that area . First , should there hot be a formal public undertaking by the South Vietnamese Government that the military weapons supplied by the United States will not be used in offensive measures against Communist North Vietnam without the advance consent of the United States ? Second , should not the United States give a similar formal undertaking to the Government of South Vietnam ? Third , is the mission of the United States in South Vietnam to provide arms and advice to the Government of South Vietnam , as stated officially in the past , or is President Johnson how asking for a Congressional resolution that would authorize him to take any military measures he pleases in all of Southeast Asia at the request of any Southeast Asian ally ? The Formosa Precedent The official view here is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the United States must act together in a hurry , but the President , as Commander in Chief , has the power to repel any new sudden attack , as he did last weekend , and it may be wise to take a day or two to analyze where we are and where we are going . Obviously , no formal agreement between the United States and South Vietnam could be permitted to interfere with each government 's right of self-defense . No American destroyer captain under Communist attack is going to be asked to wireless Saigon for permission to defend himself , and no South Vietnamese military unit defending South Vietnam is going to be asked to get permission from the United States before firing on its attackers . However , any attack on North Vietnam by either the United States or the South Vietnamese clearly involves the possibility of retaliation by the Communists on both , and thus should be launched only by joint agreement . This principle of joint action in mutual danger was appended to the Mutual Defense Treaty between the United States and the Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time , Secretary of , State Dulles and Ambassador George K. C. Yeh of the Chinese Republic exchanged letters , the key paragraph of which read as follows : " In view of the obligations of the two Parties under the said treaty , and of the fact that the use of force from either of these areas ( Formosa or the offshore islands ) by either of the Parties affects the other , it is agreed that such use of force will be a matter of joint agreement , subject to action of an emergency character which is clearly an exercise of the inherent right of self-defense . " It is stated here officially that there is already an " understanding " with the South Vietnamese Premier , Maj. Gen. Nguyen ' Khanh , that he will not attack North Vietnam without our consent , and , of course , the U.S. controls the arms and the gasoline necessary for any prolonged attack , but since General Khanh has recently been waging an open propaganda campaign for an attack on the North , it is not clear why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly . After all , even fairness to the South Vietnamese requires advance consultation , at least , before any assault on the enemy 's territory . Johnson 's Powers The proposed Congressional resolution , as it now stands , is a more delicate matter . It could easily be amended to include the principle of joint agreement on any attack on the North , but amending it to restrict the President 's action further is more difficult , and maybe it should not be done . But it should at least be recognized what the resolution now authorizes . It says that the United States regards the maintenance of peace and security in " Southeast Asia " as " vital to its national interest and to world peace . " And it adds : " The United States is , therefore , prepared , as the President determines , to take all necessary steps , including the use of armed force , to assist any member or protocol state of the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty requesting assistance in defense of its freedom . " This is a little different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam . It would approve any military action " as the President determines " in any part of Southeast Asia , including military action in support of any nation in the Southeast Asia treaty ( whose military support of South Vietnam has been virtually nil ) , provided our military action were sought and the President approved . Maybe this is what the country wants and there is a good case to be made for it , but even in the hurry to get the resolution passed there should n't be much objection to looking at what it says and what it does n't say .                     