@@724843

txt Hong Kong After seven unstable months under et ; vilian rule , South Vietnam has once again turned to the military for leadership . The new junta , headed by Maj. Gen. Nguyen Van Thieu , has taken over the executive reins relinquished by outgoing Premier Phan Huy Quat on Friday . Meanwhile in the jungles 60 miles north of Saigon , government forces counted casualties and prepared for new encounters with the Viet Cong . The , Communist forces were estimated to number up to 4,000 tough , well-armed veterans . An American paratroop battalion was dug in at Phuoc Vinh airstrip . This is a supply center and staging area for the battles that raged last week in Dong Xoai District . So far , only American advisers and one Seabee construction unit have been involved in the Dong Xoai fighting . But if the Viet Cong chooses to attack Phuoc Vinh , Americans will come into direct combat with them . Qtuit 's decision The fighting has already cost the government forces around 850 killed and missing plus 150 civilians killed . The latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coup . And not all military leaders are happy over the prospect of shouldering supreme responsibility for the embattled nation . Premier Quat could have clung to power even in the teeth of opposition from Roman Catholics and southerners . But to marshal his own Buddhist and Central Vietnamese supporters against his opponents would have meant fratricidal strife at the moment of grave military crisis for South Vietnam . Thus Dr. Quat turned to the military as the only element still able to deter further fragmentation of the nation 's brittle political structure . The new government is likely to be composed of both military and civilians with the military playing the leading role . General Thieu is a quiet , self-possessed soldier who commanded the Fifth Division at the time of the November , 1963 , revolution against the Ngo Dinh Diem government . Roles sketched Later he served as Chief of Staff and as commander of the Fourth Corps ( Mekong Delta ) . He was Deputy Premier and Defense Minister in the outgoing Phan Huy Quat Cabinet . He will assume the title of chairman of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ starting out with a clean slate . There will be no government actually in power , no constitution , no precedents , and no traditions . Reuters reports the new government will work as follows : A National Leadership Council headed by , General Thieu , Brig . Gen. Nguyen Cao Ky , Air Force commander , and Brig . Gen. Nguyen Huu Co , chief of the Joint General Staff . With them will be seven other military leaders . Under them will be a Legal advisory council composed of lawyers and technicians to advise the military leadership on legislation and decrees . Members of the executive council will be called commissioners instead of ministers and will receive smaller salaries and reduced privileges in line with General Thieu 's declared policy of austerity . Success tied to unity Success or failure of the new military-civilian setup will depend entirely on the extent to which both parties , particularly the military , can preserve unity within their ranks . Already there are persistent rumors of rivalry between factions headed by General Thieu and those following Brig . Gen. Nguyen Cha'nh Thi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Co 's strength in this situation is that so far he has not been identified with any particular faction . He has told questioners he is interested exclusively in being a soldier and serving as a soldier for his country .                     