@@721592

txt Labor will press for temporary forgiveness of Federal withholding taxes as an antirecession measure . The taxsuspension plan is part of an emergency program put forward by union leaders to combat unemployment by pumping more purchasing power into the economy . The program is under discussion in Washington this week by legislative representatives and state officials of unions affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . It is based on a fear that the November jobless total of slightly more than 4,000,000 workers will grow to nearly 6,000,000 by February . Under the tax-forgiveness proposal individual taxpayers would be relieved of a collective obligation of $2,500,000,000 each month . The union view is that it ought to continue for two months . Under the plan the taxpayers would not be expected to make up the payment later in the year . The other elements in the anti-slump program include a temporary system of Federally financed unemployment insurance benefits for workers whose state benefit rights have been exhausted and for those who never qualified under state eligibility rules . The program also calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and disability payments under the Federal Social Security Act . The federation 's economists estimate that the job insurance liberalization would cost-V , 500,000,000 a year . Expansion st ) f Social Security benefits would.add $750 , - 000,000 to the annual cost . Plans for reviving the economy through swift action by the new Administration and Congress have been outlined at the Washington sessions by Andrew J. Biemiller , the A. F. L. - C.I.O. legislative director . They follow the basic framework of a more ambitious program for shoring up the economy presented to the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco last Friday by Stanley ' Ruttenberg , - the federation 's research chief . The union economist contended that there was " grave danger of a serious slump " if Congress failed to act promptly . The Ruttenberg plan called for a permanent tax cut for small business , faster placement of Government contracts for supplies and public works and revision in Federal Reserve Bank interest rates to foster investments in housing and other long-term projects . The federation 's advocacy of a temporary extension of unemployment benefits goes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1958 . At that time , with nearly 3,000,000 workers idle so long that they had exhausted their state eligibility , Congress voted to reimburse states that wanted to prolong benefits for as much as thirteen weeks . This program resulted in the distribution of $474,000,000 in extra payments to the jobless . In recent weeks 16,000 workers have been reaching the end of their state benefit rights each week . The federation feels that some equivalent of the 1958 program ought to be renewed , but that it should be broadened to provide aid to unemployed workers who , did not qualify for any benefits under the state rules . The federation 's long-range goal is an overhaul of the entire unemployment insurance system to provide for the establishment of Federal minimum standards . This is designed to provide more substantial benefits over a longer period as part of the permanent job insurance structure . Benefits in most states now aeerage about- onethird of normal full-time wages .                     