@@722876

txt Economic pressures caused by the long and increasingly costly dock and newspaper strikes may prove more effective than White House persuasion in breaking tight deadlocks in bargaining between shippers and longshoremen in Atlantic and Gulf ports , and between New York newspapers and their printers . Mediators in the disputes reported cautiously on Monday that the outlook appeared " somewhat more hopeful , " although the parties in both disputes were still far apart on money . . The shipping tic-up in ports from Searsport , Maine , to Brownsville , Texas , entered its 23d day with total cost approaching half-billion dollars , at a rate of an estimated $20. - 000,000 a day . In addition to some 65,000 members of the International Longshoremen 's Association on strike , those idled include 20.000 seamen and truckers serving the docks . ! Effects Spreading Indirectly , thousands more either have been affected by the walkout or will be unless shipping is resumed quickly . Carpet mills in Dalton , Ga. , are running low on jute normally imported through Savannah and may be forced to shut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependent on imported yarns face possible curtailment of operation : one in Fitchburg , Mass. , already has cut production to two days a week . jAppeals Aired The Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce last weekend appealed to President Kennedy for relief from the strike on grounds that a third of the borough 's Manufacturers " see the necessity for curtailment of their operations within two weeks " if shipping is not resumed quickly and many predict " complete shut-downs in a month . " Similarly the National Council of Importers , Inc. , called on the President for help in ending a " serious situation " causing unemployment in ranks of custom brokerage employees , forwarders , and others dependent on international trade . Generally importers and manufacturers built up inventories as protection against possible strikes lasting into mid-January . Now problems are beginning to pile up in the Newark industrial area  --  where " some unemployment " already exists off the docks because of the shutdown  --  and in Boston , Philadelphia , Baltimore , and southeastern and Gulf Ports . Over the past weekend Houston estimated its local economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Volkswagen had to shut down car production in Germany for two days as a result of the United States dock strike , ' and banana economies , in the Caribbean were reported in " serious-to-critical " condition because of cancelled fruit shipments and layoffs . The number of vessels tied up in Atlantic and Gulf ports , now about 700 , is increasing daily despite efforts of shippers to reroute freighters . Although there was talk on Monday of a settlement that could come quickly , 1LA 's chief negotiator , Thomas Gleason , warned that " everything is about the same . " The shippers ' offer last weekend was still 22 cents an hour in wages and benefits , over two ; , , ears , although - there were hints of a few cents more in the kitty for a contract signature . ILA 's demand  --  on paper  --  remained at 50 cents an hour . However , the money gap , from a realistic standpoint , was considered substantially less than this would indicate . In the New York newspaper situation publishers increased their offer over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first year and $3.85 in the second year of a two-year contract , with benefit increases bringing the total package to over $10 a week through 1964 . Negotiators for Local 6 of the International Typographical Union , given a unanimous vote of confidence by striking members , lowered their demand slightly to $9 a week this year and next or $18 over a two-year period . Neither side considered the other 's concessions satisfactory but the movement in dead center encouraged mediators .                     