@@724081

txt A Straddle Platform ? Although it does not officially open until next Monday , the Republican convention in San Francisco really got under way yesterday with the beginning of serious work on the party platform . It is customary to belittle a platform as a pious compendium of promises read by few and ignored by many . But it is , after all , the only attempted consensus of what the party believes in ; it does record the party 's movement with the times , and it provides a convenient yardstick for sr , ' measuring performance against pledge . Seldom in recent times has the work of a Republican Platform Committee been under such critically searching public and party examination.as it will be this time . The question the committee and the convention must ask themselves , of ' course , is whether they are writing a platform tailored to Senator Barry Goldwater , as the almost inevitable nominee for President , or whether:they are writing a standard of principles honestly representative of the Republican party . The 1960 Republican platform was a generally The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable disdain by Mr. Goldwater , who has said : " We lost on it and I do n't want anything to'do with it . " He has , in fact , a rather poor opinion of platforms in general , saying that " at best , political platforms are a packet of misinforpnation and lies . " Confronted with these views of the probable standard-bearer , a conscientious Platform Committee might be pardoned if it regarded its task as ; formidable , if not impossible . But Representative Melvin R. Laird of Wisconsin , its chairman and , an old hand at platform building , seems to be , ; , airily undismayed . " The differences within the Republican party are not great at all , " he said , adding that he was certain that the docuinept to be drafted would be acceptable to both Goldwater and Scranton forces . This is whistling in the dark unless Mr. Laird proposes to write a straddling platform that will turn back the clock of history . It is simply impos'Aible , for example , to reconcile Goldwater vieWs and action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principles of the party of Lincoln as set forth in the 1960 platform , or with the prescription for ideal candidates given in the Eisenhower manifesto that , until the former President disowned such intent , seemed to qualify for the nomination almost anybody but Senator Goldwater . SO , on civil rights as well as many other issues where ' Mr. Goldwater has deserted the party , or the party has left him behind as time marched on , ' the platform in 1964 will either have to speak out courageously for principle , or abandon integrity and speak craven doubletalk. kr . Goldwater has , in recent days , apparently imposed a role of silence on himself as the safetyfirst policy least likely to lose a sure thing . The Platform Committee can indulge in no such luxury , ; It has to speak , and for the party , not just for " the man who " ? whoever he turns out to be . Its problem is an identical preview of the convention 's bewildering dilemma  --  how to be true to ; the best traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Punk ' Roy Wilkins , executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , recently addressed some strong , straight talk to his own people , and especially young people . In a column written for The Amsterdam News he used the kind of language that would be misunderstood if it came from white man to Negro ; all who are concerned with and , hopeful for justice for the Negro will agree that ' he spoke words that needed to be said . Mr : Wilkins started by saying : " The teen-age Negro hoodlums in New York City are undercutting and wrecking the gains made by the hundreds of Negro and white youngsters who went to jail for human rights . . . . These hotshots , tearing up subway cars and attacking innocent people , are selling the Freedom Riders down the river . They are helping Mississippi . " He had some equally merited reproaches for the ' press . He said that " almost as bad as the hoodlums is the hysterical treatment by a good part of the press , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call for the sending of United States troops into New York City , and another 's reference to " marauding bands of Negroes . " His basic injunction was a sound one for all of us to remember : " We can help matters along by recognizing that a punk is a punk , white or black , and by putting him in his proper place . " We say a heartfelt amen to these Wilkins remarks , which are consistent in spirit with other advice he has given for militancy , but not adventurism , in the follow-through on the civil rights bill . The Negro will get his rights faster , and more surely , if  --  despite all provocation and bad example by some whites  --  he so lives his life as to command the respect of all , by his own demonstrated respect for law and order . This is made no less true by the fact that the white man , and the white young hoodlum , often deserve  --  at this very moment , in fact  --  the same kind of tough talk that came from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Not Police The civilized concept that narcotic addicts are sick people who need medical attention like other sick people , and not jail , is now strongly supported by the leading judges of the country . A nation-wide Advisory Council of Judges of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency , including members of the Supreme Court and Federal Courts of Appeals , urges that law enforcement efforts should continue against the big-business traffickers in narcotics , But , the judges remind the police , the vast majority of drug addicts who land in the courts are not criminals . They need to go freely to doctors and hospitals for medical care , without the threat of prosecution hanging over addicts or doctors . There are old Supreme Court rulings that uphold the right of doctors to administer drugs to addicts . But misinterpretations by the Federal Bureau of Narcotics of the old Harrison Act and Court rulings have long made doctors reluctant to invite professional ruin by treating addicts . In England doctors are free to prescribe for an addict under gradual withdrawal schemes . The judges support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We , too , can deprive the underworld of its customers ? by allowing our doctors to get back to their job . Europe 's Political Union The Erhard-de Gaulle meeting in Bonn demonstrated once more the limited value of the Franco-German Friendship Treaty both for bilateral cooperation and as a " first step " toward European political union . Under the treaty , key cabinet ministers of the two countries confer every three months . The chiefs of government join them twice yearly , as they did last weekend . The objective is to shape common policies in foreign affairs , defense and education and to consult , as well , in the spheres covered by the Common Market  --  economics , finance and agriculture . The treaty put into effect on a two-power basis more or less what President de Gaulle , through the Fouchet Plan , had proposed in 1961-62 for a loose " Union of States " of the six Common Market countries . The Fouchet Plan was blocked by the Dutch and Belgians . They insisted on real decision-making institutions of a federal character similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looser arrangements only if Britain were permitted to participate from the start . Subsequently , Bonn and Paris went ahead alone . The experience of the past eighteen months has hardly been a roaring success . It has not achieved common policies on the many major issues that divide France from its other Atlantic allies . Recently , discussions between German Christian Democratic and French Gaullist deputies evidently have brought about some concessions by the Gaullists  --  but not necessarily by de Gaulle  --  toward the federal concept . Former Chancellor Adenauer , tacitly admitting the failure of his Franco-German treaty , has urged that Bonn and Paris go ahead alone with a tighter political union , if others refuse to join . And a proposal , evidently accepted by the French Government , was made to appoint an official FrancoGerman working party to prepare a plan . This proposal now has been rejected by the Erhard Government . And de Gaulle has agreed to let the Bonn Government itself prepare a new plan to advance political union in Europe . This agreement effectively kills the idea of an exclusive Franco-German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be taken by the six Common Market nations together and that Britain must be associated with the talks in some way . Tshombe the Unifier Four years ago , immediately after the Congo became independent , Moise Tshombe threatened to destroy it by establishing an independent Government in Katanga , thereby setting a precedent for attempted secession in other provinces . He was ousted with the aid of United Nations forces , and the Congo was reunited . Today , after a triumphant return from exile , Mr. Tshombe has been designated by President Kasavubu as Premier for the whole Congo and has been entrusted with the task of keeping it united under a Government of National Reconciliation . In this new role , Mr. Tshombe can be welcomed all around . The Congo needs his astuteness and energy to survive until a new Constitution and new parliamentary elections can establish a firmer basis for its existence . Whether he will succeed is another question . He claims to have pledges of cooperation from leaders of the three provinces now in revolt . But some of these pledges are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's first Premier whose fantastic rule contributed to Mr. Tshombe 's original secession . But whether he forms a Government or not , it must be hoped that Mr. Tshombe 's conversion to Congolese unity is genuine and that he will continue h work for it in any post allotted to him . Any new defection on his part would mean new troubles for his country . Admiral Ricketts The spotlight of fame and the glare of publicity usually illuminate only a few of the thousands of Government officials  --  in and out of uniform  --  who serve their country quietly but well . Such a faithful servant  --  but little known to the public  --  was Adm . Claude V. Ricketts , Vice Chief of Naval Operations , whose sudden and untimely death has deprived the Navy of one of its finest officers and most promising leaders and the Government of one of its most capable , though self-effacing , officials . Admiral Ricketts was what the services call a " workhorse . " He bore many of the burdens of the Navy Department with cheerfulness and strength . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approached his job first and foremost as an American officer and gentleman . He did much for the Navy and for his country .                     