@@723645

txt Boeing Airplane company officials who produced and sold the 707 jet planes to Pan-American World Airways are taking note of the apparent similarities in accidents and incidents involving jets , heavy thunderstorm turbulence and lightning , Donald Finley , chief engineer of Boeing 's Renton , Wash. , commercial airplane division , said last night . He spoke to THE TRIBUNE in a long-distance telephone conversation , in answer to questions about the Pan American 707 crash which took 81 lives at Elkton , Md. , Sunday night . Subject of Studies " This most recent accident and others are certainly the subject of intensive studies by the industry , " Finley said . " We feel such happenings are not a characteristic limited to Boeing airplanes ; that ours are not separated from other jets , or for that matter from other aircraft . Such experiences have occurred with ** and with DC-8s , too . " It is awfully early for us to do more than note the apparent similarities . We are puzzled but we prefer , at this time , to say nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciate we are in a very sensitive position as the manufacturer , with the governmental agencies investigating and ourselves investigating , too . Many Things Unexplained " We need to take time to see what really happened . Of course , there are question marks . There are a great many things we have n't explained to our own satisfaction about a number of accidents . " When you mention similarities you must include the Mont , real , Canada , tragedy with the I DC-8 , and a thunderstorm ; the I shedding of an engine by a jet at Houston , Tex. ; and of course the Northwest Orient Airlines accident near Miami , again in a thunderstorm and with lightning present . " Finley said Boeing 's top crash nvestigator left Seattle late Sunday and he has been on the scene in Maryland only since loon . Safety Work Cited " It is unfortunate that we lave no educated explanation , " Finley said . " It seems unlikely that lightning could cause a crash , but laboratory work seems to indicate it is possible . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arcing and possible ignition of vapors . " The plane which went down in Maryland was the third 707 production plane built in 1958 , and is a 120 series aircraft with a gross weight of about 250,000 pounds . It was used for flight test and in the original civil zertification work before it went to Pan-American Airways . Has Little Information Finley said that Boeing has never stopped the inquiries into various crashes of the 707 jets . He cited the unexplained Sabena crash at Brussels , Belgium , in 1961 when the American figure-skating team died with 59 others . The jet was within a few hundred feet of landing at Brussels after crossing from New York , when it crashed and smashed to bits . " This is not a closed case with us , " he said . " When , on the purest hunch we find things that we can alter  --  possibly to improve safety in the 707 series - we do them . And we have done a number of things to the whole production group as a result of our continuing efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finley said only : " We have gotten very little more than the papers have carried . It seems the crew mentioned in a last communication the matter of fire . Of course , the plane has got to be pretty much all in one piece or the communications will not work . " The Boeing company is anxious to find the real answers to the Elkton accident as the most involved person , Finley indicated . He said he hopes there will be a public answer to all questions raised , in the not too distant future .                     