@@727719

txt The sharpening Sino-Soviet conflict has made both Russian and Western intelligence officers suddenly eager to question Chinese Muslim refugees . Thousands of Turkic-speaking Uighurs , Kirghiz , Uzbeks , and Kazaks began fleeing Communist China 's western province of . Sinkiang about 1963 . Moving westward , they ' settled in Afghanistan , Iran , and Turkey . Shortly before the newest Sino-Soviet frontier battles in the Far East , about 4,000 Uighur tribesmen clashed with Chinese troops near Kuldja , a city in northwest Sinkiang about 40 miles from the Soviet border . Soviet border posts , broadcasting in , , the Uighur language over loudspeakers , offered the Uighurs refuge . . Asian experts now are waiting to see whether refugees from these latest clashes turn up at Kayseri in central Turkey , where about 4,000 Turkic-speaking refugees from . Sinkiang already are camped . Israel and Egypt have both been flexing their missile muscle in the latest Suez Canal fighting . Egyptian units fired at least three Soviet-made SAM-2 guided missiles at three Israeli Piper Cub spotter aircraft March 9 . They brought down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not now in action , Israel is n't worried . They are warmed-over versions of old French rockets whose guidance systems are poor and theoretical payloads small . What does keep Israel up nights are Egypt 's Samlet short-range missiles . These can hurt . Israel 's fortifications and supply lines in occupied Sinai . Meanwhile , Egyptian ordnance crews are carefully examining several dud Israeli missiles . They fear the American Hawk antiaircraft missiles delivered to Israel since the ' 67 six-day war may be leveled at surface targets . 9 Lebanon is still concerned about those 500 Palestinian guerrillas camped in its frontier areas bordering on Israel . Yassir Arafat , leader of Al Fatah and the Palestine Liberation Organization , recently told Lebanon his men would avoid major operations across the border for the present . But two other groups with cells in Lebanon are not under his control  --  the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine which planned the attacks on El Al Airliners at Athens and Zurich , and the Popular Democratic Front , a Marxist group . Last month Israeli aircraft dropped pamphlets threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long the relative calm on the Lebanese frontier will last . How and why . . . - Saudi Arabia 's suppoit of the Palestinian guerrillas , especially Al Fatah , is unpublicized but highly important . Millions of dollars are pouring into guerrilla coffers from Saudi , Kuwaiti , Abu Dhabi , and Qatar oil revenues . - Al Fatah 's main supply line runs up the main highway from Saudi Arabia into Jordan . And Saudi troops protect the convoys . . King Faisal supports the guerrillas not ' only out of conviction but for political expediency . Few Westerners realize that his ? personal stand against Israel is among the toughest and most uncompromising , espedilly his concern with ending Jewish control over Muslim holy places in Jerusalem . : More important , King Faisal knows the Saudi Army is not ready to take on Israel . By supporting the guerrillas , he buys time to ' . " prepare his forces for the moment when they may have to join other Arab armies in confronting Israel , Washington 's decision to start reducing the . number of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Turks . The order to bring home 1,000 Americans - which still leaves 19,000 military and civilian personnel and their dependents there - 7- marks the beginning of a major reappraisarof American policy . Washington agrees with American Ambassador Robert Kamer that the United States ? has too long taken Turkey for granted as an ally . A little wooing is in order . 0 Of 355 Jews ( 123 Egyptians and 232 stateless persons ) detained in Egypt after the ' 67 war , 265 have been released . The remaining 90 are men of military age ( 18 to 45 ) . Egyptian authorities , say most are suspected of treasonable contacts with Israel . No Jews serve in the Egyptian Army . ' ' S'ome detainees have said they would leave Egypt if freed . Others want to stay .                     