@@727234

txt Maurice Couve de Murville was appointed Premier of France today by President de Gaulle . Mr. Couve de Murville , 61 years old , the Finance Minister and a former Foreign Minister , succeeds Georges Pompidou , 59 . The outgoing Premier was replaced at the height of his political career , 10 days after an election triumph that was widely considered his personal achievement . An exchange of letters between Mr. Pompidou and General de Gaulle , made public today , gave no hint of the underlying reasons for the change in Premiers . But Mr. Pompidou and the President are known to have clashed over policy during the student rioting and the general strike by workers in May . Difference in Interpretation , Mr. Pompidou had become a political power in the country in his own right , and he is known to have strong reservations about the President 's plans for associating the workers in the policy-making processes of management . Mr. Pompidou , betraying bitterness , made it clear in his brief letter that he felt the President was dismissing him : by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accordance with the Constitution . But General de Gaulle , in a longer and warmer letter apparently written in reply , said that he was accepting the resignation at Mr. Pompidou 's own request . The two letters appear to have been written late last week . In one of his final actions as Finance Minister  --  a post he assumed less than six weeks ago ? Mr. Couve de Murville obtained Cabinet approval today for tax increases designed to raise half a billion dollars this year . Action to Support Franc This would offset only a quarter of the budget increases , required by settlements in the general strike of May and June . Also today , France also acted on the financial front to support the franc . The Bank of France announced that it had negotiated $1.3-billion in shortterm loans with the Common Market , the United States and he Bank of International Settlements . Sources close to Mr. Pompidou today were emphatic in their assertion that he had expected to be renamed Premier . According to them , Mr. Pompidou told the President after the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President wanted him to step down , but that he was prepared to continue in office if that was the President 's desire . According to informed sources not connected with Mr. Pompidou , the outgoing Premier was confident of being 1 reappointed until he heard ' from a newspaperman last Wednesday that General de Gaulle had offered the premiership to Mr. Couve de Murville . The political reporter , who ' had heard of the offer to Mr. Couve de Murville , called Premier Pompidou to check his information , the sources said . They said that the absence of personal forewarning was one of the reasons for the bitterness they ascribed to Mr. Pompidou . Mr. Couve de Murville 's appointment does not require Parliamentary approval . As of tonight , he had not announced a Cabinet list . His installation as Premier is to take place Saturday . Mr. Couve de Murville looked discreet and elegant this afternoon when he went to the Elysee Palace for a short audience with the President . He was smiling as he entered . When he came out about 15 minutes later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in public . He would make no comment . An hour later the President 's Office issued a one-sentence communique , which said : " General de Gaulle , President of the Republic , has named Maurice Couve de Murville Premier . " Later , the exchange of letters by Mr. Pompidou and General de Gaulle were made public . Mr. Pompidou wrote : My dear General : You have informed me of your intention to name a new Government at the time the National Assembly , which was elected on June 23d and 30th , meets . I have the honor , therefore , in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII of the Constitution , to submit to you the resignation of the Government . I beg you , General , to accept the assurance of my profound respect . Article VIII specifies that the President names and can dismiss the Premier . Text of de Gaulle Letter The President wrote : My dear friend : Measuring the weight of your burden at the head of the Government for six years and three months , I feel it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reappointed Premier . My regret is all the greater because in the very considerable work accomplished by the Administration in all realms during your tenure , your action has been exceptionally effective and has never ceased to respond fully to what I expected from you and the members of the Government which you led . This was true in particular during the grave crisis which the country traversed last May and June . Thus has also been the judgment of the French people , as it has just indicated in the last elections . Wherever you will be , be assured . my dear friend , that I will be anxious to keep particularly close relations with you . Finally , 1 wish that you keep yourself ready to accomplish any mission and assume any mandate that the nation may one day bestow on you . Please believe , my dear Premier in my feelings of faithful and devoted friendship . The phrase about future misIN : Maurice Couve de Murville , France 's new Premier , leaving the Elysee Palace . sions that the nation might bestow on Mr. Pompidou @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the President still regarded him as the heir apparent to the presidency . Others among Mr. Pompidou 's friends voiced doubts on this score . Later today , Mr. Pompidou was unanimously elected honorary president of the Gaullist group in the National Assembly . As Premier , he would have been required to resign his Assembly seat . Presumably , he now will retain it . The Gaullist group held its first formal meeting in the Palais Bourbon , the colonnaded Assembly building on the Left Bank , in preparation for the opening of the new parliamentary session tomorrow . Mr. Pompidou urged the Gaullist deputies not to question the President 's choice of Premier . " It is not up to the Assembly to question the choice of the President of the Republic , " he told the meeting . He said that if the deputies did so , they , " would harm the Republic , its ' President , its Government and myself . " He spoke briefly after a Gaullist deputy had criticized the appointment of a " government , of technocrats " ? an allusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil servant and diplomat . The new Premier is expected to appoint several nonpolitical specialists to his Cabinet . Gaullist sources reported that the President 's replacement of Premier Pompidou dominated the conversations among the Gaullist deputies attending the meeting and that many of them voiced disappointment and even consternation . Mr. Couve de Murville , who was at the Elysee Palace at that time , did not attend the meeting . Many of the Gaullist deputies who were swept to victory last month feel they owe their election to Mr. Pompidou . He played the key role in the campaign , which saw their numbers increase by 92 seats to 291 , an absolute majority of the 487-seat assembly . Mr. Pompidou was offered the presidency of the National Assembly and the position of chief Gaullist whip , but turned down both , according to deputies at the meeting . With the loss of the Premiership , Mr. Pompidou could also lose control of the Gaullist party machine , which he had built . It was too early , however , to say whether Mr. Couve de Murville would attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murville will be the third Premier to serve under General de Gaulle since 1958 . Michel Debre held the office from October , 1958 , when President Rend Coty resigned and General de Gaulle moved from the premiership to the presidency , until the spring of 1962 , when he was replaced by Mr. Pompidou . Mr. Debre , an advocate of keeping Algeria French , was Premier during the period in which the general maneuvered into a position from which he could grant independence to Algeria . Mr. Debr ? was dismissed after the . signing of the Evian treaty between France and the provisional government of Algeria . During the Pompidou era , the Gaullist regime consolidated the economy . The President concentrated on foreign affairs , taking France out of the military organization of the Western alliance and ' . pressing for closer relations with the Communist world . Now the President is expected to throw himself into an effort of basic domestic reform .                     