@@725297

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times JESSE SALEEKENNETH STERNJULIUS EPSTEINERNEST M. MAYROBERT M. MAKLA Letters to ' the Editor of The Times President Backed To the Editor : I have read in your columns in the past few days three letters critical of our Vietnam policy and one in support of it . Feb. 4 and 6 . What strikes me as important is that not one writer seems aware of the central point or principle of our foreign policy -- that we must not , we dare not , tolerate aggression by the " other side " whether it be in Vietnam , the Dominican Republic or wherever , or we will suffer disaster . Peking and Hanoi have conveniently labeled the Vietcong 's activities as a " war of liberation . " No one in his right mind can believe this , for without guidance and substantial military aid in men and materiel from China and Russia , the Vietcong could be " handled " and the whole problem settled at the conference table . My point is this : Peking and Hanoi are misreading American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bear on our leadership that it will be forced to compromise and meet their terms . Therefore , Peking and Hanoi are playing a " waiting game . " Meanwhile life , limb and property are needlessly being destroyed . Meeting In Hawaii President Johnson 's meeting with South Vietnam 's leaders in Hawaii is an adroit move . Among other things it was probably designed to demonstrate to the other side that we would not buckle under to negative pressures from within our country , and that they had better come to the conference table without delay for their own sake . Public opinion plays an important role in this matter . If our people back our Government a climate will be created that the other side can not misread . Therefore , if we move vigorously in this direction by stating and restating the validity of our position in every way possible until it is drummed into the heads of those opposed to our policy , we will get the results we seek that much sooner . JESSE SALE% Elizabeth , N. J. , Feb. 7 , 1966 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is difficult to understand those citizens who , although troubled by the resumption of bombing in North Vietnam , say that it is to be accepted because the President and his advisers have information the public does not possess . What information do these people now have which the ordinary citizen does not ? Military information , perhaps , as to the correct conduct of the war . But surely it is not the conduct of the war that is at issue . The issues are , rather , what our goals and purposes are and whether they should be pursued . The issue is not information  - -  it is whether our leaders are exercising proper judgment , and this is a very different matter . Certainly our past experience of the judgment of these leaders , mainly in Vietnam , but also in other places such as the Dominican Republic , should arouse skepticism in any reflective person . regarding the competence of that judgment . KENNETH STERN Feb. 4 , 1966 0 Johannes Ullrich To the Editor : Johannes Ullrich , Director of the Political Archives of the German Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Godesberg in Germany . He was 63 years old . Dr. Johannes Ullrich deserves most of the credit for the preservation of the German Foreign Office archives during World War II . As early as 1942 Dr. Ullrich , who had never joined the Nazi party , envisioned Berlin 's almost total destruction and the possible loss of the archives . Therefore he decided to save them . Had he told his boss , Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop , what he planned , he would have been arrested as a " defeatist " and sent to Hitler 's executioner by Dr. Freisler 's " People 's Court . " Dr. Ullrich succeeded in 1943 ? with the help of some other anti-Hitler officials in the Ausivnertiges Amt  --  in evacuating some 56,000 parcels of documents to five castles in the Harz Mountains , where they were hidden in cellars and found by the British -- not the Russians  --  after the war . Dr. Ullrich performed this rather miraculous deed under the noses of Hitler and von Ribbentrop . When the Soviets entered Berlin in 1945 they were informed of Dr. Ullrich 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave labor camps , where he spent ten years , returning home in 1955 , There Can be no doubt that Dr. Ullrich 's action represents a unique deed of courage and vision , a deed for which the American historians -- and not only they  --  will always be indebted to him . The most recent American renaissance in Soviet history would have been impossible without the German Foreign Office documents . Especially those authors who devoted so much time to studying the German-Bolshevist conspiracy during and after World War I could not have told the story without those documents . The reconstruction of Imperial Germany 's financial support of Lenin is entirely based upon the German archives . Unfortunately , Dr. Ullrich died totally unrewarded by his German compatriots as well as by the international community . JULIUS EPSTEL N Research Associate Hoover Institution Stanford University Stanford , Calif. , Jan. 26 , 1966 ? Tristate Transit To the Editor : I would like to comment on your Jan. 31 editorial " Saving the Erie , " in which you call for the " creation of a tristate agency , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads of the entire metropolitan area and integrate them with the New York City subway system . " I , and many others in New Jersey , feel that in any regional plan we would " hold the short end of the stick . " We want no part of a twelve-day subway strike . We have seen Philadelphia faced with water pollution be cause of the reluctance of New York City officials to release into the Delaware River adequate quantities of water In maintain proper flow . We sense this undercurrent in the proposal by Mayor Lindsay to include the Port of New York Authority in his over-all transportation agency . We have seen the lights remain on in New Jersey due to our own effect IVO public utilities when New York City was dark . We believe we are strong enough in New Jersey to solve our problems ourselves . ERNEST M. M 1v Summit , N. J. , Jan , 31 , 1966 ? Prospect Park Farm To the Editor : Columbia University is tint alone in coveting park land . Prospect Park will soon receive a gift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city $100,000 annually -- -half its construction and all maintenance thereafter . The farm , really not a farm at all , will include playground and storybook fancies designed , no doubt , for amusement as well licity . Ironically , the gift could still offer solid educational value es well as great entertainment were it redesigned as an authentic Dutch barnyard , with animals , adjoining Lefferts Homestead , whose adjacent site it will occupy . This is Brooklyn 's fine Revolutionary War landmark . Able Park Curator Lancaster would do well to scrutinize Imminent construction here rather than uproot a skating rink ( albeit misplaced ) on Prospect Lake at this time . ROBERT M. MAKLA . New York , Feb. 2 , 1966                     