@@724908

txt What 's ahead . Organized labor 's dropping of a demand may mean quicker passage of amendments to the federal Fair Labor Standards Act . It has dropped its bid for double time on overtime . And it may get in return an upping of the $1.25 minimum wage : , In fact the administration and labor officials figure a $1.50 minimum might even get through the current session of Congress . Earlier they felt wage-hour changes had no chance before 1966 . The AFL-CIO wants a $2 minimum . But it will be happy with $1.50 for the time being . e Registrations for apprentice training will rise sharply this year . Even over last year 's figures . Government statistics show 170,174 in apprentice programs last year ? including 59,000 who began during the year . Washington looks for continued gains because of the need for more skilled workers and pressures to train more minority youths for jobs . There 's a dropout problem in apprentice programs , too . Last year 29,961 quit training . The Labor Department deplored this as a " waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments are watching closely the rising draft calls and possible recalls of reservists . Unemployment is still high  --  but mainly among the unskilled . The skilled called to service will be hard to replace . ? Talk is even being heard of occupational deferments . The three major criteria for these : The potential draftee must be regularly employed in an activity necessary to the maintenance of national health , safety , and interest . The employer must certify the employee ca n't be replaced . And the employer must demonstrate that there would be " substantial loss of effectiveness " if the employee leaves . Trends . Congress is getting more concerned about another labor discrimination practice  --  discrimination against age . Rep. Roman C. Pucinski ( D ) of Illinois has introduced a bill which would make it illegal to refuse to hire , discharge , or otherwise discriminate against anyone " unjustifiably on account of age . " It 's one of several aimed at helping  --  and seeking votes from  --  over-40 workers and job seekers . Labor has chalked up a " substantial progress " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A recent AFL-CIO survey showed that 18 states improved workmen 's compensation laws , 12 expanded unemployment compensation benefits , 10 enacted or improved minimum-wage laws , and at least eight tightened civil-rights laws . And several legislatures have n't ended sessions yet . AFL-CIO says the record is almost certain to be " the best in many years . " ED Most expansion in government employment is now at the state and local level . Only small gains are showing up  --  or are anticipated in the next decade ? in federal employment . Last year , three out of every four public employees worked for state and local governments . Ten years ago only two out of three did . Most dramatic increases have been in the field of education . Total public employment has reached 9,500,000 . How and why . . . The International Chemical Workers Union is bubbling about the government buying drugs and chemicals produced from stolen or infringed American patents . The union complains that " certain government agencies " buy products manufactured " under cheap labor conditions . . . under formulas stolen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It says the purchases overseas cost American jobs and " threaten the incentives for research and manufacture which have kept America in the forefront of industrial and medical developments . " Two New Jersey Democrats in Congress , Sen. Harrison A. Williams and Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr. , have introduced identical bills to bar such purchases . The Williams-Rodino measures would apply to all industries . But New Jersey is a big chemical-producing state . And that 's where ICW 's objections found support .                     