@@722987

txt Los Angeles , March 14 1/11 -- A federal judge acquitted , General Motors corporation of antitrust charges today with a ruling that he said upheld the franchise system a basic sales technique . The government contended in a criminal action that General Motors conspired with Chevrolet dealer associations to halt sale of new cars to discount houses . District Judge Thurmond Clarke said the justice department " failed to prove an unfair restraint of trade . " Will Push Civil Suit The government said it will continue to push a civil suit filed as a parallel to the criminal case . Under the franchise system , authorized dealers are granted exclusive rights to sell products in their territory . At periods when car sales were slow , certain Chevrolet dealers wholesaled cars to , discount houses , which sold them to the public at prices below those of franchised dealers . The government contended that G. M. and the dealers association 's secretly agreed to force offending dealers to stop the practice . Upholds Franchise System Judge Clarke said , he agreed with the justice department that consumers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry under the free enterprise system must be protected , too . " The present franchise system between General Motors and their dealers is hereby upheld , " the judge announced . He added that words of the late Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes seemed good advice in such instances : " Let people manage their own business in their own way , unless the grounds for interference is very clear . " Finds No Violation " If that advice is heeded by both the courts and the government , " Judge Clarke went on , " I am confident that the United States will continue to be free , strong , and prosperous . " I do not go along with the contention General Motors has violated any laws . " A spokesman at G. M. headquarters in Detroit said the company plans no comment on the judge 's action . The case began Oct. 12 , 1981 , when a federal grand jury indicted G. M. , three southern California car dealer associations , and various individuals . They were accused of conspiracy to eliminate competition in the sale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The trial began last Nov. 28 . Maximum penalties could have been two years in jail and a $55,000 fine for each defendant . Defense Asks Acquittal Today 's action came when the defense , after the prosecution completed its case , moved for a directed verdict of acquittal and the judge granted the motion . The judge said General Ma tors chose ' the franchise dealership-basic to numerous other American industries ? as the best suited for its product . He pointed out also that discount houses have no service departments for cars after they are sold and they are not staffed by G. M. representatives . The service - to - customers problem was one of the cornerstones of the General Motors defense . No Restraint Proved Judge Clarke ruled that prosecutors failed to sustain . the burden of proof necessary . He said ' the defendants never denied that they attempted to suppress Chevrolet sales . The government , the judge added , had to prove that this was unfair restraint of trade as specified in the Sherman anti-trust act . Prosecutor Les Weinstein said this would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government intends to pursue . " In a civil case , " lie said , " the burden of proof is less and , altho the criminal trial will . have a bearing on the civil case , I think we still have a good chance in the civil action . " Various auto dealers expressed concern since the indictment a year and a half ago that a victory for the government would enable discount houses to spring up and undermine the franchise system .                     