@@725283

txt Secretary General Thant 's formula for an interim broadening of the Saigon Government , to " take over the responsibility " of organizing self-determination in South Vietnam after the war , points to the heart of the problem of achieving a peaceful settlement . Despite Secretary Rusk 's negative reaction to U Thant 's suggestion and his almost exclusive emphasis on Hanoi , somehow a way must be found to get talks going between the South Vietnamese factions that are doing the bulk of the fighting on the ground . President Johnson 's plan for free elections , after a cease-fire , is itself a means of achieving a representative administration in Saigon prior to American withdrawal . In a recent statement by Ambassador Bohlen , the United States has indicated that it would accept the results of such an election even if it returned a dominant Communist faction . But the real issue is how the elections are to be organized . Essentially , this is a question of the kind of interim government that will preside over the country , under international supervision , during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow a cease-fire . But a cease-fire is likely to be achieved only after an agreement on the make-up of an interim government . Proposals often have been made  --  including one by the United Nations secretariat after the fall of Diem in 1963 ? that neutralist South Vietnamese leaders resident in Paris be brought home to form a new government and mediate between the warring factions . Talks between the generals ruling in Saigon and the Vietcong leadership  --  either directly or through intermediaries initially  --  would be another possible approach . There have been hints that the Vietcong would welcome the independence from Hanoi that such contacts might encourage . The intransigent attitude of Air Vice Marshal Ky , the present Saigon Premier , does not necessarily rule out such talks . There have been repeated rumors in the past of contacts with the Vietcong on the part of South Vietnamese officers , Buddhist leaders , businessmen and intellectuals . There would be little difficulty in finding intermediaries if the United States were prepared ' to encourage such exchanges . The aim of such talks could be to form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Vietnamese Army , the Vietcong , the Buddhists , the Catholics , the Cao Dai and other political elements would participate . The attraction of such an approach has been increased by the numerous setbacks Communist China has . suffered during the past year in projecting its influence beyond its borders from Indochina to Africa . Most of its programs of expansion or subversion have either failed or have been deflated . The result , as Times correspondent Seymour Topping reported the other day , has been to create an opportunity for the United States to deal with the war in Vietnam no longer on the basis of determining " the form or ideology of the Vietnamese nation , but the re-establishment in Southeast Asia of peace , order and respect for borders . " A Vietnam , independent from China , that respected the borders of its neighbors would be a Vietnam contained  --  and separated from the rest of Southeast Asia by the neutral buffer states of Laos and Cambodia . The most orderly way to deal with the whole problem would be another Geneva conference similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the five great powers , the Indochina states and factions , the neighboring nations of Southeast Asia and the countries which comprise the International Control Commission , India , Poland and Canada . The best method to clear the way for such a conference might well be a beginning of efforts to broaden the Saigon Government  --  a move that might also stimulate Hanoi 's interest in getting into the negotiating act .                     