@@724139

txt A year has passed since Premier Khrushchev turned his back on Communist China to sign the nuclear test ban treaty with the United States and Britain . It was a bitter choice , leading to a year of torment for Moscow . The anniversary finds Washington appreciative of both the choice and the torment . The evidence of recent days alone demonstrates the pressure that Mr. Khrushchev must now face from all sides . He and his policies are in effect to be tested in two momentous elections at the same time ? in the choice between Moscow and Peking that he is forcing upon the 90 Communist parties of the world and in the developing American campaign debate over East-West conciliation ; versus strife . Analysts here believe that the Soviet leader has an enormous stake in both contests . Unless he can hold the allegiance of a great majority of the Communists against the Chinese , it is thought , Soviet influence in the world , Moscow 's authority in the revolutionary movement and Mr. Khrushchev 's standing in his country will be severly damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials note , by the United States electorate , over which . he has no direct control . Because Mr. Khrushchev 's argument with Peking revolves around " coexistence " and the need to avoid nuclear war , his Communist enemies are expected to profit greatly if a sizable number of Americans can be shown to have rebelled against the recent efforts of Washington to negotiate and live more normally with the Soviet Union . All this uncertainty , the analysts add , has hit Moscow at a time of great domestic strain as well . The long and apparently heated debate among the Soviet leaders about the allocation of limited capital continues with no sign of resolution . The champions of the military , of agriculture , heavy industry , chemistry , foreign aid and a dozen other activities are still vying for a share of the modest investment pie . Under the circumstances , officials here say they know better than to seek consistency in Mr. Khrushchev 's words and deeds . But , with some disagreement among themselves , they believe they can appreciate his major worries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their analysis begins with signs that Moscow has tried in many small ways to preserve the easier relations with the Unittd States and the West as a whore that followed the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 . They cite the restraint that Mr. Khrushchev has pressed on Cuba , his well-advertised deflation of the tension over Berlin and Moscow 's correctness , and at times even courtesy , in scrapes and incidents that would have evoked storms in other years . Since the test-ban treaty , Mr. Khrushchev has also cooperated with Presidents Kennedy and Johnson in some real and some largely contrived agreements to emphasize the value of negotiation  --  agreements on cultural exchanges , a consular convention , the banning of missiles in orbit and cutbacks in the production of fissionable materials . The " peace issue " , is thought to be important to Mr. Khrushchev not only in winning supporters against the Chinese but also to justify his administration to the Soviet people , whose ever greater desire for consumer goods has not been satisfied . Popular feelings have been soothed by other stopgap measures , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of plenty have been repeatedly deferred . Mr. Khrushchev 's journey to Scandinavia a month ago is cited as a case in point . It had no important diplomatic purpose . But it was celebrated inside the Soviet Union as a " joyful " and " triumphant " tour that elicited support and respect for the Soviet leader , the Soviet people , coexistence and peace . Yet in his speeches in Scandinavia he was extremely defensive about Soviet economic and especially agricultural development , so much so that some of his references to Soviet needs were deleted from the official Russian texts . Peace , coexistence , trade , disarmament and similar themes have competed in Soviet propaganda with denunciations of the Chinese as madmen and militarists . The desire to portray the Soviet Union as a respected negotiating partner around the world is thought to account even for such careful experiments as letting the United Nations Secretary General , U Thant , and Britain 's Foreign Secretary , R. A. Butler , discuss controversial subjects in brief appearances on Soviet television . The relaxation of tensions with the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have encouraged tendencies toward discord , nationalism and independence in the Communistgoverned countries of Eastern Europe . The coordination of economic development in Eastern Europe has broken down and the members of the region 's military alliance , the Warsaw Pact , have not met in more than a year . Rumania Goes Her Way Rumania has used the Moscow-Peking rift as a pretext formally to declare the independence of her Communist party and of her foreign policy and she is striking down Russian influence in her society . Hungary , Czechoslovakia and Poland , in more muted ways , are following their own paths . All side with Moscow on . the great issues , but they are also profiting from the , discord with Peking . The more orthodox and isolated Communists of East Germany have pressured Moscow for si.ms of greater support But Mr. Khrushchev has had to balance their entreaties against his apparent wish to influence and trade with West Germany at the same time . The East Europeans are said to have resisted Mr. Khrushchev 's call for a conference of the world 's Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlaws . More recently , at least some of them seem to have acquiesced , presumably in response to the Soviet leader 's contention that he was losing control among revolutionaries in Africa and Latin America and that China had already destroyed most Soviet influence in the dangerous region of Southeast Asia . Moscow is now publicly quarreling with Communists in North Korea and Japan as well as China and Albania and the North Vietnamese may be next . Cuban Communists have tried to remain neutral despite their great dependence on Soviet aid , and other Latin-American as well as Asian parties have been split by the Chinese challenge to Soviet leadership . Prospects of a Conference Whether Mr. Khrushchev will succeed in rallying support at a " preparatory " anti-Chinese meeting this year and a formal world-wide conference next year remains to be seen . But the major part of his energies and many of his policies are thought to have been directed at this problem . In appeals this year for the friendship and support of Algerian and Egyptian leaders , Mr. Khrushchev went out of his way and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family of " Socialism . " He strained the patience of his hosts in the United Arab Republic by repeatedly urging them to promote the cause of the " working people " instead of Arab unity . This frank bid against the Chinese has been backed by cash . After a two-year hiatus , Soviet foreign aid commitments have been increased sharply in recent months with large credits totaling roughly $600 million for Algeria , the United Arab Republic and India and lesser amounts to Kenya , Iran , Yemen and some others . Moscow 's aid commitments have increased from $70 million in 1962 to more than $800 million in the last year . Paradoxically , the contest with Communist China and the fear of a rebuff in the American election campaign is thought to have prompted Mr. Khrushchev to balance some of his moderation toward the West with a few more belligerent expressions . Both the Soviet leader and Wladyslaw Gomulka , the chief of the Polish Communists , reverted to some harsh denunciations of United States policies in speeches made at the celebration last month of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both accused the United States of actions not conducive to peace . Mr. Khrushchev and the Soviet press have assailed the Republican presidential candidate , Senator Barry Goldwater , as representative of large and dangerous groups in the United States . The purpose of this toughness is not entirely clear . It , is in response to the Chinese Communist situation and the United States election , but some analysts here believe it was also , intended to warn the Rumanians and others against straying too far from the Soviet camp and against making too much of fraternization with the West . Moreover , the Russians have had to cover their loss of influence to the Chinese in Southeast Asia with refusals to cooperate in attempts to becalm the situation in Laos and to contain the fighting in Vietnam . At the moment , most officials here believe that these have been tactical retreats and not signs of another swing toward a harder line . Coexistence remains the dominant theme in Moscow and the principal weapon against Peking . And vying with that theme is the emphasis on improved living standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution . Mr. Khrushchev put it on a visit to Hungary in April : " The important thing is that we should have move to eat  --  good goulash , schools , housing and ballet ? it is worth fighting and working for these things . " That was Mr. Khrushchev 's promise a year ago as he watched the signing in Moscow of the limited test ban treaty . He has not only failed to deliver , but shortly after the Hungarian talk , he was forced to buy great quantities of grain in the West . These domestic problems , combined with a twofront foreign contest , are thought to weigh heavily upon a man now turned 70 and a leadership facing the disorder of succession . Although Washington does not regret his preoccupation and retains a healthy respect for the Soviet capacity to make trouble for the West , there is evident here also a strange kind of sympathy for the travail of the adversary .                     