@@722413

txt ARMS TALKS GO ON DESPITE NEW TEST Zorin Denounces U.S. Action as Pushing World Closer to ' Abyss of Atomic War ' Sot Mal Li The New York Times . GENEVA , April ** Soviet Union said today that it would continue its efforts at the disarmament conference " to unmask those who work against the peace . " The statement by the Soviet delegate . Valerian A. Zorin , a Deputy Foreign Minister . allayed for the time being the fear that the Soviet Union would walk out of the six-week-old session because of the United States ' resumption of nuclear testing in the atmosphere . The Soviet Union , Mr. Zorin said , will be compelled " to undertake appropriate measures to strengthen its defenses and to check the aggressive forces menacing the peace . " One Western source termed the attack a " cascade of venom . " The United States announced after yesterday 's meeting of the seventeen-nation conference that it had started its new series of atmospheric explosions in the Christmas Island area of the Pacific . The United States , Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subcommittee on a treaty to end nuclear testing . Here , too , there wasj // no Soviet move to walk out despite a statement by Mr. Zorin last week that new United States tests would mean the end of the negotiations . Arthur H. Dean , the United States delegate , declared at the outset of the session that Washington had started the new series of tests " with the utmost regret and the deepest reluctance . " But , he continued , the Soviet Union 's resumption of a " massive , secretly prepared " series of tests last fall and its refusal to agree to a safeguarded treaty has created a situation that " is not compatible with the national security requirements of the United States . " " We do not propose to gamble with our security , " he added . He said that " it remains a prime objective of United States policy to end all nuclear weapons testing permanently , and as quickly as possible . " The compromise plan offered by the conference 's eight unaligned states " should be explored on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it presents , " Mr. Dean declared . The United States , he concluded , is determined to press on with the negotiations in an effort to get an agreement that " will give all countries a true assurance that nuclear tests , in all environments , have in fact ended . " The proposal put forward by the neutrals April 16 urged the establishment of an international commission of scientists that would determine ' the nature of any suspicious and significant event . " Treaty members ' would be required to supply the data for the Commission 's examination . The new United States tests , Mr. Zorin asserted , are an " aggressive act against peace " by which the United States is not only restarting the nuclear arms race but also pushing " the world still closer to the abyss of atomic war . " The United States policy of using the threat of nuclear war to dictate to the peoples of , the world was , he declared , " in- ' itiated already at the time of Hiroshima . " The explosion in the Pacific yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by the United States and British delegates in the conference , is the real reply of the United States and Britain to the neutralists ' compromise proposals . Mr. Zorin added that the Soviet Union " will ever more per-1 sistently struggle for general and complete disarmament , for the cessation of the nuclear arms race . " Joseph B. Godber of Britain associated his Government with the statement made by the United States delegate . This led Mr. Zorin to call Britain an " accomplice " and a " junior ally " of the United States . Nigeria was the only member of the neutralist group to remain silent . Brazil , the United Arab Republic , Sweden , Burma , Mexico , India and Ethiopia all expressed in more or less strong terms their regret at seeing the United States resume testing . At the same time , the neutralist delegates , recalled that their countries had also been outspoken in their condemnation of the Soviet Union 's resumption of testing last autumn . Western conference sources expressed satisfaction with the balanced approach shown by the neutrals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet delegate , repeated for rthe most part the charges made earlier by Mr. Zorin . At Mr. Tsarapkin 's request , the Western delegates agreed to put off setting a date for the next meeting . But Western sources did not interpret the Soviet request as implying any desire to stall the test ban talks . The disarmament conference itself , which will meet in committee tomorrow , agreed to hold no sessions Monday and Tuesday to mark the May Day holiday in the Soviet Union . Wreckage of Airliner Found BOGOTA , Colombia , April 26 ( Reuters ) ? The wreckage of a Colombian airliner , missing since Sunday with forty persons aboard , was sighted today on a mountain ? forty miles west of Quidbo , in western Colombia . Authorities said there was no sign of life in the DC-3 , which disappeared on a flight from Bahia Solano to Quidbo . Two members of the United States Peace Corps were on the plane .                     