@@724944

txt An agreement that could lead to the dissolution of the ailing Republic Aviation Corporation was reached late last night . In a joint announcement , Republic and the Fairchild Hiller Corporation said that the boards of both companies had approved the terms of a proposed sale of Republic 's operating assets to Fairchild Hiller . The deal , which is subject to approval by shareholders of both concerns , would involve about $24.5 million in cash plus Fairchild Hiller stock . Republic , with headquarters in Farmingdale , has been one of the mainstays of Long Island defense industry , having employed up to 29,000 workers during the Korean war , But the curtailment of Government or ders for its F-105 Thunderbird fighter-bomber has led to massive layoffs . Republic now employs 5,000 persons . Expected to Remain The announcement did not state whether the Nassau County plant would continue in operation , but it was expected that it would . A spokesman for Fairchild Hiller said last night , " They 're in business to stay at Farmingdale . " Republic , which produced 15 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Korean War , has not made a plane isince the end of 1964 . Tile plant continues to operate now on the strength of Government ' orders for parts and equipment for the F-105s . Several months ago , defense ! workers throughout Nassau and ! , Suffolk Counties were cheered ! by rumors that there might be new orders for the F-105 because of its success in the Vietnam fighting . Early this month a group of visiting Congressmen said the plant might be suited for increased aerospace work . But new contracts do not necessarily mean more workers . ' Last September , Republic coupled the announcement of al 553.5 million aircraft subcon- , tract with one that it would ' lay off 327 more employes . A source for some hope for , the two counties , where " for sale " signs have been appearing in an increasing number of picture windows , was contained in a separate agreement announced last night . Under last night 's agreement , Fairchild Hiller will operate Republic Airport under a lease pending a decision by the Town of Babylon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Suffolk County Executive . H. Lee Dennison has long proposed such a move . The announcement of the proposed sale was made by Livingston Platt , chairman of Fairchild Hiller , a producer of aircraft and aerospace and industrial equipment , and Edward G. Uhl , president of Republic . It said that , in addition to shareholders ' approval , the transaction was subject to , a favorable Government ruling that the distribution of shares to Republic stockholders would be accorded capital- gains treatment , and therefore subject to a lower tax . The transaction would include a simultaneous sale of the nonoperating assets of Repub lic to the Farmingdale Company , a joint venture of A. L. and J. L. Mailman and associates . Special meetings of the stockholders of each corporation have been called for Sept. 29 . The announcement said proxy material was expected to be mailed to stockholders at the end of ' ' this month and that the deal was expected to be closed by ' Sept. 30 . The final prices payable by ' Fairchild Hiller and Farmingdale Company are contingent on net @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement said . The companies estimated that , after deducting Republic 's liabilities to be assumed by the purchasers , Republic shareholders would receive from Farmingdale about $8 million in cash and from Fairchild Hiller about $16.5 million in cash and approximately 1,460 million shares of Fairchild Hiller common stock , one half share for each Republic share outstanding . Mr. Platt , whose company has owned 9 per cent of the shares of Republic and who is a member of that company 's board , said that if Republic shareholders approved the plan , " the board expected to submit to stockholders later in 1965 a plan for complete liquidation and dissolution of Republic Aviation . " This should provide for a pro rata distribution to Republic shareholders of the Fairchild Hiller stock and the cash proceeds of the sale , he said . The announcement continued : " Amounts realized on the assets retained by Republic would also be distributed , less amounts required for tax and other liabilities not being assumed by the purchasers and costs and expenses of the sale transaction and the liquidation . " Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is estimated that Republic shareholders will receive in addition tol a half share of Fairchild Hiller stock cash somewhere in the vicinity of $14.50 for each Republic share outstanding . It is routine for companies to specify that deal is subject ' , to stockholder approval and a favorable capital tax ruling from the Government . Observers pointed out that the prospect for approval by shareholders was enhanced by the fact that Fairchild Hiller held Republic stock . Mr. Platt said last night that , subject to approval of the sale , " the board expects to submit to stockholders later in 1965 a plan for complete liquidation and dissolution of Republic Aviation . " The announcement continued : " Amounts realized in the assets retained by Republic wauld also be distributed , less amount required for tax and ' other liabilities not being assumed by the purchasers and ' costs and expenses of the sale transaction and the liquidation . " Noting that a number of uncertainties made prediction difficult , the companies estimated that Republic shareholders would receive about $14.50 for each share held in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merger or sale was contemplated by Republic was contained in its annual report issued this April . It said directors were weighing the possibility of " some type of combination " of the company 's operations with Fairchild Hiller . A formal proposal was made to Republic by Fairchild Hiller on July 8 , but it did not indicate a dissolution of Republic .                     