@@722968

txt Letters JOSERH BAUMGARTENERNEST T. NASHZ . MICHAEL SZAZSTERLING BEATH Letters Future of France Concepts as Empire Arising After Brussels Examined To The Editor of The New York Times : The old adage , not to trust a military mind in politics , is true with few exceptions . When they are unable to unite their country behind them in an all-out effort to elevate the national economy , military men are apt to resort to their original training to reach for military glory by hardware . Napoleon did it . Hitler had done it . Mussolini tried it and his last words were in front of the firing squad : " Do n't shoot ! I 'll give you an empire . " The concept of France as it appears after Brussels is a new European Empire under the aegis of French military protection . But when protection is sold as a commodity , it is subject to moral and legal examination . To sell something that is nonexistent , which one can not deliver , is to commit a fraud . Should the seller be unaware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an . unscrupulous gambler , if not worse . With an almost mute Nation- , al Assembly , France is run by , executive decree . To use this ' method as a pivotal point in the Common Market is undemocratic , as was proved in the case of black-balling a prospective new member of the club . The majority 's desire was overruled by one , who , even if he acted in his country 's interest , proved himself in conflict with the interest of the fellow nations . Aside from the ideological question whether more atomic weapons should be produced at a time when the owners of those elsewhere are trying to convert atoms to peaceful uses , a country such as France could not afford to spend billions on research and production of such , weapons , while the people live in sub-standard housing , millions without running water and sanitation , without adequate schooling for the masses , without a proper road system for the cars that run wild on rickety roads . Such expenditure would wreck their seemingly healthy economy , based largely on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Prime Minister of Great Britain expressed their opinions that to carry reprisals against France for wirecking the unity of Europe should at present be avoided . But how long can France 's challenge go unanswered without Some regroupings , thereby bypassing France ? The losers in such case would be not only the French nation , but the world too . France is highly susceptible to collective hysteria because of long-standing repressed frustrations and could ' be driven from internal sources into some anarchistic , self-destroying acts once the present government by one man ceases . And the decision will be up to the people , among whom there is such a high percentage voting for the Communist ticket . JOSERH BAUMGARTEN . Ibiza , Spain , Feb. 14 , 1963 . Our Asian ' Commitments ' To The Editor of The New York Times : On Feb. 28 Hanson Baldwin writes : " Morally , at least , the United States appears to be fully committed to continue massive aid to South Vietnam , " This judgment follows upon the statement that " military observers " feel it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that disengagement now would have " dangerous political and psychos logical repercussions throughout Asia . " The same arguments have for twelve years enchained us to Chiang Kai-shek , denying us even the freedom to review the basic objective of that enchainment . If we had that freedom , we could frankly confess that Chiang 's enemy and ours had grown stronger and that our declared objective had failed . In the exercise of political realism  --  and it is not necessarily devoid of " morality " too  --  a resolute French leader found it needful to repudiate his " commitments " to a million of his own kin in Algiers . Did he not invoke an even higher morality when he recognized the inevitable compulsions of history ? Incidentally , our commitments on Taiwan are to a million Chinese from the mainland ; the while our " moral " relationships to some 700 million Chinese are ignored . ERNEST T. NASH . Woodland , Calif. , March , 1963 . Senator Keating Defended To The Editor of The New York Times : This is to protest the recent irresponsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Samuel Stratton of New York upon Republican Senator Kenneth B. Keating from New York . The ceaseless efforts of this dedicated public servant to clarify the issues involved in the aftermath of the Cuban crisis , which are still gravely endangering the security of the Western Hemisphere , should not be made targets of partisan attacks . His concise and lucid statements about the indefensibility of the hairline distinction between offensive and defensive weapons when the latter can just as well be , used to inflict heavy casualties upon our armed forces in case of a conflict , and when they are even missiles in order to export Cornmore suited than long - range munist revolution to our sister republics in Latin America , should be commended rather than slurred It . is of interest that he was the one who , before the October crisis , always warned about Russian missile build-up on Cuba . Later the President realized the correctness of the Senator 's evaluation by ordering the limited blockade on offensive arms to Cuba . Z. MICHAEL SZAZ , Assistant Professor , Department of History , St. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 26 , 1963 . G.I. 's in Vietnam ro The Editor of The New York Times : On Feb. 13 , under the headline " G.I. 's Set Up a Training Camp in Midst of Vietcong Sanctuary , " your news story states , " The Americans have made their headquarters in an old pagoda where the Vietcong used to pray and hold kangaroo trials . An old statue of Buddha inside has been crated and maps for the American operations have been tacked to the outside of the crate . " In my view this desecration of a holy place by such use of a venerated object of worship , also such use of a temple or pagoda for military purposes will invite possible destruction of the pagoda by the Vietcong . The fact that the Vietcong probably have used such Buddhist places for military purposes does not excuse the American military forces , for while the Vietcong are atheists the Americans represent a Christian nation , in Vietnam according to official statements from the American command for the purpose of driving out the Vietcong . They are not there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , or for occupying their places of worship . Great care was taken in Japan during the late war by the forces under General 's command not to destroy the Buddhist temples and places of worship . This created a good impression of the behavior of the Americans in Japan . After all , Buddhism is one of the important religions of Asia , and if the Americans wish to create an image of themselves in Vietnam as the saviors of the people from the Vietcong , they should govern themselves accordingly . STERLING BEATH , Missionary of the American Baptist Foreign Mission Society with Headquarters in Valley Forge . Alhambra , Calif. , Feb. 15 , 1963.                     