@@725952

txt End of an era ? Generalissimo Francisco Franco presents to the Spanish Cortes ( parliament ) proposals to bring Spain a few steps nearer democracy . One effect of a proposed new law  --  subject to national referendum next month  --  will be to separate the functions of chief of state and prime minister . A new prime minister will be appointed . Both offices have been held by General Franco . Story : Page 4 Franco eases rule Spanish succession outlined in new law The new organic law of the state presented to the Spanish nation by Generalissimo Francisco - Franco will take some of the authoritarian starch out of the caudillo 's 27-year-old regime . But the regime 's basic features will remain . The law makes some concessions to democratic concepts , but the approach is cautious and limited 7 --  deliberately so . Every people is plagued by its own special " demons , " General Franco told the Assembled Cortes ( parliament ) summoned to hear the text of the new law . For Spain , he said , these demons are an anarchist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extremism . The new law does not provide for universal suffrage or general elections . Political parties are out and will stay out . Political parties are not an essential element in creation of a democracy , at least not in Spain , said General Franco . indeed , they contain germs of disruptive influences that undermine national unity . Yet the law whittles away some of the dictatorial aspects of the regime . It provides for a separation of powers of the chief of state and chief of gOvernment or premier , powers now vested in the person of General Franco . It amends other basic laws of the regime so as to open the way to religious freedom ' Spain ' Spain and the reform of labor unions along more democratic lines . The law broadens the representative base of the Cortes . One-sixth of the lawmakers will be elected by popular vote , that is by an electorate consisting of heads of families and married women . Falangists to stay The number of persons appointed to the Cortes by the Chief of State will be cut from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Realm , the advisory body that will have a lot to say in the matter of who is eventually to succeed General Franco , will be broadened to make it more representative . The National Movement with its hard , core of Falangists appears in this new law to have been " . institutionalized " as they have anxiously wanted to be for some time . A sort of upper house has been created fdr it , to be called the National Council . Its function will be to see that the principles of the regime and of the regime 's fundamental . laws are respected . . Fifty members of the National Council will ' be elected  --  but not by universal suffrage . Forty will be named . the law specifies , by the caudidllo to hold office until they are 75 years of age . This means that as a start and for some time to come General Franco 'S influence will be dominant in this body . The question of Franco succession remains unresolved so far as the identity of the next chief of state is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of succession of 1947 and says the Council of the Realm and members of the government shall select by a two-thirds vote a person of royal blogd to be the chief of state after General Franco  --  if he meets the qualifications specified by law .                     