@@721348

txt Governor Rockefeller 's board of inquiry held a two-and-a-halfhour public hearing yesterday on the issues in the Long Island Rail Road strike without bringing the disputants closer to settlement . The main witnesses at the long session in a hot and sticky hearing room at the State.Office Building , SO Centre Street , were Thomas M. Goodfellow , president of the railroad , and Harold J. Pryor , general chairman of the striking Lodges 517 and 1909 of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen . The announced purpose of the hearing was to acquaint the public with the facts as an aid to settling the strike . But Mr. Goodfellow and Mr. Pryor said little that was new , mainly reiterating the positions they had held before and since the walkout . Representatives of commuter and civic gr , oups who were present and eager to be heard were refused an opportunity to present their views . The only bright note for the 175,000 commuters who have been inconvenienced by the nineday-old strike was the presentaition of a new mediation proposal to both sides early in the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Mediation Board . The terms of Mr. O'Neill 's proposal were not made public . But it received a guardedly cordial reception from Mr. Pryor , who said it " could very possibly give us a basis for settlement ' of the strike . " Later , when Mr. Pryor arrived for the public hearing of the state board , he qualified his optimism , saying : " There will be no compromise . " " However , " he added , " it is the first time we have had a concrete proposal from the Natoinal Mediation Board . We do not know whether there is a basis for a settlement or not . There is some money in it . We want to explore it . " Railroad Also Cautious The railroad also was guarded about the merits of the new mediation proposal . Mr. Goodfellow said he would give the , offer " serious consideration . " He and his aides met last night with Mr. O'Neill in the latter 's hotel suite . A spokesman for the railroad said the purpose of the meeting with Mr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the points in the proposal . " He said the road 's officials would " explore " the offer further . Before receiving Mr. O'Neill 's proposal , Mr. Pryor announced that the 1,350 striking trainmen would consider returning to work without a contract if the Secretary of Labor intervened to help find a solution . He madd this statement after conferring ' with Arthur M. Cromarty , Suffolk County Republican leader . Meanwhile police officials reported that automobile traffic on the main highways leading into New York from Long Island was heavier than at any time since the strike began . However , there were no major tie-ups during the morning rush . There were more cars in the municipal parking lots in outlying areas of Queens , where motorists left their cars and took buses and the subways to their jobs . Alost observers were of the opinion that the heavy traffic resulted from a decision by many commuters to take off from work last week in the hope that the strike would be settled by yesterday . 5-Day Week at Issue The main issue that caused the strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' without a reduction in the seven ' , days ' pay the conductors , brake-1 men and switchmen now receive ' for working six days . The railroad said it would grant the five-day week if part of the money to finance it would come out of the trainmen 's earnings . At yesterday 's public hearing , neither side would budge from its position , The , state fact-finding panel ihad recommended last weeks that the workers receive a five-i , day week without a wage cut+ and that methods of financing this be left to arbitration . This suggestion was rejected by the ' union . The company , though it found some fault , accepted it . Despite repeated suggestions by the Rev. Philip E. Dobson , chairman of the three-man hoard , that he accept arbitration , Mr. Pryor refused . " We have had sad experiences with arbitrators , " Mr. Pryor said . " Our rights under the law say that we do not have to accept arbitration . " Mr. Goodfellow said the railroad was willing to accept arbitration , but that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Most of the hearing involved a presentation of statistics on how much the trainmen earned ' and how " much it woiAid cost to put the five-day week into effect . Mr. Pryor estimated the cost at $350,000 ; while Mr. Goodfellow put it at $446,000 . At the end of the session , Father Dobson said the board would consider holding another hearing at which the public could be heard . When Mr. Pryor was asked for comment on the hearing , he said : " I do n't think anything was accomplished here . today . "                     