@@727235

txt North Vietnam accused the Uniteo States Government today of " spreading rumors " of forward movement in the Vietnam talks here " to appease American public opinion . " In the 12th session of the official conversations since May 13 , Xuan Thuy , Hanoi 's chief representative , brushed aside American offers , which were renewed today , of economic aid to Southeast Asia after the war . He charged that ' the offers were an American device for avoiding the issue of the North Vietnamese demand for a halt in United States bombing as the first step toward a settlement . Ambassador W. Averell Harriman , the chief American negotiator , recalled United States aid to the war-shattered economies of Europe after World War H and reminded the North Vietnamese delegates of President Johnson 's April , 1965 , pledge of $1-billion in aid to Southeast Asia . Offer Called ' Little Carrot ' A North Vietnamese spokesman said this " little carrot will not hide the black barrel of the cannon " used by American forces in Vietnam . President Nguyen Van Thieu of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would seek peace in earnest after its next all-out offensive in the South , Page 5 . Mr. Thuy , both in his formal presentation and again M an informal sidewalk chat with reporters , insisted that there had been no progress in the two months of talks . There can be none , he asserted , until the bombing of the North has been halted unconditionally " without further delay . " The bombing has been limited to the southern area of North Vietnam since the end of March . The thrust of North Vietnam 's position , allied diplomats suggested later , appeared to reflect a conclusion that the very process of the Paris talks had reduced popular pressure on the Johnson Administration to stop the bombing . Disagreement More Open Mr. Harriman contradicted Mr. Thuy 's assessment . Although the two sides have differed in the past on this matter , today 's disagreement was , more open . " I ca n't say any immediate results have been achieved , " Mr. Harriman commented , " but I still maintain there are straws in the wind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have avoided stating that the talks have made progress , but they have been slightly encouraged by the fact that , despite the deadlock over the bombing question , Hanoi shows no signs of wanting to break off the talks . Among other encouraging signs , they have said , are its willingness to permit a whole range of political and military issues to be raised and its negotiators ' acceptance of informal conversations during recesses . These provide a chance for discussion of substantive issues ? fruitless so far ? and potentially serious secret bargaining . Some Western observers suggested that widely published reports mentioning American statements that " straws in the wind " pointed toward progress in the talks might have embarrassed Hanoi with the Chinese , Communists , who have disapproved of the talks , and possibly some militant elements of the National Liberation Front , the political arm of the Vietcong in South Vietnam . The 70-minute prepared statement by Mr. Thuy was explicit in seeking to counter any mild optimism emanating from Washington . Creation of Obstacles Alleged " In order to serve their political designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the one hand willfully created obstacles to these conversations by refusing the unconditional cessation of bombing and all other acts of war against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam , and , on the other hand , they spread rumors on the existence of ' similar points in the positions of both sides , ' ' some signs of progress , ' of ' new movements , ' of ' new ideas on the American side ' in the official conversations . " These statements are only designed to appease American public opinion , which is demanding a revision of American policy in Vietnam from the Johnson Administration . " These remarks were underscored by Mr. Thuy in talking with reporters and by Nguyen Thanh Le , the North Vietnamese spokesman , in a formal press briefing . Mr. Le also spurned a proposal made yesterday by Bui Diem , the South Vietnamese Ambassador to the United States , who is here as an observer , for direct talks between Saigon and Hanoi . ' U.S. Prepared to Stop ' In his formal presentation , Ambassador Harriman rejected Mr. Thuy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The United States is prepared to stop the bombing of North Vietnam , but what will then happen ? " he said , alluding to demands for some matching military restraint from Hanoi . His offers of postwar aid drew ridicule . " The representative of the United States Government speaks about seeds for rice with , increased yield which the United States will send to Vietnam , " Mr. Thuy said , " but even at this moment American troops and American planes are attacking our harvest , are now destroying the economic infrastructure of South Vietnam . "                     