@@724027

txt London Britain and the United States are prepared to seek the opening of the Cocom door to the sale of an atomic-power station to Communist Romania . Cocom stands for Coordinating Committee on Export Controls . The committee keeps a list of items which members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization agree not to sell to Iron Curtain countries . The list is under regular review in Paris . Exceptions are sometimes made of otherwise proscribed items . According to unfolding information , both the United States and Britain have been approached by the Romanian Government about the possibility . Relaxation Sought Earlier this year , the Foreign Office discouraged the British United Power Company from proceeding with negotiations for such a sale because of the Cocom list . But when the Romanian trade and diplomatic mission to Washington raised the subject , the Americans indicated their willingness to endeavor getting the Cocom ban relaxed . The volatile subject was among those touched on by Undersecretary of State George W. Ball in his discussions on Monday with British Foreign Secretary R. A. Butler . It is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Minister of Industry , Trade . and Regional Development . Both diplomats are in Geneva this week for the United Nations Trade and Development Conference . Confirmation Given A spokesman for the United Power Company confirmed that his organization has been negotiating with the Romanians for both a conventional and a nuclear-power station . If the Cocom list is revised  --  or if at least a limited exception is made  --  the company would be free to reopen negotiations about the latter . The price for such a nuclear reactor has been placed at ? 60,000,000 ( S168,000,000 ) . According to Whitehall sources , the British Government has not been promoting the move to get atomic-power stations off the NATO banned list . But , as one such source put it , We are not averse to exploring the possibilities . " The British Board of Trade must first initiate specific proposals for Foreign Office reference to NATO . Positive Attitude The British have , on the whole . maintained a positive attitude toward East-West trade . But it is conceivable that , in the light of strong United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and long-term credits to the Soviet Union . Britain decided not to press the matter of the Romanian nuclear plant when the possibility of the sale came up earlier this year . There is also the question of whether Rumania needs such sophisticated nuclear-powerproducing equipment and whether it could afford the plant on terms which either Britain or the United States would be prepared to offer . One interesting political byproduct of such a deal would be the opening up of Romania to inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency . The possibility of the atomicpower-station deal has occurred al . a time when Romania 's relations with the Soviet Union have been deteriorating , while its relations with the West appear to have been improving . The successful Romanian mission to the United States was Ihe most recent of these developments . Some observers of East-West relations believe the capitalist countries should be careful of how they abet the split between Moscow and Bucharest . Others sec as hopeful the expansion of diplomatic , trade , and cultural exchanges between Romania and Western nations .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      