@@726798

txt After fleeing from Greece when his anti-junta uprising apparently failed , Greek King Constantine is shown as he arrived in Rome Thursday accompanied by the Greek royal family . The King flew into exile with his close advisers when the Athens military regime refused to topple despite his countercoup efforts in Larissa and Salonika . For the moment , the military junta in Athens is in firmer control than ever following the failure of King Constantine 's dramatic effort to oust it . The King himself flew into exile  --  with his wife , two young children , mother , and sister  --  arriving in Rome in the early hours of Thursday morning . The junta has not moved at this stage to abolish the monarchy in Greece . It has appointed a Regent to represent the Crown : Lt. Gen. George Zoitakis , hitherto Undersecretary of National Defense in the military regime . The junta colonels ' aim in this appointment may be twofold : 1 . To preserve continuity so that the question of recognition or nonrecognition by foreign governments does not arise ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events on those many Greeks loyal to the institution of monarchy . Attitude traced There is little evidence that the military men in the regime have ever had much regard for the monarchy as such . The way they put through their coup last April indicated they were more concerned to use rather than to defend the institution . This is why they have found themselves intermittently embroiled with monarchist right-wing politicians in addition to their repression of the left . And this is why they spread their purges from the ranks of civilian politicians to the monarchist officer class in the armed forces . According to agency reports , right-wing political leaders are the first to feel a crackdown in the wake of Wednesday 's fiasco . Diplomatic setback Apparently King Constantine had counted on the continued strength of the royalists in the armed forces to give impetus to his call for an overthrowing of the junta . He had flown to Kavalla , east of Salonika in Macedonia , late on Tuesday . There , officers loyal to him helped him tape-record an address appealing for national support to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio from Larissa , a communications center and military base in Thessaly . Few Greeks heard it . In any case , the junta reportedly had gotten wind of what the King was up to . They made precautionary moves in Athens to head off any attempt by royalist officers to seize key points . And they cut communications from the points where King 's men were operating in the provinces  --  Kavalla , Larissa , and Salonika  --  into the seat of central control in the capital . Thus the King in many ways was simply blowing into the wind . He had had good reason to think that if he // *Military junta tightens reins on Greece // moved now , he might succeed . Greek public opinion was uneasy about the diplomatic setback which the junta had brought on the country by its handling of the recent crisis over Cyprus . And from Paris had come an indirect call for action against the " imbeciles " in the junta from postwar Greece 's most effective Prime Minister , Constantine Caramanlis ? a man of the right , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad . Neither King Constantine nor Mr. Caramanlis came out forcefully against the colonels when they unconstitutionally seized power eight months ago . Some might say that manifestly they left things too late . On the other hand , it could be argued that having at last decided to move , they moved too soon . Disillusionment over Greece 's diplomatic defeat on Cyprus had probably not reached its peak . And until it had , they were open to the charge from the junta that they were exploiting national difficulty for personal ends . With King Constantine outside Greece , and with the controversy that has long hampered the Crown in successfully fulfilling its unifying role , it remains to be seen whether the monarchy can play any part in rallying support against the junta and forcing a return to constitutional government . The danger is that into the consequent vacuum there might step Greece 's best organized political underground  --  the Communist Party .                     