@@727404

txt Fights , walkouts , and vandalism plagued several Chicago area schools yesterday , the third straight day of student disorders . Incidents varied at the schools . At Harrison High school , 2850 W. 24th st. , black and Latin American students staged a walkout , youth gangs set fires in waste baskets , released tear gas in the school , and threw a fire extinguisher thru a door . School was dis- , missed for the rest of the day , and the building was empty by 1:30 p. m . Incidents at Fenger The problems were not as serious at Fenger High school , 11220 Wallace st. , where 250 black students demanded a Negro teacher for the three Afro-American history courses now taught at the school . The students threw pop bottles , broke a few chairs and tables , and marched thru the halls . White students then also spilled into the halls . Students were told to return to classes or go home . About 100 white students from a third school , Austin High school , 231 N. Pine ay. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 228 N. LaSalle st. , to express discontent with black demand s . Local ministers planned meetings last night , and a parents group called for students to go back to school . Alexander Burke , principal of Harrison High school , said the problem at his building yesterday differed from earlier outbreaks . He said it was vandalism , not a demonstration for a purpose . " It was not civil rights but mere hooliganism that caused the incidents , " Burke said . " The rowdyism may have been caused by outsiders . " He said identification cards arrived yesterday and would be used to identify students in the future . He said there were many youths he had not recognized in the building at the time . Burke called a student assembly I for 9 a. m. tomorrow and a ' . meeting this afternoon with organizations of parents . He said he did not know if classes would be resumed today . Demands Made Earlier School spokesmen said at least two roving bands of up to 40 to 60 blacks and Latin-Americans went thru school corridoors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused other damage . Then some of the Negro students walked out , followed by about 150 Puerto Rican students . The black students said they were afraid they would not win their earlier demands . The Latin - American students said they sympathized with the blacks and wanted Latin-American school officials . But one school official said the incidents had nothing to do with human relations : " It is plainly an attempt to gain control of the school , " he said . Police from Marquette and Maxwell street units were stationed at school entrances . One girl student was arrested outside the school building after she was found carrying a .22 caliber pistol , police said . She was turned over to youth division officers . Escort Some Students When school was dismissed , police gave escorts to about 5 students who said they were afraid to leave the building . George Triezenberg , principal of Fenger High school , said 250 black students held a private meeting in the morning in a lunch room to talk about demands for a Negro teacher of three Afro-American history classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and the lunchroom fairly well overturned . " When that happened , 99 per cent of the Negro students appeared embarrassed , alarmed , and ashamed , and everybody ran for cover , " he said . He said the black students then went to the halls , the white students also went to the halls , and police were called to maintain order . No arrests were made and students returned to classes . Triezenberg said it is " contrary to my administrative policy for students to dictate who 's going to teach what classes . " He said , " Before long , what 's to stop white students from dictating who 's going to teach math ? The criteria for a teacher to teach any course should be his academic credentials . " The day we do n't adhere to that policy is the day that schools are down the drain , " the principal said .                     