@@725620

txt Washington , June 24 ? The Senate today passed doublebarrelled traffic safety legislation and sent it to the House . winning the praise of President Johnson . One bill would authorize federal safety standards for cars beginning with the 1963 model year . The other would authorize 465 million dollars over the next three years for a coordinated , nation-wide highway safety program . The vote an the automobile safety bill was 76 to 0 . The highway measure passed by voice vote . The House is expected to combine the two in one bill . Urges Speed in House President Johnson issued a statement applauding the Senate 's action and urging the House to take speedy action on the legislation . " This is landmark legislation , " Johnson said . " It will move us out of the stone age of ignorance and inaction . For the first time in history , we can mount a truly comprehensive attack on the rising toll of death and destruction on the nation 's highways . . . " Johnson recalled that he had asked for the legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked for voluntary safety standards for automobiles , but the Senate bill would make them mandatory . The highway safety measure would provide grants to the states on a 50-50 basis to assist the states in developing uniform standards for highways , provide an accident record system , develop driver education programs , develop uniform Ufa. : tic control procedures , and provide for a variety of highway research programs . 90 Million Added The Senate public works committee had voted authorizations totaling 375 million dollars over the next three years , but an amendment by Sen. Abraham Ribicoff D. , Conn. added 90 million dollars for driver eduzation and improved state inspection systems . The auto safety bill would direct the secretary of commerce to set interim safety standards by Jan. 31 , 1967 . The standards would become effec:lye six months to one year hereafter . They thus would apply to the 1963 model year . John F. Bugas , vice president-consultant of Ford Motor company , the auto industry 's chief spokesman at Senate committee hearings on the bill , said " the auto industry supports the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many points raised by the industry in the hearings " have Leen treated in an equitable manner " in the bill , but said he believed there was room for some improvements in the measure . Directs Rules Revision The interim standards would be followed , by Jan. 31 , 1968 , by new and revised standards , based on federal research and development . Further revisions would follow every two years . The standards to be set by the secretary of commerce presumably would be along the lines set by the General ServLees administration for government-purchased cars beginning in 1967 Those requirements include anchored seat belt assemblies , recessed dashboard instruments , four-way flashing lights , impact-absorbing st eering wheels , dual braking systems , standard bumper heights , back-up lights , outside rear view mirrors , standard gear shift quadrants , and sweep design windshield wipers a n d washers . In 1968 , the GSA will require such items as padding for seat backs , headrests for front seat passengers , rear window defoggers , and improved construction of fuel tanks and filler pipes . Scott Motion Defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalties of as much as $1,000 for each violation , with a top limit of $400,000 . The bill would apply to passenger automobiles , buses , trucks , and motorcycles manufactured in the United States or in foreign countries and sold in the United States . Sen. ' Hugh Scott R. , Pa. was defeated , 43 to 35 , in an attempt to strike from the bill a provision that when the federal expenditure for developing safety services is " more than minimal , " all information , processes , and patents would be available to the general public . Sen. Vance Hartice D. , Ind. was defeated , 62 to 14 , on an attempt to write into the bill criminal penalties of a $50,000 fine and one year in jail for violations of the bill 's provisions and the regulations to be issued by the secretary of commerce .                     