@@721639

txt President-elect John F. Kennedy is considering a lengthy postponement of the nuclear weapons test negotiations with the Soviet Union . They are due to be resumed in Geneva Feb. 7 . High policy aides of the incoming President also have advised him to delay for about six months before undertaking any serious disarmament or arms control negotiations with the Soviet Union . The recommendations were contained in a task force report handed to President-elect Kennedy in Palm Beach Thursday . Only a brief summary was made public at that time . The summary observed , however , that disarmament negotiations with the Soviet Union had been under way throughout the fifteen post-war years . ' Hiatus ' Is Favored " A hiatus which resulted in the ? production of sound positions would be time gained rather than lost , " the summary said . The presence on the task force of three of Senator Kennedy 's high-ranking aides indicated that its report would receive more than merely formal consideration by the Presidentelect . They are Dr. Jerome B. Wiesner , designated to be chairman of Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs , who Mr. Kennedy said would have a broad role in disarmament planning , and Prof. Richard E. Neustadt of Columbia University , special consultant on government organization . Rusk Statement Recalled The recommendations appeared to conflict with a statement by Dean Rusk , the incoming Secretary of State , who told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Thursday that the new Administration " expects to make a serious effort to make progress on " nuclear test negotiations " promptly . " However , it is understood that in thorough briefings by the outgoing State Department officials , Mr. Rusk and his associates have been told that the Russians seem to be losing interest in the negotiations at Geneva on banning nuclear tests . The United States , Soviet Union and Britain have abided by an unofficial embargo on nuclear weapons testing since Oct. 31 , 1958 . During the election campaign , Senator Kennedy repeatedly advocated a " final attempt " to come to terms with the Russians on a nuclear test agreement and , failing that , the resumption of these tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of the task force in the report to President-elect Kennedy that the " final attempt " should not be undertaken quickly . The published summary called attention to inevitable " international pressures " for an expression of the new Administration 's views on disarmament . Basic Policy Stressed The report urged the President-elect to " resist , insofar as possible , these demands for early statements on the subject of arms control " and pointed out that " real accomplishments could be expected only if basic policy decisions were made . " " Since the United States has never developed such basic policies in the past , the policy planning process could well be an extended one , " the published summary of the report said . The secret version of the report specifically called for the postponement of the test ban talks and placed a date , some six months hence , when its sponsors thought the Administration would have had time to work out a basic plan for disarmament negotiations . The secret report also made recommendations for establishing a disarmament unit as a statutory organization under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited to State Department personnel . Cabinet Status Not Asked It suggested in addition , that the head of the disarmament unit be a person whose public stature would permit him to deal with members of the Cabinet as an equal . This point was misinterpreted in some reports from Palm Beach that indicated the recommendation had called for granting Cabinet status to the disarmament policy leader . John J. McCloy has been named to lead disarmament policy under the President and Secretary of State . The secret report urged Mr. Kennedy to refrain from making policy statements on disarmament , except on special occations such as Inauguration Day . On such occasions , the report added , the President should merely voice broad indications of purpose and make no specific policy commitments . Statements of policy , the report said , should be left to the Secretary of State or disarmament , officials such as Mr. McCloy . This would leave the President in a position to initiate moves without seeming to change basic policy positions . G. 0 . P. Caution Praised The report praised the caution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union , although it repeatedly criticized the incumbent Administration as failing to establish concrete disarmament policies of its own . The secret report stressed the importance of keeping disarmament negotiations in diplomatic channels as much as possible . The members of the task force included some of the most active disarmament experts in the country . Jerome Spingarn of the National Planning Association acted as secretary of the group . In addition to Dr. Wiesner , Mr. Nit-ze and Professor Neustadt , the members of the task force were : Benjamin V. Cohen , former legislative aide to President Rosevelt in the New Deal days and a disarmament adviser to Senator Kennedy during the political campaign ; Trevor Gardner , former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force , now president of the Hycon Manufacturing Corporation , Pasadena , Calif. , and Betty Goetz , staff secretary of the Senate Disarmament Subcommittee . Also , Lou Henkin , law professor at the University of Pennsylvania ; James King of the Institute for Defense Analyses ; Jeffrey Kitchen , the Rand Corporation ; Klaus Knorr , Princeton University ; Ernest Lefever , Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Co. , New York ; Garrison Norton , Institute for Defense Analyses , and Thomas Schelling , Harvard University Center for International studies .                     