@@725820

txt Harlem Parents ' Stand Endorsed To the Editor : The weight of recent editorials and correspondence in The Times has supported the " administration " position in the now - farhous controversy over interracial school policy at East Harlem 's I.S. 201 . On the face of it , and with , all things equal , it would seem reasonable enough to support constituted school authority and its decisions , to oppose racial considerations in administrative appointments , and to fear wider applications of neighborhood demands for a decisive voice in school policy . All things are not equal . Even one morning of visiting the neighborhood of this school to talk with parents and church and community workers , as I spent recently , is enough to convince the open-minded that these drastic demands of Negro parents are the desperate cry of the unheard , for the sake of ? children too long shortchanged by the very community whose delegated authority and due process they are called upon to respect . When promises of school integration are broken , postponed or nominally fulfilled in patronizing ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only moral alternative for conscientious black parents . When teachers prove repeatedly insensitive to language , style and learning potential of disadvantaged black.or Spanish-speaking children , importunate parental demands to screen out insensitive teachers may have to be met . Authority Image When the school administrator becomes the prime daily , adult male authority image for children needing racial self-respect and ambition , the race of that principal may prove an educational factor more important than we prefer to believe . When a model school , however elegant or well equipped , is so placed that it rules - out in advance practical integration of races and classes in spite of widespread neighborhood protest , resentment and distrust are predictable and justifiable . Nor did the Negro press miss the painfully obvious , though , unintended , symbolism - of a windowless school preventing the view in or out of segregated elegance in the midst of segregated squalor . Those appalled by the neighborhood uprising and the seemingly exaggerated charges of discrimination ; insensitivity and white domination at East Harlem 's newest school had better take a longqr look at the reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that unrest at I.S. 201 may prove , a watershed in school-community relations , not only for New York but for other cities of a watching nation . The most promising precedent is not racial at all , but the organization of parents to achieve peer relationship in school negotiations with organized teachers and the power order of city and school administration . What a welcome contrast to the tea-drinking apolitical parent-teacher groups so familiar in suburban schools ! L. ALEXANDER HARPER Director for School and Community Integration United Church . of Christ New York , Oct. 7 , 1966 Ban on Bank Mural To the Editor : The " recommendation " by William H. Booth , City Commissioner on Human Rights , that the Jamaica Savings Bank remove a mural from its premises on the ground that it depicts a Revolutionary War hero in a way that is " virtually a textbook example of stereotyping " is bookburning of the highest order . The " recommendation " ? or threat , if you consider the measures that the Commissioner has already announced will be used to force compliance ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Negro . The City Commission on Human Rights could not stand by and allow a picture immortalizing a slave to appear in New York City ; one can no longer depict a Negro as a human being but must show him as special , or face the accusation of discrimination for casting him as equal . Is equal not good enough ' for the commission ? Would Commissione ? Booth complain if the mural showed Tories helping . the British ? Would he have us use loose-leaf history books , so that sections could be removed if they hurt the feelings of a group that did not want to know about the seamier side of our heritage ? Why not remove all references to slavery everywhere in New York ? I 'll see Mr. Booth on television in 1984 . MICHAEL J. KURTZ New York , Oct. 6 , 1966 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? No Bomb Pauses To the Editor : Your editorial of Oct. 4 advocating another bombing pause over North Vietnam ignores an overwhelming consideration . Both previous pauses were used by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South . There is no reason to doubt that a new pause would be similarly used . These reinforcements to the forces now fighting American troops would unquestionably result in increased American casualties . For the President to sacrifice deliberately the lives of American fighting men for the sake of supposed psychological needs of the enemy would be indefensible . HARRY G. PARKE Brooklyn , Oct. 4 , 1966 ? Care Giveh by Doctors To the Editor : May I make'la few brief comments about Dr. B. Garrison Lipton 's letter published Oct. 4 . Dr. Lipton speaks of a survey of the 3,200 members of the Kings County Medical Society which he maintains ' showed that $22 million of " free " care to ' indigent patients had been . given by Brooklyn physicians . during a one-year period and that this adds up , according to his calculations , to about $7,000 per physician . Regardless of the mathematical accuracy of Dr. Lipton 's figures , one may ask who sets up the price of medical care and whether it is not a proved fact , beyond dispute , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vested interest in the alleged " filthy " dollar . If the medical profession is going to be its own judge and jury as to the price of the services it renders , it well may be asked where objectivity enters into the picture . JACK BENJAMIN Brooklyn , Oct. 4 , 1966 ? Misuse of Police Power Charged To the Editor : Twenty New York , policemen revved up their motorcycle engines to drown out protesters of the President 's Vietnam policy as he came out of the Carnegie Endowment building . Does this not represent a dangerous misuse of police power ? And does the President now believe that those who oppose his war policy should net only be ignored but also si-lenced ? Commissioner Leary must prohibit any such action by the police . If they are permitted to suppress Vietnam critics they can as easily prevent proCivilian Review Board earnpaigners from speaking . Similarly , the President must reaffirm his belief in the right of . legitimate protest . Let the dialogue continue , impeded neither by charges that the critics are " nervous nellies " or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of motorcycle noises . GEORGE P. NICHOLAS New York , Oct43 , 1966                     