@@724892

txt Both sides in the Bogalusa racial conflict appealed to President Johnson for help today . Telegrams were sent to the White House from the Mayor and City Council and from the president of the Bogalusa Civic and Voters League , which is associated with the Congress of Racial Equality In the civil rights movement here . At the State Capitol in Baton Rouge , Gov . John 3 . MeKeithen , who was rebuffed yesterday when he asked the Negro leaders to call a 30-day moratorium on demonstrations , met today with 20 Louisiana Negro leaders . The announced purpose WO to continue to try to find a solution to Bogalusa 's racial problems . The state government started a program of riot-control ing yesterday for 100 agents of the state Wild Life and Fisheries Department . The agents will be sent to Bogalusa to help the state police and local policemen if they are needed . The Morning Advocate in Baton Rouge suggested in an editorial today that the Federal Government might consider sending marshals to Bogalusa . A telegram from the city administration to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unjust and unfair massive assault " by the Congress of Racial Equality . It cited a resolution passed , earlier this month at CORE 's ' annual convention in Durham , N. C. , calling for volunteers to ; go to Bogalusa . Referring to unsuccessful efforts to settle the town 's racial trouble , the telegram said , - The city of Bogalusa requests you to use your office and influence to assist this helpless city that is being so unfairly attacked . " The telegram , signed by Mayor Jesse H. Cutrer Jr . and three other members of the Council , also went to Vice President Humphrey and to all members of the Louisiana Congressional delegation . Meeting Is Proposed A. Z. Young , president of the Civic and Voters League , sent a telegram asking the President to meet tomorrow with representatives of the league . The board of directors of the Bogalusa Chamber of Commerce sent a telegram late yesterday to Representative James H. Morrison , who represents Louisiana 's Sixth Congressional District , which includes Boga- , lusa . It complained that he had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; earlier pleas for help . the telegram said , " Not even a word : of encouragement has been , forthcoming from your office . " Officers of the Voters League are to meet at 10:30 A.M. tomorrow in Bogalusa with offi-i cials of the Crown-Zellerbach Corporation . which operates the city 's largest industry , a papermill . Polley Change Demanded The league has demanded a change in the concern 's employment policy in Bogalusa to give Negroes a better break . The company has denied that it discriminates against Negroes . The Justice Department filed a suit yesterday in Federal District Court in New Orleans to desegregate two motion picture theaters in Bogalusa . The suit , brought under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , alleges that the theaters refuse to admit Negroes on the same basis as whites . Negroes continued street demonstrations today , as they said they would do when the Governor 's request for a moratorium was turned down . About ; 400 Negroes and white sympathizers , including a few CORE workers from other states , marched through the downtown section . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Press International Goy . John J. Mcheithen was unsuccessful in efforts to get 30-day suspension of the rights demonstrations .                     