@@728060

txt Why the Summer Was Not as Hot as it Might Have Been United Press International NEW RIOT PATTERN : Rioting In Hartford , Conn. , last week , as shown . above , underscored-the fact that the smaller cities have had more racial trouble this summer than the big ones . One reason , sociologists say , is that more has been done in the major urban centers to allay racial tension . For five years , Labor Day was also a kind of armistice day . It signaled the end of the worst summer heat , the end of idleness for the young , and the end of urban racial disorder , Not this year . Last Sunday night , the eve of the holiday , widespread disorder flared in a Negro area of Fort Lauderdale , Fla . Monday night , a Puerto Rican and black area of Hartford , Conn. , erupted . Tuesday , alleged police brutality precipitated a large disturbance in a Negro neighborhood of Camden , N. J. Before curfew-bolstered peace was restored , two were dead in Camden and National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The three disturbances served as a reminder that this has not been such a short , cool summer after all . Federal authorites already - had classified five urban disorders as " major " and 16 others as " serious . " More important , however , than what has happened this summer is what has not . Dieturbances this year ( and for much of last year ) have , been limited to smaller cities . There have been no explosive big-city riots in the 17 months since the wave of violence that followed the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King . Prime Flash Point Why not ? Authorities differ , but it is possible to identify a complex of four explanations : ( 1 ) Abrasive police-community relations remain a prime potential flash point , but many police forces have reformed their practices markedly . Stimulated by Kerner Commission recommendations and International Association of Chiefs of Police training courses , they have sought ' to minimize provocation In minority ( and student ) communities . " We ca n't be mechanical any more , " says Quinn Tamm , executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more sophisticated . " Beyond prevention , police improvements in controlling disorder are widely evident They do not stress technology ( tanks or " instant banana peel , " , a chemical to spray under rioters ' feet ) but the capacity to blanket a troubled area quickly with large numbers of officers . Many departments hence have established floating tactical forces which are constantly available . ( 2 ) Many civic summer programs have turned tram what blacks scorned as " band-aids " into bandages . Probably the most important involve employment . These are dramatically illustrated in Oakland , Calif. , which , despite frequent predictions , has not suffered a riot . " We 're coming up with meaningful jobs now , " say Booker Emory , president of Blacks United to Motivate Progress . " We had 5,000 kids doing real work this summer  --  and 500 of them are going into . permanent jobs . " ( 3 ) Students of the national news media believe coverage of disorders has become more careful . Federal officials once feared that riot news from one city had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a close student of the press , " There 's - no question- , the media are much more responsible . They may also be more censorious , fearful that , even if a report is accurate , playing it up might stimulate worse trouble . " ( 4 ) Perhaps the most important reason of all is a growing sense of community in the ghettos , a sense which , ironically , may have been first stimulated by rioting . In several areas , notably Watts , self-devel- - opment programs have produced community - organized parks , stores , factories , and cultural events . " We 've got 3,000 anti-rioters here now , " says Duane West , an official of the Watts Labor Community Action Committee . Coalescing Spirit Where programs ? 1ave not flowered , community spirit is coalescing around defined grievances such as education , or job opportunities , as evidenced by recent demonstrations in Pittsburgh . " Increasingly , we are seeing the articulation of demands , " says Dr. John Spiegel , director of the Lemberg Center for the Study of Violence at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneous , eruptions of frustration " that have characterized past disorders . Of racial disorders recorded by the center for January to May , 1968 , schools were involved in 17 per cent . For the same period this year , the Can rose to 79 per cent . Can these four factors turn the tide of racial disorder ? Some observers are optimistic . When people know what they want from the system , according to this view , they are increasingly willing  --  and able ? to work within the system to get it . Otherse however , see the rise in black community spirit paralleled a rise in racial polarization . Their fear is that increasing political demands from the ghetto will collide with increasing white reaction and result in renewed urban disorder ? perhaps like the now-traditional summer riots , perhaps worse . TACK IFIC.SErerTHALL.                     