@@723799

txt AS DE GAULLE MOVES TO ASSERT FRANCE 'S WORLD ROLE  --  KEY - AREAS AND MEN De Gaulle 's Role Challenge to U. $ . France , by the standards that have prevailed ? since World War IL should be classed as a secondrate power . Her nuclear force is small and primitive . Most of her soldiers have been driven back to the homeland after a succession of losing colonial wars . Her economic strength is limited . Yet France , under Charles de Gaulle , is playing a larger and larger role on the world stage . Last week French initiatives were in evidence on three continents . In the Far East , a French charge d'affaires was en route to Peking to implement the de Gaulle policy of neutralization of Southeast Asia through cooperation with Communist China . In Latin America , moves were under way for an expanded tour by General de . Gaulle in his bid to establish French influence in the area . In Africa , General de Gaulle ordered French troops to reverse a military coup in a former colony and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once played a leading role . In all this , General de Gaulle was pursuing a course that ran athwart many aspects of U.S. policy and raised challenges to U.S. leadership . President Johnson said last week that the U.S. could extend " a warm welcome to friends in Europe " who offer help in dealing with problems in areas such as Latin America . Nonetheless , it was clear that there were unanswered questions and misgivings in Washington about the implications of the . de Gaulle policies . New Pattern Those policies have become possible largely because a new pattern is emerging in international relations . In the old pattern the United States towered over the Western world just as the Soviet Union towered over the Communist world . American power was recognized as the sole hope of protection against major Communist aggression . Divergent national interests tended to be suppressed for the - sake of Allied unity . The new pattern emerged when it became clear that neither of the Big Two would willingly go to nuclear war with the other . . The corollary has been that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests out of deference to the United States . The erosion of power at the top of the Western world has had its counterpart in the Communist world , where the Kremlin now woos rather than commands allegiance . On both sides of the cold war , a loosening of old ties and a forging of new ones is under way . In all this the obviously are opportunities for such a man as Charles de Gaulle and he has set out vigorously to exploit them . The French Moves At the Elysee Palace , official home of the Presidents of France , there was no change last week in the clockwork routine imposed by the present occupant . President de Gaulle received dignitaries at prescribed hours , issued instructions in writing or through his secretaries ( he does not have a telephone in his office ) , entertained another foreign visitor ( President Segni of Italy ) . Yet Paris sensed a change . What was being said and planned and or-. dered in the Elysee Palace was reverberating with increasing force around the world . In the Far East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for rearranging the world 's political alignments was being set in ' Motion . A French diplomat passed through Hong Kong and boarded a train for Peking to open diplomatic relations with Communist .. China . At the same time Peking 's representative was en route to ' . open a diplomatic mission in Paris . The General 's interests in China went far beyond the hopes of - French industrialists to find new markets for their machinery and - technical aid . But whether direct diplomatic contact with Peking , would further his plan for the neutralization of Southeast Asia-or at least of those areas on China 's rim which France once ? ruled and where he wants French influence restored  --  remained to be seen . That Peking might be interested in some sort of accommodation in the area was suggested last week - by President Mohammed Ayub Khan of Pakistan , after he received Chinese Communist Premier Chou En-lai in his capital . Disclosing that their talks had touched on " the clash of . . . American and Chinese interests in Southeast Asia , " Field Marshal Ayub said : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who ' is prepared to be reaf:onable with them . " He offered to mediate between Washington and Peking . Half way around the world  - -  In Latin America ? General de - Gaulle 's emissaries were laying the groundwork for his " invasion " of the Western hemisphere . His plans were said to include aid and trade on a large scale  --  and a challenge to the political leadership of the 1J . S. In pursuance of these aims , he is to visit Mexico next month and Brazil this fall . Last week , with invitations in from as many as 10 other Latin countries , General de Gaulle was reported to have expanded his itinerary . Among the countries he was likely to visit after Brazil were Argentina , Peru , Bolivia and Chile . Military Action In Africa , General de Gaulle 's dramatic action was aimed at cutting short a trend to instability that had developed among the 13 former French colonies -- as it had elsewhere on the continent . When a military coup in Gabon toppled President Leon Mba , he ordered French troops flown in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , back in office . In all these moves , General de Gaulle represented himself as the spokesman of Europe . It was in Europe , however , that he came last week under challenge . While in Paris , President Segni and his Foreign Minister , Giuseppe Saragat , publicly urged admission of Britain into the Common Market , the development of supranational institutions in Europe , and tighter bonds between Europe and the U. S. ? all of which have been opposed by General de Gaulle . In Brussels last week , France stood alone against the other five members of the Common Market in opposing a Chinese Nationalist application for diplomatic ties with the Market executive . France vetoed Taiwan 's bid , and set off a hitter argument . And in Bonn , Chancellor Ludwig Erhard , just back from talks in Paris , made clear he was essentially opposed to General de Gaulle 's design for a Europe of distinct though cooperating " Fatherlands , " and favored instead the concept of a " Europe of Europeans " merging their sovereignties and moving toward a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. of the de Gaulle policies are still difficult to assesss . There seem to be both positive and negative factors , and certainly new questions and problems . In the Far East , the recognition of Communist China and the pressure for neutralization of Southeast Asia were initially regarded in Washington as undercutting U.S. policy . President Johnson , in a speech at the University of California at Los Angeles last week where he and Mexican President Adolfo Lopez Mateos received honorary degrees , said " we will continue to honor " the commitment to South Vietnam . He warned that " this type of aggression is a deeply dangerous game . " But the President also said , " The contest in which South Vietnam is now engaged is first and foremost a contest to be won by the Government and people of that country for themselves . " The President was thus echoing a theme sounded earlier in the week by Defense Secretary Robert who said the U.S. hoped to withdraw most of its troops from SontlenVietnam before the end of 1n5 . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological warfare against North Vietnam by warning of possible attacks against its territory . Extending the guerrilla war from South to North Vietnam is said to be one of several measures under consideration . On the other hand . General de Gaulle 's approach has not fallen on entirely fallow grnund . Thus Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield said last week that the United States should encourage rather than spurn French efforts to negotiate with Communist China for a settlement in Southeast Asia . In Latin America , General de Gaulle 's plans for economic aid and trade might be welcomed by the U.S. --  -- as President ' Johnson indictated last week  --  since they would represent a sharing of the burden Washington has been bearing by another Western power . But French political influence is bound to go hand in hand with economic penetration , and the result could be a shift on the continent away from U.S. leadership toward the " Third Force " General de Gaulle aspires to lead . Even if that force en Latin America remained reliably non-Communist , Washington might find it difficult to accept the poltical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of policy dating back to the Monroe Doctrine . In Africa , the T.S . is primarily concerned that French policy may again arouse cries of " colonialism " against the West . Such was the reaction to the French attitudes on the issue of the former Belgian Congo and Portuguese Angola . The vigorous French intervention in Gabon last week was reported to have reinforced a movement for an African international force to United Press International . Associated Press Chou of China . De Gaulle of France . Lopez Mateos of Mexico . Mba of Gabon . Map shows five areas of the world where President de Gaulle in recent actions has been making French influence felt . In Cuba France 's " traditional friendship " has been pressed . In Latin America new friendships are being sought  --  a trip to Mexico next month by de Gaulle will be the first in a series of visits this year to Latin American countries . In Africa French strength was reasserted last week with the reinstatement of the President of Gabon , a former French colony , after French forces had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited France 's long experience in Indochina in offering solutions for the troubles that are besetting the states of that now-independent area . In China France has recognized the Communist Government in Peking in an effort to expand her sphere of influence in Asia . shore up unstable regimes ; the movement was launched by Tanganyika , after her army mutinied early this month . as an alternative to reliance on " colonialist " help . All of these pr- , ; blems come on top of existing conflicts between Washington and Paris over European policy . nuclear arms , and the issue of negotiating with Russia . The upshot appears to he that fundamental changes are in store for the Western alliance , and possibly in its relations with the Communist world United Press International CYPRUS NEGOTIATORS : Conferring outside the United Nations Security Council last week are , from left , Nikolai Fedorenko , Soviet U. N. representative ; Sypros Kyprianou , Cypriote Foreign Minister ; Zenon Rossides , Cyprus U.N . representative ( back to camera ) , and U Thant , U.N . Secretary General .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          