@@725868

txt Before summer faded into fall , Edward Brooke , very much a flesh-and-blood candidate , looked unbeatable in his bid to win a U.S. Senate seat in Massachusetts . But then the shade of Stokely Carmichael entered the contest . Now Mr. Brooke , attorney general of the Bay State and one of the most potent GOP vote-getters in its history , must grapple with this ghost as well as with the solid Bostonian presence of Democratic Senate candidate Endicott Peabody , a liberal who is proving a tough opponent in his own right . The result : Mr. Brooke , once a heavy favorite to become the first Negro to sit in the Senate since Reconstruction , has seen the odds in his favor diminish day by day . Ths dynamic COP candidate is being hit by white backlash . The doctrine of Black Power , whose most passionate advocate is Mr. Carmichael , has caused whites here and across the country to recoil in shock and fear . Mr. Brooke , whose views on civil rights and civil disobedience are poles apart from those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is clearly paying a price for just being a Negro . He knows it and is fighting against it . " A vote for me is a vote against Stokely Carmichael. " he tells a group of Young Republicans at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . " Civil rights can not be obtained through the sword and bloodshed . " Says a worried Brooke campaign aide : " We have to meet this ise , e hope we can meet it as successfully as Sack Kennedy met the Catho. lic issue in 1960 . " The Right Man The deep cor . ern in the Brooke camp now is in sharp contrast to the confidence that fairly oozed from campaign headquarters only a few months ago . Then the candidate looked like the right man , of the right color , in the right place at the right time . He was widely regarded as one of the GOP 's hottest political properties , based on remarkable pulling power at the polls . In 1962 he won his first term as attorney general by 260,000 votes , the only Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination away from a favored opponent with an adroit stroke ef parliamentary strategy at the State GOP convention . As attorney general , he quelled lingering fears of some whites by refusing to give preferential treatment to Negroes . He ruled , for example , that truancy by Negroes as a protest against allegedly substandard schools was illegal . He declined to march or ' other . wise participate in civil rights demonstrations . " I 'm the attorney general of all the people , " lie said over and over . Mr. Brooke hag championed every piece of civil rights legislation to come before Con. gress ( he regrets that the 1966 bill was not passed ) , but maintains that the Negro has to work within the law to achieve his aims . He puts emphasis on self-help , too . saying : " People ca n't achieve dignity until they achieve responsibility , and they ca n't achieve responsibility until they achieve a productive place in society . " Ticket-Splitting Bay Staters This approach , with its stress on progress within the law , evidently appealed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prides itself on its liberalism . The Democrats hold nearly a 2-to-1 edge over the Republicans in registration , but Bay State voters are confirmed ticket-splitters . There is also a large bloc of independent voters . In 1964 Mr. Brooke had nearly every political facto/. in his favor . He had made a good record in office and was well-known to the voters . Though a Republican , his views were liberal enough to appeal to many Demo. crats . His refusal to support Barry Goldwater did not greatly diminish his strength in his own party . At first it was feared his race would subject him to white backlash ; now , ironically , political pros believe lie actually benefited from white liberals ' sympathy for the civil rights cause at that time . The 1961 result : A smashing victory by 800,000 votes , the biggest plurality rolled up by a GOP candidate in any election that year . It was judged all the more remarkable in that President Johnson crushed Mr. Goldwater in Massachusetts . Mr. Brooke 's popularity seemed to grow still further after his reelection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and corruption in the state . When he announced his candidacy for the Senate nine months ago , a private poll showed him getting a whopping two.thirds of the vote against any possible Democratic opponent , including the present candidate , Mr. Peabody , who was governor in 1962.64 . Tight Race Now But a more recent poll by the same organization shows that the attorney general 's lead may be melting as his opponent gains momentum . Another private poll has Mr. Peabody slightly ahead , and a separate statewide canvass indicates both candidates are running dead even . The phrase " Brooke 's in trouble " is now heard so frequently that it Is almost a cliche . A hint of his declining popularity with voters of his own party came in September after the GOP primary election , in which the entire slate selected by the state convention was unopposed . For the first time , Mr , Brooke failed to lead his ticket ; Gov . John Volpe got more votes than his attorney general . Nearly 29,000 voters left Mr. Brooke 's line blank while voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An ardent Republican , an insurance man from Boston , says he wo n't vote for Mr. Brooke this time and comments : " People are fed up with riots and with Negroes* pushing too fast " In Marblehead , a fireman pauses while raking leaves at a fire station and tells Mr. Peabody , " We 're for you . " An aide asks why . " Blank power , " says another fireman , while five of his companions nod assent . Support for this reason is distasteful to " Chub " Peabody , who is anything but a racist . Indeed , he is regarded as an authentic civil libertarian for whom even the most ardent civil rights proponent could vote without qualms . He is making no attempt to stir up backlash . " We 'll run against Brooke as if he were white , black , green or yellow ; we 'll hit his record and hit the issues , " says Peter Beatrice , campaign manager for Mr. Peabody . The candidate himselfvows that " this campaign absolutely will not be conducted on racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not felt constrained to avoid attacks on lawlessj ness . " One issue in this campaign , and a national problem too , is crime in the streets , " he maintains . The Democratic candidate advocates better training and higher pay for police . men , as well as the use of Federal funds to establish comprehensive sports programs at all schools . This , he believes , would keep children off the streets . Some politicians are saying now that Mr. Peabody looks like the right man of the right color in the right place at the right time to best Mr. Brooke . As a former governor , he also is familiar to voters . What 's more , he is of the Establishment , a native-born Boston Brahmin whose grandfather and namesake established the presitigious Groton School . He was Harvard University 's last All-America football player ( left guard in 1941 ) , and still ' stays in shape with regular workouts at  --  the Union Boat Club . These ties with the Establishment , according to some political pros , might make Mr , Peabody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or otherwise disenchanted with him . At the same time , they say , the Democratic candidate 's liberal views give him strength among mauiy independents as well as Democrats . Mr. Brooke alienated some conservative Republicans earlier this year with the publication of a book , The Challenge of Change , which proposes a liberalization of the GOP and suggests adoption of such measures as a " reverse income tax " for the poor ( they 'd be paid instead of taxed ) . Says Mr. Peabody : " That 'll help beat him . He'p issued a set of marching orders his party ca n't obey . " The attorney general also faces a Massachusetts Democratic party more united than it has been in many years , thanks primarily to the efforts of Sen. Ted Kennedy , the most popular politician in the state . Mr. Kennedy is pushing for the election of Mr. Peabody and has enlisted the help , and enormous appeal , of his brother Robert , who spoke in Boston last Monday and had nothing but good things to say about the candidate . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat Mr. Brooke . Despite his decline in popularity , he still has an enormous following . There is no appreciable difference in ideology between him and Mr. Peabody and no great difference on specific issues ( though Mr. Brooke seems a bit more dovish on Vietnam ) . So personal appeal may have considerable weight  --  and Mr. Brooke has that to spare . Also , his campaign only recently has moved into higher gear . The attorney general , handsome and articulate , projects an image of intelligence and honesty . " I 'm a Democrat but I 'm leaning to Brooke . He has integrity , " says Ray Jacques , who works in an electric light bulb plant in the town of Peabody . The candidate also boasts a personal history that seems tailor-made by a Hollywocd scriptwriter trying to construct the complete politician . He has a dramatic war record , having fought behind the German lines with Italian partisans who knew him by the code name " Carlo . " His Italian-born wife , Remigia , still calls him that . They have two teen-aged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston University Law School and was named editor of the Law Review , a coveted honor . He was unsuccessful at politics when he began , but in 1960 Gov . Volpe appointed him to a watchdog agency charged with supervising Boston nnances . Mr. Brooke made his mark there as a fighter against corruption , and his election as attorney general followed . On the hustings he is in perpetual motion , say his campaign workers . It 's hard to find an aide of any candidate anywhere who will admit his man is less than a ball of fire , but Mr.'Brooke is one who lives up to his billing . On a tour of a shoe plant in Lynn he " presses the flesh " with lightning speed-117 handshakes in less than nine minutes . He literally runs through the streets , buttonholing voters as he goes . " Meeting people charges me up , " he says . An aide groans : " I hope he wins so I can quit . The pace Is killing me . " Mr. Brooke is trying to build what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself , and in recent months has spent long hours closeted with professors , politicians and author . ities on various subjects in cram courses aimed at bringing him up to date on the issues of the day . He has released a blizzard of position papers on everything from the domestic fishing industry to Vietnam , in an attempt to show the voters he is knowledgeable in national and international affairs . Mr. Brooke would much prefer that the campaign be waged on substantative issues , and he is resentful  --  and a bit puzzled  --  that he must deal with the backlash . " When I meet people and shake their hands and look into their eyes , I just do n't see any evidence of it , " he says wistfully . But the polls tell him that it is there .                     