@@722074

txt Justice Department antitrusteic are throwing electronic detectives into their war on price-rigging Giant computers soon will be turned loose to scrutinize thousands of sealed bids which , on being opened by Federal , state and local governments , turned out to be identical to those of competitors . By sifting such bids through the computers , the sleuths hope to spot patterns suggesting possible price-fixing . They 'll watch , for instance , the frequency with which individual companies offer precisely the same price as competitors . The computers ' findings will be screened by antitrust lawyers and economists , and any resulting leads that seem promising will be handed to FBI agents and Federal grand juries for exhaustive investigation . The collection of raw material for this process is due to pick up speed soon Within the next few weeks Attorney General Robert Kennedy will dispatch personal letters to all 50 governors and to top officials of about 1.950 cities and towns around the country . His message . Please forward to Washington information on all identical bids of over $1,000 received after November 1 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own ; in July Ohio 's Gov . DiSalle forwarded 2,479 identical bids received by his state 's highway department . First Reports Trickle In Two of the nation 's biggest buyers  --  the Defense Department and the General Services Administration  --  have issued detailed regulations ordering every Federal procurement agent to report all identical bids over 210,000 ; the higher figure was chosen for the Federal level to keep the data down to manageable proportions . The first of these reports have begun to trickle Into the Justice Department . The wheels for all this activity were set in motion by President Kennedy last April when he issued Executive Order No 10936 . " The prevalence of identical bidding is harmful to the effective functioning of a system of competitive bids , " he declared in that order Collection and publication of identical bids , he said , will discourage more of the same in the future , aid in antitrust enforcement and reduce costs of government . The basic idea , it should be noted , is far from new . Starting as long ago as 1947 , Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bids to the Attorney General . Before long , the inflow of reports reached what was regarded as unwieldy size : it totaled 3,569 in 1951 A rules change in 1952 cut the number of reports all the way down to 29 in 1953 ; another revision in the Eisenhower era yielded some increase . But even limited scrutiny of identical bids has yielded some results . Of 85 suspect-bid reports received by the Justice Department last year , 25 underwent preliminary field investigation and nine of these were turned over to grand juries . The outcome : Price-fixing suits in the long-distance moving , electronics , dry ice and bakery industries . " Think How Much We Can Save " Even so , Kennedy Administration officials contend the past approach was largely hit-ormiss . By making a sweeping national roundup of identical bids and applying modern data analysis techniques , they feel they can function much more effectively . They note the Federal Government bought about $53 billion worth of goods and services last year , while state and local government purchases ran about $47 billion . Comments one official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchases were swollen because of illegal or non-competitive price practices , think how much we can save by curbing such practices in the future . " Underlying the present drive is the fear of top Administration officials that active price competition , a basic ingredient of the freeenterprise economy , is disappearing in many Industries . Pointing to disclosures of price  --  xing on electrical apparatus as demonstrating what can happen , they suggest that the knowledge that Uncle Sam will peer over the shoulder of each businessman bidding on every substantial government contract will in itself promote a more competitive climate . And if that is n't enough , the glare of publicity and the threat of criminal prosecution will also be brought to bear . Administration officials admit the majority of Identical bids are not illegal ; many may result from identical price lists that actually spring out of active competition forcing all prices down to the lowest quotation . Justice Department antitrust chief Lee Loev. roger declares " I am convinced that a very substantial pet percentage of identical bidding the result of either overt or covert collusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials point to recent events at the Intenor Department In May the department rejected initial bids and advertised for nest bids on a series of cont.i acts for pons entrail ' , . mission-line materials when it v , as found that 70 ' , of the 108 bids originally received were identical In the second round of bidding , only of the bids Ix ez e identical ; Interior Sec/ e ? lacy Udall used this fact to argue that the Government wa --  , warranted in " raising the suspicion that the ( first round of ) bidding was n't on the level " Even if no illegality was involved . Mr Ucial said , " if suppliers are merely going to quote fiom identical price lists , the whole concept ol competitive bidding becomes a farce and the public it i deprived of the benefit of effective competition " One Interior Department offi. cial claimed the Government would save about $120,000 on just one of the contracts involved in the readveitisement To sharpen the teeth of possible Government action , the Interior Depaitment now re ? quires contractors to submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived at independently . If the bidder submits such a document and is , later found guilty of collusion , the Government can seek double damages under the False Claims Act instead of only straight damages under the Sherman Antitrust Act . The General Services Administration , the Government 's big housekeeping agency , had been planning to extend this requirement to all Federal conti acts , but now has decided to wait and see what Congress may do along this line . Federal antitrust officials have turned to automatic data processing simply because they believe the mass of material expected would swamp human investigators alone . They are following in the footsteps of sister agencies ; the Internal Revenue Service , for example , uses electronic computers to scan tax returns in search of questionable business expense and religious contribution deductions . Reporting Forms Prepared But Justice Department planners realize they ca n't merely amass a great jumble of facts and pour them into a fancy computer . After conferences with Federal procurement officers , they drafted uniform reporting forms to make incoming material comparable . Reams of these forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks were held with representatives of the National Association of State Attorneys General and the National Association of State and Local Purchasing Agents Another form requiring slightly less information was devised : copies are now being printed ' for wide distribution . The state and Federal forms call for submission not only of bids which on their face are identical , but also those which even after certain discounts have been subtracted result in identical figures Other required information : Names of bidders and their parent companies if any , the amount of each bid , the disposition of each award . Some buyers , it 's noted , pick the winner 's name out of a hat if all bids are equal , or divide up the contract among all those submitting an equally low bid . By funneling identical bids through computers at the Census Bureau , the Justice Department expects to pinpoint persistent patterns of what it considers non-competitive bidding . Officials will not only study the frequency of identical bids offered by individual companies , but will also look for situations in which a group of firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bid seeming to rotate among them in a pattern hinting at an agreement to share the business . Any such phenomena , of course , would present only a clue to possible misbehavior . And this fact Mr. Loevinger is the first to admit . He notes : " Mere observation of such price behavior is not enough . It must be buttressed by thorough economic studies covering the demand characteristics of the product , the structure of the market , the behavior of prices , the antitrust records of the firms in the industry , and the number of complaints which consumers or competitors have filed with the ( Justice Department 's ) - Antitrust Division . "                     