@@722788

txt Dr. Niels Bohr , the internationally known nuclear physicist and Nobel Prize winner , died this afternoon of a coronary thrombosis . He was 77 years old . Dr. Bohr , who was ranked second only to the late Albert Einstein among 20th-century scientists , suffered a minor cerebral hemhorrage last summer but made a good recovery . He had just returned from a month 's holiday in Italy . This afternoon he became ill at home , quickly passed into unconsciousness , and died shortly afterward . Dr. Bohr was a leader in all Ispheres of nuclear science from its beginnings . For years he was the center of a school that inspired young scientists to build on his basic ideas . With a collaborator , Dr. Bohr drafted the theory of atomic fission , the method by which Dr. Niels Bohr the power of the atom is released , several years before work on the atomic bomb began . In 1957 , he won the Ford Foundation 's first Atoms for Peace Award . At the time of his death Dr. Bbhr was head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was an honorary member of the Royal Institution and the Physical Society of London , the American Physical Society and the Academy of Sciences . Sounded First Warning Niels Henrik David Bohr was a towering figure in modem physical science , beloved and held in awe by colleagues throughout the world . He never saw an atomic bomb exploded , nor did he ever work directly on nuclear weapon research . But in 1939 he alerted scientists that the uranium atom had been split and that a new age was dawning . His warnings helped to insure that the first nuclear weapons would be built in this country rather than Hitler 's Germany . Dr. Bohr , with the late Lord Rutherford of Cambridge University in England , was co-author of the modern concept of the atom . His research during the decades before the war ' played a crucial role in moulding man 's present ideas of matter and the universe . Albert Einstein once said of his work : " Nobody knows how the stand of our knowledge about the atom would be without him . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bohr is one of the most amiable colleagues I have met . He utters his opinions like one perpetually groping and never like one who believes himself to be in the possession of definite truth . " By others Dr. Bohr had been called brilliant , humane , wise , humble , the greatest living physicist , a genius and herald of the atomic age . About the only unfavorable ' comment was that he was a poor public speaker . Many physicists said they had sat through a Bohr speech without being able to make out a word . Won Soccer Fame Dr. Bohr was born Oct. 7. ; 1885 , in Copenhagen . His ; parents were Christian Bohr . ' professor of physiology at the ! University of Copenhagen , and Ellen Adler Bohr . member of k prominent Danish banking ; fancily. e was always in or about ! Ms father 's laboratory , and on , entering the university soon ' distinguished himself as a ; physics student . In 1907 , when ! he was 22 , he won a gold medal ) from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tension of water . During his university years ! he and his brother Harald , mathematician , won fame ! throughout Scandinavia as soccer players . He received a Master of ! i Science degree and , in 1911. a ! Doctor of Philosophy degree. ; Then he vent to Britain to ' work with Ernest Rutherford . The great British scientist : had established that the atom ha i4 a dense nucleus with a positive charge , and is surrounded by negatively charged , electrons in sufficient nunibers ! to make the charges balance . At that period it was also , becoming clear , for the first time , that excited atoms radiat ei i energy in the form ' of light . In a series of papers published in 1913 . Dr. Bohr ex phi lied this phenomenon by ; postulating a model of the atom , in which the electrons , moved around the nucleus in restricted orbits , like planets in a sub-microscopic solar system . His concept laid the theoreti-1 cal foundation for spectroscopy , the technique that has become I one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related areas of science . Dr. Bohr was then 28 . Later he helped to clarify the basic principles of the quantum theory , the system of laws that govern the properties and behavior of matter on the atomic and molecular level . In 1912 , Dr. Bohr married Miss Margrethe Noerlund , who made scientists from all over the world welcome to their home . She and three of their sons were at his bedside today . A fourth son was on his way home from a lecture tour in China . In 1916 Dr. Bohr returned to the University of Copenhagen as professor of theoretical physics . He was made director of the new Institue for Theoretical Physics there in 1920 . This was to become a great world center for the study of physics . It was called " the physicist 's spiritual capital , " by a leading American scientist . Dr. John A. Wheeler of Princeton once said : " The unique and exciting feature of Copenhagen lies in the climate of opinion , the assessment of ideas and the stimulus Bohr gives . I know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Plato . " Dr. Bohr received the Nobel Prize in 1922 . He played an important role in the great advances in nuclear physics research during the NineteenTwenties and Thirties . News Leaks Out " It was a heroic time , " Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer once recalled . " It was not the doing of any one man ; it involved the collaboration of scores of scientists from many different lands . But , from first to last , the deeply creative , subtle and critical spirit of Niels Bohr guided , restrained , deepened and finally transmuted the enterprise . " In January , 1939 , a whisper of news in Copenhagen began to spread with effects that were destined to change the world . Dr. Bohr was aboard the liner Drottingholm awaiting departure for the United States . His colleagues , Drs . Use Meitner and 0 . R. Frisch , quietly told him the news , until then seccret , that Hahn and Strassman , German physicists , had succeeded in splitting the uranium atom . Though catalogues of data were still to be gathered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before this achievement affecting real significance , gifted physicists even then could see the potentialities . Drs . Meitner and Frisch purposely waited until Dr. Bohr was aboard ship before telling him , so that the news might be kept secret as long as possible in Europe , an American physicist recalled last night . Landing in New York in that war-threatened month , Dr. Bohr immediately told the news to Dr. Wheeler . That winter , at Princeton , the two worked out a theory of nuclear fission that remains the basis for much work in atomic energy . It was on a snowy evening , while walking from the Nassau Club to his laboratory in Fine Hall , that Dr. Bohr realized that the specific isotope undergoing fission must be uranium 235 , Dr. Wheeler said . In 1940 Dr. Bohn returned to Denmark . But he fled to Sweden three years later with his wife , their four sons and a brother . Later he was flown to Britain in a British military plane . Subsequently he came to the United States again . On visits to Los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up there , Dr. Bohr was known as " Mr. Baker . " He served there as a kind of elder statesman , discussing problems and helping to find ways around scientific difficulties , a scientist recalled , but he did not take part in the " gade- eteering " that lea to the atomic bomb . After the war he worked tirelessly in urging international cooperation to remove the threat of nuclear conflict and to harness atomic energy for peaceful uses . In 1951 he sent an open letter to the United Nations urging international control of the atom . In 1955 he was a prime mover in setting up the first Atoms for Peace Conference in Geneva . He was chairman of the Danish Atomic Energy Commission and a leader in creating CERN , the European Center for Nuclear Research , which today is one of the great centers of experiment in high-energy nuclear physics . Dr. Bohr received many awards in addition to the Nobel Prize . He was the only commoner to receive the Order of the Elephant , the highest Danish order of chivalry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel prize-winner and a professor at the California Institute of Technology , said : " He has to be considered as one of the few men who revolutionized the world by developing the modern theory of structures of the atom . " Dr. Gerhard Weissler. head of the Nuclear Physics Department at the University of Southern California , said : : " He was one of the most Important men of this century . It is a major loss to the scientific community of the world . " Dr. Willard Libby , a Nobel winner and head of the Institute of Geophysics at the University of California at Los Angeles , said : : " He was a great teacher as well as a great scientist and a great humanitarian , too . I knew him very well . "                     