@@728213

txt President Nixon sent to Congress today his long-awaited trade legislation , including new proposals for relief of industries and workers damaged by imports . The main thrust of the legislation , which the President said was " modest in scope but significant in its impact , " was in the direction of freer trade . Noting that the nation had followed for 35 years " a policy of freer world trade , " Mr. Nixon said : " This Administration has reviewed that policy and we find that its continuation is in our national interest ? ' Parts of the proposed legislation were requested more than a year ago by President Johnson but languished in Congress . Parts were new , but had been suggested in studies made under the former Administration . New Presidential Power These were the main points : llModest new Presidential tariff-cutting authority , but with no intention of conducting major new international negotiations for lower tariffs . ( Repeal of a special device for protection of part of the chemical industry , known as " American selling price , " in return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariffs . CA major change in the currently dormant " escape clause " provision of present law that will make it easier for industries that can show injury from imports to gain relief through temporary import re- ' strictions . These restrictions will chiefly be higher tariffs . CA similar change in the little-used " adjustment assistance " provision , under which groups of workers or individual companies showing injury from imports can obtain finan-1 cial and other aid . qA change in the law that would widen the President 's powers to retaliate against nations that erect " unfair " barriers against American exports , 1 agricultural or industrial , or that unfairly subsidize their exports to compete against the United States " in third - country markets . " In New York , delegates to the National Foreign Trade Conference said they wel corned the proposals . Details , Page 77 . No action on trade legislation by Congress is possible this year , though Mr. Nixon called his bill The Trade Act of 1969 . Action next year is a good possibility . Congress has passed no major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would appoint a commission on world trade to make recommendations for a Ionger-term trade policy . The President said , " As we look further into the seventies , it is clear that we must re-examine the entire range of our policies and objectives . " Noting that the traditional large surplus of United States exports over imports has disappeared in the last two years , the President said he rejected the view that as a result " we should abandon our traditional approach toward freer trade . " " I reject this argument , " he said , " not only because I believe in the principle of freer trade , but also for a very simple and pragmatic reason : any reduction in our Imports produced by United States restrictions not accepted by our trading partners would invite foreign reaction against our own exports  --  all quite legally . " Emphasizing the need for " a serious and sustained effort to reduce nontariff barriers to trade , " Mr. Nixon asked Congress to strengthen his negotiating position by giving an Unspecified " clear statement of Congressional intent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an advance commitment , at least in principle , that Congress would act to remove United States barriers as part of a deal with other countries removing theirs . These barriers cover a wide range  --  from import quotas to labeling restrictions , from tariff classification to health regulations . The first serious ? negotiation to do something about them is now getting under way in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva , which sets the ground rules for world trade and is a forum for tariff and other negotiations . The President said he was requesting repeal of the bestknown American nontariff barrier , the " American selling price " system of customs valuation for benzenoid chemicals . The . - system produces extrahigh effective duties . Mr. Nixon said " its removal will unlock the door to new negotiations on the entire range of nontariff barrier 's . " Mr. Nixon said " the extraordinary protection it provides to these few products has outlived its original purposes . " The system levies a high percentage the normal case , but on the price of the competing American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Nixon requested would give him the right to reduce any duty by 20 per cent or , in the case of duties already very low , by two percentage points . Thus a duty now 25 per cent could be cut to 20 and one of 8 per cent could be cut to 6 . The President said , " This autlior : . y is not designed to be used for major tariff negotiations but rather to make possible minor adjustments that individual circumstances from time to time require . " An example would be the raising of a United States tariff after an " escape clause " proceeding . This would require the United States to offer " compensation " under the GATT rules to the exporting country or countries involved , and the President could lower a different duty to fulfill this obligation .                     