@@725777

txt Nhatrang , Vietnam Probably the brightest spot in the Vietnam war today is the huge central section designated as the II Military Corps . From the cool plateau regions near Laos and Cambodia , to the rugged mountainous interior , to the rich rice-growing lowlands along the coast , military men see much improvement . That was n't the case just a year ago . At that time , says a high military source , the highlands were almost lost . Cities and towns everywhere were isolated . Roads throughout the corps were cut . The Viet Cong then scented a quick victory . It is believed they planned a major thrust to cut the country in half and end the war . Only American troops , rushed to the scene , thwarted defeat . Quick mobility Today things are so improved that American officials are reported to be studying a proposal to make this corps a " model area . " The corps eventually would be used as a sample of what peace could mean for all of South Vietnam . Discussions on the plan are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here are already proud of their area . " We were the first corps in the country By a staff autographs , South Vietnam 's 11 Corps area Military corner turned Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . to become optimistic , " says a top American officer . " Today whenever we find a North Vietnamese or hard-core Viet Cong unit we can hit it . . . . We can hit anywhere , and the Viet Cong know it . " On the western plateau , American forces with their tremendous firepower and fast mobility are shouldering the big task of tangling with several regiments of North Vietnamese regulars . The Americans have won every major battle so far , often chasing the Communists back across the Cambodian border . Outposts secured In the central mountain areas , where the war is less intense , South Vietnamese troops patrol . They are backed by Americans who can be helilifted to a fight on short notice . In the east , where there are some five regiments of North Vietnamese , everyone is engaged , including Americans , Vietnamese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are about 85,000 Vietnamese , including local militia , 42,000 American troops , and 20,000 Koreans . They are opposed by some 71,000 Communist troops . American officers here enjoy thinking about the vast changes since last summer . A year ago , said one officer , every outpost in western Kontum Province was " highly susceptible to being knocked out . " Today the American high command is n't worried about any of them . A year ago , Viet Cong main force units roamed freely through the western provinces . Today , said an officer , " I 'd be willing to go out and take a walk in these areas "  --  and he pointed to large parts of Pleiku and Kontum Provinces . A year ago , roads almost everywhere were shut down . Today much of Highway 1 is open as are some other roads . Soon Highway 1 will be moving traffic the full length of the corps . Strategy moves Nvateiled A year ago , Viet Cong forces were " taxing " farmers in the coastal lowlands for a big share of their rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and within another year the entire coastal lowlands should be completely secured , a high source says . Spelled out in terms of people , this means that some 45 percent of the corps 's 2.7-million population now lives in secured areas . Another 6 percent live in areas being secured . And 27 percent live in areas in which hard-core Viet Cong units have been removed . The remaining 588,000 people , or about 22 percent , live in areas dominated by the Viet Cong . Future fighting depends largely on Viet Cong strategy . If they choose to fight it out here to the end , then much tough going lies ahead . But already there are some indications that the Viet Cong may be shifting their emphasis southward . If they do , this should speed the day when the allies succeed in clamping this South Carolina-sized region in a firm , military grip . Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     