@@726096

txt Letter 's to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times Sale of Firearms To the Editor : Although one can scarcely take issue with the over-all aims and plans of President Johnson 's recent Message on Crime , it should be noted that one portion of it represents a capitulation to the firearms lobby . ( Editorial Feb. 9 . In this message President Johnson would presumably prohibit the mail-order sales of handguns to individuals . In his crime message of 1966 the President went on record as opposing the mail-order sales of all firearms , including shotguns and rifles , to individuals . At the time the President said , " Lee Oswald sent for and received a rifle through the United States mail . I believe that the people of the United States have learned , through the recent tragic loss of President Kennedy , the need for strengthened control . " Apparently President Johnson has not . Nor does he seem to be aware of the F.B.I . statistics that show that 30 per cent , or 1,800 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounted for by shotguns and rifles . CARL BAKAL New York , Feb. 8 , 1967 The writer is the author of " The Right to Bear Arms , " a book dealing with America 's gun problem . ? Transient Parkers To the Editor : One of the great problems in the attempt to free traffic in midtown New York is that there is no place for short-term parkers to leave their cars . Supposedly , these people should seek a parking meter space in which to park their vehicle . However , as it is generally known , parking meters have been pre-empted by all-day parkers . These all-day parkers are the local merchants and business men who park outside their stores or offices and have someone feed the meter every hour . This effectively makes these streets all day parking lots and allows for but a rare transient parker to find a space , I suggest that no parking be permitted on one side of the street for one hour between 11:30 A.M. and 12:30 P.M. and on the other side of the street for one hour between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour on both sides of the street , This action will make it impossible for an all-day parker to exist , as he will be forced to move his car at one time or another during the day and will have nowhere to put his car during that time . If more parking places become available by this method , illegal double parking will be reduced to a very large extent and traffic will be able to flow more smoothly . In addition , people with legitimate business will be able to function , SHELDON EVANS New York , Feb. 6 , 1967 ? Legal Issues in Abortion To the Editor : The Feb. 6 letter by two officers of the Queens Catholic Medical Society contains a mass of legal confusions and misleading rhetoric . Contrary to their obviously uninformed opinion , the fetus as a fetus has no legal rights or personality . If it dies , it has no estate , and until born it has no rights . Only people have rights , not bits of tissue . Moreover , even if the fetus itself had rights for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available to a living child ) , those rights would be for the benefit of the parents , for obviously the fetus itself could not take advantage of them . Since a fetus as such has no rights , Doctors Riley and Conti have no basis for their conclusion that abortion " is an invasion of the right of a legally recognized person . " Indeed , instead of worrying about the rights of some tissue , why are they not concerned about the right of a girl or woman not to have to bear a child resulting from rape or incest ? The right of parents not to be burdened with a seriously deformed or defective child ? The right of parents not to have their physical or mental health ruined by having to raise an unwanted child ? The truth is that , contrary to their unsupported assertion , most non-Catholics do want the abortion law reformed and liberalized . If Catholics find abortions against their conscience , they should not have them performed . They should not , as Doctors Riley and Conti seek to do , control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present law does not really deter illegal abortions , for we have some one to one and a half million each year . Liberalization is necessary not to permit additional abortions but to allow the abortions presently performed to be done safely and without humiliation . HERMAN SCHWARTZ Professor of Law State University of New York Buffalo , Feb. 8 , 1967 An editorial on this subject appears today . ? Moving People In and Out of Cities To the Editor : In view of mounting pressure for construction of an additional major airport in the metropolitan area , some relevant considerations should be raised . A considerable amount of the traffic of the New York airports consists of persons moving between points bounded by Boston and Washington . Within a year the first section of the very high-speed rail line that will eventually extend from Boston to Washington will be opened . In Japan , after the high-speed rail service between Tokyo and Osaka was initiated , air traffic between these two points fell by 50 per cent . The pricing of this high-speed rail service will be crucial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities in the urban belt will be comparable to air times , pricing and scheduling will determine whether or not the rails move the masses of people they are fully capable of moving and thus ease present and expected congestion at the airports . General aviation activities are contributing to airport congestion and could be limited largely to smaller peripheral airfields around New York . The coming of the " jumbo " jets , seating nearly 4OO passengers , will double or ttiple passenger-carrying capacity per plane . A single flight will therefore be able to handle many more passengers . Arrivals Bunched Some procedure for rationally scheduling arrival and departure times would ease peak load congestion at the airports . There is a considerable amount of competitive scheduling which bunches flight arrivals and departures and causes some of the congestion problem . Finally , it seems to be about time to think of New York 's airport problem as only part of a general transportation problem . What is needed is an integrated approach to the whole problem of moving people into and out of the metropolitan area . Unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of as facets of the same transportation problem , we will continue to get partial and temporary solutions to permanent problems . EDWARD J. SEDLMEIER Ithaca , N. Y. , Feb. 5 , 1967 ? Education for Nurses To the Editor : The most joyous news you have published in many months tells of the plans to prepare underprivileged youngsters for college and to pay for their tuition . There is just one suggestion which seems to have been overlooked . Why not include nursing education for those who Would wish to enter this greatly-inneed field ? BEULAH FRANCE , R.N. New York , Feb , 8 , 1967                     