@@724830

txt A bruising primary fight for the Democratic nomination for Mayor loomed last night after Mayor Wagner 's withdrawal from the electoral race . At least three major forces seemed likely to con- , tend for power , leading toj three or more slates in the , voting Sept. 14 . Mayor Wagner would probably be able to count on the county organizations of Councilman J. Raymond Jones in Manhattan , Assemblyman Moses M. Weinstein in Queens and antiorganization district leaders headed by James V. Mangano in Brooklyn for any choice he might make  --  such as Paul R. Screvane , the present City Council President . It would seem difficult for these to get together with the anti-Wagner forces led by Assemblyman Stanley Steingut , head of the Brooklyn organization , and former Representative Charles A. Buckley , Bronx County chief , who have been allied with United States Senator Robert F. Kennedy . Beanie a Possibility Yesterday 's speculation suggested a Steingut-Buckley alliance that might favor such a candidate as Controller Abraham D. Beame , who had already declared for re-election , regardless of a Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said in Washington that he was willing to run for Mayor , if " the right people ask me , " but he insisted that he would not enter a contested primary . The Reform Democratic wing , which claims 50 clubs and 25,000 members around the city , was just about committed to staging a primary battle . The Reform leaders were understood to be considering for the three top citywide places a list including at least 10 names ? but not Mr. Screvane or Mr. Beame . The Reform list included Francis W. H. Adams , a former Police Commissioner ; Councilman Paul O'Dwyer , who has already announced a candidacy for Council President ; Representatives James H. Seheuer and Jonathan Bingham of the Bronx and William Fitts Ryan of Manhattan , the last already a willing aspirant . Others are Arnold L. Fein , chairman of the Committee for // 3 or 4 Democratic Va.ctions May Battle at Primary Polls to Succeed the Mayor MANY CANDIDATES BEING MENTIONED Contending Forces Include the Pro- and Anti-Wagner , ' Reform and Liberal // Democratic Voters , the Reform group 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Board of Education , and Telford Taylor , former Nuremberg war-crimes prosecutor . Representative Emanuel Celler of Brooklyn issued a public call for Democrats to name District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan for Mayor . Mr. Hogan , now 63 years old , had been designated by three county leaders as Democratic candidate for Mayor in 1949 , when Mayor William O'Dwyer declared he would not seek re-election , but ' he withdrew when Mr. O'Dwyer changed his mind and ran again . Liberal Statement Today Still another factor was the Liberal party , which nominated Mayor Wagner for re-election in 1957 and 1961 . The Liberals issued a statement May 29 asserting that they saw " no other Democrat who equals Mayor Wagner ; therefore a fusion possibility will be wide open , " they said , if the Mayor decided not to run . Last night the party said it would have a statement at 10 A. M. today . With the Democratic nominations for Mayor , Council President and Controller all now in a state of flux , there were many potential candidates for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queens , and Joseph C. DiCarlo , the city 's License Commissioner and head of the Bronx Democratic Organizing Committee , set up by Mayor Wagner to challenge Buckley control . Mr. DiCarlo said yesterday that he would be " interested " in one of the three posts . Another potential candidate was Theodore W.-IGieel , the labor mediator , who has been friendly both with Mayor Wagner and Senator Kennedy . Still another possibility discussed was Deputy Mayor Edward F. Cavanagh Jr. , a former Fire Commissioner and former New York County Democratic chairman . Also on the reform list were R. Peter Straus , president of Radio Station WMCA. , and Orin Lehman , a New York University faculty member and nephew of the late Gov . Herbert H. Lehman . Levitt Mentioned There was mention in some quarters of State Controller Arthur Levitt of Brooklyn , who was the designated choice for Mayor of all five Democratic county organizations in 1961 , only to be defeated by Mayorl Wagner in the primary by 451 , - 458 votes to 291,672 . Mr. Levitt won re-election to his state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by more than 834,000 votes . Any candidate seeking the nomination , whether designated by a county committee or running as an insurgent , need only get 5,000 signatures citywide . Petitions may be signed for a primary fight from June 29 on , and the last date for filing with the Board of Elections this year is Aug. 10 . But the law allows substituting candates as late as Aug. 17 , giving considerable time for maneuvering . Despite the political rivalry , Democratic leaders nevertheless avowed confidence that their eventual choice would be able to defeat a Republian ticket headed by Representative John V. Lindsay . Mr. Buckley , the Bronx County leader , said : " This is a Demcratic city , and I do n't see how Lindsay can win . He added that " the Democrats have a lot of candidates  --  Frank Hogan , O'Connor , Abe Beame , Suez vane , " and he " would n't care to go out on a limb " at this point for an eventual choice . Mr. Steingut , the party 's Brooklyn leader , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " the rank and file of the party should express itself " and " civil organizations should express themselves . " ' Kennedy Power at Issue Robert G. Lindsay , Richmond County leader , raised a question as to who would call a gettogether of the county chairmen , who have never met in one room since the 1961 party split . He suggested Senator Kennedy could call the meeting . In Washington , Senator Kennedy , who might be rated the state 's top Democrat on a Wagner departure , denied any in. tention to inject himself into the situation and denied any preference . Asked about Mr. Roosevelt , Mr. Kennedy . said : " He 'd be fine , but there would be others , too . " Representative Adam Clayton Powell called for the nomination of Mr. Roosevelt , but he said he could also support Controller Beanie for Mayor . If any other Democrat is picked , the Harlem Democrat said , he will " either back John Lindsay or go on one of those  --  what do you call them ? ? junkets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Commerce to become chairman of the new Equal Employment Opportunities Commission , said he " appreciated " Mr. Powell 's endorsement and other support offered during the afternoon oy " public officials , important Democrats and liberal-minded citizens . " But he added : " I have not been a candidate for any office , and I am not today a candidate for any office . I do not intend to get into a contested primary in New York City . " Mr. Roosevelt had been rated the top vote-puller in any primary contest with Mayor Wagner in a poll by John F. Kraft , Inc. , taken for various Demo-1 crats . The Kraft poll was authoritatively reported yesterday to have given Mr. Roosevelt 56 per cent to Mr. Wagner 's 44 per cent last April ; Mr. O'Connor 51 per cent to Mr. Wagner 's 49 ; Mr. Beame 50 per cent to Mr. Wagner 's 50 ; and Mr. Wagner 52 per cent to 48 for L D. Robbins , former president of the City Club . An earlier Kraft poll in March had given Representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican-Democrat contest , with 28 per cent of voters reported " not sure " of a choice . Threefourths of the undecided voters were Democratic . Of Mayor Wagner 's 1961 running mates , Mr. Screvane said the Mayor 's withdrawal was " a loss to the city . " Controller Beame said that " Mayor Wagner has given a great deal of himself to the city , " but he added : " Since his decision is based upon personal reasons , I do n't think any further comment on it by me is appropriate . " Speaker Anthony J. Travia of the State Assembly , whom Mr. Wagner had long backed in a party , struggle against Mr. Steingut for the Brooklyn leadership , urged that the Mayor reconsider and make himself again available as a candidate . He said Mr. Wagner was the most qualified person in the city for the job .                     