@@727158

txt The Supreme Court upheld to : . day , the authority of policemen to stop suspicious-looking , persons . and frisk them for ? weapons when that is ? reason- ' , . ably necessary for the safety of policemen and of others . .. It such a frisk prodUces ? weapons or any other evidence of guilt , the Court said , the ' evidence may be used in court against the person searched. : The decision , - contained in two opinions written by Chief Justice Earl Warren , stressed the need to protect policemen in their efforts to control street crime . This marked ' the first time , ' the Chief Justice noted , the Court had held that police can detain and . search persons without the " probable cause mentioned in.the Constitution 's Fourth Amendment . The ruling gave the police virtually the full range of ' powers that law enforcement representatives had asked ' of the . ' Court . It rejected appeals by civil rights , and civil liberties ' groups to limit , the " stop and frisk " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Civil ' . Liberties Union ; and the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Educational ' Fund , Inc. , had argued that if the high court made such a ruling the power would be used to harass Negroes and other minority groups . However , the Chief Justice laid down a rule of reasonableness that will permit policemen to search suspects when " a reasonably prudent man in the circumstances would be warranted in ' the belief that his safety or that of , others was in danger . " The- Court did not rule on the constitutionality of the New York ' stop and frisk " law , which was the subject of one of the two , opinions handed down today . Chief Justice Warren said this was unnecessary in view of the holding that police officers have constitutional power to stop and search suspects under proper circumstances without a statute . The major elements of the new rule were announced in the case of John W. Terry , who was stopped and frisked on a downtown street in Cleveland on Oct. 31 , 1963 . The vote was 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissenting . The Court said that Terry and two other men appeared to be " casing " a store for a holdup , and that the officer whp searched them had acted reasonably . ? Terry was found to be carrying a loaded pistol and was convicted for carrying a concealed weapon . The Supreme Court affirmed the conviction . The New York opinion concerned Nelson Sibron , who was convicted of possessing heroin after a policeman had frisked him outside a Brooklyn restaurant , , and John Francis Peters , who was found guilty of possessing burglar tools . The tools were found when an off-duty policeman searched Peters after having ? caught him tiptoeing down an apartment house corridor in . Mount Vernon . The Court reversed Sibron 's conviction on the ground that the policeman had been searching for narcotics , not necessarily constituting an immediate danger , when he made the search . It found that the officers who searched Peters reasonably thought he might be armed . It affirmed the conviction . Fourth Amendment at Issue Although the police in most communities have been stopping and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice violated the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution was not meaningful until 1961 . In that year the Supreme Court held that evidence obtained in violation of that amendment could not be used in state courts . The Fourth Amendment declares in part that " the right , of the people to be secure their persons , houses , papers and effects , ' against unreasonble searches and seizures , shall not be ' violated , and no warrants shall issue , but upon probable cause . . " This has been construed by The New York Time . Chief Justice Earl ' Warren wrote opinions stressing need to protect policemen. - the Supreme Court to mean that the police can not make an arrest or search unless they have objective evidence that a crime has been committed and the suspect did it . In most frisk situations - the police act on suspicious circumstances and do not have evidence of probable cause . Thus the Court would have ruled inadmissible the fruits of most frisks if it had insisted on the probable cause standard in stop and frisk situations . Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning that the Fourth Amendment does not ap ? ply because a " stop " is not ' a " seizure " and a " frisk " is not a full-blown " search . " Amendment:Applicable He declared that the Fourth Amendment does apply , but that since the amendment rules out " unreasonable " searches the probable cause requirement can be ignored if a search for weapons is otherwise reasonable . The reasonableness of each search will have to be decided according to its circumstances , he said . The officer can not rely on " inarticulate hunches " but will have to show that there were objective grounds for his suspicions . Also , the extent of the search must be limited to the exigencies of the situation . ' Usually , a patting-down ' of the suspect 's clothing is all that wild be upheld . However , the Chief Justice said : " We can not blind ourselves to the need for law enforcement officers to protect themselves and other prospective victims of violence in situations where they may lack probable cause for an arrest . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose suspicious behavior he is investigating at close range is armed and presently dangerous to the officer or to others , it would , appear to be clearly unreasonable to deny the officer the power to take necessary measures to determine whether the person is in fact carrying weapon and to neutralize the threat of physical harm . " . In his dissent , Justice Douglas said it was illogical to let policemen search without probable cause when they acted without a warrant , while they would have to show probable cause of they applied to a magistrate for a search warrant . " To give the police greater power than a ' magistrate is to take a long step down the totalitarian path , " he said . " Perhaps such a step is desirable to cope with modern forms of lawlessness . But if it is taken , it should be the deliberate choice of the people through a constitutional amendment " Louis Stokes of Cleveland argued for Terry . Reuben M. Payne , ' assistant prosecuting attorney of Cuyahoga County , argued for the State of Ohio . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County , . and James J. Duggan , assistant ' district attorney , of Westchester County , argued for the state . Michael Juviler , New York County , also argued for the state as friend of the court . ?                     