@@726965

txt Diplomats familiar with Saigon are unusually sardonic about South Vietnamese President Thieu 's arrest of many leading political figures " for their own protection " from the Viet Cong . Several have pointed out that the detained men are being held in villas within a government police area in Saigon . Far from protecting the non-Communist politicians and civic figures from Viet Cong attack , this location exposes them even more to such attack . The police area is a likely target for any future mortar or rocket fire . Czechoslovakia 's latest liberal evolution is being watched with great interest by Eastern European diplomats . So far , many of them feel , the new Dubcek government has steered with great adroitness . It has pushed economic liberalization , ended censorship , and even provoked discussion about democracy . The Communist Party paper surprised many observers by running a piece which actually discussed the value of having two candidates run in some electoral races . And the crusading literary magazine , Literarny Noviny , which was nearly crushed by the old Novotny government , is back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Culture in its first issue . To signal a new approach , and to avoid antagonizing Moscow , the new government has left deposed party boss Antonin Novotny ' in the presidency and allowed him to carry on a virtual debate with his party successor , Alexander Dubcek . Mr. Novotny has tried to pit Czech workers against liberal economists and intellectuals . But so far Mr. Dubcek appears to be triumphing in debate . Some analysts feel that Mr. Novotny may eventually be forced to resign and make way for a compromise president . e Major Asian nations are expected to join the African-led boycott of next October 's Olympic Games . Malaysia already has decided to do so . India and Pakistan are on the verge . At least one Scandinavian country is reviewing its position . Five Arab states have joined the 32-nation African boycott , and Soviet-bloc nations are under pressure to follow suit . All this activity is a result of the International Olympic Committee 's decision to readmit a South African team to the games . Mexico , host to the 1968 games , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role at the UN in the generally thwarted Afro-Asian drive against racial apartheid in South and South-West Africa . So pressure may come from almost every continent  --  and quietly from the host  --  to have the Olympic Committee reverse its ruling . 0 A test of the UN 's right to enter South-West Africa may be made in coming months . But there is little expectation among diplomats that the test would succeed . It would . only serve to provoke a new discussion of how the world body can proceed further in its unsuccessful move to take away from South Africa the mandate to run mineral-rich South-West Africa . The 11-nation council which the UN General Assembly designated to administer South-West Africa has informally decided to make a test of its right to enter the former League of Nations mandate territory . The decision was unanimous but still tentative . Experienced diplomats believe the council members will get no farther than Lusaka , capital of Zambia , in their quest . Last December South African authorities turned back the plan of an American group seeking to establish their right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cairo 's recent trial of leading generals for their role in last June 's war defeat has turned up one item of comfort for UN Secretary-General U Thant . At the time of the six-day war , some governments and editorial writers blamed ? the UN leader for having " precipitately " pulled UN peace-keeping forces out of Sinai and Gaza before the war . Evidence at the trials indicated that orders to Egyptian troops by the late Field Marshal Abdel Hakim Amer were quite specific : The units were to move up to the border line in Gaza and at strategic Sharm el-Sheikh even before U Thant 's order for the UN pullout was issued . This evidence tends to undercut the assertion sometimes made by both Egyptian and Israeli officials that Egypt was " sucked into " the border confrontation when U Thant surprised Cairo by quickly accepting its demand for withdrawal of UN units .                     