@@725100

txt The Conservative party ' yesterday amassed the highest vote it has obtained in this- city since it was organized in 1982 to counterbalance the influence of the Liberal party on city and state politics . Results from 5,090 of the city 's 5,098 election districts gave William F. Buckley-jr. , the Conservative candidate for Mayor , 338,432 votes , while the combined Liberal and Independent Citizens Party vote for Representative John V. Lindsay in Column C was 244,270. * - An analysis indicated that , many Democrats had voted . for Mr. Lindsay in the Republican column rather than in Column C. The Liberals usually count on liberal Democratic votes to run up their totals . Henceforth , the Conservatives ! said , the Republicans and Dem- ; ocrats will have to consider ; them when they formulate programs and select candidates. ; They indicated their major tar- I get would be the Republican city and state organizations . Last year . in the party 's best showing until yesterday , Henry ; A. Paolucci , Conservative candidate for United States Sen- ; ator , received 122,967 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party 's actual en-I rollment here is about 9.000 . I An analysis of the vote in-I dicated that Mr. Buckley had : hurt Controller Abraham D. ; Beanie. the Democratic candi-I date . more than he had hurt ; Representative John V. Lind say , the victorious RepublicanLiberal . " We have begun to reintroduce the two-party system in , New York City , " was the wayli William F. Buckley Jr. , the ! party 's candidate for Mayor , , put it . " The Conservative party has ; polled a vote vastly in excess ! of anything thought possible , " ' , he said . " This vote will affect the determination of politics in New York City , New York State and Washington , D , C. , for years to come . " From the analysis it was also clear that many Democrats had voted for Mr. Lindsay in the Republican column rather than in the Liberal or the Independent Citizens column . With Mr. Lindsay 's victory , the Liberal party should retain considerable power at City Hall , but the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote could not be measured , since it shared column C with the Independent Citizens party . The Liberal vote could not be measured since it and the Independent Citizens party shared Column C. But incomplete returns indicated that the combined total on this column was less than the Conservative vote . This could be humiliating for the Liberal party , which has long regarded itself as the third party in this state . Results from 4,280 districts nut the combined total for Mr. Lindsay in column C at 234,548 . Running Mates Trail Like the Republicans , the Liberals suffered a setback when one of Mr. Lindsay 's running mates was definitely defeated and the other apparently lost . Dr. Timothy W , Costello , . the Liberals ' state chairman who sought the City Council . Presidency , lost . Milton Mollen , a Democrat and candidate for Controller , was trailing . ? Dr. Costello 's defeat was par ticularly disappointing for the Liberals , but few politicians had conceded him a real chance . He was pitted against Queens District Attorney Frank D. O'Connor , a formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . The Conservatives have long been at odds with the Republican state hierarchy , which , under the leadership of Governor Rockefeller , has consistently sided with the liberal wing of the party . Kieron O'Doherty , a Conservative party official , said last , night at the New Yorker Hotel , , where he was watching returns , : that his party would enter a ; candidate against Mr. Rockefel- ; ler if he should run again next year . Of Senator Jacob K. Javits , another liberal Republican , he said : " We 'll get him in 1968 . " May Embolden Leaders The Conservative party show-I ing undoubtedly will embolden it to press its views in this state and encourage other Conservatives over the country to do the same . Against this , the victory in this heavily Democratic city of Mr. Lindsay , the RepublicanLiberal candidate and one of the most liberal of Republicans , should strengthen the hand of liberal Republicans here and in the state and nation . The net effect , in the opinion of some political observers , may ! be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect a reconciliation of the ' two groups within its ranks . The Independent Citizens party was set up by the Lind- ; say organization to attract Democrats and independents ! who might be reluctant to vote ! for Mr. Lindsay in the Republican or Liberal columns . The Liberal party , with only about 63,000 enrolled members ; in this city , has always relied ! on liberal Democrats and inde-1 pendents to run up its totals in ; elections . " So there is no real distine-i tion , " one Liberal said of votes ; in column C. " It is impossible ; to break down the vote on that ! column . " The Independent Citizens party originally had a column of its own , but it was knocked out of it by the State Court of Appeals . The Lindsay organ ! ization had a choice of putting ; it in the same column with the : Republicans or the Liberals , and chose the latter . The Liberals took a calculated gamble when they decided to : ! back Mr. Lindsay and thus ! broke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here. ; For years they had exerted on ! the Democrats the kind of in I fluence that the Conservatives ' ; would like to exert on the Re-I publicans . Some Liberals feared that the , party 's close ties with the Dem- ; ocrats here had damaged its ! image as an independent organization dedicated to good goy ' ernment . They were anxious to : reassert that independence by breaking away from the Demo- ! Icrats , In backing a Republican the Liberals risked a Democratic ; victory that would leave them ' with little influence on either the Democrats or the Republicans . They also risked loosening the close ties they have had ! with the White House . The Lib ' erals have always backed the Democratic party nationally . ' Since its founding in 1944 , the Liberal party has backed two Republican candidate for Mayor ? Jonah J. Goldstein in 1945 and Newbold Morris in 1949 ? and Democrats three times ? Ferdinand L. Pecora in the 1951 special election and Mayor Wagner in 1957 and 1961 . In 1953 , it ran its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 428.688 votes . Two years earlier he had won the City Council Presidency with 583,176 votes , the highest ever recorded for the party in this , city . In a recent years the party 's vote has been cleclining and this was believed to have been a factor in its decision to switch to a Republican . In 1957 it gave Mr. Wagner 217,941 votes and 213,985 in 1961 . Last year it mustered only 154,201 votes in the city for Robert F. Kennedy , when he ran for United States Senator .                     