@@721644

txt Dr. Thomas Dooley , the medical missionary , died here last night at Memorial Hospital . Death by cancer , which he had calmly awaited for two years , came at 9:40 P. M. Dr. Dooley , famed for his work in establishing hospitals in Laos , was 34 years old Tuesday . He , was visited then by Cardinal Spellman , who said yesterday : " I tried to assure him that in his thirty-four years he had done what very few have done in the allotted scriptural life span . " The patient also received hundreds of birthday messages , including a telegram from President Eisenhower . ' Accomplished So Much ; " It must be a source of heartened gratification , " the President said , " to realize that in so few years you have accomplished so much for the good of distant peoples and have inspired so many others to work for all humanity . " Dr. Dooley underwent surgery for chest cancer at Memorial Hospital in 1959 , but returned to his work in Laos , . although he knew that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to return to Memorial Hospital last month . In an article written for The ' New York Times Magazine in 1958 ; Dr. Dooley summed up his work in Laos as follows : " I believe that it behooves those of us who attempt to aid // in a foreign land to be content with small achievements . We must not attempt to build dynasties . We must try to build at the level of the people , or just one step ahead , always planning it so that the Asian can ultimately take over . " The statement reflected the will of the author but not his driving personality . The physician not only was a medical missionary but also an author , lecturer , gadabout and indefatigable promoter . In five years , starting with his medical work among refugees streaming from Communist-held North Vietnam in 1954 , the often brash young doctor achieved international fame . By 1960 a Gallup Poll showed that he was one of the ten mostadmired Americans . He agreed with his critics that he practiced " nineteenth century medicine " in his remote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese border . By that , Dr. Dooley meant that despite such modern drugs as penicillin , his style of medicine was relatively simple compared with present-day techniques in this country . The various youno . American volunteers who worked with him in Laos did not have medical degrees . , Dr. Dooley was the driving force behind Medico , an organization that collects funds and sends medical teams to establish hospitals and clinics in the world 's least developed countries . Raised $850,000 He was credited with personally raising $850,000 for Medico . He made lecture tours , appeared on television and promoted Medico constantly , traveling to this country from his Laos base many times . In addition , he turned over royalties from his best-selling books for Medico programs . Thomas Anthony Dooley 3d was born Jan. 17 , 1927 , in St. Louis , one of five brothers . In 1944 he entered the University of Notre Dame but dropped out to enter the Navy as a hospital corpsman . After the war he went back to Notre Dame and eventually received his medical degree at St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 , he was serving as a volunteer medical officer in the Vietnam area at the time that former French colony was partitioned into Communist and non-Communist areas . Dr. Dooley 's care for nearly 600,000 refugees from the Communist area won acclaim . The Navy awarded him the Legion of Merit . And The Washington Post in an editorial said of his refugee work : " It was the ultimate example of effective person-to-person contact with a foreign people . " Dr. Dooley 's best-selling book , " Deliver Us From Evil , " was based on his experience in caring for the 600,000 refugees in camps at Haiphong . He was a Navy lieutenant ( j. g. ) at the time . Home again in 1956 , he resigned from the Navy and , with three medical corpsmen who had worked with him at Haiphong , returned to the Far East to set up a hospital in Laos . The New York Times Dr. Thomas A. Dooley - He described it as a small village hospital on stilts . It was at Nam Tha . The Laotian Government supplied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the hos-li to Laotians and estab- , lished a new one twenty miles ' across the mountains at Muong Sing . He also had planned a third hospital in Laos . Dr. Dooley also wrote . " The Edge of Tomororw " and " The Night They Burned the Mountain , " based on his Laotian experiences . He held the highest national decoration of South Vietnam and was the first American to be decorated by the Kingdom of Laos . . He also received the highest Laotian medal  --  the Order of a Million Elephants and the White Para- , sol . Universally admired in the United States , Dr. Dooley was a controversial figure among ' Americans working in the Far . East . Physicians criticized him as a " hit and run " doctor who gave snap diagnoses and was absent from his hospital tool often . Many complained of anl overbearing ego and said he was insensitive to the feelings ' of others . Laotian children revered him , and before his illness he often rough-housed with them . As for his ego , Dr. Dooley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irishmen , I think I 'm practically faultless . " In 1959 he fell and bumped his chest . Later he felt a growing lump in his chest . It was diagnosed as sarcoma , a fast spreading cancer . He flew to New York for a successful operation for removal of the malignancy . Weeks later he was back on the job in ' Laos . But he was afflicted anew with a serious ailment in his vertebrae . At Hong Kong in December , 1960 , he was fitted with a steel and leather harness stretching from his shoulders to his hips . He called it his " iron maiden . " Dr. Dooley , a bachelor , is survived by his mother , Mrs. Agnes Dooley , and two brothers , Malcolm and Edward . At his death his mother was en route to her home in St. Louis . The funeral will take place there .                     