@@721817

txt Chancellor George Wells Beadle rededicated the University of Chicago yesterday to the fulfillment of the individual for leadership in a nation menaced externally by communist collectivism and internally by the mediocrity of the mass mind . Speaking at his inauguration as the university 's seventh chief executive , Beadle said it should have as one of its goals " the fullest possible intellectual and emotional development of those individuals with the highest degree of creative ability and the greatest promise of leadership . " Ceremony Impressive One He reminded his audience of 2,000 in Rockefeller Memorial chapel that " far less than onetenth of one per cent of the members of the present generation will account for far more than 99.9 per cent of the cultural advance that the next generation will experience . " Beadle was inducted with an impressive ceremony , the university 's 292d convocation since it was founded in 1890 . He was the last to enter the chapel in a procession of 700 academicians , including representatives of 300 American universities and colleges , 50 foreign universities , and- more than 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ academic caps and gowns denoted the degrees and institutions represented . Bach 's majestic processional , Fantasy in G Major , played on the great organ , enhanced the impressive scene in the Gothic chapel . Both Studied at Cornell Beadle wore a Cornell university doctor of philosophy hood which he borrowed from his predecessor , Lawrence A. Kimpton , who wore it for his own inauguration as chancellor on Oct. 18 , 1951 . The hood , a large circular shawl worn over the traditional black gown , has two white chevrons on a large splash of cardinal . Both Beadle and Kimpton took their Ph . D. 's at Cornell , Beadle in genetics and . Kimpton in philosophy . Cornell was represented in the academic procession by its president , Deane W. Malott . Inducting Beadle as chancellor , Glen A. Lloyd , chairman of the board of trustees , expressed pleasure and confidence on behalf of the trustees and faculty . that the best possible choice had been made . The new chancellor , one of the country 's most distinguisked geneticists , was chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute of Technology when he was called to Chicago . In 1958 he shared the Nobel prize in medicine and physiology with two other Americans . " Academic Shangri-La " In his inaugural address Beadle said he and a small group of friends had pondered the requirements of an ideal university for several years and had set up specifications for what they called " University X , a sort of academic Shangri-La . " He discussed various requirements of it and came to this conclusion : " With dedicated , able , and enthusiastic teachers , plus interested students of high intelligence , any system is likely to be successful . Without these qualities in teachers and students , the results will he disappointing , however curricula are juggled and arranged . " University X would combine requirements of general education with opportunities to specialize , all with the greatest possible flexibility of organization , he said . Like the U. of C. Plan " If I understand correctly , " he said , " that is almost exactly the University of Chicago plan as put into effect by President Harper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly compartmentalized . " University X was envisioned as an institution which would set a standard so far above all others that it would serve as a model which all would aspire to copy . That , of course , is what Harper 's University of Chicago did . It was a powerful catalyst , especially among its sister universities . " Beadle reviewed the innovations and difficulties of Chicago 's undergraduate college , which was neglected in the 1920s by scholars more interested in research than in teaching . In the ' 30s , when it received its own faculty of distinguished teachers and introduced the general education plan , it came " close to the University X ideal . " But it dedined again , because of an early admission plan , lack of finances , and neighborhood difficulties . Faculty Supplemented Now the college supplements its faculty with research scholars from the graduate divisions . " I believe , " said Beadle , " that the University of Chicago college has come closer to a satisfactory solution than has that of any other major university in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X. " Its resources are clearly inadequate to support properly all its parts and all its activities , " he said . Salary budgets are too small , especially in the humanities and social sciences . Physical plant is inadequate in many areas . " Beadle spoke of government support , which is unavoidable if universities are to meet the nation 's needs for basic and applied research . Government support , he said , does not need to mean government control . The universities , he explained , are a part of the government and have much to say about what it does and what it controls . He deplored the trend toward greater and greater salary differentials between scientists , mathematicians , and engineers on the one hand and humanists and social scientists on the other . This trend is accentuated , he said , by government support . Speaks of Freedom Beadle also spoke of freedom . He described academic freedom as freedom of mind , . freedom to search for the truth , a freedom closely related to freedom of speech and of the press . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all persons receiving aid under the national defense education act , as a violation of this freedom . But Beadle emphasized that he is not opposed to the loyalty oath . Moreover , he said there is no reason why a student should not be required to state " that he recognizes that it is unlawful to advocate the overthrow of the government by force , and that he is prepared to accept the consequences if he does so . "                     