@@724199

txt Atlantic City , Aug. 24 ? The Democrats opened their national convention tonight with an oratorical salute to the Kennedy - Johnson administration and a critical blast at the Republican opposition . An explosive civil rights struggle was put off until tomorrow so jubilant Democrats could join in cheering an . emotional keynote address by Sen. John 0 . Pastore of Rhode Island . The convention roared approval of a credentials committee decision to deny seats to members of the Alabama delegation unless they sign a boy , alty pledge . Alabama delegates who did not sign showed up anyway and sat with the few delegates who did sign . A request that the-rebels leave the floor was ignored . Sign Is Prepared The delegates settled back in their chairs for a zestful verbal feast as signs multiplied that Sen. Hubert IL Humphrey of Minnesota will be the Vice Presidential nominee . The most impressive sign is an actual work of the sign painter 's art . A huge sign was being painted in the basement of the convention hall by the official convention painter . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Erskine , the sign painter , said his work was ordered by " an individual , " insisting that he did n't know his identity or whether he is connected with the convention . However , the shop makes only official signs , and it was assumed that the order was official . End Platform Work Humphrey got a warm welcome when he appeared on the floor in performance of his effort to work out a compromise in the civil rights contest . This assignment was seen as an expression of confidence by President Johnson . Before the convention met the platform committee completed work on a collection of planks calculated to discourage a civil rights split and to attract votes . The platform calls for " fair and effective enforcement " of the civil . rights law as it stands , which is , only a shade stronger ' than the plank adopted by Republicans last moth in San Francisco . The platform held out a promise of another tax cut , higher overtime pay and a shorter work week and condemned extremism , naming Communists , the Ku Klux @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention had voted down efforts to condemn any groups by name . Blast at Barry A diminutive man with a big voice , the keynoter sparked the enthusiasm of more than 5,000 delegates and alternates when , he credited President Johnson with " nine miracle months " of achievement for the country . At the same time be hit the Republican Presidential nominee , Sen. Barry Goldwater , by asserting that " the world can not wait until Saturday to learn what . he meant on Monday . " Pastore predicted that the American people will say on election day , Nov. 3 : " We need you , President Johnson , " insisting that they will recognize that " the sanity of America is the security of the world . " Before he spoke , delegates saw a motion picture , offering highlights of the more recent Democratic Presidents  --  Franklin D. Roosevelt , Harry S. Truman , John F. Kennedy , and , of course , Lyndon Baines Johnson . Unit to Try Again Before the convention met , nearly half an hour behind schedule , the credentials committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of settling the contest between two ' Mississippi delegations , one the regularly elected , allwhite delegation , and a second , largely Negro , which insisted it had been frozen out of delegate contention . The committee admitted failure but said it will try . again tomorrow . Abe white delegation was offered guest tickets to watch the opening session but indignantly refused them . The rival Freedom Democratic party delegates did accept the role of spectators , telling their story to the press , radio , and television . Wants National Lottery On their way into the convention hall delegates had to make their way thru a swirling mob of sitters , marchers , and curious . The largest group was from the Congress of Racial Equality and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating committee : two Negro organizations seeking support for the seating of the Freedom party delegation from Mississippi . Other demonstrating groups were Parents and Taxpayers , a group protesting sending school children in buses to achieve racial balance ; the American Taxpayers u n i o n , which favors a national lottery ; and a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Nazi party had demonstrated in front of the ball early in the evening , but were rounded up by the police and searched after a former marine protested against what he termed " storm troopers . " The marine , Sam Reitter , objected with his fists . There were no pickets against the Alabama delegation which had been challenged by three other states because of its state law which permits its Democratic electors to vote against the convention 's nominees . The credentials committee had served notice that it would not recommend seating of the delegates unless they took the loyalty pledge . A few took the pledge but the others just marched in and sat down . They heard the convention vote approval of the recommendation that they be required to take the pledge before being seated , but they remained in their chairs . Not Asked to Leave " I 'm going to stay here until they ask me to get out of the convention , " said Eugene Bull Connor , the state 's national committeeman , who had walked out of the 1948 Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention until Kennedy was nominated . " I learned a lot when I walked out then and I 'm not going to do it again , " he added . He and others , who did not sign , sat in good humor . They were not asked to get out , but they may be tomorrow or Wednesday when the convention makes its nomination of Johnson and the Vice President of his choice . They held their seats because convention interest shifted to Adlai E. Stevenson , twice-defeated Democratic nominee , and to Humphrey , on their entrance into the vast hall .                     