@@721717

txt The hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States has decided to oppose any school-aid legislation that fails to help children attending private schools . The cardinals , archbishops and bishops disclosed today that they would press for an amendment to the Kennedy Administration 's bill to add provisions for long-term Federal loans to private schools . They took the position that unless some such provisions were included they would fight passage of the measure . Welfare Conference Stand The heirarchy 's stand was outlined in a statement by Archbishop Karl J. Alter of Cincinnati , chairman of the Administrative Board of the National Catholic Welfare Conference . The board consists of the five United States Cardinals and ten Archbishops and Bishops who head departments of the conference . It met here in closed session yesterday to consider the school-aid issue . While the meeting was under way , President Kennedy repeated his opposition to any Federal assistance to non-public schools . He said at his news conference that such aid was clearly unconstitutional . The Catholic prelates contended , however , that loans to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the framework of the Constitution . " The Administration bill , now pending in Congress , calls for $2,298,000,000 in Federal grants for public elementary and secondary schools . The grants would be alloted to . states over a thre6year period on the basis of public-school attendance . The Catholic hierarchy has opposed similar legislation in the past after failing to win Congressional approval of amendments extending some form of aid to parochial-school children . President Kennedy , himself a Catholic , was praised for his stand today by Glenn L. Archer , executive director of Protestants and Others United for Separation of Church and State . " Mr. Kennedy 's fidelity to his campaign pledges on this issue will be appreciated and a plauded by all who support our American tradition , " Mr. Archer said . He expressed hope that " the American people will support President Kennedy against the bishops of his church . " The five cardinals and all except two of the other members were present at yesterday 's meeting , of the Administrative Board . The cardinals are Francis Spellman of New ' York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston , Albert Meyer of Chicago and Joseph Ritter of St. Louis . Other members are Archbishops Alter of Cincinnati , William E. Cousins of Milwaukee , William 0 . Brady of St. Paul and John F. Dearden of Detroit and Bishops Joseph T. of Sacramento , Albert E. Zuroweste of Belleville , Ill. , Joseph M. Gilmore of Helena , Mont. , Lawrence T. Shehan of Bridgeport , Conn. , Allen J. Babcock of Grand Rapids , Mich , and Emmet M. Walsh Archbishop Brady and Bishop were absent . The text of Archbishop Alter 's statement follows : " Yesterday the Administrative Board met and considered in addition to the routine questions the particular problem of Federal aid to education . In the absence of the official minutes I think I can summarize the discussion fairly and briefly as follows : " I. The question of whether or not there ought to be Federal aid is a judgment to be based on objective economic facts connected with the schools of the country and consequently Catholics are free to take a position in accordance with the facts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid to edqcation we are deeply convinced that in justice Catholic school children should be given the right to participate . " 3 . Respecting the form of participation , we hold it to be strictly within the framework of the Constitution that longterm , low-interest loans to private institutions could be part of the Federal aid program , It is proposed , therefore , that an effort be made to have an amendment to this effect attached to the bill . " 4 . In the event that a Federal aid program is enacted which excludes children in private schools these children will be the victims of discriminatory legislation . There will be no alternative but to oppose such discrimination . "                     