@@723769

txt Washington ? Two publications were approached by the White House staff in an effort to have them " alter or suppress articles based on the testimony of insurance man Don B. Reynolds , " who had testified earlier in the Bobby Baker case that he paid $542 for a stereo phonograph given in 1947 to Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson . ? A White House aide " volunteered to a third publication " that the Reynolds testimony was not to be believed . These were charges contained in a dispatch written by Cabell Phillips in the New York Times Feb. 8 . Paper Attacked The New York newspaper published the story , implicitly damaging to the administration , despite the fact that President Johnson had just been a guest at its New York editorial conference  --  the first time a Chief Executive had attended . The Times was attacked immediately by Jack Anderson , ! colleague of columnist Drew ' Pearson . He charged that the Times had received many news tips and leaks from this and previous administrations and implied that it was ungrateful in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 Drew Pearson had aired the charges that Mr. Reynolds was an unreliable witness based on his record in the armed services . Note Attached 1Vir . Pearson had attached to copies of his syndicated column a confidential note to editors giving what was represented ? as an Air Force memo , taken from closed files of the De ! fense Department . The memo was addressed to Air Force Secretary Eugene M. Zuckert and was signed by Benjamin W. Fridge , Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force I for Manpower and Reserve Forces . ' The memo is purported to have said in part : " I feel you should be aware of some of the circumstances surrounding the military service of former Maj. Don B. Reynolds , who testified before the Senate RulT.s Committee in the Bobby Baker case the day before yesterday . " The Reynolds-Pearson case is the latest of a series of incidents that is causing a self ' searching in the Washington press here and a reappraisal of its relations with the administration . A panel of newsmen over National Educational Television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be more subject to press criticism in future , and that Mr. Johnson will be less accessible to the press . Reporters seemed to feel chummy relations in the honeymoon period arc coining to an end and that more normal adversary relations are beginning . Peter Lisagor , Washington bureau chief of the Chicago Daily News , noted " great resistance " by the administration to the formal press conference . He argued that Mr. Johnson " would like to make cheerleaders out of all of us , and we 're fighting hard to preserve our virtue . " Conflict Seen Philip Potter of the Baltimore Sun , a friend of Mr. Johnson's. said : " We have our function , he has his , and there are bound to be conflicts . " Charles Bartlett , syndicated columnist , said that the public-relations approach by the White House had put reporters " on the defensive , " as they " look for gimmicks . " Edwin R. Bayley , public-affairs editor of the network , noted " extreme sensitivity " by the President in a " situation that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has " made himself more accessible than any other modern president , " but " the press and the president are natural adversaries , and this basic enmity is beginning to assert itself . " Management ' Charged The Washington press corps ' has seethed over the question ' aired in the TV panel for weeks . Accessibility to the White House has been coupled with an unusual administration drive to " manage the news , " some feel . Many reporters have had telephone calls from the White House to them , their colleagues , or their editors carrying praise or complaint . It generally is felt that Mr. Johnson is learning the hard way that dealing with the press requires a different technique in the White House than in the Senate , Most reporters want to judge news on its substance .                     