@@722754

txt Negotiations on Bases Stalled for Week BY WILLIAM ANDERSON IChicoso Tribune Press Servial Washington , Nov. 4 ? On-site inspections for the dimantling of Russian missile bases in Cuba tonight remained a major problem for President Kennedy . Theodore C. Sorenson , special counsel to the President . acknowledged that negotiations are delicate , and that adequate inspection should include surveillance from ground , sea and air . Sorenson said there were many ways inspections could be made but gave no details . Kennedy Stands Firm His views were aired as other Presidential sources pictured Kennedy as wanting some kind of surveillance indefinitely over Cuba to guard against any renewal of a Russian missile buildup . These sources said Kennedy is determined to verify by international inspection teams the removal of the nuclear missile sites , altho some aerial photographic evidence has been displayed to show the bases are being dismantled . On-site inspection details have been stalled for a week now because Cuban Premier Fidel Castro has balked at the idea . Meanwhile , reports keep rising that the Kennedy administration would perhaps be willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Point Sorenson gave some fuel to these reports by saying during a television interview that " as of now " the United States is pressing for on-site inspection . Adlai E. Stevenson , United States ambassador to the United Nations , also was pressed on the point last night after he concluded a two hour conference in the White House with the President . A reporter asked Stevenson , " Will we insist on on-site in-spections ? " " That remains to be seen , " Stevenson replied . He then went on to say that the on-site investigations were " implicit " in last week 's agreement between President Kennedy and Premier Nikita Khrushchev . Ca n't Show Disposition Edwin M. Martin , an assistant secretary of state for intetkAmerican affairs , pointed out today that the aerial inspections can not show where the missiles are going or permit verification " they have left the island or will be reintroduced . " Sorenson said there would have to be adequate inspection previsions and pointed out the terms of the Kennedy-Khrushchev pact call for Russia to remove its offensive weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invade Cuba . Kennedy is said to view the dismantling of the bases as " hard " diplomacy , allowing for no room for doubt on either side . While the negotiators talked in attempts to work out.the onsite points , most eyes were on Havana , where Russian Deputy Premier Anastas I. Mikoyas met with Castro , apparently to win permission for the inspection teams to come to Cuba .                     