@@725452

txt SAIGON , Viet Nam ; April 10 Sunday-Buddhist revolutionaries announced yesterday that their demands have not been accepted by South Viet Nam 's military government and that a " Struggle Army " will be organized to resume their fight for political power . At the same time the government announced t h e appointment of a new commander to stabilize the situation in the rebellious 1st corps , particularly in Da Nang , where government and rebel troops have been confronting each other for a week . Led Saigon Raids The new 1st corps commander is Lt. Gen. Ton That Dinh , who led raids on Buddhist pagodas when he was military governor of Saigon under President Ngo Dinh Diem and has the reputation of being a tough anti-communist . A captured Communist party directive , marked " top secret " and " extremely urgent , " con-1 firms that recent street dis-1 turbances by Buddhist students and teen-age hoodlums have been planned , organized , and turned into anti-American demonstrations by the Viet Cong . ( Reuters News agency reported South Viet Nam 's Roman Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government take strong action against Buddhist demonstrations . The demand was made at a special meeting of 300 Catholic representatives from 45 provinces to discuss the " dangerous situation " here . ( The Catholic-estimated to number 1.5 million of the country 's 14 million population ? also came out against the antigovernment rebellion in the northern cities of Hue and Da Nang , Reuters said . ( " If , as Premier Nguyen Cao Ky has said , the rebellion in the north was carried out by the Communists , the central government should march troops up and retake the cities at all Costs , " the statement said . ( It reiterated Catholic demands for a civilian government thru general elections , but added that Catholics opposed communist participation in a national assembly . " We do not oppose a civilian government headed by the Buddhists , the Hoa Hao fa religious sect , or anybody else , but we win always oppose a coalition government with the Communists , " - the chairman of the Catholics ' central committee ( Nguyen Gia Hien , said . ( This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political crisis came to the boil a month ago , Reuters said . The communist action order was taken from the body of a Viet Cong political officer by Koran troops in Binh Dinh province , near Qui Nhon , on March 23 and translatedty the Vietnamese intelligence service . It was dated March 16 and signed by Bien Chuong , secretary general of the E. 40 leading committee , which apparently is the principal political authority in a major Viet Cong administrative district . Instructs Red Agents The directive instructs Viet Cong agents to " create a movement fighting for the eradication of military dictatorship . " These instructions have been carried out in detail , down to the actual slogans on signs carried by teen-age and subteen-age rabble in street disturbances that have been going on in cities from Hue to Saigon . The communist directive instructs Viet Cong agents to " keep ready banners , slogans , leaflets , explosives , grenades , etc. , so we can work in every state of confusion . " " When there is a demonstration , " it continues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to infiltrate into its leading organs . . . so we can place our slogans , hang our colors , distribute leaflets at night time . " Slogans in Detail The Viet Cong agents are directed to use the following slogans : " Down with the Rebel Government Led by Hooligans Nguyen Van Thieu and Ky , " " Disband the Puppet War Cabinet Created by the United States , " " Down with American Imperialist Aggressors , " " United States Go Home  --  Peace for Viet Nam , " " Down with the Bloodthirsty Korean Mercenaries . " All of these slogans have been used in recent street demonstrations . The new Buddhist threat was issued only two days after the militant monks had indicated satisfaction with political concessions made by the government and anti-American street disturbances , which the Communists are exploiting with all their ingenuity and resources . On the other hand , the appointment of Gen. Dinh to restore order in the 1st corps suggests that the government is prepared at last to knock a few shaved heads together if necessary to silence the political monks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danger of a Coup Only a small minority of the population is involved in the Communist-supported Buddhist movement . Thus the military government can not be overthrown so long as the 10 generals of the ruling directory remain united and the troops they command remain loyal . But if the situation gets much worse and the government does not assert its authority with all necessary force , some ambitious general may attempt a coup . At all events , the United States regards the situation as extremely serious . Having previously evacuated American civilians from Hue , in the northern part of the 1st corps area , the United States also removed 250 civilians and several hundred non-essential military personnel from Da Nang . In Saigon , where the curfew begins at 9 p. m. , American military personnel have been ordered and American civilians have been requested to keep off the streets in the vicinity of disturbances . Restrict Yanks in Saigon Friday night , in response to a request from the Vietnamese government , the embassy authorized military police to keep American newspaper and television representatives away from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several Americans have been attacked and at least two American jeeps have been overturned and burned by the juvenile mobs in Saigon . The order for the evacuation of American civilians from Da Nang was prompted by the failure of Premier Nguyen Cao Ky and his representatives to reach an agreement with Gen. Nguyen Van Chuan , the 1st corps commander who was relieved yesterday , on the withdrawal of two battalions of Vietnamese rangers from Da Nang . The rangers were sent there by Chuan last Sunday when Ky announced that Da Nang would be liberated from communist control and that its mayor , Dr. Nguyen Van Man , would be shot as a traitor . Pause to Parley The Vietnamese government , with the assistance of the American air force , rushed two reinforced battalions of marines about 1,200 and 10 tanks to the Da Nang air base , but paused to parley before occupying the city . Mayor Man said in a radio broadcast yesterday that he is sorry the United States had to evacuate 538 men , women , and children from the city because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that the Johnson administration should be criticized for supporting the Saigon military government 's " corrupt and selfish " officials . Gen. Dinh formally took command of the 1st Vietnamese army corps yesterday and declared that his first order of business would be the restoration of order in Da Nang . Dinh conferred briefly with Lt. Gen. Lewis W. Walt , head of United States marines in Viet Nam . Dinh later told a press conference that he did not need the 1,500 Vietnamese marines in Da Nang to restore order.I No Incidents Erupt Notwithstanding Premier Ky 's insistence at a press conference only last Sunday that Da Nang was controled by the Communists , the government 's announcement of Gen. Dinh 's appointment said there had been no regrettable incidents between the people and the armed forces in 1st corps , " thanks to the disciplined spirit of the armed forces and the anti-communist consciousness of our fellow countrymen in Hue and Da Nang . " The announcement said Gen. Chuan had been relieved at his own request and appointed director of the armed forces training center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus exchanged assignments .                     