@@725940

txt Italy proposed today that a special committee be appointed to ask Corn-I munist China whether it was willing to comply with the ! terms of the United Nations Charter and what its true attitude was toward organsentation in the world organization . The proposal was injected into a vehement debate marked by denunciations of United States policy on the question , of Communist China 's admission and on Vietnam by spokesmen for Cambodia and Guinea . There was also an attack by the Chinese Nationalist Foreign Minister , Dr. Wei Tao-ming , on the arguments for admission . The Soviet delegate , Nikolai T. Fedorenko , some of the Eastern European representatives and a large number of African members walked out at the start of Dr. Wei 's speech . Mr. Fedorenko consequently did not hear Dr. Wei 's ' warning that Communist Chinese enmity for the Soviet Union had reached the point of no return . Secretary of State Dean Rusk said at a news C011ference in Washington that the United States had sufficient support to block the admission of Communist China to the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States shift at this time toward a policy favoring representatives ' of both Chinese regimes in the United Nations . The chairman of the Italian delegation , Senator Attilio Pic- // cioni , declared that Italy 's initiative was intended to ascertain the " official " intentions of Peking and to avoid further sterile discussions on the issue of the Communists ' admission . Italy , he said , would vote against admission at the end of the debate , which opened today in the General Assembly . The Italian delegation is expected to present E draft resolution embodying its proposal tomorrow . The proposed committee would report its findings to the 22d session of the General Assembly next September so that in the next debate on China 's admission the question , according to Senator Piccioni , could be tackled anew on a " sound and constructive basis . " Neither the heat nor the importance of this debate were affected appreciably by the Italian move . Peking 's supporters and opponents made it clear in their speeches that they knew where the Communists stood on the issues raised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the proposal at the start of the debate indicated that the Italians accepted the United States mission 's view that Peking would be barred at this session . Two draft resolutions are before the General Assembly . One , submitted by Albania , Cambo , dia and nine other delegations , demands the seating of the Communist Government and ' the eviction of the Nationalist ) representatives . The other asks that the issue be considered a " question of importance " by the General Assembly thus requiring a two-thirds vote . Senator Piccioni announced that his delegation would support the latter resolution , which was introduced by the United States and 12 other governments . Italy 's proposal seeks the answer to three questions . The first two have become urgent as a consequence of statements by Peking spokesmen about the United Nations and its present organization . According to Senator Piccioni , these are : " Does the People 's Republic of China really want to be represented in the United Nations ? And , assuming that the reply to this question is categorically yes , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the Charter of San Francisco as it governs the United Nations ? " The Italian move to end the " differences in interpretations " of the Communists ' views in the General Assembly is not the first . As far bad : as 1950 Canada  --  which is now discussing a formula with interested governments to allow both Chinese regimes to be represented in the United Nations ? suggested that a special committee be set up to study Chinese representation . The committee ended its work without arriving as any conclusions or recommendations . Senator Piccioni 's third question was on the position of the Nationalist Government . The answer , and much more , was provided in Dr. Wei 's speech . Nationalist China 's Foreign Minister " categorically " rejected any two-Chinas formula and , ; quoting from speeches by Communist leaders , dissected the arguments for Peking 's admission . Calls Regime ' Un-Chinese ' The Communists ' supporters argue that because mainland China is now a nuclear power it is entitled to membership , Dr. Wei said . But he said " this is tantamount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a desire for peace " but the ability to make war . " Peking 's backers seek to restore the " lawful rights " of the Chinese Communist regime , Dr. Wei said . But that regime can not speak for the Chinese people because it is " un-Chinese in character and un-Chinese in purpose , " he said . " Mao Tse-tung would not have resorted " to the drastic measures used by the Red Guards , the Foreign Minister argued , " if he had not felt that his regime was in grave danger of collapsing . " Even the army , he said , was " plagued by internal conflict and dissension . " Dr. Wei denounced supporters of a two-Chinas policy and their argument that mainland China should be brought out of political isolation and into the United Nations to reduce its belligerency . This point was made in last month 's recommendation by the United Nations Association of the United States . To do this , Dr. Wei declared , would be to " put the seal of approval " on the Communist Government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more moderate in words and deeds , " it would " strengthen their belief that they are indeed invincible and that their policy of aggression has paid off . " Citing past aggressions by Fascist Italy , Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union despite their membership in the League of Nations , Dr. Wei insisted that membership in an international organization does not modify " the behavior of a regime bent on aggression . " Criticizes Universality Plea The principle of universality has been exalted by Peking 's friends to the point where it might be considered " a cardinal principle of the Charter , " he said . Not so , he argued , criticizing one of Secretary General Thant 's favorite contentions . The Charter does not provide for " automatic universality " and Article 4 has been invoked effectively to deny East Germany 's eligibility for membership , he said . Huot Sambath of Cambodia , who opened the debate with a plea for Communist China 's admission , and Marof Achkar of Guinea , who took the same position , denounced the United States . The Nationalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design to interfere in China 's internal affairs and a " flagrant violation " of its sovereignty . Americans called the Communist aggressors , he said , but they were the aggressors in Vietnam . Mr. Achkar 's theme was that Communist China was the first " power of color " in the world and had broken the scientific and technological monopoly of " white and Christian nations of the West . "                     