@@725224

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the Editor of The Times St. John 's Supported To the Editor : As a former student at St. John 's University and council president of not too ancient vintage , I should like to affirm that I enjoyed the widest latitude of thought and expression in every sphere of academic or intellectual interest , with exchanges among faculty members and students and between faculty members themselves free , lively and courteous . I acknowledge , proudly and gratefully , that whenever matters of purely doctrinal or pastoral relevance were involved , the orthodox Roman Catholic teaching was stated , in keeping with the founding principles of the university and the mandate given the Vincentian Fathers by its supporters to preserve St. John 's University as a Catholic institution . For its continuing efforts at self-study and renewal in order ever better to serve the university 's historic purpose , the administration deserves commendation and encouragement . Worthy of praise , too , are those members of the faculty who have worked toward renewal in a calm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To be deplored is the conduct of those few faculty members who have committed the folly of abdicating adult judgment in favor of reckless activism . Surely these immoderate gentlemen hurling extremist challenges can not hope to foster any dialogue worthy of the ' academic community . Government Questioned Surely their very recourse to striking and picket line raises grave doubt concerning their commitment to standards of restraint expected of those claiming professional status . We should reject out of hand the insulting proposition that weapons traditionally associated with industrial warfare are fitting instruments for achieving the delicate balances of academic life . St. John 's University has carried out a historic role in American Catholic education ; today it faces the problems and opportunities springing from phenomenal growth and the needs of mass education . Under the dedicated and prudent guidance of the Vincentian Fathers , it has succeeded in blending respect for the heritage of the past with enthusiasm for the challenge of the future . And now , with the academic world torn by doubt as to the nature of education and the respective roles of those involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alma mater to prove herself truly " a bright and shining light " revealing to all men of good will a new and richer vision of liberty in harmony . We who love the university welcome the challenge . NICHOLAS C. SILLETTI College , 1951 ; Law , 1954 Brooklyn , . Tan , 3 , 1966 ? New Midtown Tunnel To the Editor : Robert Moses proposes  --  Robert Moses disposes . He is again wrong . A new midtown tunnel from Queens will only increase the congestion of traffic in New York . Experience in other cities , for example Los Angeles , shows that the more access the more congestion , until the central core of the city becomes a mincemeat of overlying highways and darkness below . What is needed certainly is not encouragement for more Long Island to New York City traffic ; rather better mass transit from the outer edges of the city into Manhattan , And then , with cunning , Mr. Moses sees that if he builds his new tunnel the city will have to accede to his 30th Street expressway  --  again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with extra cars from the new tunnel , something will have to be done at the Manhattan exit . Let this money go for better mass transit to the city ; terminal points in the outskirts and parking places out there for Long Islanders who " must " drive ; and space age transit instead of horse-and-buggy stuff . Prevent Mr. Moses from making mincemeat of our city . DAVID E. LICHT New York , Dec. 28 , 1965 ? paigns in Life magazine and other publications , are beginning to take effect . One hopes so ( and can even note with rueful satisfaction that although the east side of the Plaza has abdicated to the automobile for the biggest showroom in the universe , at least the northwest corner has so far not been bitten off for another eatery ) . Perhaps is it not , after all , too late to save some of the few remaining oases of greenery , people-sized buildings and stretches of natural countryside , which offer some sense of scale , historical continuity , or visual delight in our increasingly urbanized , concretized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence that alternative solutions should be explored , and that " the right of the public must receive active and affirmative protection " is an admirable precept for all to follow who are charged with irreversible decisions affecting the kind of city and metropolitan area later generations will inherit . CARROLL ELLIOTT New York , Dec. 30 , 1965 ? Chamber of Commerce Group States Program To the Editor : I was completely surprised to have read your editorial " Jaycees at Sea . " After reading your newspaper for almost sixteen years , I find it hard to believe your paper would lash out editorially with such a lack of information . I can only assume your information stems from an Oct. 18 news conference in Detroit where I was asked , " What would we do if we found Communist infiltrators guiding the peace demonstrators ? " I stated we would probably report their existence to law enforcement agencies . You also stated that " 250,000 Jaycees plan to mount their chargers and gallop off in all directions to hunt down and expose leftists among American peace demonstrators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Vigilante ' Role We have never fashioned ourselves as " vigilantes " or " investigators " and never intend to prevent a fellow American from exercising his constitutional rights . You suggested an educational program which was exactly what we announced at that same news conference . Our programs , which have already exceeded our anticipated success , include : Educational campus discussions of democracy vs . Communism . An " appreciation " letter writing campaign direct to our armed forces . Encouraging respect and moral responsibility to observe law and order where demonstrations are taking place . Since that conference , we have joined with the Young Republicans and Young Democrats in sponsoring ACTT ( America 's Christmas Trains and Trucks ) which resulted in almost $100,000,000 in essential gifts being sent to the people of South Vietnam . Because 92 per cent of our membership could be recalled to active service through military obligations or reserve commitments , we can not find it easy to send our fellow Americans into conflict . Jaycees are working , praying and building for a better tomorrow . However , as long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we realize we must have the courage to resist  --  or all that has been built , all we hope to build and all the dreams of every free man will fail . I 'm sorry that crime and disorder are news and good citizenship is not . JAMES A. SKIDMORE Jr . President , Jaycees Tulsa , Okla. , Jan. 5 , 1966 ? To Check Migration To the Editor : Your Dec. 26 editorial on " New York Program : Planning " has considerable merit , but overlooks New York 's inability to cope with unguided migration into the city . There is something inhuman about the way countless pilgrims that come to New York  --  and our other large cities  --  are allowed to herd into intolerable living conditions . What are they to do ? They come in their thousands from the South , from Puerto Rico , from other cities into the urban center . They have no money and soon need relief . A few show initiative and find work , but often this does not affect the condition of their living . Sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shifts ? maybe ten in a room . One can see these pilgrims in clusters by daylight , with nothing to do , on sidewalks or moving around in groups . How can we stop the turning of good properties into slums unless by some means we get word to migrants that their fate in the big city may not be any better than their condition where they are . For when families break up into a migrant flow these may be nothing before them but inevitable despair . Surely this human problem , in which so many thousands suffer , is as important as the institutional program you so effectively assemble . JOHN W. BRADBURY New York , Jan. 1 , 1966 ? L.I . Rail Purchase ' To the Editor : Is n't it strange how smoothly ( and almost stealthily , too ) the State of New York engineered the purchase of the Long Island Rail Road ? The virtual news blackout on this whole affair gives it a somewhat odious air of pork-barreling . How expedient it is to suggest at one time that private enterprise such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until it is refurbished at government expense . After that action is completed , we must , of course , brace ourselves in expectation that it then will be even more expedient to turn the road back to private enterprise . In essence this transaction has all the earmarks of a newly devised technic for subsidizing private enterprise on a grand scale . And the electorate need not even be consulted ! OSCAR S. SWARTH Flushing , L. I. , Jan. 5 , 1966 ? Law , Not Faith To the Editor : Over the week-end I received my Federal income tax forms , and was amused to find that they were prefaced by a message from Sheldon S. Cohen , Commissioner of Internal Revenue , which begins by informing me that " Every year more than 60 million individuals demonstrate their faith in America by filing income tax returns . " What is the purpose of this silly piece of moralism ? Does anybody believe it ? We file our income tax returns because the law requires us to , and whatever the reasons for which we obey the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fear , sympathy , reason , in that order of influence ) most of the 60 million would give signs of incredulity if told that their action was a demonstration of faith . S. D. TEMKIN Lowell , Mass. , Jan. 10 , 1966 ? Hanoi Believed China 's Captive To the Editor : Your Jan. 9 editorial " The Reply to Hanoi " suggests the only intelligent and relevant response to the hard but apparently accurate assessment of the cul-de-sac in Vietnam revealed by Senator Mike Mansfield 's mission . One point , however , I believe needs underlining . For the last six months the more numerous public initiatives for settlement have appeared to be Washington 's . Hanoi , despite several verified instances of serious probes , usually has appeared the more intransigent . If your assumption is true , and I believe it is , that the real negotiating gap is not nearly as wide as we have been led to believe  --  what , then , is the problem ? Why does Hanoi surround its responses with such outrageously frozen rhetoric ? Why does Hanoi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? And why , for example , are Hanoi 's initiatives always secret , while ours are almost always public ? The obvious answer is : China THE ENGLISH GARDEN AT CASERTA De  --  teter and Apollo gleam . In marble from . a grotto near a stream , That drowns the feet of stone tranced fauns And goddesses , and loops into a dream Of Claude , Poussin , Corot , Through ilex groves and lawns Where the Campania glow Of May on turf and palm and cedar trees Composes arcadies . WILLIAM SALLAR But it is more that that . It is , in this writer 's judg ment , the nature of the tral Hanoi is in . And there will IN no way out for them until Wi understand the problem . For thi trap also is ours . We are accustomed to view Moscow and Peking as competi tive allies of Hanoi . The plait facts are that practical geogra phy gives Peking an absolute veto over Russian support b North Vietnam by land , and ou : Seventh Fleet gives the Unite ( States a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those unfamiliar with the map it is more difficult to read Hanoi from Moscow than fron San Francisco . Risk for Hanoi In short , North Vietnam ' : only useful geographical ally Peking . That is the basis a China 's considerable leverage More correctly put , Hanoi is of fectively mainland China 's pris oner to the degree she does no ' know our real negotiating terms Hanoi , to accept an offer o negotiations without any pricy understanding must be ready ' to break with Peking and gambli that she will not be left isolatec if American terms , presented al the negotiating table , are totall ! unacceptable . North Vietnam as unlikely to accept such ai open-ended risk as we would under similar circumstances . We have in Vietnam apparent . ly the unique and complex prob ability that Hanoi and Washing ton may have to arrive at thi main features and shape of till settlement before reaching thi negotiating table . As much a : we might not like it , we art going to have to negotiate will the National Liberation Fron and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's in ternal inconsistency . Bilateral Diplomacy We can not preach self-deter mination and then insist upon our determining who shall oi shall not be permitted to parties ipate in the South Vietnames4 Government . The corollary to this line 01 reasoning is : we are not going to be able to negotiate the Viet . cong 's " unconditional surrender ' to Saigon any more than till Vietcong would be able to nego. tiate ours to Hanoi . Thus , your editorial proposal for quiet bi. lateral diplomacy prior to a new Geneva meeting seems eminentls apt and urgently necessary . ROY BENNETI New York , Jan. 10 , 196E The writer is United Nation : correspondent for The Loudon Tribune . ? Bicycle Lanes To the Editor : What I should like to pro . pose is nothing specially new for many European cities haw this already . In the future plan . ping of our city we should adc lanes exclusively for bicycles . A bicycle takes up far les : space than an automobile , doe : not foul our atmosphere , cost : far less to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our citizenry . In emergencies distances of ten or even fifteen miles to go to work could hi covered in less than an hour be bicycle . This would also encourag4 improvements in the presen type of bicycle and stimulate growth in that industry . J. L. FINcl , Jamaica , L. I. , Jan. 5. 1961 ? Secret Strike Vote To the Editor : James Reston 's Jan. 9 column aptly stated that " Damning Quill now is not much use ; in later in Albany when action wil be needed . " I suggest that Washington can be equally or more fruitfu as an area for action througi legislation guaranteeing to mem bers of large unions the right to vote secretly on all issues including strikes , as they nom do in representation elections This issue has just been eln phasized to me by severa Transport Workers Union mem. bers who said that they had not wanted to strike but that they had been afraid to vote pub . licly against doing so , Such a secret vote could bl guaranteed simply by Federa legislation providing for voting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ever it already has jurisdictior over a union , or whenever then is a reasonable likelihood that interstate commerce will be af. fected . The effects of the T.W.0 strike on interstate commerce are all too obvious . STEPHEN A. WISE New York , Jan , 11 , 1961 Delay on Storm King To the Editor : The decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals , which at least delays the license to destroy the Hudson shnrelinp at Storm King , is one of the best New Year 's greetings a New Yorker could have . Editorial " Victory at Storm King " Jan. 3.1 Is it possible that something Is at last stirring to hinder such vast monopolistic institutions as Robert Moses and Con Ed bt their headlong rush to pave the Eastern Seaboard , fragment Manhattan Island , and cut our mountains and rivers down to size ?                     