@@725873

txt Sixty million Indians reportedly are facing starvation in Bihar and the eastern part of its neighboring state , Uttar Pradesh . The monsoons have ended . Yet in whole areas of Bihar only withered paddy fields can be found while in the northern sectors of the state many fields are covered with silt from the now-receded floods . The drought may also contribute to the strain of the forthcoming elections . A bumper crop had been expected . The disappointment of a drought could be reflected at the polls , observers here feel . The famine warnings have come from a prominent Bihar man , Jayaprakash Narain . His and the warnings of others have led Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to dispatch two of her Cabinet ministers to the state for an on-the-spot study . Aid solicited The shortage of rice and wheat may compel millions of persons to subsist on sweet potatoes until the onset of the winter rains in December . But Mr. Narain , a leader of the Bhoodan ( land gift ) movement , has urged that hundreds of shallow wells be drilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactured electric pumps . In this manner , he says , a new vegetable crop can be quickly grown to tide Bihar over until the winter grain crop is harvested in March . Each pump costs approximately 4,000 rupees ( $308 ) , and Mr. Narain is soliciting private agencies and individuals to help collect the money , buy the pumps , and arrange their immediate installation . He has also sought help from United States Ambassador Chester Bowles , the United Nations Children 's Fund , and the Food and Agriculture Organization for diversion of milk powder By Russell H. Lenz , chief cartographer Battleground against hunger A rash of floods in the north and drought in other parts of India 's Bihar State have threatened the food supply of 60 million Indians . New Delhi is providing relief measures and a Bihar leader is suggesting new wells and electric pumps . and vitamins to areas where they are most needed . This year 's monsoon rains have not been much better than last year 's . The southern states and Qorthern Punjab are in fairly good shape . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The early months of the 1965-66 drought were bridged by a bumper 1965 harvest . But how a food supply and distribution is going to be managed in 1966.67 ? even with massive American imports ? is being urgently discussed now at top levels here .                     