@@726861

txt Changing patterns of Middle East oil supplies and British defense cuts have produced a flurry of new activity in Arabia and the Persian Gulf . Iran 's relations with Arab neighbors and the desire of oil-producing states to earn higher profits are at the center of these moves . The three Arab giants in the Organization of Pretroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) , Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , and Libya , set up a new organization for Arab petroleum-exporting countries here Jan. 9 . Its object is to secure more favorable price and concession terms from Western oil companies by coordinating policies toward the companies . As oil ministers of the three countries signed the accord at the Libyan Embassy here , a special session of the OPEC in Beirut announced settleinent of a long dispute between five of OPEC 's nine members with the companies . The Arabian American Oil Company ( ARAMCO ) took the initiative for the settlement , according to OPEC sources . Oilmen here said Kuwait , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , Libya , and Iran essentially accepted Aramco 's offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vienna headquarters after the governments concerned ratify the agreement . Oil-industry experts here believe the companies have in effect conceded large new revenues to the government concerned , probably for four years . The dispute concerned the governments ' demands for cancellation of a 6.5 percent " discount " or allowance to companies under royalty expensing agreements signed in 1964 . An OPEC spokesman , Alirio Parra of Venezuela , said the allowance would be eliminated " for a number of years . " This would mean about $200 million more income in four years for the governments concerned , oilmen believe . Meanwhile , there were important political moves in the Arabia-Persian Gulf area , source of more than half the Western world 's oil supplies . In Tehran the government of Shah Reza Pahlavi announced it supported the idea of a defense alliance with Saudi Arabia , Kuwait , and the smaller states of the gulf . The announcement came after the visit of Goronwy Roberts , Minister of State at the British Foreign Office . Mr. Roberts is touring the gulf area to explain to the governments concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures to protect the pound sterling . They involve withdrawal of much of the British defense commitment east of Suez . When Britain evacuated South Arabia , now the People 's Republic of South Yemen , last November , British garrisons on Bahrain Island and in the gulf state of Sharjah were strengthened . But Middle East diplomats regard British evacuation of these positions within three years as virtually certain . This would leave oil-producing states of the area without their traditional British defense umbrella . Joint development Both Iran and Saudi Arabia , fearing Soviet and Arab socialist pressure in Yemen and Southern Arabia , have been purchasing costly air defense equipment from Britain and the United States . Both have de facto military arrangements with London and Washington but no formal treaty between themselves . The ruler of Kuwait , Sheikh Sabah as-Salim as-Sabah , began a visit to Iran Jan. 10 . Kuwait newspapers said he would discuss Iranian-Arab relations in Tehran . The Iraqi Premier , ' Lt. Gen. Taher Yahia , ended a visit to Kuwait Jan. 9 . A communiqu ? said the two countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flared several times since Iraq unsuccessfully tried to annex Kuwait in 1961 . The disputed border zone has some of the richest oil concessions in the world . Kuwait and Iraq said they would jointly develop steel , sulfur , iron and petrochemical industries . The Kuwait development fund would finance a paper factory and a new power station in Iraq , the communiqu ? added . Iraq has refused to join the new Arab petroleum organization whose headquarters are to be in Kuwait .                     