@@724596

txt Cardinal Albert Meyer , Roman Catholic archbishop of Chicago , will undergo brain surgery this afternoon to relieve " increased intracranial pressure , " his doctor announced yesterday at Mercy hospital . Cardinal Meyer , 61 , has been suffering from continuing headaches for three weeks . He entered Mercy last Wednesday , and extensive tests began the next day . Prepare for Surgery Dr. John L. Keeley , the cardinal 's personal physician , held a conference with consulting specialists who have examined the cardinal before issuing a statement saying : " Intracranial surgery will be performed to relieve this pressure which has been localized on the right side of the head . " Preparations for the surgery were made yesterday . It will be performed by Dr. Harold C. Voris , chairman of neurosurgery at Mercy , who examined the cardinal on Sunday . Cause Unspecified The cause of the pressure was not specified , altho the doctors were known to anticipate a tumor . However , such pressure also could be created by a blood clot or vascular disorder , observers said . Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , passing the time reading and receiving visitors from his official staff . He was kept fully informed on results of the examinations and agreed to the recommended surgery . Surgeon Optimistic Dr. Voris , who will head a 10-member surgical team , said Cardinal Meyer seems to be an excellent operative risk from the physical standpoint . " In addition , he is a calm and understanding person , " Dr. Voris said . Dr. Voris , a neurosurgeon more than 30 years , will be attended by Dr. David C. Voris , an associate and nephew who has been a neurosurgeon for 10 years . Three other neurosurgeons , an anesthesiologist , and four surgical nurses will complete the team . The hospital said numerous technicians will be outside the operating room . Cardinal Meyer , thru the Most Rev. Cletus F. O'Donnell , vicar general of the Chicago archdiocese , expressed appreciation for the many letters and telegrams he has received and the many prayers that have been offered in his behalf . Asks Continued Prayers " After discussing the situation with his doctors , his eminence called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis , asked that I add to the , medical bulletin his request for your continued prayers , " Bishop O'Donnell said . " In turn , his eminence wishes to assure all of you that you are in his heart , in his thoughts , and in his prayers in a special way at this time , " he concluded . Telegrams signed by Bishop O'Donnell were sent yesterday afternoon to pastors of 450 churches in the archdiocese informing them of the impending surgery and urging prayers for the cardinal 's recovery . Bishop O'Donnell suggested special masses and prayers , and granted permission for evening mass during the time of the cardinal 's illness . Bishop O'Donnell said Pope Paul VI has sent a cablegram expressing his concern for Cardinal Meyer . He said the vatican had been kept informed of developments and was aware that the cardinal would undergo surgery . Cardinal Meyer , suffering from abdominal pains and nausea , was , taken to Mercy Jan. 6 and released Jan. 18 after treatment for a gall bladder disorder . As he left the hospital he told reporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days earlier Dr. Keeley said tests showed Cardinal Meyer to be " in fine physicai condition . " Readmitted on Feb. 17 When he was admitted to Mercy again Feb. 17 , Cardinal Meyer was reported having a checkup and receiving treat- , ment for a sinus condition . x-ray examinations Thursday , Friday , and Saturday ruled out sinusitis as the cause of the persistent headaches . Tests then were continued by neurologists and neurosurgeons . Sister Mary Gwendoline , Mercy administrator , said the surgery could be considered " exploratory , " since the surgeons do not know exactly what they will find . Experts in the field of neurosurgery said that if Cardinal Meyer has a tumor , which appears likely on the basis of the announced diagnosis , his future well being will depend on its location and microscopic makeup . There are many kinds of tumors and " many imponderables " in their successful removal , surgeons said . A significant factor is the exact location of the growth . If the tumor is superficial . that is , confined to the membrane around the brain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subscin , e of the brain is involved , however , the possibility of damage to the vital centers arise . The patient 's body movements , speech , memory , and sensations could be affected . Dr. Harold C. Voris performed successful surgery to separate the Andrew Siamese twins at Mercy in 1955 . Both are still living .                     