@@727279

txt The announcement today of an AllIllinois Committee for Humphrey appeared to move the uncommitted 118-vote state delegation to . the Democratic National t onVentien a long step closer to the column of the Vice President . The 166-member committee includes a number of delegates to the convention . Some are close to Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago , who controls most of the delegation . Mayor Daley has said only that he will announce his choice for President after the delegation caucuses Aug. 25 , the day before the convention opens . Formation of the committee also provided evidence that Illinois backers of the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy for President were swinging support to the Vice President rather than to his opponent , Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota . The chairman of the Humphrey committee is Newton N. Minow , a leading Illinois supContinued porter of Senator Kennedy , who was chairman of the Federal Communications Commission under President Kennedy . He said at a news conference he would now be seeking to bring other Illinois Kennedy backers into the Humphrey campaign . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 42 cities , was confident of the Vice President 's nomination this month and was organized primarily to work for his election in November . . The vice chairman of the committee is State Treasurer Adlei E. Stevenson 3d . Honorary chairman is former Senator Paul H. Douglas . Mr. Minow , Mr. Stevensbn and Mr. Douglas are members of the Illinois delegation to the nominating convention . Others on the committee who are delegates include Ben W. Heineman , chairman of the Chicago and North Western Railway ; Clair M. Roddewig , president of the Association of Western Railways ; Robert Johnston , regional director of the United Automobile Workers ; Joseph Germano , district director of the United Steelworkers of America and Timthy R. Ives , a radio executive n Bloomington . All are expected to vote with Mayor Daley at the convention . Mr. Minow said , however , that the Mayor had not been conr suited about formation of the Humphrey committee . The Illinois Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations endorsed Mr. Humphrey yesterday . Mayor Daley has been closely aligned with Illinois labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Mayor also have Indicated their support of the Vice President . They are Jacob M. Arvey , national committeeman , Secretary of State Paul Powell , and State Representative Clyde L. Choate . Only two of the 118 delegates openly favor Mr. McCarthy . Mr. Stevenson told the news ' conference Senator McCarthy would make a good Vice-Presidential candidate on a Hum1phrey ticket . Mr. Stevenson is vice chairman of the United Democrats for Humphrey . He named Sargent Shriver , Ambassador to France ; Senator Fred R. Harris of Oklahoma , and Mayor Joseph L. Alioto of San Francisco as other Vice-Presidential possibilities . Asked about himself for the post , he said he had " never heard of a state treasurer becoming a Vice-Presidential nominee . " Meanwhile , a commission of prominent Chicagoans forecast trouble outside the hall of the nominating convention . The commission , headed by Edward J. Sperling , president emeritus of Roosevelt University , accused Mayor Daley and the Chicago police of provoking a near riot during a downtown peace march April 27 . The panel charged that the police broke up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " They said this included clubbing marchers from behind , using Chemical Mace to disable nonresisting marchers , and pulling fleeing demonstrators from nearby restaurants to beat them . The 10 ? member commission , organized by the Roger Baldwin Foundation of the American Civil Liberties Union , expressed concern that the tactics might be a " dress rehearsal " for repressing demonstrations aimed at the convention . Numerous antiwar and antiAdministration protests are being planned to coincide with the convention . The panel charged that the police were " inept as well as hostile " in handling the April march . " The police were doing what the Mayor and police superintendent had clearly Indicated was expected of them , " the 62-page report said . In 14 meetings , the commission heard 24 hours of sworn testimony and saw four hours of television films and 100 photographs . Mayor Daley said today the marchers had walked four abreast instead of two abreast and had held an unauthorized rally in the civic center plaza . Police officials denied brutality . Scores of persons were injured by the police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               