@@725930

txt President de Gaulle gave Prime Minister Harold Wilson an answer to his bid to take Britain into the European Economic Community before Mr. Wilson actually made his bid . The answer was no . The general gave it at his most recent press . conference . He explained that France had opposed British entry into EEC in January 1963 because of Britain 's strong non-European interests . Thege included not only trade ties with the British . Commonwealth but , as the general again stressed , defense ties with the United States . This defense question could again become the deciding issue in any British-French dialogue about Britain 's membership in the Common Market . Some Western diplomats here feel that Mr. Wilson has already foreseen this . They note that he has also foreseen a French demand that Britain must accept without change the rules of the Treaty of  --  Rome which is basic to the Common Market . Mr. Wilson has linked the two possible French demands . He has indicated that Britain is prepared to accept the Rome treaty if reasonable safeguards can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that the treaty says nothing about the defense ties which its signers may wish to make . On the one point of defense alone , General de Gaulle might well decide to cast a second veto against Britain , it is pointed out here . Campaign gains There are reasons , however , to expect the general to ' move cautiously toward any such veto . These reasons might eventually even cause General de Gaulle to accept British membership . Some arise from European politics . They concern ( 1 ) French-German relations and ( 2 ) French relations with the rest of the Common Market members . Other reasons arise from French internal politics as the campaign for spring parliamentary elections gains headway . French-German relations have worsened considerably . They were in fact a topic of rather sad comment by General de Gaulle in his last press conference . The German whom he holds chiefly responsible is former Chancellor Ludwig Erhard . Now Dr. Erhard has been deposed . His successor , however , will lead a nation which still favors both British membership in the Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Common Market , Belgium , the Netherlands , Luxembourg , and Italy , all have welcomed the Wilson move . Politics bear All the smaller members of the EEC would welcome Britain as a balance for German and French power . French domestic pOlities bears on any immediate response France may make to the Wilson bid . Political experts here point out that General de Gaulle can not afford to take risks with . the National Assembly election , and there could be risks in the Common Market issue . The general 's personal power rests on the Gaullist majority in that chamber . This could be destroyed either by a united left or by a combination of leftist parties with the center parties . Already the Soviet Union has warned that it would frown on Austria 's joining the Cornmon Market . This is something the Austrians hope to do in company with : Britain and other members of the European Free Trade Association .                     