@@721099

txt The Senate 's civil rights filibuster flowed toward its third dawn today on a torrent of Southern oratory that shows no sign of ebbing . At 3 A. M. Senator John J. Sparkman of Alabama held the floor for the Southern faction . Members of the big civil rights bloc concede that the non-stop session , which began at noon Monday , could easily continue through this week-end without weakening the Southern faction 's collective oratorical power , its zest for predawn skirmish or its will to block a vote . Nevertheless , although the Senate continued to be immobilized , there were new elements of fluidity in the situation off the floor . Several groups were buckling down to work on substantive elements that would have to go into a bill . More Agreeable to South The most important development was the decision of Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas to push for a. new voting rights bill slightly more acceptable to the South than similar proposals now before Congress . The Democratic Senate leader 's plan was unveiled Tuesday night to the Republican hierarchy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday and later was openly discussed in huddle on the Senate floor , It was understood that two other controversial sections of the bill now before the Senate would be dropped under the ' Johnson proposal . One is a provision giving Congressional endorsement to the Supreme Court 's 1954 desegregation decision . The other is a proposal to give statutory authority to the President 's Committee Against Job Discrimination under Government Contracts . This has been attacked by the Southerners as a Fair Employment Practices Commission . New Plan on Referees The Johnson plan is a variation on the Administration 's proposal to create voting referees who would register qualified Negroes and assure them the chance to vote in areas where Federal courts found they had been barred from the polls by systematic discrimination . Under the Administration proposal , the referees would be appointed by Federal District judges to register all qualified Negroes once a pattern of discrimination had been demonstrated . The variation being considered by Mr. Johnson would allow a brief period of grace after a pattern of discrimination had been noted , to give state and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initiative and avoid a start of the referee process . Leaders among the most lib- eral advocates of civil rights legislation confirmed that they had discussed the plan . They said they had found it acceptable , although they would not settle for a bill limited to this provision alone . Among the liberal group there was speculation that Senator Johnson , whose position could be decisive in shaping an ultimate bill , would soon offer his own package proposal . In this atmosphere , the Republican leadership called an " urgent " caucus for 12:30 P. M. today to consolidate the party 's position on the entire issue . One influential Republican said this would include a discussion of the attitude toward closure , the device of voting by twothirds of all Senators present to cut off debate . The caucus comes at a time when strains are beginning to show in the Republican attitude . The G. 0 . P. leader , Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois , is under pressure to help whittle down the seven-point Administration bill he is sponsoring . The object would be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include a statement endorsing the Supreme Court 's school desegregation decision of 1954 and a section providing Federal " technical assistance " for school districts undertaking to integrate . Those Republicans like Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York who work with liberal Democrats grouped around Senator Paul H. Douglas of Illinois are opposed to any whittling down . Tougher Bill Favored This group regards the Administration bill as relatively weak and is sponsoring amendments to make it even tougher . Its members met privately yesterday to canvass positions . The Republicans emerged determined to hold at at today 's conference for the full Administration bill . On the Senate floor it was talk as usual as the filibuster passed its sixty-third hour today , broken only by a fifteenminute recess . In the black hours between midnight and dawn yesterday the Southerners had been decisively mauled in a series of minor voting skirmishes and had extracted revenge by giving the big majority bloc a wearisome time hustling from sleeping cots to the Senate floor . The most important vote , came at 4:27 A. M. when the civil rights bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell B. Long of Louisiana . The Long amendment would have sanctioned statements urging resistance " by all legal means " to racial integration . The vote , forced by Senator Johnson with a motion to table , or kill , the proposal , was meaningful only as a measure of thc crushing power arrayed against the Southerners . Other votes on two Southern motions to adjourn the Senate came at 4:07 A. M. and 4:17 A. M. after the slumbering majority had been brought to the floor by quorum calls . The first motion lost , 84 to 6 , and the second by 65 to 7 . Crowds Drift Away During the wee hours the crowds that had packed the gallery for an entertainment that has replaced the late , late show as Washington 's favorite nocturnal time-killer gradually drifted away . The pre-breakfast duty for the Southerners was handled by Senator Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina , who took over at 4:43 A. M. At 7:13 , apparently looking for relief , Mr. Johnston was granted a fifteenminute recess , the first break , in the endless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nevada , and Prescott Bush , Republican of Connecticut , who were watching the floor for the majority , granted , the recess without objecting . Mr. Johnston could have gol his respite by demanding an . other quorum call . From the Southern strategic viewpoint , this would have had the merit of again disturbing the majority members who were still abed around the Capitol . The Southerners , in fact , were unhappy with Mr. Johnston for having failed to rouse the enemy and taken the recess instead . They were more seriously concerned , however , about the possible reaction to a speech delivered Tuesday night by Senator James 0 . Eastland . Twice during his pre-midnight stand on the floor , the Mississippi Democrat referred to a Supreme Court decision upholding the constitutionality of the 1957 civil rights act as " crap . " In The Congressional Record , the word was changed in one case to " claptrap " and , in the other , to " useless material . " The changes were made by the reporters of debate , the Senate 's title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' remarks for the Congressional Record . They were made without consultation with Senator Eastland , but any Senator has the right to alter his remarks after delivery if he wishes . Some civil rights advocates believed that Mr. Eastland 's choice of words had contributed new votes for a possible motion to cut off the filibuster . The pre-lunch duty for the Southerners was handled by Allen J. Ellender of Louisiana . The Southerners work on a duty timetable that requires a fourhour speech of each member and keeps a companion on the floor most of the time to succor him in moments of stress by asking lengthy questions . In the afternoon the speaker was Senator Long , a son of the late Huey ( Kingfish ) Long , who is still remembered as one of the Senate 's most entertaining filibusterers . The theme of the day for the Southern speakers  --  they concentrate on a fresh one each day  --  was voter apathy throughout the country . The general argument held that the low percentage of registered Negro voters in the South betrayed , not a pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apathy toward voting . Senator Richard B. Russell , Democrat of Georgia , cited statistics reported by the Urban League of Cleveland showing that only 26 per cent of eligible Negro voters in that city had bothered to register . In Atlanta , he said , the percentage is 29 per cent . Senator Long embroidered the theme with a Biblical denunciation of Senators Javits and Kenneth B. Keating , the two New York Republicans . These two , he suggested , are the South 's chief tormentors on the voting issue . Yet , Mr. Long said , New York 's literacy requirement for registration effectively blocks 600.000 Puerto Ricans from voting in New York City . In Louisiana , he said , " our law does n't require you to speak the English language to be able to vote . " " Those two great reformers " ? Messrs . Javits and Keating ? say nothing about the right to vote for New York 's Puerto Ricans , he said . Sermon on the Mount ' If he were a New York Senator , he went on , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'd recall the Sermon on the Mount : ' Why beholdest thou the mote and not the beam in thine own eye , ' and Jesus goes on to say ? ' thou hypocrite l ' ? " As the galleries laughed Mr. Long interjected : " I 'm not calling anybody here a hypocrite . " Mr. Long also reiterated a Southern charge that the Senators pressing for civil rights legislation were interested more in Negro votes for themselves than in protecting the rights of Negroes . He continued : " Patriotic Americans in the South are sick and tired of a Supreme Court which handles the Constitution and laws of the nation like a professional gambler working with loaded dice . " Mr. Long had held forth only briefly before he found help from a non-Southern quarter . Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri , and an unannounced Presidential candidate , had requested twenty minutes to attack the Administration 's defense policy . Mr. Long obliged . Mr. Symington read a prepared document for twenty-one minutes and then Senator Long suggested that a speech of such importance should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quorum call , which consumed fourteen minutes additional . The requisite majority trooped in , said " present , " and except for thirteen members , trooped out again . Mr. Symington then held the floor for an hour and seven minutes more , finishing his text and agreeing with sundry Democratic defense critics that Administration policy was dangerous and deplorable . At 4:14 P. M. , an hour and thirty-four minutes after Mr. Symington had requested twenty minutes , he turned the floor back to Mr. Long , and the talk droned on . In a sustained monotone , often inaudible to the gallery , Senator Long talked on for eight hours and twenty-four minutes  --  the longest talking stint thus far in the filibuster . At 12:38 A. M. , Senator Long suggested the absence ? of a quorum and the Senate went through the time-consuming procedure of rousing members and bringing them to the floor .                     