@@723826

txt Bonn East Germany 's Communist Government appears willing to put a price tag on allowing further openings in the Berlin wall . Otto Winzer , East German Deputy Foreign Minister , announced at the current Leipzig spring fair that new arrangements regarding traffic from West to East Berlin are possible since the agreement of last Dec. 17 had proved that " when Germans speak reasonably to Germans , then something reasonable results . " ' Concessions Sought That earlier agreement , according to Mr. Winzer , had ' excluded the problem of diplomatic recognition , but it had simultaneously satisfied West Berlin 's security interests . The East German official 's optimism  --  perhaps , better , opportunism ? seems based on 1 the hope that his government will obtain economic concessions it most urgently needs , namely , long-term trade credlits for investment goods . i Walter ' Ulbricht , chairman of the East German State Couni cil , last week outlined an am-bilious program for rationalizing industry . Both he and I government economic experts at the Leipzig fair have indicated that realization of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Plants Needed All this relates to Soviet pressure on East Germany to increase its productivity and ability to compete in international markets by reorganizing its economy and reorienting some of it . Particularly needed are new machinery plants . modern chemical and fertilizer industries , as well as improved transport . Such plans are possible only through massive West German aid within the frameNvork of interzonal trade . Under the existing interzonal trade agreement . West Germany grants credits for only 200 million marks ( S50 million ) . This was temporarily extended by the Bonn government 's not demanding adjustment of the trade balance until the middle of 1965 . Two Alternatives lf , however , East Germany 's debt that reaches this amount , there are two alternatives ? either it has to reduce its trade in the first half of next year or to pay on June 30 , 1965 , in hard currency which it lacks . East Germany , therefore , probably considers it a cheap concession to open the Berlin wall so as to obtain credit relief for its economic ditlicul : ties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Political concessions in exchange for economic credits have been mentioned for some time past . But how can West Germans and West BerH liners be sure that if they should grant such long-term credits ( and the huge sum earlier mentioned ) they will also get the political returns they seek ?                     