@@723607

txt Washington , Nov. 19 ? Senate Democrats debated today whether to dam off some of the river of gold being spend to put an American on the moon in order to leave more money for schools and job relief . Chairman J. William Fulbright D. , Ark. of the Senate foreign relations committee got things started by offering an amendment to reduce moonshot appropriations by 519 million dollars , the same amount the Senate cut Fulbright 's foreign aid bill . The Senate was debating a $13,356,789,650 independent offices appropriations bill , which included 5 billion 190 million dollars in new money for the national Aeronautics and space administration . Still a Billion Boost Simply stated , the purpose of the amendment is to allow time to reevaluate the goal of trying to reach the moon in this decade and to proceed on a more deliberate and thoughtful basis , " Fulbright said . " Even with this reduction the appropriation would be about 1 billion dollars  --  or 27 per coot ? above last year 's amount . " Fulbright emphasized that he was not attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to put a man on the moon . He said he thought the administration should- first determine , however , " whether the project is so vital and so urgent as to warrant the indefinite postponement of other national efforts . " Delay to Be No Calamity " I have heard nothing to persuade me that it would be a national calamity if the landing on the moon were delayed until 1980 or 1990 , " Fulbright said . " I have heard and seen a great deal which persuades me that our continuing neglect of deteriorating schools and rising unemployment would be a national calamity . " The real question before the Congress is not whether we should or should not explore outer space but whether . we want to spat 17 times as much on space adventure this year as on clearing urban blight and slums , whether we want to spend 25 times as much on space as providing adequate public housing for low income families . " Sen. Stuart Symington D. , Mo. said any reduction in funds for the moonshot might cause the project to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " take the advice of our commander in chief . " Go Round and Round Fuibright first made certain that Symington meant President Kennedy when he spoke of " our commander in chief . " " Since when did you have any respect for his opinion ? " Fulbright demanded of Symington . " I voted for his foreign aid bill , " said Symington . " Yes , , after cutting its guts ? its substacce  --  out , " Fuibright said . Symington said he voted to reduce foreign aid spending " after I learned the United States was training paratroopers for a country which did not have an airplane . " Fuibright told Symington he could find just as much " waste and extravagance " in America 's space program as he could find in its foreign aid program ;                     