@@721970

txt KYRENIA , Cyprus , Aug. 6 ? The United States is now involved in negotiations with four separate nations aiming to strengthen our coldwar propaganda hand in the strategically important Middle East . It is our hope that these negotiations will succeed in gaining for us lease rights on land where we hope to erect large new radio stations . From these stations Voice of America programs would be beamed in many languages toward North Africa , the Arab world and as far eastward as Soviet Central Asia . We now lag woefully in this vast Afro-Asian area which our diplomacy courts . In numbers of languages , numbers of hours broadcast and strength of emissions we come far behind Russia , Communist China and the United Arab Republic . Since last October we have even ceased Persian programs to Iran because our signal was too weak . Hitherto our efforts to disseminate the United States viewpoint in this region have depended largely on a relay station in Tangier , Morocco , and on a radio ship called the " Courier " anchored off the Greek island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our lease agreement with the Moroccan Government expires in December , 1963 , and relations are cooling . Therefore , it is not considered worth building a more powerful installation . Transmission from the " Courier " has also been inadequate . As a result the State Department , acting on behalf of its U. S. Information Agency , is engaged in talks with Italy , Greece , Turkey and Cyprus in an effort to rectify the situation . From Rome we hope to obtain rights to broadcast from Sardinia . From Turkey we hope to obtain similar rights in Adana and , perhaps , another station farther to the north beamed at the Soviet Caucasus and Central Asia . However , no agreement can be expected until after the October Turkish elections . We have already arranged with Greece to transfer equipment from the " Courier " to Rhodes itself and we are seeking rights to construct another installation , possibly at Salonika . And from Cyprus we hope to gain permission to rent land for a new transmitter here at Kyrenia , near our present monitoring station . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expand Voice of America facilities , which have had no substantial increase in power since 1953 . In December , 1962 , a new transmitting complex will begin functioning in Liberia , giving us for the first time a competitive position In sub-Saharan Africa vis-k-vis Russia , China and the U. A. R. Simultaneously , the world 's largest single transmitter will start in Greenville , N. C. , beamed primarily at Latin America . We hope by 1963 to install a station in England to replace Tangier and supplement our present European and future Middle Eastern schedules . Surveys for a Far Eastern broadcasting center have been made in Australia , the Christmas Islands and the Philippines . This imaginative scheme is going to require both time and money . Our present weakness in the Middle Eastern propaganda contest will continue for at least a year . And , even if we can arrange additional transmitter sites , U. S. I. A. will have to obtain large supplementary sums to finance them . Yet we must spend more to do better in the continuing propaganda competition . Only recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a V. 0 . A. Persian program , which left his country naked to unanswered Communist blasts . U. S. I. A. 's present budget plans ' for a mobile radio unit that can be flown to troubled regions . But more and more powerful permanent installations are needed . This will cost money , but our adversaries are already spending huge sums . Moscow allots more each year to jam the V. 0 . A. than the entire annual U. S. I. A. budget which , incidentally , amounts to less than the price of one combat-loaded Polaris submarine . Americans often admit that the most important ultimate contest is the contest for men 's minds . However , much as we pride ourselves on advertising techniques , we are apparently unwilling to spend enough to advertise the United States and we embarrassedly eschew the word " propaganda . " This is a self-defeating attitude . One may hope our diplomats will succeed in their efforts to secure locations for new radio stations . And , when this has been done , one may also hope our Congress will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fourth place in coldwar propaganda is not good enough for the free world 's first nation .                     