@@721506

txt LONDON , Oct. 22 ? When Mallory was asked why he wanted to climb Everest , he replied : " Because it 's there . " Prime Minister Macmillan 's renewed advocacy of a summit conference owes something to this attitude . The summit is there . When Mr. Macmillan told the Conservative party that negotiations between East and West on Berlin and Germany Would Macmillan Prefers Early Meeting to Danger of Waiting Until Soviet Pressure Forces One summit in an unfavorable if not From London , at any rate , they appear to be worse off as a result of pressures , some open , some insidious and secret , being placed upon the western half of the city by the East Germans . The British fear the West might be dragged to a conference table by the logic of events were the Soviet Union to start peace talks with East Germany or to prompt the East Germans to begin those unidentifiably hostile acts against West Berlin 's communications that would in time sap its economic vitality . Preparation Sought hostile atmosphere . Immediate opposition was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . Dr. Adenauer was not invited to attend the last summit and it is doubtful if he would attend a new one . have to be resumed , he was Adenauer 's Firmness stating what is to him obvious . Recently he told Western Germany , Berlin , disarmament diplomats in Bonn that Mr. are important , inherently clan- Khrushchev 's grotesque behavgerous issues that must be dis- for at the United Nations was cussed somewhere seriously . It what they should expect in any is better in the British view to summit negotiation and that - seep the Russians talking with there was no more hope of holdsome , hope of negotiation than ing serious , substantive talks to relapse into a hostile silence with him than there would be broken only by blasts from the of discussing Kant with a bapropaganda batteries . boon . Dr. Adenauer 's view is that it is best to leave Berlin alone , that the situation there is all right and that any negotiations on it would weaken the Western position . Dr. Adenauer 's present opposition to a summit meeting want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British policy toward the tion a year ago . . Soviet Union . They regard that Of the three Western participolicy as contradictory and , pants in the summit meeting , superficially at least , this is so . President de Gaulle was the For the British Government , least enthusiastic . But his remost recently through the Prime luctance of a year ago to go to Minister and his new Foreign the summit probably has been Secretary , the Earl of Home , strengthened this year by probhave made it clear that Britain - ems that have suddenly bestands firmly with the West , clouded the reign of a man The that she has no intention of giving in anywhere to Soviet pressure . But at the same time Mr. Macmillan makes it clear that he wants to resume.highlevel talks with Premier Khru- as Ireland was to Edwardian shchev . England . At the same time The alarm aroused by this President de Gaulle 's projects seeming contradiction owes to make France an independent something to the uneasiness felt nuclear power and Europe a by many on the basis of half- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe attack , the first at home The Prime Minister thus began and the second abroad . his second attempt to conquer a We are left with only the of a meeting at the summit : In the end this may weigh more heavily with President de Gaulle than any situation favorable or unfavorable , concerning Berlin or disarmament . Perhaps the most important factor in moving Mr. Macmillan toward another summit was his talks with Mr. Khrushchev in New York , From these it was concluded that the Soviet Premier was ready to attend a summit conference in the spring , that he felt it would be futile to hold a meeting before the new United States Administration was firmly in the saddle , and that he had no intention at present of bringing continuous and violent pressure to bear on West Berlin or blockading it while there was a reasonable chance that East and West could discuss Berlin 's future before next summer , Flexible Means Mr. Macmillan 's frank advocacy of a summit ? " I 'm all for it " ? has worried a great many people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Government solidly behind a renewal of summit talks . One reason for London 's persistence , despite last spring 's fiasco and the fantastic futility of the East-West confrontation at the General Assembly , is that the Government here rec- : ognizes the possibility of an international situation that will force a summit meeting upon the West . Hope on Disarmament Associated Press The Earl of Home , British Foreign Secretary . These are the kinds of situations that might force a summit conference on the . West , int the British view . The obvious alternative , to Mr. Macmillan . and his advisers , is to start a , methodical , thorough preparation now for a summit conference to be held before the situation deteriorates and , indeed , to prevent its deterioration . Will such reasoning induce General de Gaulle to accept , summit talks ? Perhaps not.11 But in assessing the forces operating for and against a conference , the British point to a reason directly connected with President de Gaulle 's preoccupation with Algeria . Although ebulliently admiring the Algerian representatives at the United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the rebels . The impression here is that he will continue to do so while there is a prospect These treaties would end the state of war and the occupation : status of the Western forces in West Berlin , which rests on their rights as conquerors . This Would be a larger , more cornIplex diplomatic challenge than any summit conference and one that could do the Western cause iin Europe a great deal of damage . No Real Alternative A summit conference , the British readily agree , is not to everyone 's taste . But they regard it as far more attractive than the final suggestion thrown out by Mr. Khrushchev to Mr. Macmillan . The Soviet Premier proposed a peace conference of all states at war with Germany between 1939 and 1945 . The object would be to sign peace treaties with East and West Germany . On the optimistic side , there Economist calls Charles the is hope , certainly not considered Tall . bright in London at the moThe Algerian problem has beiment , that enough headway will come as disruptive and emotion4 be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' the lower level to warrant highlevel negotiation . The West has " left Berlin alone " largely because Mr. Khrushchev torpedoed last May 's summit conference . This has pleased Dr. Adenauer ; but , the British ask , are the people of West Berlin any better off as a consequence ?                     