@@723195

txt Letters to The Times Democrats ' Unity Sought Candidate for Councilman at Large Explains Call for De Sapio TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Times June 8 editorial taking me to task for recommending what I believed to be a solution to the problems of disunity and dissatisfaction in the Democratic party in New York City thoroughly obscured my motives and failed to examine the logic behind my recommendation . The hasty editorial predicts dire results in the change recommended  --  the return of Carmine De Sapiowhile only hinting at the failures of the present structure of the party . The logic behind the recommendation is quite clear : the present fragmentation of the Democratic party here has bred a disunity that must inevitably lead to a disintegration of the two-party system . Fragmentation begets fragmentation . Our two political parties were not meant to he " popularity " clubs of debate and inaction with troika-like leadership at the top . They were conceived and perpetuated as fixed organizations with levels of responsibility leading from a representative in the smallest division to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and positive authority , responsible to all its members and the people . This is the core of the two-party system . Where it breaks down , fixed responsibility and the system break down . Fixing Responsibility Who can fix the responsibility in the troika - like morass of confused leadership in the Democratic party today in our city ? Who can be held responsible for party failures in policy and at the polls ? The Mayor ? The so-called Reform lAcmocrats ? The Liberal party ? The " best " of the regulars , as The Times calls them ? The answer is none . Yet this appears to be what The Times advocates under something party system . The Democratic party here is sick . I7nless The Times can suggest a better and more qualifiefi doctor , I 'll take Carmine De Sapio . Powell Not Consulted The Times called me a " prot ? g ? " and implied that my recommendation actually reflected the thinking of Representative Adam Clayton Powell , who has nominated me for office . I admire and respect Congressman Powell and consider him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is my own . I did not consult him on this recommendation , and he can not be held responsible . Let me assure you that if I am elected as Councilman at Large from Manhattan , my action and my words will reflect an interplay between my own thinking and the will of all the people of Manhattan ? black and white , rich and poor , Jew and Gentile , Protestant and Catholic , East Side , West Side , and all around the town . JOHN H. YOUNG III . New York , June 8 , 1963 . Against Planned School Site To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is unfortunate that the proposed location of a new school in the northwest corner of Morningside Park should have been confused by questions of race and discrimination . I fully sympahtize with the need to desegregate the schools , but it can not be permitted to override all other considerations . The site in the park is one that should be kept inviolate . True , the park is in bad condition , but that Mould @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is all too easy to nit school costs by taking land which reed not bear acquisition costs . The Drecedent of using park lands for 4chools must not be set . Parks enough are being sacrificed for road construction in the city . But the idea if using park land for school buildup might go a long way toward inning hundreds of acres of what ve have left . The particular site is especially ) oorly chosen . Construction of the whool will involve the destruction of the cliff facing 123d Street , and the destruction of the ruins of a block ? house which was part of the defenses of the city erected during the War of 1812 . Historical monuments are all too few and should not be cas ? ually destroyed when it is not neces sary to do so . If the alternate site does not sat . isfy part of the population affected , a new alternate should be sought . L. 0 . ROTHSCHILD . New York , May 29 , 1963 . Progress in Civil Defense Official Says National Effort h Forging Ahead comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil defense . In turn there now is a high degree of accountability for the carrying out of Federal civil defense directives . The fallout shelter program , based initially on the conversion of existing buildings for survival use and their stocking with emergency supplies of food , water and medication , is now well under way . This program deserves continuing legislative support for the survival of those living in continental United states who would not be in the ground zero areas . Shelter Program In all planning and administrative efforts , whether they be for civil defense or other services , there are gray areas where either the planning is not entirely comprehensive , or where due to human factors involved planning is not fully implemented by action . To castigate the entire civil defense program for human failure in a limited sector of operation is to be blind to the steady forging ahead in the national civil defense effort under the Department of Defense . The State of New Jersey under Director Thomas S , Dignan established an enviable record in the relief of the Jersey coast storm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coordination of state agencies was excellent . Civil defense forces met the emergent needs . Rehabilitation was later aided by the Federal Government . New Jersey is proud of civil defense . TOTHE EDITOROF THE New York TIMES : Sparked by the current Department of Defense request to Congress for additional funds to expand the national fallout shelter program , there is waging a nationwide debate on the merits of civil defense . The issue is compounded by the recent inability of one of our Western states rapidly to ameliorate the effects of a statewide natural disaster and the subsequent unwilling ? ness of the state 's Legislature to finance any further civil defense effort . In true perspective , civil defense has a threefold obligation . There must be a comprehensive evaluation . of the potential hazards , both war caused and of natural origin , to which the civil population may be exposed . A plan of action must be developed for rapid recovery from either enemy-caused catastrophe or natural disaster . The operational plan must incorporate existing public safety and welfare resources with those of the civil defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the civil population . In time of crisis civil defense must become operational am ! utilize surviving personnel and undamaged resources to effect the maximum saving of lives and property . To THE/ EDITOROF THU NEW YORK TIMES : The mounting toll in automobile accidents has a hypnotic effect on the American public because little is done about it . Driving licenses are renewed yearly with no check-ups on the drivers . A driver should present a reputable doctor 's certificate pronouncing him physically fit to drive when he renews his license . L. W. NEWMAN . Upper Montclair , N.J. , May 8 , 1963.                     