@@728109

txt Men in politics often are symbols .. And in this sense the election of Hugh Scott ' of Pennsylvania to the top Republican Senate leadership post will be widely construed as a measurable and significant move to a more moderate GOP image in the upper house . Senator Scott replaces the late Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen whose own image was hard to define . Senator Dirksen held conservatives with his fight for the prayer amendment and for a dilution of the one-man , one-vote principle . At the same time he made-points with lib-. erals and moderates with pro-civil rights positions that helped both Presidents Kennedy and . Johnson in pushing forward legislation . ? Senator Scott , too , is not entirely predictable . He lias liaised questions about the war , but he is not a " dove . " * Please ' turn to ' Page 8 *Scott to shape GOP image // ? He voted for the antiballistic missile . And he would not support a popular-vote election for president . Instead he favors a. conservative , proposal under which the president would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ congressional districts . But  --  basically -- Senator Scott 's views consistently reflect his Pennsylvania , big-population , Northern base . ? For example , he told a group of reporters at breakfast Monday that he rejected the political strategy advanced by Kevin P. Phillips in his new book , " The Emerging Majority . " Mr. Phillips counsels the Republican Party to forget about the big-city states of the Northeast and concentrate on the Mid- west , South , and West in forging future presidential victories . Senator Scott stands for keeping the North , all of the North , including the Negroes and the ethnic groups , within the zone of those which the Republican Party will , and must , continue to woo . And , by and large , Senator 's Scott 's thinking , and legislative voting records , Will reflect attitudes of this kind  --  those that are more appealing to the party 's moderates and liberals . In any event , that is the Scott symbol . And the very fact , that the conservatives within the party moved in large part behind his young challenger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected the acceptance of Senator Scott 's , appearance of liberalism . They wanted to avoid this outward sign of a GOP move to the left . And the final , 24 to 19 vote shows how hard fought the battle was . First-term Senator . Senator Baker , himself , did not fit into the conservative mold . He refers to himself as a " Border State moderate . " For example , he supports a popular vote for president . But for the purpose of the leadership battle Senator Baker represented the old guard and Senator Scott the move to greater GOP liberalism . Actually , Senator Baker was the youngster , a first-termer in his early 40 's . And Senator Scott is a veteran in his upper 60 's . Perhaps it was the Baker relationship to Senator Dirksen ( son-in-law ) that helped to give the young Tennesseean the more conservative label  --  at least during this Senate family struggle . Where was the President in all this ? He took a position of strict neutrality . At no point did he nor any of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Baker . Yet , in a real sense , this was a help to Senator Scott . Other elements being equal ( such as the preference of the powerful presidency ) , the Senate is inclined to support seniority and make young senators wait a bit . And that is what happened . Thus the veteran defeated the newcomer . In actuality the Republicans in the Senate may not have chosen a man who was very much to the left of the man they turned down . But it looks that way . And that , of itself , shapes a new appearance for the Republicans'in the Senate and , to a degree , for the Republican Party in the nation .                     