@@723597

txt Any hopes that New Yorkers may have had for a reduction in package-liquor prices next year were dimmed yesterday by the Joint Legislative Committee for the Study of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law . State Senator John J. Marchi , the chairman , said the committee was opposed to the elimination of minimum retail prices by the 1964 Legislature . However , he outlined other areas of liquor control where the committee was favorably disposed to easing or ending present restrictions . Senator Marchi indicated that the committee would clear the way for the elimination of the requirement that all bars be equipped to serve full meals . He also indicated that it favored the gradual ending of the moratorium that has kept the nurn- ber of package stores almost constant in the state since 1949 ? around 4,300 ? despite great population increases in the suburbs . The joint committee will also recommend a change in the administrative setup of the State Liquor Authority to overcome what Mr. Marchi termed a situation " fraught with mischief . " He referred to provisions under which Liquor Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in cases where liquor establishments face the loss of their licenses for alleged violations . The Senator said his committee was disposed toward the creation of an independent reyiew board to handle appeals from license suspensions and revocations . Senator Marchi , a Staten Island Republican , expressed the views at a press conference following . a committee meeting at 270 Broadway . The committee must make its recommendations to the legislative leaders by Dec. 15 . Third Year of Study The joint committee on the control law , now in its third year , is a special study committee , not a standing committee . However , during the legislative session , it acts as an advisory to the Senate Excise Committe and the Assembly Excise Committee , which handle liquor legislation . Hopes for the elimination of fixed minimum prices of packaged liquor were buoyed at public hearings held in the last two weeks by the Moreland Act Commission . This group was appointed by Governor Rockefeller to recommend revisions of the state liquor law . Studies made for the commission showed that there were lower liquor prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed minimums , with ? prices in Washington , D. C. , averaging $1 a fifth less than ? in New York . The findings were : presented to the effect that : there was no significant rela-. ' tionship between liquor price arid distribution controls and the incidence of drunkenness . View of Industry Industry spokesmen at the Moreland hearings strongly opposed the ending of price controls . However , members of the commission said the industry had failed to show tthy liquor purchasers should not enjoy the same advantages of free competition as when they bought turkeys , bread or salt . The views express yesterday by Senator Marchi were closer to those of the liquor industry than to those of the college professors who made the studies for the Moreland Commission . Declaring that liquor was " not quite the same as other commodities " and had to be " treated with a little more reverence or caution , " Mr. Marchi said : " The Moreland Act Commission has done brilliant work . But it has challenged the fundamental concept of the present law , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " While there is a need for " constant challenge " of old concepts , the Senator said , his group feels that the Moreland Commission did not make out a strong enough case to warrant sweeping changes in the present law . The Marchi committee favors changing Liquor Authority procedures to make the annual renewal of a liquor license automatte unless the authority es ? tablishes grounds for revoca ? tion . The Senator said that at present the authority used license expirations as a club to put liquor establishments out of business when it suspected improper conduct but could not prove it . Mr. Marchi said he and his colleagues had exohanged ideas over a period of months with members of the Moreland Commission and the Liquor . Authority and with District Attorney Frank S. Hogan of Manhattan , who is investigating corruption in the administration of state liquor controls . Cautioning against too-drastic or too-hasty changes in the existing law , Mr. Marchi said New York had " one of the best liquor control laws and one of the best enforcement records in the United States . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            