@@723627

txt Letters to The Times Presidential Succession Importance Stressed of Providing for a Well-Briefed Vice President To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : Your editorial of Dec. 1 recommending action by Congress to provide for the assumption of Presidential duties in the event of Presidential disability describes a real need in our governmental system which should be met . But just as important is a more satisfactory arrangement for Presidential succession . At present if the President dies , he is succeeded by a Vice President who has been an observer , although not a participant , in Administration policy making . In this era of American world leadership with the possible need for instant and irrevocable decisions , it is essential that Vice Presidents should be informed in all areas of foreign and domestic policy . The smoothness of President Johnson 's take-over as contrasted with President Truman 's problems at the time of his succession is an indication of the importance of a well-briefed Vice President . The experience of the latter makes it doubtful that any President will ever again exclude his Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But when a Vice President succeeds to the Presidency or dies himself while holding the Vice Presidential office , the next in line has a number of serious disadvantages , Speaker 's Handicaps First of all , the Speaker is busy in the House with a full-time job of his own and consequently can not attend the constant White House briefing ; conferences and policy meetings which would keep him as informed as he should be if he should have to assume the Presidency . Second , he may be a member of a different party from the President , a condition which would necessarily exclude him from certain confidences of the President and which would make a smooth transition from an existing Administration to one of his own extremely difficult . And third , the seniority system which greatly influences the choice of the House Speaker may result in the succession of a man too old or otherwise unqualified for the office of President . It is possible , and has happened , that a President may die in his first month of office , and the country is then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But even a few months is too long to be without a backstop to the President , who can devote full time to understudying the Presidential office . An amendment to the Constitution should be passed which would provide for a new Vice President if one dies or succeeds to the Presidency . It might , for instance , provide that within two weeks of such an event the members of Congress who are of the President 's party should elect a new Vice President from among themselves . Some such provision would be greatly preferable to the present succession law . ELIZABETH R. BUTTEN HEIM . North Tarrytown , N. Y. , Dec. 2 , 1963 An editorial on this subject appears today , Men , Not Weapons , Kill To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIME6 I hope that those who would restrict the right of responsible citizens to possess arms will remember that not weapons but men driven by hate kill . The atmosphere of hatred and violence which exists in parts of our nation and which is manifested in the use of guns , cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elimination . The solution to our problem lies elsewhere . Some form of firearms control seems necessary . I hope only that the men who make our laws will be guided by reason rather than their I emotions . JOHN 3 . WALTON , Livermore , Calif. , Dec. 1 , 1963 . No Television at Trials To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Robert Richer 's letter published Dec. 7 pleads for television coverage of the forthcoming Ruby trial . Mr. Richer presumes that members of the bar favor a televised court proceeding . His letter says : " . . . there has been absolutely no adverse comment from ... members of the bar . " But such adverse comment would be somewhat superfluous in view of the decade-old canon of judicial ethics promulgated by the American Bar Association , To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your issue of Dec. 8 there is a letter from Norwood Russell Hanson lecturing me with a patronizing sophistication , Unfortunately , and I assume because of a lack of full information , Mr. Hanson completely misses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he says that I " have been unable to find convincing evidence of any outstanding contribution to atomic science . . . that could be credited to Dr. Oppenheimer . " He saw fit to eliminate the phrases in that paragraph which are most pertinent . In the interest of accuracy , I quote my full statement on that point : " I have been unable to find convincing evidence of any outstanding contribution to atomic science ( such as could be attributed to other recipients of the Fermi Awrrd ) that could be credited to Dr. Oppenheimer ( other than the fact that he is a scientist and was engaged in organization and coordination activities during the Manhattan Project ) . " I have here placed in parentheses the portions which Mr. Hanson omitted . Dr. Oppenheimer is a top-flight scientist and he did a good job of organizing and coordinating activities in Los Alamos among the scientists , although the political orientation of a number of his recruits is of great concern . However , other recipients of the Fermi Award made specific contribution in the solution of particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have never claimed any expertise from a scientific standpoint with regard to atomic energy . However , as a layman I served on the Special Senate Committee in 1946 which . wrote the Atomic Energy Act , and as Chairman of the Joint Committee beginning in January of 1947 I organized the committee and have served on it ever since . I think it is reasonable to assume that a layman of ordinary intelligence with such intimate association and continued interest in this developing program can attain a substantial amount of background and knowledge upon which to base more than a snap judgment . In addition , there is the matter of the security clearance . This matter was exhaustively investigated and the facts , substantiated in so many instances by Dr. Oppenheimer 's own admissions , overwhelmingly support the decision to withdraw his clearance . Nothing has changed those facts and , so far as I know , no claim has been made that the evidence so developed was erroneous or false . Space , of course , does not permit a detailed review or analysis of this unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read , or , if he has read it in the past , that he reread the record . BOURKE B. HICKENLOOPER , United States Senator . Washington , Dec. 11 , 1963. does detract " from the essential ; dignity of the proceedings , distract the witness in giving his testimony , degrade the court and create misconceptions with respect thereto in the mind of the public . . ? " Inasmuch as this principle has been long established and is quite well accepted there would be no reason for lawyers or judges to comment at all on proposals to televise the Ruby trial . PETER MEGARGEE BROWN . New York , Dec. 9 , 1963 . Hickenlooper Replies Senator States His Position on Oppenheimer and Fermi Award For One-Price Cotton System To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I congratulate you on your editorial of Dec. 7 in which you discuss the absurdities of a three-price cotton system as proposed by the cotton bill recently passed by the House of Representatives . I completely agree with your assessment of the bill and with your suggested solution -- to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we can at least be directing our efforts toward the goal of again attaining a one-price cotton system without the maze of subsidy upon subsidy . However , in your editorial you did not point out that'your position on this matter is , in fact , the Republican party position , and that this bill was passed by the House as a Democratic policy measure and supported by the Democratic leadership and most Northern Democrats . Had the positions been reversed , would you not have noted that issue was a matter of party policy ? ROBERT TAFT Jr. , Member of Congress at Large , Ohio . Washington , Dec. 9 , 1963.                     