@@726324

txt Washington , May 14 ? Organized crime is flourishing in many United States cities with the help of corrupt public officials , the President 's crime commission said today . Without greater state and federal effort , and an aroused public , the commission said this kind of corruption will continue to fuel the expansion of the Cosa Nostra 's multibillion-dollar empire . The commission , in a report analyzing syndicate crime in America , said all available evidence indicates that organized crime flourishes only when it has corrupted 1oca1 officials . Ca n't Determine Extent It maintained that considerable corruption exists in many large cities , but said it was impossible to determine the ex. tent of syndicate power in city halls , legislatures , unions , police departments , and courts . The report said it is. clear that some local governments have been dominated by criminal groups in recent years and that no large city is completely free of organized crime . Only a handful of community officials need give way to the syndicate 's chief offering ? bribes  --  for the Cosa Nostra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It said law enforcement officials at the chief or middle supervisory levels and political executives were the key targets in Cosa Nostra efforts to infiltrate a community . Nonoffice Holders The latter category may include nonoffice-holding political leaders to whom judges , mayors , - prosecuting attorneys , and correctional officials may be responsive . No specific officials or cities were named in the report . The authors were content with re-listing the 18 states where the 24 ruling " families ' of the Cosa Nostra live and operate . The wealthiest and the most influential of these groups were placed in New York , New Jersey , Illinois , Florida , Lousiana , Nevada , Michigan , and Rhode Island . The others are located in California , Arizonai Colorado , Texas , Missouri , Wisconsin , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Massachusetts , and Delaware . The states named were not Intended as an exclusive list of Cosa Nostra territories , since operations in other states are often controled from one of the home states indicated . The report itself gave no estimate of what kind of threat Cosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of increasing interest to the syndicate . Attach Research Paper But a research paper by Prof. Donald R. Cressey attached to the repOrt said " rulers of crime syndicates are beginning to drive legitimate business men , labor leaders , and others . . . to the wall . " They have established , by force , intimidation , and even more ' legal ' methods , monopolies in several relatively small fields such as distribution of vending machines , the supplying of linens to night clubs , and the supply of some forms of labor . " Other reported areas of Cosa Nostra infiltration include lending institutions , trash collection agencies and construction companies . " it is when criminal syndicates start to undermine basic economic and political traditions and institutions that the real trouble begins . And the real trouble has begun in the United States . " the report said . Cressey predicted that within 10 years there will be a rebel-Hon within the ranks of organized crime as the syndicate 's untutored underlings demand greater access to power and wealth . Need More Experts Cressey , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Santa Barbara , reported that , as organized crime has moved into legitimate business , the need for experts has increased . He predicted that , if this trend continues , the current pattern of totalitarian control over syndicate operations will change . As more criminal jobs become increasingly complex , " there will be no place in the higher level of organized crime for high school dropouts , " he wrote . He added that as the new experts gain more authority , " opportunities for the present unskilled participants to achieve positions of power will decrease . " " We can expect them to grow tired of a system which denies equal opportunities to low status personnel , even if everything in the system is relatively rich . If these men begin demanding their rights we will witness in the ranks of organized crime rebellions comparable in principle to the current rebellions of Negroes . " The commission 's survey of law enforcement resources to combat organized crime found that only Chicago and New York City were mobilized , to do an effective job . To strengthen state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of permanent special grand juries to investigate organized crime continuously in areas where it is known to exist . Tougher Jail Terms 2 . Enactment of state and federal laws granting witnesses immunity from prosecution to increase the likelihood of informers coming forward to testify . 3 . Tougher jail terms for persons convicted of crimes shown to be part of a continuing , organized criminal activity , 4 . Use of federal residential facilities to protect prospective witnesses from the retribution of the syndicate which demands death for informers . 5 . Formation of special investigative units at the state level devoted solely to organized crime . 6 . Creation of a permanent joint congressional committee on organized crime .                     