@@727861

txt WASHINGTON ? The reason for embarrassing delay in naming new U. S. envoys is that distinguished Republicans have shown reluctance to accept diplomatic assignments while the State Department has discovered that its current generation of ranking professionals is dismally short in ambassadorial material . There is coincidental decline in the moral sense of obligation among normal civilian leaders and in trained Government cadres . Early in the Nixon Administration word was quietly circulated that career members of the U. S. Foreign Service would not be awarded embassies in Western Europe . These were to be reserved for loyal Republicans of proved competence . The ruling was set aside for Ridgway Knight , former Ambassador in Brussels , now named to Lisbon . Knight was moved to make way for John Eisenhower , son of the former President . Eisenhower felt unhappy at causing this shift and requested an equivalent post for his predecessor . Circumstances could yet unexpectedly provide similar openings to professionals . Nevertheless , many pleasant or important embassies are either open now or soon will be . The list includes Rome , CanBerra , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wellington , Stockholm , Oslo and Luxembourg . Some of these capitals are critically important to the United States and others present political problems of great concern . As always when a new Administration takes office , there was competition among its distinguished and prosperous backers for fat plums like London but , to everyone 's surprise , reluctance was found when noncareer men were offered lesser posts . Unexpected Declinations The instances of Tokyo and Bonn were especially astonishing . These are crucial and our relations with each face the possibility of serious readjustment . Japan is scheduled to start negotiations seeking American relinquishment of special rights in Okinawa ; West Germany has national elections in September that could set a future political course . Yet former Governor Scranton , John D. Rockefeller 3d , William A. M. Burden and Rudolph Peterson ( prominent banker ) were all considered for Tokyo and each made plain he was n't interested . In despair the assignment was turned back to the State Department for a career diplomat and Armin Meyer , an ambassador with much experience in the Middle East but none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappointed . No candidate for Bonn has yet been found . That embassy was offered , either directly or indirectly , to Scranton , Neil H. , Gen. Lauris Norstad , George Champion and Thomas Gates , but each declined the honor . William Tyler , the firstclass career envoy to the Netherlands , who speaks excellent German , was the obvious choice among professionals but he has just resigned to accept a position in private life . The Foreign Service has been exposed as lacking in a new generation of talents following the fading of such old stars as Charles Bohlen , Llewellyn Thompson , Robert Murphy , George Kennan and Ray Hare . Of course , there are exceptions : Jacob Beam , newly named to Moscow ; Walworth Barbour , Ambassador in Israel ; Douglas , now being shunted out of Vienna ; and a few younger men including Ambassadors Walter Stoessel , William Leonhart , Richard Davis and William Porter . Nevertheless , relatively speaking , the State Department has uncovered a kind of vacuum . There are not enough exceptional career officers available . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of untrained personnel from other Government departments . Normally speaking the State Department does worst for career diplomats during the first two years of a new Administration 's first term and best during - the last two years of its second term . But this time it was n't even in a position to make the most of limited opportunities . One distinguished Republican decided not to accept an ' embassy after he was told he was being considered for a " very important diplomatic post . " He observed : " There is no such thing any more . " It is increas- ? ingly felt that the role of Ambassador has diminished in this age of instant communications and flying Secretaries of State . Training and Commitment Nevertheless , the present situation indicates something profoundly disturbing . On the one hand , there has been inadequate long - term preparation by the State Department of truly firstrate younger professionals . On the other hand , there seems to be a growing reluctance among Americans to accept governmental service as a citizen 's duty . This moral lack , hitherto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice , is now reflected in sedate circles at the top .                     