@@722331

txt Premier Khrushchev hasj made a choice between the strengthening of the Soviet Union 's defenses and diversion of additional investment to agriculture . He has decided in favor of a continued high level of military preparedness . Western observers had noted ) earlier that agricultural problems had confronted Mr. Khrushchev with the choice of spending more on agriculture or subordinating its needs to those of preparedness . The key decision was made known here shortly after midnight in a summary of the Premier 's speech Friday at the closing session of the Communist party 's Central Committee meeting on agriculture . The five-day plenary meeting adopted a resolution calling ? for reorganization of Soviet farm management on a regional basis . It also instructed the party 's ruling Presidium and the Government to draft a broad program for improving " material and technical supply " of the country 's lagging farm sector . Focus Kept on Industry According to the summary made public by Tass , the Soviet press agency , the Premier made it clear that the program would not envisage a major increase in investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been the priority sector of the Soviet economy . " The planned measures to increase assistance to agriculture , " the Premier told party officials , " do not mean that there will be a relocation of funds to agriculture to the detriment of the development of industry or of the strengthening of the country 's defenses . " Mr. Khrushchev stressed that maintenance of the Soviet Union 's military preparedness was the nation 's most important objective . " We shall accomplish it unflinchingly , " he said . " This is the bedrock of the existence of measures designed not only to fulfill the Seven-Year Plan but to double and triple farm output that Soviet agriculture was suffering a crisis . Alluding to Western newspaper reports of his sixhour speech last Monday , the Premier declared : " Let the imperialists yell about a crisis . We , comrades , know that there is no crisis in our agriculture . " We are now criticizing ourselves , not because we did little but because we must do more and because we can do more if we utilize our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One may say without hesitation that the program for achieving a further rise of agricultural production adopted by the twenty-second congress of the party will not only be ful ! filled but surpassed , just as our program of industrial producI tion . " The program adopted by the congress last October envisages plentiful production in both agriculture and industry it preparation for the establishment of a Communist society , ; The Soviet Union considers that it has not yet achieved true I communism , Mr. Khrushchev expressed ! confidence that farm production could be increased considerably through more efficient use of : available equipment and better organization of work . Mr. Khrushchev told the party meeting that increases in the production of mineral fertilizer required serious attention . Ile , announced that it might be necessary to convene a special meeting of the Central Committee to discuss expansion of the fertilizer industry . Production of fertilizers has been lagging behind the Seven Year Plan goals . The fertilizer problem is made more acute by the fact that ( larger amounts will be required ' under the new cropping system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sugar beets , peas and beans , for hay fields . The Premier praised an agricultural scientist . Viktor Y. Pis ? s.rev , who on Thursday condemned the old grass rotation system as a legacy of the Stalin era , when it Was officially approved for all agricultural areas of the Soviet Union . " The day of the downfall of the autocracy of the whole doctrine of grassland agriculture is a day of liberation of our land from the heritage of the cult of personality that weighed heavily on it , " the scientist said . Premier Applauds Words " That was a fine way of put ? Ming it , " the Premier declarec on the following day . Mr. Khrushchev told the Cen. tral Committee earlier that Stalin had sanctioned the grass rotation system not because In ; knew anything about agricul 1ture but because the system dic not require important invest . ments in the farm sector The Premier said he agree ( with speakers at the party I meeting who had urged revision of the collective farm charter . The charter , defining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1935 . The Premier said it was outdated and added that a ? new charter would be based on the party program adopted by the twenty-second congress and on a new Soviet Constitution now being drafted . The new charter is expected to reduce differences between collective farms , where members share income on the basis , of work put in , ' and . the state farms , where farmers have fixed salary rates , as in Governmentrun factories . Such a reproachement between the two forms of Soviet farms has been indicated by the new regional system of farm administration , which puts both types ! under the same management for , the first time in Soviet history .                     