@@727356

txt Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said yesterday that he believed the emergence of a militant right wing in the Police Department was a reflection of a similar swing to the right in the community at large . " They 're reflecting the community , " Mr. Leary said of policemen . who have affiliated themselves with rightist groups . " They are responsive to what they believe the community wants . " The Commissioner was commenting in an interview on the growth of the Law Enforcement Society , a new group of policemen that demands a tough " law and order " approach and on the vigilantism exemplified by the recent attack on some Black Panther party members by a group that included offduty policemen in a Brooklyn courthouse ... , Chicago Disorder Cited The Law Enforcement Society was organized about six weeks ago in the 80th Precinct in Brooklyn by a group of policemen seeking the removal of a judge , whom they accused of permitting disorderly conduct by Black Panthers in his courtroom . The organization , which was initially known as the Law Enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become citywide in membership and has outlined a program calling for more vigorous law enforcement , abolition of the civilian complaint review board and opposition to the " Warren Court . " The group contends that it got more than 6,000 signatures on petitions supporting its goals and drew more than 1,000 to a recent meeting . Mr. Leary also commented indirectly during the interview on the actions of the Chicago police during the Democratic National Convention , declaring that the key to preventing improper police behavior lies in tight control by " middle management " ? the captains and lieutenants on the , scene . Mr. ' Leary did not appear to be deeply troubled by the rise of what some - police officials have . described as the New Right in the Police Department . " I think what we have here , " he said , " is verbal expression and demonstration by a small group ' of policemen ? which might reflect a greater number ? as to their concern for adherence to the laws of the land . This should n't . sUrprise us . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to people and get more or less the same views from these contacts . " " This , " he said , " is the first expression=the first revelation expressed by a relatively few ? of the community - atmosphere . " Mr. Leary ' said he believed that " the sentiment and feeling " about more rigid law enforcement " is very widespread " within the police force , especially ? among younger men . " But , " he . went on , " this does n't mean . ' the police are going to become more brutal or vicious . " He emphasized that what a policeman believes is not necessarily reflected in his professional conduct : ' " The feeling may be great " . he . said , " but the acting out is not great . Actions are often different from beliefs . They have'to be . " Mr. Leary ' attributed ' some ? of the disenchantment that has pushed , policemen toward the right to what they ' see as the coddling of criminals by the courts , to the lack of support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policeman 's own inability at times to comprehend the complexity and sensitivity of his job . " The policeman often does n't realize himself how . really tough his job is , " the Commissioner said . At a news conference earlier , Mr. Leary said he had reliable information that left no doubt that off-duty policemen were involved in the attack on the militant Black Panthers . last Wednesday , but he added that thus far no participant in the attack has been identified . At least three ' persons ' were ' , injured in the attack but ' the Commissioner said no complainant , had come forward to press any charges growing out of the incident . Asked if members of the Law Enforcement Society were involved in the attack on the Panthers , Mr. Leary said : " I 'm not able to reveal at this ' time what I know . " He said at the news conference that he credited both the " ghetto community " and the police for maintaining a peaceful summer in New York . In discussing Chicago in the interview @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would imply , criticism of another city 's Police Department . Nor would he make any general evaluation ? of the performance of the Chicago police , who have been accused of brutality by many , including some of America 's leading newspapers and television networks . He noted , however , that there appeared to have been " a true desire on the part of a small number of demonstrators in Chicago to have a personal , violent confrontation with the police " and conceded that there may have been a " much , much smaller group " of Chicago policemen who were equally eager for such a confrontation .                     