@@727642

txt Vanishing species From around the globe vanishing species of birds and mammals each year find their way to the United States where a lucrative market for commercial exploitation exists . Some 550 species are considered rare or in danger of extinction . Conservationists and congressmen are expressing new concern over the problem . Bills to prevent the importing of threatened species are in both houses of Congress . Conservationists grab a ' tiger ' Congress this week is focusing new attention on the worldwide threat to some 550 species of vanishing wildlife . Conservationists charge that APierican buyers are aiding this depletion . Three staff writers of The Christian Science Monitor ? Donna Rogers , Richard W. McManus , and Clive Lowrance explored the problem as the Washington hearings began . Fads , fashion , exhibitions , and scientific experiments are endangering many species of birds and mammals ? throughout the world . The popular , leopard coat , the " exotic " pet monkey , and the rare animal in captivity at the zoo are contributing to a growing list of " endangered " species . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many ofthem dead or alive ? is the United States . Some 550 species of wildlife are either extremely rare or are in danger of extinction . The chief cause is the explosive growth of human population and the consequent conversion of wild lands to other uses , such as agriculture and irrigation dams . However , conservationists believe that the profitable United States market for wild animals and furs is a contributing factor . " More than 28 million live wild animals were imported by American pet businesses , laboratories , and zoos " in 1967 , estimates William C. Conway , general director of the New York Zoological Society . He added in a recent report that " more than 22 million pounds of wild-animal skins were imported by American furriers and leather-goods concerns . " Fur industries , says Mr. Conway . while not affecting a large number of species , have definitely contributed to the drastic decline in certain animals . He notes , for example , that the fur hunter has reduced the number of some species of tiger to less than 50 . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild creature ? " asks Mr. Conway. , " With what right and what conscience can a civilized woman adorn herself with the mummified ' relic . of dithinishing wild creatures ? " . One well-known conservationist has written : " There is little doubt that the huge trade in their skins spotted cats is depleting wild populations . " Ethiopia is one of the African coun* // 5 *Conservationists grab a ' tiger ' // tries seriously affected by poachers who sell to the " insatiable " U.S. market . Maj. Gisaw Gedlegiorgis , director general of the Wildlife Conservation Department , notes : " It is certainly vital that some effective action be taken soon if the leopard and cheetah are not to become extinct .... " The Somali leopard , popular for coats , is in similar danger . The number of endangered species being imported for pet industries , zoos , and scientific laboratories also alarm conservationists . It concerns Congressmen too . Bills have been introduced in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to prevent the importing into the United States of species threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House subcommittee began yesterday and will continue today . The bills are mainly designed to reduce the number of endangered animals used for commercial purposes . It does not forbid the importing of wildlife for zoological , educational , and scientific purposes or for propagation in captivity for perservation purposes . But the bill does require anyone wishing to import an endangered species to secure permission from the Secretary of the Interior . Both the House bill , sponsored by Rep. Edward A. Garmatz ( D ) of Maryland , and the Senate bill , sponsored by Sen. Ralph W. Yarborough ( D ) of Texas , are expected to pass . Representatives from the fur , leather , and pet industries who opposed similar bills in the 90th Congress and succeeded in killing them last year now are apparently satisfied with the revised " compromise " bills . But they still intend to propose amendments at today 's hearing . If the bill becomes law , the Department of the Interior would then begin compiling a list of birds and mammals that could not be imported . The fur industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are endangered . They say that certain species may be added to the list which are actually not endangered but just experiencing a population decline . They want a part in determining which species to place on the list . Most animals the fur industry deals with are not endangered , so the Garmatz bill will only have a limited effect on them , one furrier declared . Pet-industry officials , on the other hand , oppose the very essence of the bill , although they say they intend only to offer their own amendments to it rather than urge its defeat . " We feel the country of origin should declare whether its species are in danger , " Frank Dittrich , president of Pet Shop Management , Inc. , told the Monitor . " Prohibiting the importing of endangered species to the United States will not accomplish the goal because they could be sold to other foreign countries . " Mr. Dittrich said the pet industry does not want to see any species become extinct , but it believes the solution to saving endangered species must come through international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations already hhve laws prohibiting the exporting of endangered species , but as long as there is a lucrative market for such animals in the United States the laws are n't very effective . - If the United States does outlaw the importing of endangered species , 66 other nations will follow suit and either establish laws preventing exporting or strengthen such existing laws , according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources ( IUCN ) . IUCN is the conservation association which has.already compiled a list of rare and endangered species and data on each one . It is this list which the Department of Interior would probably use as its main source when compiling its own list of birds and animals which could not be imported . At this time , according to the Interior Department 's Office of Endangered Species , it is not possible to indicate which animals the proposed bills would affect . As long as a particular species throughout the world was not endangered , the species would not be placed on the department 's list . Some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Galapagos tortoise , the orangutan , the monkey-eating eagle of the Philippines , and the Javan and Sumatran rhinoceros , says John Perry , assistant director of the National Zoological Park , Washington , D.C. Orangutans survive only in Sumatra and Borneo where they are protected by law . But poachers are catching these rare animals and selling them to zoos for $3,000 and more . So rare is the orangutan that the Wild Animal Propagation Trust considers that none should be imported into this country for purely " exhibition " purposes . Rather , they should be imported only for breeding purposes , thus increasing the captive population . Besides applying to the importing of foreign species , the bill also contains a provision making illegal the interstate shipment of " reptiles , amphibians and other wildlife " in the United States taken contrary to state laws . This part of the bill applies particularly to the American alligator . This reptile was once abundant from Texas to North Carolina , but it now has " a dim prospect of . . . surviving extinction , " states the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioners . Many thousands are killed every year by poachers who sell the skins for $6.50 a foot . Although there are laws against the shooting of alligators it is almost impossible to apprehend poachers . They simply smuggle skins or live baby alligators into states where the law does not apply . One senior game ranger has estimated that there are 1,000 poachers active in southern Florida . With the drainage and shrinking of wetlands alligators are concentrated in smaller areas and so easier to capture or shoot . The bill before the subcommittee aims to drastically curtail this killing by outlawing the interstate traffic of alligator skins , thus cutting off the market .                     