@@725382

txt Investors gazing glumly on a dipping American stock market can look ahead to 1975 and cheer up . Wall street experts forecast we vow Jones Industrial Average by then will be hovering around 1,500 . And that is probably a conservative estimate . The market for the past year has ebbed and flooded in the 900 's , reaching nearly 1,000 before skidding into the current decline  --  which started in February . The Big Board itself never predicts pi ices . A 10-man advisory committee of the New York Stock Exchange is the forecaster in this case . And its consensus is n't being publicized . But it still makes happier reading than today 's averages . There may he a frown from the United States Tariff Commission in Ford 's future . The commission is investigating the giant automaker for shutting down some auto-parts production at Pennsauken , N.J. It is unhappy to think that Ford may be making the shift as part of the new American-Canadian pact eliminating duties on autos and parts . Automobile workers started it . They complained about being laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ layoffs , it can recommend that workers be reimbursed . Production shifts to other countries have led to commission probes before . But all proved no damage . Some observers think the clear-cut provisions of the auto pact may make it easier now for the automobile workers to prove their case . A prownrker ruling could complicate the success of the auto pact . It could even hamstring future moves to simplify trade between the two countries . Trends .. . Europe 's Common Market now is playing its antitrust policy by car . The music seemed simple to read at first . The Treaty of Rome bluntly said : " Action by one or more enterprises to take improper advantage of a dominant position " in the market was prohibited . But internationalization of business is suddenly complicating the score . American competition is coming in fortissimo . And mergers of European companies big enough to mute that competition are likely to be welcomed instead of banned . For instance , further moves into the European market by American automakers  --  who own more than one-third of it already  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strictly speaking that would violate the Common Market treaty . But , considering the situation , it may not only be permitted but urged . How and why ... A new stretch of pipeline through North Africa is not only making Moscow blush but cutting it out of an oil market besides . A British-built third branch of a great pipeline from southern Algeria to the sea started pumping crude oil Feb. 12 . Eventually it will send 22 million tons per year to the port of Oran . Two other branches of the same system are already carrying 26 million tons to Mediterranean ports . Moscow must be blushing because it made a bid to build the same 500-mile pipeline section . The British won and finished the job in less than two years . The Soviet bid was not only higher but would have taken twice the time . The new line puts North Africa in the ranks of major oil exporters . With Libya 's 60 million tons last year , the region now exports twice as much oil as the Soviet Union . With their close ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have virtually shut Moscow out of the African market . Britain now plans to export its summer days worldwide  --  and first of all to America . The thing about the British climate is that it is reasonably moist . That makes it in demand because many feel best when the relative humidity is about 55 percent . Hardly anything has been done by Britons to dehumidify the air when thermometers plunge well below 50 degrees . That 's when furniture cracks and people 's pizzazz declines . One leading British firm has made a new portable $75 air cleaner and humidifier for just such a situation . Designed like a glowing table centerpiece , it cleans the air and keeps it constantly at the softness of an early English summer day . And the first two-year supply of its reproduced British summers are United States bound .                     