@@727524

txt At least five city hospitals are facing grave employe absentee problems because of Hong Kong flu and related virus infections , officials reported yesterday . One may have to cut services drastically . Staffs have been cut by as much as 34 ) per cent in some hospitals . Those reporting difficulties in maintaining full services are Billings , Augustana , Michael Reese , Cook county , and Passavant . Billings may have to close clown all but emergency admission by Monday if its 30 per cent employe absentee rate continues , said Charles Goulet , hospital director . Postpone Lab Tests Goulet said the staff may have to postpone nonessential laboratory tests and other services until more employes get back to work . Mercy hospital , which was threatened earlier this week with service cutbacks because of the flu , has been able to maintain normal operations . Dietary and housekeeping service workers have been working double shifts to maintain normal operations , Sister Gwendolyn , Mercy hospital administrator , said . Work Double Shifts In Michael Reese hospital , absenteeism in the nursing department has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the hospital , said normal services have been maintained by having staff members work double shifts . Friday night , Passavant hospital was hit hard by the flu bug when 16 of 35 nurses and nurses aids scheduled for duty bad to stay borne . Nurses in the surgical and orthopedic wards in County hospital have been working double shifts since early last week . Frederick Hertwig , hospital superintendent , said the hospital is " holding its own , but just barely . " The day shift in Augustana hospital has been hard bit by the flu , Gregory Wittrock , assistant administrator , said . Wittrock said the absentee rate is much higher than normal , but the hospital probably will maintain regular services this week . Absenteeism " Very High " A spokesman for Illinois Research hospital said his hospital bas bad " very high absenteeism " this week and said " we will probably have difficulties in the next few days " keeping a normal operation going . Dr. Norman Rose , chief of epidemiology for the state department of public health . urged the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Champaign , University of Illinois officials have barred visitors from hospital for students to prevent further Infection of patients with the virus . Altho only five cases of the Hong Kong flu have been confirmed in Chicago , health officiala agreed the epidemic may be more widespread than reported because of difficulties in diagnosing the virus .                     