@@728128

txt The dean of students of the Garrett Theological seminary , 2121 Sheridan rd. , Evanston , said last night that the seminary was " hooked " into letting members of the militant Weatherman f action of the Students for a Democratic Society use a combination dormitory and cafeteria for sleeping facilities . Taylor McConnell , dean of students , said , " We looked the other way " while students from the seminary arranged to have about 30 S.D.S. members stay in the dormitory during this week 's protest demonstrations in Chicago . McConnell said S.D.S. members began arriving Wednesday and by Wednesday night there were about 150 persons sleeping and meeting in the seminary 's dormitory and cafeteria . Bring Sleeping Bags " As it turned out , the S.D.S. touted us all over several states as the meeting place , and they just kept coming , bringing their sleeping bags until the number turned out to be about 150 sleeping in rooms and in the lounges , " McConnell said . He said they included both men and women , and several of them wore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked the S. D.S. members to leave when the number exceeded the 30 who were expected , but leaders of the group said they would meet to decide if they would leave or not . The meeting was held late last night , and after it was over the president of the Garvett Student association announced that an agreement had been made and that all except the 30 S. D. S. members originally invited will leave today . John Morin , 23 , the student association officer , said he and other Garrett students are calling other churches in Evanston to see if housing can be found for the " extra " radicals . He said Garrett students will provide- food and shelter only for the original 30 . Morin also said that the student association , accepts " full responsibility " for the presence of the 30 S. D. S. members in the seminary and added , " We affirm their right to be here . " Believe io Change The Garrett students believe that fundamental change in American society is needed ; Morin said , " however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently used by the S. D. S. " Dr. Orville H. , president of the seminary , said it was a " complete surprise " him when the large numbers of S. D. S. members began arriving to take up temporary lodging in the facilities during the protests in Chicago . He said no authorization was given , by the seminary for facilities being offered to the S.D.S Weatherman members and the seminary had no official connection with the S. D. S. or demonstrations being conducted in the area . Several of the demonstrators left the dormitory Wednesday night to participate in disturbances in Lincoln park and the near north side , and they returned about midnight . More left to attend a Grant park rally yesterday , and returned last night . McConnell said .                     