@@722458

txt ABOARD THE CARRIER INTREPID , May 24 ( AP ) - Damp but smiling , Astronaut Malcolm Scott Carpenter landed on the deck of the aircraft carrier Intrepid from a helicopter today after what could have been a disastrous end to his orbital flight around the earth . For 35 agonizing minutes , the nation 's heart was caught in its throat as there was no word from Carpenter after his reentry into the atmosphere . For drama , nothing in the short ' history of United States space ventures has surpassed those 35 minutes when the 37-year-old naval officer was missing at sea , those tedious minutes when millions wondered whether he had come back from space dead or alive . Until 12:30 p. m. , Carpenter 's lowered it to a safe landing in the sea ? If they had n't , the capsule would plunge into the ocean and sink . Mercury control had none of the answers . Hint of Hope Comes For long minutes , all the public knew was that Mercury control had an estimated location where Aurora 7 had splashed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and that ships and planes were rushing toward the scene . Then came a hint of hope . At 1:05 it was announced that a P2V Neptune bomber had picked up a radio beacon from a homing device . Aurora 7 had a homing device . The moments lengthened . Then , 55 minutes after Carpenter 's radio had been " lost , " three-orbit flight was largely routine . Lose Radio Link Then the retrorockets were fired , the brakes welt slammed on to bring him out of orbit . And then as the searing heat of reentry built up around his craft , all radio communication was lost . We expected this , said the Mercury control center at Cape Canaveral . There is no cause for worry . But five minutes later , Lt. Col. John A. Powers , the Mercury spokesman , said Aurora 7 had overshot the area where it was supposed to land ? by more than 250 miles , it turned out . He said Mercury control had had no word from Carpenter since the , critical moment of reentry . Had Carpenter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loudspeakers at Cape Canal , - eral crackled with Col. Powers ' happy announcement : " A navy P2V Neptune has ' , reported sighting t h e spacecraft floating in the landing area . Alongside it was a life raft , and sitting in it was a gentleman named Carpenter . " People breathed again . 2 Paramedics Jump Carpenter 's rescue by a jet powered helicopter from t h e rubber raft bobbing in a calm sea about 1,050 miles southeast of here came shortly after 3:30 p. m . At that time he had been gone from Cape Canaveral for 7 halts 45 minutes . The astronaut apparently had been floating on his raft since he landed about 12:41 p . While he was in the water , two paramedics  --  medical technician parachutists  --  had Moped to his aid from a plane overhead in event he was injured and to affix a rubber float to the space capsule . They were rescued by another helicopter . To get Carpenter into the harness which reeled him from the water like a fish , two navy skin divers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back on the same winch . While he was in the helicopter , Carpenter radioed , " I feel fine . " This self-diagnosis was subsequently confirmed by a doctor aboard the Intrepid . Carpenter now goes to Grand Turk Island in the Bahamas where he will undergo a physical examination and make a flight report over the next 48 hours . On Sunday , Carpenter will return to Cape Canaveral for a grand welcome and to hold a press conference .                     