@@723416

txt Late news reports indicate that relations are improving between the United States and the Diem regime . it is wishful thinking , however , to believe in the sincerity of the Diem regime and to entertain the idea that Diem and the Nhus might after all institute necessary reforms designed to recover the popular support they have lost during the last three years . Unless the leopard decides to change his spots , the Diem regime will keep on being stubborn and self-righteous and much more so after it has got away with persecuting the population , defying world public opinion and outmaneuvering the Kennedy Administration . In the past , whenever there was a violent manifestation of popular discontent in South Vietnam  --  the abortive coup of 1960 , the palace bombing of 1962 , the Buddhist crisis  --  the Diem regime has always tried to find a scapegoat for its failure . The United States is still being suspected of involvement in the paratroopers ' revolt and the palace bombing . In 1961 and 1962 , when the international press carried critical articles about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press and , in her own words , " even the most famous or the most serious institutions .. . are infiltrated by the Communists . " Attack on Buddhists During the Buddhist crisis both the official Vietnam press and the Government-controlled Times of Vietnam insinuated that the Buddhist movement was Communist-inspired . Now the regime just stated that there is an international conspiracy against it and that it would ask the United States Congress for an investigation . So the blame is still being placed on someone else . Unless Diem himself comes out with an unequivocal statement that he has decided to put the interests of the Vietnamese nation above those of his family and that he will get rid of the Nhus , there can be no grounds for believing that the dictatorial and oppressive nature of the regime has changed . Even then the question to be asked is whether Diem could still get rid of the Nhus if he should want to . Naked political power in South Vietnam at present resides with the Nhus and not with Diem . Improving Diem 's Image It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to their interests to " play it cool " for a while and to persuade the United States that they are not antiAmerican after all . They will probably do everything according to their own whims in South Vietnam while using a portion of United States money to send a team of party intellectuals to the United States and to hire a New York public relations firm with the purpose of bettering Diem 's image in the United States . It is ironical to note that the North Vietnamese Communists have been rather quiet about the whole affair . Their silence is an eloquent testimony of their belief that the longer the Diem regime stays in power , the sooner will be the day when the South Vietnamese population will turn to them . NGO TON DAT Former Press Chief and Economic Director , Foreign Ministry of South Vietnam . Bethesda , Md. , Sept. 6 , 1963 . Crisis in Schools Not Over To THE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORE TIMES Now that the teachers ' crisis has been dealt with and settled for the time being , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work seriously on other problems of the New York City school system . It is apparent from much that has been published that many of our schools are in bad condition , antiquated in basic architecture and equipment , that there is serious overcrowding , that some of the teaching is substandard , and that there is difficulty in getting an adequate complement of qualified teachers . None of these problems can be solved by shifting children from one school to another . There is , furthermore , a failure to deal adequately with the language problem of Spanish-speaking pupils who are put into English-taught classes where they can not understand the instruction . In regard to the need for adequate teachers , I am convinced that the present requirements should be scrutinized from a more enlightMilk Fallout Count Cited Dairy Spokesman Quotes Radiation Council on Present Levels To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Times : Dwight Mann Ragle in a letter published Aug. 31 asks " why the Federal Government has not yet begun to insist that dairies install equipment to extract strontium 90 from fresh milk . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no commercially feasible process and equipment available acceptable to public health authorities for the removal of radio-nuclides from milk . A promising pilot plant study has been in progress at the U.S. Government Experiment Station at Beltsville , Md. , and a dairy plant ine Missouri has entered into a contract with Federal agencies for a commer- " cial feasibility test . But this instal= ? lation is not yet operative . There are many criteria , other than costs and removal of radionuclides , which prudent health au- : ' thorities want to have tested before approval can be granted . To quote the Agricultural Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture : " Public health authorities have stated that at the present stage of development ( June , 1963 ) , they can not determine that such equipment is in compliance with the Public Health Service ordinance and code . " Several factors of public health concern regarding ion exchange processes for radio-nuclide removal , must be given careful consideration . Studies are under way on the micro- , biological problems to determine the potential hazards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate sanitiz ing procedures , and the development of methods which will minimize , ! staphylococcal enterotoxin probe ' lems . " Public Panic ' No Solution There are several other reasonz ; - why Mr. Ragle errs grievously to . suggest " public panic " as " the only ' way we can get strontium-free milk for our youngsters " : First , the Federal Radiation Council 's figures for June , 1963 , the latest for which a computation is available , show 38 picocuries of strontium 90 a liter in milk in the New York area , a very small fraction of the , 200 picocuries a liter a day for a lifetime exposure considered by the : council to be an acceptable risk. - " Health risks from present and anticipated " levels of fallout " are toq , small to justify measures " to or modify the diet , the council advises . Therefore , as the citation above " from the U.S. Department of Agri- ' . culture makes manifestly clear , the , " cure " holds more potential danger at this point than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused public confusion . Its present hazards are greatly exaggerated in the public mind . Of course there is reason for concern  --  but not for anxiety or alarm end certainly not for " public panic . " The implied charge of indifference of the milk industry is strange , since along with public health officials it guards the purity of its product ' zealously . But leaving pride and high standards aside , does it no ( make simple sense that the milk . industry , above all others , has a big economic interest in A iwnifecni , .. I pure product ? PAUL CORASH , Executive Director , Metropolitan Dairy Institute . New York . Sent . 9. 1963 . Goldwater Stand on Pact To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : According to reports , Senator " Goldwater is willing to vote yes on the test-ban treaty providing it coll. : , tains his amendment regarding the , , withdrawal of Soviet troops from Cuba . ? One must conclude that Senator Goldwater regards the treaty as , , compatible with our national secu -- rity . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the earth 's ' atmosphere contaminated because of a situation that has no relevance to the treaty . It is astonishing that a man who : , reasons with such an absence of , , , cogency should be considered seriously as a Presidential candidate. : : EDWIN J. KUH , Jr . Menemsha . Mass .. Sent . An . ? Stock Speculators Present ? To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : In an editorial on Sept. 6 you say . that the most encouraging aspect of the : rise of the stock market is the ; absence 44e excessive speculation . Are we to assume that five- and sixmillion-share days on the big board , alone are indicative of a lack of . speculative activity ? PHILIP PARKER . West Englewood , N. J. , Sept. 2 , ** Sept. 6 , 1963. ened point of view and revised . At present qualified teachers are being turned down because there is far too much emphasis on courses in educational psychology or practice teaching , and far too little on teacher training in the subjects taught and previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the forms of application for appointment to see this . GRANT CODE , New York , Sept. 9 , 1963 , To Make Rights Law Work Plan to Form Community Relations Service Is Backed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Of the eight titles of the Administration 's civil rights bill , probably the one which has received the least public attention is Title IV . This section would establish a Federal community relations service to cooperate with state and local biracial commissions ( and help establish them where they do not exist ) in solving racial disputes and , as the President stated in his message , " to work quietly to improve relations in any community threatened or torn with strife . " Title IV , it has been emphasized , is not a substitute for effective legislative action but seeks to supplement such action by working toward the achievement of civil and human rights through conciliation and cooperation . The community relations service contemplated will have a fertile field in which to work . Not only do most of the states and major cities outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but an ever-increasing number of cities and towns in the deep South  --  more than 50 to date  --  have such commissions . And in one Southern state , North Carolina , Governor Sanford has created such a human relations group under the name of Good Neighbor Council . In addition , the border states of Delaware , Kentucky , Maryland , Missouri and West Virginia have established by law state human relations commissions . ' ? Clearing House for Agencies To be more effective , the proposed community relations service should act as an intergroup relations clearing house for both public and private agencies , It should be empowered to convene national and local conferences and meetings so as better to utilize the support of volunteer , church and other nongovernment agencies . It should include a citizen 's advisory committee made up , among others , of members of state and local human relations commissions , local government officials and representatives from nongovernment human relations and professional organizations . The service should be able to utilize on a part-timd or on a consultant basis experienced professionals now working in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater public attention and discussion and support than it has received to date . There is a good chance that the community relations service which it would create may well turn out to be one of the more productive provisions of the civil rights legislation a ( Inntorl by the Congress . JOHN SLAWSON , Executive Vice President , The American Jewish Committee . New York , Sept , 4 , 1963 . Alternative to Goulart To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your Aug. 31 editorial about Brazil you implied that we should refuse economic aid to President Goulart 's Government because of what you feel to be his unwillingness to put his " financial house in order . " I feel that you are misjudging the situation in Brazil if you feel that President Goulart could retain the present state of " democracy " and nevertheless introduce the austerity program that is demanded of him by those who have no awareness of the ? fragility of the political balance in Brazil at the present time . It was not that President Goulart did not wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Goulart realized that he had a choice between yielding to their demands and risking the concomitant foreign reaction on the one hand , or exercising greater economic austerity and risking the probable replacement of the present democracy by a military junta . A military junta is , in itself , of course , evil enough . But even worse , it would leave the country more vulnerable to Communist subversive attacks and revolution  --  a real possibility that has to be reckoned with in a country as unstable and volatile as present-day Brazil . What choice would you have made ? ROBERT BERTRAND .                     