@@723725

txt As in 1963 , so in 1964 : President de Gaulle has opened the year with a dramatic move intended to show his determination to defy United States leadership of the Western alliance whenever this seems likely to advance the purely national interest of France as a world power . Last year it was the ruthless exclusion of Britain from the European Economic Community ( EEC ) largely because it seemed that admission of Britain would mean United States domination of the market by proxy . This year it is recognition of Communist China  --  with all the harassing consequences that this might have on the declared policies of the United States in the United Nations and Southeast Asia . Such flouting of Washington 's wishes is aimed at giving France a greater independence in world diplomacy . And since in terms of military power , France is heavily outweighed by either the United States or the Soviet Union , President de Gaulle 's tendency is to search for levers through which he can secure a measure of diplomatic independence of both or either . To him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union , the two superpowers with massive nuclear arsenals , should seem to be the final arbiters of world affairs . In this , of course . he and the Chinese Communists ? determined to be no mere satellites of Aloscow  --  can find a measure of common cause . Last week . in a copyrighted story in the London Sunday Times , the Agence France Presse correspondent in Peking wrote that " in private conversations with French personalities , who recently visited China . Chinese leaders pointedly lil , ened France 's position in relation to the United States to that between China and the Soviet Union . " ! Delegates Welcomed President de Gaulle 's decision should come as no surprise . For the past six months he and the Chinese Communists have been making passes at one another in a manner reminiscent of the partners in a Louis XIV minuet . The President has concurred in the visit of high-powered ( but never official ) French delegations to Peking . Chinese Premier Chou En-lai has appeared on French television and reminded his French audience of his happy student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peking for the future of the Chinese seat in the United Nations are manifest . In Southeast Asia , too , the move could have consequences no less embarrassing for the United States . Doubts Lona Heard President de Gaulle has repeatedly indicated that he thinks present United States policy in South Vietnam can not succeed . His alternative is apparently a unified , neutralized Vietnam from which United States influence would have been largely withdrawn ? to be replaced by a return of the French influence ejected after the defeat of 1954 . Naturally this is more appealing to the Chinese Communists than the present situation  --  and President de Gaulle is apparently cautiously willing to cooperate with them to try to bring it about . Related Stories : Page 2 Further reproduction prohibited without permission .                     