@@723182

txt Washington The long shadow of American , contentment falls across Wash ' ington today  --  and that mood appears to symbolize a desire to be let alone . It is a disconcerting prospect to the Kennedy administration . The farmers have just rejected a complicated proposal to control wheat production . President Kennedy wants a big tax-cut bill and will probably get it , but nobody seems in a hurry about it , and reviving business dampens interest . There 's a lot of talk about getting federal aid for better public schools  --  but not enough to produce action in a bored legislature . On the other hand in foreign affairs , Republicans are doing their best to stir up the Cuban issue , but even here the man in the street seems willing to go along for a while with the Kennedy policy of diplomatic pressures and " wait and see . " Deserted Galleries A reporter in Congress these days goes from an almost deserted Senate , discussing a technical bill on silver , to an almost deserted House , discussing a secondary bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There 's a ho-hum mood in Washington . President Kennedy took over the White House two years and some months ago with an air of urgency and a program to get the country " moving again . " Few people seem to feel the sense of urgency , however ; least of all a lethargic , Democratic Congress . Unemployment is still excessively high , but not much is being done about it . The big news in Washington these days is not being made by the White House and Congress . Concept Alters ? It is being made . by astronauts girdling the.globe , by the Supreme Court in hammer blows for civil liberties , and by the public itself with the latest example , the " let-us-alone " vote of wheat farmers . Observers studying the curious situation believe it is because Americans are reasonably contented , and that the views of the average American are neither Left nor Right but right clown the Center . The stock market reflects the current mood : It has bounced up again to near all-time highs after last ' year 's collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still ? abnormally high , according to some economists . Apathy Detected Many outsiders note the condition . Magazine writer Richard Rovere notes " the immense political presence of public apathy . It deadens the air and muffles and muddles controversy . " He adds : " There is evidence on every hand that the country fails to share Mr. Kennedy 's alarm over the disorders he would like to remedy . " Walter Lippman philosophizes that " the country really agrees with General Eisenhower that deficits are always bad " and that " the country is really very well off , in spite of the fact that our rate of economic growth is low . " Cornell Prof. Andrew Hacker warns against what he calls the present American mood of " complacency , " which , he argues , " can have a debilitating effect on the character of American political life . " Concept Alters ? There is evidence in President Kennedy 's speeches that he is altering his concept of the presidency . Before the election he insisted on the need for a " strong " President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the " limitations " of his office rather than the opportunities , which were stressed So frequently by Presidents Roosevelt and Truman . So-called " strong " presidents traditionally go to the country to combat apathy and indifference ; President Kennedy , however , has adopted the policy of working through political channel 's in Congress . Legislative results of this are not immediately predictable though early returns are small . Meanw hile , the nation 's emotions are not assaulted by colorful drama and controversy from the White House , and there is little evidence that it is deeply stirred by Mr. Kennedy 's program . ,                     