@@726024

txt More than 300 . American soldiers began unloading vital military cargoes this morning as a strike by 2,500 South Vietnamese longshoremen entered its second day . William .1 . Porter , the Deputy United States Ambassador , authorized the use of troops after union leaders said the strikers would not go back to work today . The strike started yesterday when longshoremen failed to appear for the 8 A.M. shift , thereby halting the unloading of 10 ships carrying military cargo . The immediate cause of the strike , which has not spread to the unloading of civilian cargoes , was the replacement of 600 Vietnamese dockers by a ? port battalion at the new United States Army terminal on the Saigon River north of the city . Among the material tied up by the strike was a ship-ment of urgently needed ' armored personnel carriers , believed to be consigned to the Ninth Division . The division , the First Battalion of which landed in Vungtau last week , is believed to be headed for the Mekong River delta as the first American fighting Unit assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the strike , which broke off last night at 11 , were scheduled to resume later today . An Army spokesman said that the two Vietnamese unions involved in the stoppage , the parent Confederation of Vietnamese Workers and the Port land Allied Dockworkers , had known for several months that their gangs at the new terminal would be employed only until the port battalion arrived . This was denied , however , by Bo Van Tai , secretary general of the Saigon Council of the confederation . He said that neither union had agreed to the layoffs . Behind the stoppage , however , were several related problems . Perhaps the biggest is the Army 's attempt to improve port efficiency and security . The Army , which hires the Vietnamese through two associations of stevedoring companies , has proposed that the " shape , " the traditional method of hiring workers by the day , be replaced by a hiring hall . All workers could then be registered and investigated . " The way it is now , " an Army source said , " the ' kal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central market and picks out whomever he wants  --  Vietcong or anyone . There are kickbacks and favoritism . If you get a man fired for stealing , he turns up on another pier a couple of days later . " Gleason Recommended The setting up of a hiring hall was among the changes recommended by Thomas A. Gleason , president of the International Longshoremen 's Association , on a visit here last spring . His study was aimed at ending long delays in unloading , which clogged the turbid waters of the river with ships , and widespread thefts . Wages and working conditions are not issues among the workers , called coolies . Coolie wages at present average 15,000 piasters for 20 days of work a month . That works out to $121 at the official rate , which would be a princely income if South Vietnam were not in a period of marked inflation . The longshoremen are also said to fear that United States officials plan eventually to have all military cargo worked by port battalions . " This will be done at army installations , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Port of Saigon does n't belong to us and is n't under our control . It belongs to the Vietnamese and they 'll continue to do the work . " The Army did not deny , however , that when the four berths at the new Army terminal were completed , it would reduce the number of berths the Army has in Saigon from seven to three . There were no disorders in the strike and no picket lines . At the new Army terminal , however , 150 strikers set up a compound outside the gates . There , under improvised shelters , they sat , smoked and cooked over charcoal fires . Even as in the United States . the fence around the compound was hung with signs , some in Vietnamese and some in English . One said , " We protest against the plot of the commanding officer of the United States 4th Transportation Command , causing a hard life for the workers . "                     