@@726875

txt Washington , Jan. 19-President Johnson today appointed Clark M. Clifford secretary of defense to replace Robert- . S. . Clifford , chairman of the foreign intelligence advisory board , was White House counsel during the Truman administration . 's resignation as defense secretary to become president of the World bank was disclosed late last November . The President said that will leave the cabinet next month as soon as he finishes presenting the fiscal 1969 defense budget to Congress , or not later than March 1 . Adviser to Kennedy The President called newsmen into his White House office to announce his choice of Clifford as defense secretary . Clifford , who is 61 , has been one of Johnson 's ranking advisers on defense and foreign matters . He was an adviser on defense and intelligence to President Kennedy . Johnson said he had a White House conference with earlier today and they discussed the question of when would leave the cabinet . They again talked about 's successor , Johnson said . The President said he had been considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final decision today . Hails Record The PreSident said he then telephoned Clifford and asked if he would accept . Clifford said he would and went to the White House to talk with Johnson and . After announcing the appointment , Johnson praised for " a truly ouststanding record of government service " during an unprecedented seven years as defense secretary . Johnson said he had never known a more competent , energetic , or dedicated public offical . The President said that Clifford had been " very high " among those recommended to him as a successor to and that himself recommended Clifford Johnson said he had worket closely with Clifford since his Senate days , recalling that CUE . ford in 1949 helped draft armed forces unification legislation . Called Wise Counselor Johnson said Clifford " has been a very wise and prudent counselor to many Presidents-and certainly to me-in the field of defense and in the field of diplomancy . " Clifford , born in Fort Scott , Kas. , on Christmas day is a graduate of the college and law school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II , he was assigned to the White House as naval aide to President Truman . In 1946 , Truman appointed Clifford his special counsel . President Kennedy appointed Clifford a member of his foreign intelligence advisory board in 1961 and appointed him chairman two years later . Clifford continued to head the advisory group under Johnson . Awaits Senate Action After his appointment was announced , Clifford held a press conference in the White House . He said he was in no position at this time and it would be inappropriate for him to speak on defense policies in advance of Senate consideration of his nomination . He said he will give his views when the Senate takes up his confirmation . Similarly , Clifford declined to give his views on the Viet Nam war . He remarked , however , that he did not consider himself eligible for classification as either a " hawk or a " dove . " Clifford recalled that when decided to quit as defense secretary late last year , President Johnson asked him " in a jocular manner " if he were a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President was joking , giving him " a sly needle , " so he told Johnson he definitely was not a candidate . Could n't Refuse President In the weeks that followed , Clifford said , Johnson mentioned to him the matter of a replacement for two or three more times . Clifford said Johnson telephoned him today to tell him he had reached a decision on 's successor and would he accept the appointment . Asked why he accepted the cabinet appointment when he apparently did not want the job as recently as late as last November , Clifford replied : " When the President of the United States looks you in the eye and says , ' The time has come as a President I must ask you as a citizen to assume this burden , ' you ca n't refuse . "                     