@@723494

txt Letters to The Times versely affected and this may well bring on an economic crisis . On the other hand , if our deficit. , continues to grow , a loss of confidence in the dollar may result with a consequent drain on our gold reserve 's . What is the answer ? You base your appeal for selling wheat to the Soviets ( editorial Oct. 2 on precedent ( " we have been exporting it to Poland " and Canada is selling to Russia ) , " good morals " ( we should not be " trying to make people go hungry " ) , " good politics " ( selling surpluses " is not going to do the cause of democracy any harm . A refusal to sell would " ) , and " good business " ( the Russians " will pay the world market price " ) . I find all of these arguments spurious . Sales to Poland are meant as a reward to the Gomulka Government for Its more or less independent policy from Moscow and as a recognition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so eloquently in 1956 . We should hardly do the same with regard to the domineering Soviets . The blank argument that Canada and other allies are doing it is like saying that two wrongs make one right ; to those who see no merits in the Canadian sale , official protests and measures to dissuade repetition seem more in order . Most amazing is the implication that by refusing to sell we would be responsible for the Soviet people going hungry . First of all , there is no evidence or anticipation of famine , but this is beside the point . Basic is the fact of the unquestionable responsibility of the Soviet Government for this state of affairs , and implicating proved American generosity in this case is not only doing ' , great injustice but also profaning it , the way you tie in generosity with " hard currency . " Soviet Russia is known to have good land and other resources ample to feed its people . It is primarily the grandiose ambitions of the Soviet Government which prevent the diversion of these resources from sputniks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kolkhoz system , and the assurance of decent living standards . There are indications that the perennial crisis in Communist agriculture has reached a point where , without outside help , adjustments in the above sense may become mandatory . Thus , refusal to sell wheat , rather than consent , might serve the cause of peace and freedom . Finally , the " Iet-us-sell-wheat " slogan is hardly good business either , not only because a sale at world market prices will have to be subsidized but because the Soviets have not yet made any offer to buy . Now that we have taken the " first step " in the Administration 's new attitude toward the Soviet Union ? for which The Times fought with zeal  --  let us not be dragged into further deals , especially not by arguments which seem to have been looked for in order to back a madeup mind . L. A. D. DELLIN , Chairman , Russian and East European Studies , The University of Vermont . South Burlington , Vt. , Oct. 4,1963 . Against Wheat Sale Agricultural Crisis Said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK TIMES Schools ' Racial Balancing Technique Viewed as Engendering Mutual Resentment The writer is professor of law at Fordham Law School , and the author of " Freedom of Association . " To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : My assertion that the racial balancing policy in the public schools is premised upon the inferiority of Negroes was incorrectly criticized by Prof. Kenneth B. Clark In his letter printed in The Times on Sept. 25 . In denying that the policy is so based , Professor Clark admits that " when the proportion of Negroes in a particular school reaches a critical point " the flight of teachers and white pupils causes " a lowering of general morale and pupil achievement . " But he and other balancers propose to remedy the defect not by sensibly assigning better teachers to the school and upgrading its plant but rather by compelling white pupils to attend in order to eliminate the preponderance of Negroes . It belabors the obvious to repeat that this implies that no school with a prevalence of Negro pupils can be satisfactory in " general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities and staff . This baleful and conclusive presumption of Negro inferiority would merit scorn did it not emanate from men who are sincerely , but in a mistaken way , trying to further racial progress . An open enrollment policy would be preferable to racial balancing . A parent ought to have the right to send his child to any school with available space in his city or school district . Concurrently , a priority effort is needed to raise the standards of schools in Negro and Puerto Rican neighborhoods . If parents , whatever their race , choose not to send their children to distant schools , they should not be compelled to do so . In the pursuit of equal opportunity regardless of race , let us strive to avoid a condescending racism-in-reverse that could tend to regard minority groups as partial wards of the state . The racial question has many aspects , including the moral , economic , social and political . The balancing technique , however , is a total assault upon a mere symptom . Its indiscriminate compulsion in the pursuit of arbitrary quotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual resentment in place of cooperation . I do not address myself here to the probable illegality of such balancing under Section 3201 of the Education Law , which prohibits the exclusion of any person from a public school in this state " on account of race , creed , color or national origin . " CHARLES E. RICE . New York , Sept. 30 , 1963 . Sale to Satellites To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have just come back from six months in Europe on a trip which took me to four of the Communist countries ? Czechoslovakia , Poland , Hungary and Yugoslavia . Because of this I am intensely interested in. the requests made by two of these countries for American wheat , as well as in the request from Bulgaria . I think that anyone who has recently been in Prague and Budapest would agree that nothing could further more favorable relations with the West than the consummation of this request and that nothing could do more to lessen the inclination on the part of these " satellites " to follow dictation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contacts of all kinds with the West as well as a determination in each capital visited to develop whatever system of socialism was necessary along indigenous lines . We shall never " undermine Communism " by denying to these countries food materials with which we are glutted . But we can and should win their friendship by supplying their needs . Doing so will be not only an act of kindness but also of far-seeing political wisdom in these times of some degree of relaxation of the tension between East and West in Europe , PENNINGTON HAILE . New York , Oct. 4 , 1963 . Financial Dilemma To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We indeed are in a quandary . If we reduce our balance of payments deficit considerably , the international liquidity of the nations with whom we do business will be adNo Appeal by Honduras To TIM EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the Oct. 4 news article by Tad Szulc the author reports that the Ambassador of Honduras went to the State Department accompanied by the Minister of Economy and Finance at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the deposed President of Honduras made to the American Embassy in Tegucigalpa . In this respect I wish to state ' that I have not asked the ' State Department for any military , inter- - vention . I went there to speak about the coup d'etat and made some comments related to the principle of representative democracy contained in the Charter of the Organization of American States . I also referred to some news items which appeared in a newspaper of this city stating that the United States Government considers the coup d'etat of the Dominican Republic a ' misfortune not only for that republic but for all the republics of this continent , . including the United States . After those considerations I asked the officials of the State Department if it would be possible for the American Government to make a strong declaration stating that they would not recognize any government established by the coup d'etat and that I believe that by doing so the military officers of Honduras'might reconsider their position . I want to repeat that I have not asked for a military intervention and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for the Charter of the O.A.S. , which contains the fundamental principle of " nonintervention . " CELEO DAVILA , Ambassador of Honduras , Washington , Oct. 4 , 1963.                     