@@722812

txt Nelson Rockefeller is running so far ahead for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1964 that he may have an unbreakable hammerlock on the prize even at this early date . Support for the New York governor appears stronger than ever among the party 's top leaders . It is even beginning to embrace some party stalwarts from Midwest and Rocky Mountain regions who are closer to the conservatism of Arizona 's Sen. Barry Goldwater than to the Rockefeller brand of liberal Republicanism . Mr. Rockefeller 's narrower-than-expected re-election over a weak Democratic foe last month has n't diminished enthusiasm for him . His divorce is no longer causing deep worries . And while there is much speculation about possible challehges from incoming GOP Governors William Scranton of Pennsylvania and George Romney of Michigan , there is astonishingly little talk about either among party professionals . This assessment of Rockefeller strength is based on talks with dozens of Republican leaders . ** past . weekend rar ! electiCo post-mortems.and to lay groundivM. - Sane the 1964 races . The occasion was the first conclave of the Republican National Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rocky Is being thawed by his rather conservative utteranees , including last week 's speech to the National Association of Manufacturers . Basically , however , most of these party chieftains regard him as the most formidable prospect for taking on President Kennedy in 1964 . They are influenced by post-election polls showing the governor running first , and far stronger than before , among COP voters . Indeed , many of the leaders see no other possibility . " It 's Got to Be Rockefeller " " Romney is too new . and Scranton talks like he really does n't want it and Goldwater ca n't win , " a conservative Republican Congressman from a Great Plains state analyzes out loud . " So it 's got to be Rockefeller . " The possibility of a Rockefeller runaway Is provoking concern among national Republican officials . They prefer a wide-open scramble to keep the party at fighting pitch and earn more exposure in the press and on television . The Rockefeller camp seconds such strategy . The governor 's lieutenants are going out of their way to slow boomlets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters declaring Mr. Rockefeller is n't seeking delegate commitments and has n't authorized drives in ' his behalf . " It 's not even a soft sell at this point , " says a Rocky aide . " It 's actually a no-sell . " The Rockefeller sentiment is n't unanimous . An occasional endorsement is voiced for Messrs . Romney or Scranton . The party 's Southern wing is nearly 100% anti-Rocky . Mississippi , Alabama and Texas Republicans are covertly working with a coterie of Midwesterners to form a conservative coalition for Mr. Goldwater in 1984 . There is alwayii the possibility the 64-yearold governor may stumble of his own accord . A seandal in his administration or some big boner could cause quick evaporation of support . Over-eager efforts to nail down the nomination could hurt him . A Rockefeller remarliege , especially to a younger woman , would be harmful , in tin opinion of many Republi , cans . Field Could Become Crowded Mr. Rockefeller 's seemingly clear field could become crowded if Mr. Kennedy 's popularity started skidding . With the White House in ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or other challengers might wage serious battle with the New York front runner . There might especially be a spurt in support for Mr. Goldwater among those who regard him as symbolic of the party 's true soul . Even then , the governOr would remain the favorite for the nomination , ' on the theory that he would have the best chance of capturing big blocks of electoral votes in northern industrial states . " There may be a lot of sniping against Rocky from some sectors of the party , but when the last shots are fired he 'll win the nomination hands down , " asserts a Midwest Republican . It is in the Midwest and Rocky Mountain states that Mr. Rockefeller 's strength is on the upswing most noticeably . Two years ago Republicans in these areas regarded him as a brash young Easterner and gave a quick brushoff to his faltering attempt to wrest the nomination from Richard Nixon . Old suspicions that the governor is too much of a maverick and too liberal have largely faded . Mr. Rockefeller has succeeded in convincing many critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an economic conservative , opposing big Federal budget deficits and favoring added incentives for private investment . Wowing Colorado Businessmen In Colorado , which just elected a conservative GOP governor in John Love and a conservative GOP Senator in Peter Dominick , support for Mr. Rockefeller has snowballed since he made three speeches in the state several months ago and wowed businessmen with his economic views . " There are people enthusiastically working for him now who bitterly opposed him before , " reports State Republican Chairman Jean K. Tool . Moderate and liberal Republican forces in California are confident they can block an attempt by Joseph Shell 's conservative faction to take command of the Republican organization next month . Even if the Shell segment precipitates a Goldwater-Rockefeller primary clash in 1964 , Rocky boosters are n't worried . " They 'd spend a million dollars trying to stop him , but Rocky could vvin 3 to 1 without spending a dime , " claims one Californian , Mr. Rockefeller 's position is enhanced because Messrs . Romney and Scranton still must prove themselves . Both face tough state budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either state or national , rivaling that of Mr. Rockefeller . Thus it 's logical the New Yorker should be the rallying figure for the party 's moderate and liberal forces . Speaking Dates Limited The Rockefeller camp sees no need to push the governor 's candidacy at this point . It will look far better , they think , for him to stick close to his Albany desk working on Empire State problems and to improve his image as an outstanding governor . Although deluged with invitations to speak across the nation , Rocky is accepting fewer than in the past . " We 've been trying for a month to get him for our Lincoln Day dinner , but have n't had any luck , " relates an Oregon Republican . Aside from these considerations , the Rockefeller staff prefers a go-slow approach for another reason . It still recalls the 1960 experience when Mr. Rockefeller tried to undercut Mr. Nixon , got mixed up with various maverick and malcontent Republicans and was snubbed by regular organization leaders in many states . The strategists are determined not to repeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1964 and the GOP nomination appears worthless ? Would Rocky still want it or try to step aside in the hope that he could be tapped at a more promising time in 19687 Rockefeller spokesmen , while contending their mat still " has n't made up his mind " about running , leave the clear impression he would find it hard to turn down the party 's call in 1964 . " It 's not a question of whether he runs and loses in 1964 , " says one , " but whether he could still have the nomination in 1968 if he passed un 1964. "                     