@@727948

txt President Nixon is assured of a tremendous welcome in Romania . His visit Aug. 2 and 3 , on the very eve of Romania 's party congress , will provide an immense fillip for President Nicolae Ceausescu and his policies . The Romanian leader will have no alternative but to raise an old subject  --  the possibility of an all-European security conference . It 's been thrice proposed since 1966 by the Warsaw Pact nations  --  including Romania . Each time it . got nowhere because it implied exclusion of the United States . But since March  --  the last time it was urged  --  there have been unofficial hints that the Americans would n't be left out in the cold . - It 's just possible Mr. Ceausescu is authorized to say this to President Nixon . Nevertheless , Western observers in East bloc capitals are skeptical that the Nixon visit will yield more in East-West terms generally than former President de Gaulle 's already forgotten sorties into the Communist arena . Nationalism in multination East Europe is growing . Not only in the " national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among groups within a single country . Federalization , it appears , is not enough to satisfy feelings of patriotic loyalty . Czechoslovakia ? the latest example ? is already finding it hard to fix a budget satisfactory to both of its new republics of Czechs and Slovaks . And earlier this year President Tito had to take drastic action to bind members of the Yugoslav federation closer to the center . Now trouble is flaring in his Kost5vo Province where Yugoslavia 's Albanian minority outnumbers native Serbs five to one ? though until recently the Serbs ruled the roost . Recent elections erupted into nationalistic boycotts of candidates by both sides and spilled over into brawls over the Albanian national emblem . The provincial press is sympathetic to the Albanian claims to full equality . It complains that Belgrade is deliberately misinterpreting the resentment of the Albanians to Serb authority in order to maintain the status quo . But just over the mountain border is Albania . Its current ties with Peking keep this homeland from constituting much of a pull to Albanians in Yugoslavia . But it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still the , avant-gardist of the Communist world  --  is well down the road toward a linkup with the European car industry . Alongside Czechoslovakia , it stands first in car output in East Europe and in exports to Communist-bloc nations , including Russia . It has three plants manufacturing cars under license with Italian , French , and West ? German ' makers . These factories have now pooled , their resources for repair , spare-parts services , and joint marketing . One of the plants is currently negotiating an enlarged agreement with Italy 's Fiat giant , involving a $100 million investment to treble the Yugoslav output of the Italian make by 1973 . Thus Yugoslavia already has a stout finger in a potentially rich pie  --  a dish which combines Western European car know-how with the market potential of a car-hungry East . Students and labor unions in Hungary are . ' acquiring a better image these days : ? Communist Party leader Janos Kadar recently took part in ' a two-day " talk-in " at a Budapest university . He applauded the social attitudes of students , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " criticism in public affairs is for the good of society . " ? A new labor code ? springing from last year 's economic reform ? gives unions ehe power of veto over management decisions made without negotiation . ? The unions : have just referred to arbitration two such disputes in major factories . They won both cases . How and why ... There 's a personal angle to President Nixon 's visit to Romania . In 1967 , when he was on the shelf politically , Mr : Nixon decided to visit East European capitals . Poland refused him a visa . Moscow accepted him as a tourist but denied him any contact with Soviet officials . Bucharest , on the contrary , rolled out the red carpet . He was received as a diplomatic visitor and had a long and friendly talk with President Ceausescu . And now they 're going to chat again .                     