@@727871

txt The City College faculty senate last night approved a plan to admit 400 additional students from minority groups in the 1969-70 academic year and 400 more front minority groups the following year . In adopting the plan , the 87-member faculty senate cast aside a controversial dual admissions proposal , which called for 50 per cent of the 1970 freshman class to come from poverty areas without regard to academic performance , an action that would have substantially increased the number of black and Puerto Rican students . The senate 's action must now go to the Board of Higher Education , which has ultimate authority over any admissions changes at City College . The faculty senate recommended that the admissions pattern it adopted be made applicable to the entire City University . Under the senate plan , 300 students from selected high schools in Manhattan and the Bronx would be admitted in September and 100 more in February . The same pattern would be followed in September , 1970 , and in February , 1971 . The 400 disadvantaged students would be admitted without regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to motivation , determination to undertake college work and other subjective evaluations of their suitability for higher education . Lower Figure Rejected The vote to admit the 400 extra poverty-area students was 42 to 30 . Earlier , the senate had defeated by a vote of 37 to 36 a plan that would have admitted 300 disadvantaged youths this year and another 300 next year . The plan adopted by the faculty senate differs in several significant ? respects from the dual-admissions proposal put forward by a negotiating team consisting of representatives of the faculty , the administration and black and Puerto Rican students . Under the faculty senate plan , no applicant who meets the academic requirements of the college would be turned away because of lack of space , since the 400 disadvantaged students who would be admitted constitute a separate , additional group . Under the 50.50 proposal that the senate rejected , academically qualified students might have been turned away to make room for the half of the freshman class that would have been admitted without regard to academic performance . Furthermore , the senate plan sets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than basing special admissions on a percentage of the total freshman class and keeps the special-admissions total closely aligned with the total black and Puerto Rican high-school population . If the Board of Higher Edu cation approves the plan , next September 's freshman class would be the largest in City College 's history . " We 're coming up with the largest freshman class in the history of City College , " said Professor Bernard Bellush , chairman of the faculty senate executive committee . " It could well be 3,000 , which is larger than anything we 've ever had before . " The largest previous City College freshman class was 2,350 in 1960 . Under the faculty senate 's plan , the freshman class next fall would break down this way : 1,675 regular admissions ; 275 admissions under the socalled 100 scholars program , which recruits top students from disadvantaged high schools even if they do not meet the minimum academic requirement of an . 82 average ; 300 SEEK ( Search for Education , Elevation and Knowledge ) prebaccalaureate students , and 300 additional disadvantaged students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal academic requirements , 100 more would enter the SEEK program and 100 additional freshmen would be admitted under the new plan . Thus the total freshman enrollment in February would be about 2,950 . The plan poses serious problems of facilities , faculty and financing . " These walls wo n't hold 3,000 , " Professor Bellush said . " We 're going to have to break down these walls to let in these students . " Professor Bellush made it clear that it was up to Mayor Lindsay and Governor Rockefeller to find means of providing the funds for the expanded City College freshman enrollment . Vital Decisions Cited " We 're making vital decisions , " he said . " It 's now up to the Mayor and the Governor to come through with commitments of funds . " The Mayor and the Governor had best cooperate , " Dr. Bellush commented , " if they want to help us face up to the problem Of the day . " We 're going to need tremendous funds , primarily from the state , " Professor Bellush said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at City College  --  including the SEEK students ? would be about 33 per cent black and Puerto Rican during the coming academic year . Dr. Bellush said that the total high school enrollment in the city , including both public and parochial high schools , was about 30 per cent black and Puerto Rican . The total black and Puerto Rican student population in the public high schools is about 40 per cent . It is estimated that special students , such as those in the SEEK program and in the new admissions plan , cost about $2,500 each to educate and to provide with supportive and remedial assistance . The cost to the city and state to educate a student admitted under regular academic requirements is about $1,500 . The senate adjourned until 1 P.M. tomorrow , when it is expected to take up three other demands set forth by black and Puerto Rican students . These include a greater student voice in the SEEK program , a separate freshman orientation program for black and Puerto Rican students and the creation of a black and Puerto Rican studies program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider several resolutions calling for the censure of Dr. Joseph J. Copeland , the acting president of the college , for initiating a faculty referendum on the demands while they were under consideration by the senate . No results of Dr. Copeland 's referendum have been made public . However , another faculty poll was conducted by the University Center for Rational Alternatives , a national group seeking alternatives to direct confrontations on the campuses . This poll showed senior faculty sentiment 7 to 1 against the 50-50 dual-admission proposal drawn up by faculty members , administration representatives and black and Puerto Rican ' student negotiators . The poll showed the senior faculty 3 to 1 against a black and Puerto Rican studies program . A total of 301 senior faculty members voted in this poll . Faculty Senate Scored Prof. Stanley Page , a spokesman for the University Center for Rational Alternatives , asserted that the senate , which was elected earlier this spring by faculty members throughout the college , did not represent the faculty 's real sentiments . " It is the firm conviction of a large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the faculty senate of City College has not truly represented their wishes in the proceedings of the last two weeks . " The Central Labor Council , while officially opposed to City College 's controversial admissions plan , proposed yesterday that the City University seek ways to admit more students . At a news conference in the Hotel Commodore , 42d Street near Lexington Avenue , Harry Van Arsdale , council president , said he would call on all affiliates in the organization of city labor unions to " advocate , request and demand " that more of the membership 's children be admitted to the City University . He said the grade-average admission requirement prevented many students from going to college who had a desire and potential but who did not have money to enter a private institution . He proposed that the Board of Higher Education " really go out and make an effort to find thousands and thousands of youngsters who do not have the marks but who might become good students . " He suggested that the board , instead of lowering standards , help the potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                