@@725710

txt Winnowing ways While fleets of grain ships pump food into the Indian subcontinent the Indians themselves cry for more fertilizers , pesticides , and better seeds . These , ( setter water distribution , and modern equipment will help farmers such as these in Rajasthan raise the level in India 's grain bin , Six hundred ships  --  the largest peacetime armada ever to be assembled in world history ? have been carrying nine million tons of American grain to India this year . The United States has moved  --  and India received , unloaded , and stored  --  more than a million tons of food imports a month without dislocating the Indian transportation and distribution system . In the words of Washington 's Secretary of Agriculture Orville L. Freeman , recently here on an inspection tour , the armada is part of history 's greatest war ? the war against hunger ? in which he finds India today is playing an aggressive role . This war is far from won . But the march toward victory is unrelenting . Eight months ago , there was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500 million people . Change in approach Today , although the monsoon failed throughout India last year , although this year also it is insufficient in many regions , there is hardship and scarcity but no famine . Secretary 1 ' reCITI an has pointed out that 20 years ago , a monsoon failure would have resulted in the loss of millions of lives . A little more than 20 years ago , this correspondent witnessed at first hand the loss . The government and people of the United States perhaps are not fully aware of the magnitude of the battle they have helped win . As vet India has much less reason to be satisfied . Its own efforts have to multiply and bear fruit . It has to plow deeper , sow more , dig deep underground for water . From the air it has to spray millions of planted acres . It has to wage more vigorously a war against waste in field and kitchen and learn to change its food habits . Meanwhile , the change in thought and approach is there  --  and it is spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and importance for hundreds of millions of Indians . Battle for crops Around Delhi this year I notice that the furrows of the plow are deeper and straighter than they were before . And as the monsoon continues to prefer being truant , I see long lines of men , women , and children , carrying on their backs heavy skins of water , fighting grimly to keep the seed they have sown from withering without moisture . I have never before heard so incessantly the throb of the electrically driven pump or the creak of the Catherine Wheel turned by teams of buffaloes . The cry of hunger has been replaced by another cry ? for water , fertilizer , seed , and pesticides . Meanwhile , traditional rice-eaters are turning to wheat , millet and sorghum , albeit without enthusiasm . And wheat-eaters are turning to fruit and vegetables . The egg is making new history in this country to the rising satisfaction . among others , of young American boys and girls in the Peace Corps . And for the first lime lower-middle and working-class housewives lovingly are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruit and other vegetables in new bazaars ( markets ) . Year before last India produced a record 88 million tons of food grain . Last year this dropped by some 14 million tons . The target this year is between 90 and 95 million tons . It is too early to say whether it will be achieved . The monsoon will play a key role , especially in areas of intensive cultivation . Another failure will produce grave consequences . Meanwhile , something is being gained each day as the treasure house of know-how , application , industry , and the will to self-reliance slowly is filling up .                     