@@723213

txt Rome To anyone who has been in Rome during the past few days there can be no doubt that Romans felt toward Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli more affection than toward most other persons who have held his position . There is ample evidence that respect and affection for him extended beyond the boundaries of his own religious denomination end also beyond the boundaries of Rome , of Italy , and of the so-called Western world . It even extended into the Kremlin in Moscow  --  but not to Peking . J. The explanation is partly , but only partly . because of the simple , sturdy qualities of the man himself . He never allowed the panoply of his position to turn his peasant head . He was never pompous and always seemed greatly amused by the evidence of less simplicity than he preferred in the surroundings in which he lived for the past 41/2 years . The larger reason is because men in many places have sensed correctly the fact that his policies in international affairs have contributed to a - change in the mental climate of - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Khrushchev has managed in the Communist world . A sympathetic change possibly could have happened in the West without benefit of the late Pope John XXIII . None can prove that his participation was essential . It certainly made sympathetic change easier because governments are always to some extent the prisoners of old policies . It is a fact that he himself dismantled some of the cold-war mental , atmosphere of the West at the time when Mr. Khrushchev 's de-Stalinization process was under heavy and dangerous fire in the Communist world . History wrestles endlessly with the question whether a given person contributed to , or merely rode with , a change in the international climate . Certainly Pope John rode with the change which has been released ' since Moscow 's reversals over Cuba . I personally think future historians will credit him with having contributed substantially to the change in climate of which one symptom is at least a temporary diminution of tension at Berlin . At the very least he had the perception to see the change and to refrain from trying to impede it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vatican preoccupation with the cold war and has thrown greater emphasis onto peacemaking . Essentially this meant attempting to hew out by trial and error a formula for peaceful coexistence which could be as fair and acceptable to the West as to the Communist countries . ? If President de Gaulle of France is right that the Soviet Union is at heart a European country which someday will recognize its common interest with Europe , then Pope John did much to open the door to that future development . With the Chinese pushing the Russians from behind , they might someday find the opening most welcome .                     