@@724141

txt New Delhi India 's External Affairs Ministry appears singularly unenthusiastic over British Foreign Secretary R. A. Butler 's most recent appeal for a fresh initiative in Laos . As chairman of the International Control Commission in Laos , India already has tried to bring the Lao factions together at a New Delhi conference following Pathet Lao aggression in the Plain of Jars . India has also participated in an informal ambassadors ' meeting in Vientiane and strenuously attempted to get Poland to reverse its earlier role of noncooperation in Laos . 1New Delhi Watchful Since most of these moves have been frustrated , largely by rising Chinese-encouraged Communist intransigeance , New Delhi has fallen back seemingly on the old formula of reconvening the Geneva conference in the hope it can impose a fresh mandate . One reason for extreme circumspection is the attitude of the Soviet Union . Continuing close links between New Delhi and Moscow on this subject seem to disclose Premier Nikita Khrushchev 's determination to disengage his country from Southeast Asian trouble spots since it can not or will not back up its views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a proposal to resummon the 14 nations which , with the Soviets as most inactive cochairman may , it is feared here , altogether lose its sense of purpose and direction , Policies Shifting It is also acknowledged here but still unofficially , that an Inia which will not talk to Communist China until the latter has vacated its Himalayan aggression , can not expect others to meet in a conference whose guidance has been flagrantly set aside by Chinese henchmen in Laos . Another reason is the process of reorganization now going on , not only in the Indian Foreign Ministry , but in some of its policies , A new Foreign Minister has just taken over and his first priority is Pakistan . This is not at all time , therefore , for India to play an active , vigorous role anywhere in Asia except perhaps round its own doorstep . Meanwhile , New Delhi bas been in touch with its commis sion comembers  --  Poland and Canada  --  with a British request to arrange a meeting of Lao factions on suitable neutral territory . put out by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suggestion dors meet that all factions withdraw to positions held by them prior to the outbreak of fighting on May 16 . To this the reported view as known here of Pathet Lao chief Souphanouvong is that he will not move back until he is satisfied that it will lead " to functioning of a genuine neutral government without outside interference . " Official here admit that all these side maneuvers do not amount to very much . The Geneva conference 's mandate really can be imposed on the ground by only one member  --  United States  --  just as it is be- ing disputed by a single power mas i ; orading in the guise of a South Asian liberation force . The Moscow Question This conclusion seems to bring inevitably closer a confrontation between the United States and Communist China . This may suit the Soviet Union , particularly during an American election year . It is asked here , can Moscow reconcile itself to a position of diminishing Asian prestige which it represents . Indian officials touring African regions also are reporting a parallel in that continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ backpedal . " It is wondered here how much further Moscow can tolerate this seeming ideological war with Peking before it boomerangs against Mr. Khrushchev 's over-all policy .                     