@@725846

txt Cardinal Spellman has offered to resign as Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York , but has been turned down by Pope Paul VI . The 77-year-old Cardinal disclosed yesterday that he wrote a letter to the Pontiff on Sept. 21 complying with a recent request from the Vatican for bishops who are 75 or over to offer their resignations . He said : " Just this morning I received word from the Holy Father that he wishes Me . to cdntinue for the present as Archbishop of New York and Military Vicar . " I accept this decision ' of His Holiness as God 's will for me , and I shall carry on in these responsibilities as long as I am able , to the best of my ability . " The Cardinal made the disclosure late yesterday afternoon from the pulpit of St. Patrick 's Cathedral , where more than 3,000 persons had gathered for the investiture of the Archdiocese 's six new Episcopal Vicars . Following a homily on the new appointment , the Cardinal said : " On this occasion I wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A hush fell over the congregation as he continued : " The same decree of Our Holy B. FISKE Father , Pope Paul VI , which called for the establishment of Episcopal Vicars , also earnestly requested bishops who are 75 years of age or older to offer resignations to the Holy See . " Most of you know that I am 77 . Accordingly , on the 21st of September , I wrote a letter to His Holiness , which I should like to read to you now . " The letter began " Most Holy Father " and read as follows : " In compliance with the ree 6itlir promulgated conciliar de= cree regarding the retirement of bishops , I humbly and most willingly offer for the disposition of Your Holiness my resignation as Archbishop of New York and Military Vicar of the Armed Forces of the United States . " In these capacities for 27 years I have been most happy to have served Your Holiness and your saintly predecessors , Pope Pius XII and Pope John XXIII . " I shall always be deeply indebted to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been associated , and I have not words to express my gratitude to the clergy , religious and faithful of the Archdiocese of New York and the armed forces whose charity and loyalty are , to paraphrase St. Paul 's tribute to the Christians of his era , unsurpassed in all the world . " Praying Almighty God to bless Your Holiness and to sustain you each day in your tremendous responsibilities with affection and gratitude , I beg a blessing , F. Cardinal Spellman . " When he had finished reading the letter Cardinal Spellman Ashen told the surprised congregation about the leter he had received from the Pope rejecting his resignation . On Aug. 12 , Pope Paul promulgated the decree " Ecclesiae Sanctae " ( Of the Holy Church ) urging the retirement of bishops by the age of 75 with the assurance of adequate provision for their material needs . Several weeks later the - Pontiff paid a visit to the Castle of Fumone outside Rome , where he paidi tribute to the 13thcentry Pope , St. Celestine V , who is the only pontiff known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known how many bishops have offered to resign as a result of the Pope 's reque* . Giacomo Cardinal Lercaro of Bologna and Ernesto Cardinal Ruffini of Palermo have made public their offers to resign . Cardinal Spellman is the first leading American . prelate to do likewise . ' All three of the offers were rejected . Other American prelates who are 75 or over include Joseph Cardinal Ritter of St. Louis , 75 ; James Francis Cardinal of Los Angeles , 80 ; Archbishop Karl J. Alter of Cincinnati , 81 , and Archbishop Robert E. Lucey of San Antonia , 75 . A spokesman for the Archdiocese here said yesterday 's announcement was " only about the 10th time " that Cardinal Spellman had spoken from the pulpit of St. Patrick 's since he became Archbishop here 27 years ago . He said that the Cardinal ordinarily spoke from a small lectern rather than from the high marble pulpit , and that his choice of the pulpit yesterday was " a sign of how seriously he takes this announce : ment . " Following the service the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pictures with the new Episcopal Vicars and other churchmen . He said that the rejection of his offer to resign came in a letter from the Pope , and declined to elaborate further on his previous remarks , saying : " They speak for themselves . " The papal decree on which the Cardinal based his offer to retire called for large dioceses to decentralize their pastoral work by appointing Episcopal Vicars to oversee activities in ' various sections of the dioceses. , Cardinal Spellman gave six Bishops responsibility for the pastoral care of from 29 to 175 of the more than 400 parishes in the Archdiocese . In explaining why he was appointing the Vicar , Cardinal , Spellman said that since his appointment here , " I have had the wish that I might know each of you , that time might somehow be spared to visit frequently every area of the archdiocese . . . . But that is a dream which has always eluded fulfillment because New York is so large and so densely populated . " The Vicars who already were auxiliary bishops will be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their areas and to make decisions on a number of questions , such as the undertaking of ecumenical activities , that previously went.to the Cardinal 's office for rulings . The Archdiocese of New York was the first diocese outside Rome to carry out the new instructions . At the investiture ceremonies yesterday the Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale and five other Protestant and Orthodox leaders held places of honor in the procession . A spokesman for the Archdiocese said that it was only the second time that non-Catholic churchmen had taken part in such services in the cathedral . Several Protestant and Orthodox leaders were present for the consecration last December of the Most Rev. Terence J. Cooke and the Most Rev. William J. Moran as Auxiliary Bishops of the Archdiocese . ' The Episcopal Vicars and their areas of responsibility are : Bishop Cooke , Vicar of Manhattan ; Bishop Edward V. Dargin , Vicar of Westchester ; Bishop George H. Guilfoyle , . Vicar of Staten Island ; Bishop Joseph M. Pernicone , Vicar of Dutchess and Putnam Counties ; Bishop John M. Fearns , Vicar of Orange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vicar of Sullivan and Ulster Counties . The other Protestants and Orthodox leaders who participated in the investiture service were Bishop Silas of the Greek Orthodoxy Archdiocese of North and South America ; the Rev. M. L. Wilson of the Protestant Council of the City of New York ; the Rt . Rev. Jonathan G. Sherman , Episcopal Bishop of Long Island ; the Rev. Dan M. Potter , executive director of the Protestant Council of the City ef New York , and Archbishop Nicon of the Russian Orthodox Church ( Outside of Russia ) . Dr. Peale ' called the participation of non-Catholics in the ceremony " one of the greatest things that has happened in our time . " " It is a happy augury of the deeper fellowship that is developing between our faiths , " he said . " I sense real brotherhood between us ; and we 've only seen the beginning . "                     