@@722789

txt Key West , Nov. 20 f Tuesday IT  --  Havana radio said today a Cuban merchant ship sailing in international waters southwest of Bermuda was attacked yesterday afternoon by a " North American plane . " The broadcast said the plane dropped 11 bombs but all of them missed the target , identified as the Rio Domuji . New York , Nov. 20 ? Tuesday ? Premier Fidel Castro informed the United Nations early today that he would not object if the Soviet Union removes the jet bombers it had sent to Cuba . The premier withdrew Cuba 's previous claim to the bombers as Cuban property , He said the bomber s , which have a range of 750 miles and are capable of carrying nuclear bombs , were too old to be of any use to Cuba . The United States believes there are about 30 in Cuba . Opens Way to Solution Castro 's letter opened the door to a solution of one of the principal remaining obstacles to a final settlement of the Cuban crisis . It was delivered to U Thant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Associated Press said Havana radio quoted Castro 's letter as saying , " The United States is using the bombers to hold the world attention on the Cuban crisis , to maintain its policy of force , and prevent settlement of the Cuban problem . I-The soviet government sent them the bombers to Cuba to defend the country against aggression but they have very poor speed and a low altitude . They are very old planes . " Castro was quoted as declaring once more that he would " ever permit an inspection of Cuban soil and he would stop aerial reconnaissance by United States planes . Russian representatives had repeatedly told . the United States the bombers were " obsolete " and there was no need to do anvthinu about them . One of Two Issues This position was re-stated Sunday by Vasily V. Kuznetsov in a long talk at the Russian delegation 's estate at Glen Cove with John J. McCloy , chairman of a United States coordinating ' committee on Cuba policy . Once the Soviet Union had placed 42 of the missiles it sent to Cuba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two principal issues remained in the way of a complete settlement : Removal of the bombers and verification of Premier Khrushchev 's commitment to President Kennedy to dismantle Russian missile bases . The United States has insisted that until both these promises had been complied with it would not give guarantees regarding Kennedy 's promise not to invade Cuba . Castro 's withdrawal of Cuba 's objections did not , of course , commit the Soviet Union to withdraw the bombers . For the past week the United States and the Soviet Union have been expected to reach some agreement .                     