@@724478

txt Canberra Australia so far is taking a relaxed attitude toward Indonesia 's abrupt withdrawal from the United Nations . But real concern is expressed here about the steady weakening of anti-Communist forces within Indonesia 's power structure . However . officials here stress President Sukarno 's announcement that he " would not go to war " over Malaysia . Besides , they say , the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra remains consistently friendly . Briefing Planned Australia 's Prime Minister , Sir Robert Menzies , is vacationing on an ocean liner plying toward Honolulu . And a Cabinet meeting is not even scheduled until next week . The Cabinet 's defense and foreign affairs subcommittee meeting will be for a final briefing of Defense Minister Shane D. Paltridge , who is soon to leave for Southeast Asia , Japan , and the United States . Senator Paltridge will have talks with Malaysia 's Tunku Abdul Rahman and Malaysian and British service chiefs . Aid Oiler Urged The Paltridge mission will meet a long-standing need in providing at least one Australian Cabinet member who has direct knowledge of Malaysian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can we help ? ' ' asked one Australian journal . ' ' This is the question which Senator Paltridge should ask bluntly , not only in Malaysia , where deterrence is the main issue , but also in South Vietnam .... " Australia already has ground , air , and sea forces stationed in five Southeast Asian territories . In addition it is spending more than Sti million annually on munitions supply and training of troops from Southeast Asia . Substitute Needed ? Despite this , Indonesia has shown it wants to maintain friendly contact with Australia . Recently appointed Indonesian Ambassador Kusasih continues to speak of Indonesian-Australian friendship . This attitude may be seen as another reason why Australia deplored the Indonesian decision to withdraw from the United Nations . But the consensus is that since President Sukarno had set a Jan. 1 deadline for " crushing " Malaysia , he needed sonic spectacular ibst it lite . Withdrawal from the United Nations provided it . Status But what disturbs the Australian government more is the change in the structure of the Indonesian government which President Sukarno has wrought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has reduced the political status of the Indonesian Army , which was anti-Communist in its leadership . Gen. Abdul Hark Nasution remains Minister for Stall of the Armed Forces . But his former key positiion as chief of staff of the Army was taken over by Gen. Achmad Yani . This fragmentation of the military leadership means , as observers here see it . that President Sukarno and the Indonesian Army under General Nasution are no longer joint practical rulers of Indonesia . The Army has been politically demoted . At the FaIllf. time Indonesia has moved closer to the Peking camp . As one Au , tralian journal puts it : - Relative to their apparent party member:Ann and their dominance of the trade unions , the Communists continue to have a small thou:zit increasing representation in the formal apparatus of power in Indonesia . "                     