@@726193

txt Indonesia 's gentle strongman , General Suharto , has inherited some awesome problems with his new office . After rejecting Sukarnoism a year ago , Indonesia finally rejected former President Sukarno himself this past weekend . General Suharto has been sworn in as Acting President , at least until elections scheduled for next year . Thus , in theory , the palace revolution which has been dragging on since the abortive coup of October , 1965 , is finally concluded . Indonesia , with the old order swept aside , can start afresh . For General Suharto , however , it is not all quite as simple as that . For though Dr. Sukarno 's political pyrotechnics have lost their dazzle for Indonesians , many of the country 's 105,000,000 people undoubtedly look upon General Suharto as a new political " miracle " worker . The problem is that " miracles " in Indonesia are unlikely . Demands Countered Instead , what probably lies ahead for any new national leader is a difficult grind , for though General Suharto now may no longer be shackled by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legacy of 22 years of maladministration and economic deterioration .. Where the students demand lowered prices , the prices may in fact still have to rise . Where the workers demand higher wages , they may have to settle for belt tightening and an austerity campaign . Now , however , there is no longer any Sukarno to be used as an excuse for such trends . Nor is there any Sukarno to be used as lightning rod to deflect any critical reaction . Acting President Suharto now must shoulder total responsibility and receive all the criticism . Indonesia has ; of course , made some important economic progress in recent months . But this is mainly progress in a negative sense . Repayment of its huge foreign debts has been rescheduled , mainly because Indonesia simply can not pay at the moment . The country has acquired some emergency foreign loans . Some aid is beginning to trickle in . Loyalists ' role questioned But all these are stopgap emergency measures . Ultimately , the huge foreign debt will have to be repaid . Deficits will have to be bridged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And so on . What General Suharto will most need.is patience from his people . But the students and younger-ieneration Indonesians who turned against former President Sukarno are impatient for progress . This impatience was even vented on General Suharto at the opening session of the People 's Consultative Congress when he apparently tried to head off harsh congress action against Dr. Sukarno , What General Suharto appeared to fear then , as he still does , is that Sukarno loyalists in central and east Java will not accept Dr. Sukarno 's eclipse and might take up arms in a bid to reinstate him . Thus General Suharto was caught in a crossfire between pro-Sukarno stalwarts on the one hand and militant anti-Sukarno forces on the other .                     