@@723189

txt The city 's real estate interests and the Wagner administration are facing a major battle over the politically and emotionally explosive issue of rent control . At stake is the administration 's control of more than 80 per cent of the city 's total rental housing units . The city may be forced to drop , or at least to soften , its hold . By July , Federal statisticians of the Bureau of the Census are expected to have ready an upto-date city housing survey that will provide the basis for deciding the rate of vacancies in New York 's dwellings . The rate is important from two standpoints . First , city law states that when the percentage of vacancies in all or any particular class of housing reaches 5 per cent , controls imposed on rents shall be abolished after a public hearing . Secondly , state law asserts that the city can continue rent control regulations in 1964 if the City Council makes a determination based on a survey that a public housing emergency still exists . Tabulation Is Awaited In such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest by the city , the realty men and tenant groups . But little agreement as to what the statistics mean can be expected . All sides will undoubtedly come up with different interpretations of what they believe is the exact vacancy rate . The climax of the rent-control battle will be reached next winter . At that time the City Council will consider recommendations by Mrs. Hortense W. Gabel , director of the Rent and Rehabilitation Administration , and Mayor Wagner on whether to modify controls . During the Council hearings , the realty men plan to make a concerted attack on the entire concept of rent control . If they lose , or if Mrs. Gabel 's recommendations fall short of their objectives , the real estate leaders say they will then carry their fight into . Federal court in an attempt to have the rentcontrol law declared unconstitutional , as occurred in December , 1956 , in Philadelphia . City Got Jurisdiction A year ago this month , jurisdiction over rent control was transferred from the state to the city , which is the only major municipality in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the country as a whole during World War II . With the transfer , controversy over whether control was justified increased . The real estate men charge the city with " political expediency " and the city and tenant groups accuse the real estate interests of " bigbusiness selfishness . ' ' , ? One of the leading exponents of decontrol is a group known as the Metropolitan Fair Rent Committee . Its president is Edward Sulzberger , head of ? Nassoit-Sulzberger &; Co. , a real estate management concern . In furthering its cause , the committee maintains that decontrol would be beneficial to the city rather than harmful . It also contends that tenants would not be hurt . It quotes letters from officials of decontrolled cities , such as the Mayor of New Orleans , who wrote : " Revarding the decontrol of rents , I would say that New Orleans has not experienced any large-scale evictions or exorbitant increases . There have been a few hardship cases , but they seern to be exceptions . Most rents were raised moderately when controls lapsed . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City , " the Committee says , " there will be an equalization of rents within apartment houses so that all tenants will be paying at the same rate for the space they occupy . The subsidizing of older tenants by newer tenants will be ended . " Rent control has proven to be an excellent manufacturer of instant slums . Rehabilitation will never get under way until we first end rent control and put every owner into the competitive market . " The committee contended that the city 's financial crisis could be solved " by . so moderating residential rent controls that the revenue from real estate will produce the money the city so badly needs . " Income Rise . Flgared The committee estimates that the city 's tax income , . could be increased by this action by at least $150,000,000 . On the other side of the argument , Mrs. Gabel has stated : " Over all , of course , rent control only has a justification in view of the shortage of housing ' which exists in New York City . ' We have an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep rents in line while tenants do n't have a competitive market in which to shop around for houses . " Organized Tenants , Inc. , under the leadership of Mrs. Marcey Feigenbaum is one of the most outspoken advocates of ' rent control . It puts the argument this way : " In 1950 , statistics indicated a shortage of . 430,000 low-andmiddle-income apartments for New York City 's residents . After a decade of the most intensive building this city has ever known ; another survey indicated that in 1960 there was the same shortage . " " Until such time as there is adequate housing to meet the needs of all the people , there will be a housing shortage , an emergency , and the continued need for a strong rent control law and fair administration of the law . There can be no discussion or consideration of ' de control or weakening of rent control . " Another group that is a constant advocate of rent control is the Metropolitan Council on Housing , led by Mrs. Jane Benedict . For years it has stressed : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City makes the continuation and strengthening of rent control mandatory . " On the other hand , the Affiliated Property Owners of Queens and Kings Counties , led by Mrs. Grace Liotta , urges City Hall to " take the small property owners out of control . " It contends that a group of small businessmen has suffered particularly under the law . The Committee on the Unconstitutional Rent Control Emergency , led by Vito P. Battista , terms the rent control law " unconstitutional , null and void " because , it says , " there exists a vacancy rate of more than 5 per cent of the total rental units in the city . " In maintaining that rent control should ? be continued , Mrs. Gabel argues that she is looking out especially for the welfare of families in the lowerand-middle income brackets . She says these families could not afford the other necessities in life if controls were lifted . The real estate men reply that this , in effect , represents a subsidy that other industries do not have to carry . In calculating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasonal housing , substandard dwellings and units withdrawn from the rental market . Real setate leaders say this gives a false picture of the true- rate situation . All housing should ' be included in making the calculation , they contend . Estimates Vary Since ' 60 Since . 1960 , estimates of the city 's vacancy rate have ranged from 1.7 per cent to 7.5 per cent . But critics of rent control , even if they could agree with the city on a figure , ask whether 5 per cent is a proper and even a legal dividing line between having rent control and ending it. , If the city 's housing vacancy rate next fall is found to be , say , 4 per cent , can that be interpreted to mean , they ask , that a housing emergency still exists ? In other words , the real estate men are asking what percentage figure really signifies an emergency housing situation . They will probably raise the question when they take their case to ' Federal court next year . They will probably also cite the Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency existed , even though the city 's vacancy rate was below 5 per cent . ' ' According to figures supplied by the City Rent and Rehabilitation . Administration , 1,757,082 accommodations in the city are under rent control . These consist of 1,522,943 housing units and 234,139 roominghouse dwellings .                     