@@725631

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times Letters to the . Editor of The Times President 's Rating ' in Polls To the Editor : The President reports that he is well satisfied with a per . formance rating of 55 per cent in nationwide public opinion polls . That , he said id his news conference " was a landslide when General Eisenhower defeated Adlai Stevenson . " Surely Mr. Johnson is aware that Presidential elections are psychologically very different from performance ratings on a President in- office . In an election people choose between alternatives ; they are to a degree already committed to support an elected President . That is why Presidential performance ratings are normally far higher than the vote for the Presidential winner . Mr. Johnson 's performance ratings have dropped sharply . A rating of 55 per cent on a - President in office , when the country is both prosperous and at war , is a shockingly low rating , revealing a profound uneasiness . Employing logic similar to - the President 's , one might point out that 55 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MAURICE L. FARBER Professor of Psychology The University of Connecticut Storrs , Conn. , July 6 , 1966 ? U.S. Policy Rejected To the Editor : Government circles in Washington have reacted with sarcasm and bitterness to the change in British official policy toward the Vietnam war . Prime Minister Wilson 's departure from his previous wholehearted support for United States action , by regretting the latest bombing attacks on densely populated areas , has been described as a stab in the back inflicted by an ally . It Is worth pointing out that Mr. Wilson 's minimal change of attitude , in the face of growing opposition to his home and foreign policies within his own party , falls far short of what many of us would like to see . More and more British people , ' of all political persuasions , are coming to recognize the United States as the aggressor and invader of Vietnam . Those of us who fought Hitler 25 years ago are beginning to see President Johnson as his spiritual successor , the big-power bully of small nations . Vietnamese Choice We refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why should not the . Vietnamese be left to choose their own government and way of life , Communist or non-Communist , as envisaged by those who drafted the 1954 Agreement ? In any case , it is not Communists but Americans who have waged merciless wars in other peoples ' countries during the past twenty years . The day is fast approaching when a majority of British people will accept what many of us now believe  --  that any rightful role played by British troops in Vietnam should be on the side of those Vietnamese who are resisting the American invader and struggling for the right of national self-determination . This is not an anti-American sentiment ; ' it is simply a refusal to accept the President 's claim that the people of the United States elected him to subjugate Vietnam . It is the result of the contrary conviction that the American people rejected Barry Goldwater because they believed that Lyndon Johnson would find an honorable settlement of the unwarranted United States ' involvement in the internal affairs of South East Asia . - ( The Rev. ) TREVOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 3 , 1966 ? Highways in the Smokies To the Editor : " Roads are like rabbits , " begins The Times 's most recent editorial in praise of conservation June 19 . In this case , the road is a second highway across the Great Smokey Mountains along the North CarolinaTennessee border . The road would cut through a magnifi=cent national park , the largest unspoiled mountain wilderness area  --  over half a million acres ? in the East . " If too many highways are built through a park in the name of giving people easy access , " your editorial continues , the true purpose and value of the park are destroyed . " Of course . But it is difficult to believe that anyone who had recently " tried any summer driving from ' Asheville to Knoxville , or at'tempted to pitch a tent in the beautiful but overcrowded campgrounds along the way , would believe that two highways , in the Smokies were " too many . " - To buttress this misapplied principle with misleading fact , your editorial correctly stated ? .. that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was- ' preponderantly " against " the road . However , it should be no surprise that the business interests of Gatlinburg , Tenn. , the town of tourist sprawl where the hearings were held , were unenthusiastic about the prospects of cutting . their corn-memo in half . It is plausible that the Smokles are big enough to contain two highways ? and more , if recreational purposes ever demand it ? without spoiling the splendors and isolation of these hills for hikers and wildlife . It . is also possible that the presently proposed route - is not the best . But the National Park Service has not suggested renting the forests of the Smokies to slash - and - run timber companies or handing them over to the Defense Department for defoliation experiments . It is trying to meet ' the transport and recreation needs of the ' country and its proposals should be treated with that in- mind . The gratuitous suggestion that " when people want to see automobiles and other people , they stay in the city , " is unpersuasive even to those readers greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's natural resources . Sophisticated and constructive-editorials are as essential in this area as elsewhere . CHARLES A. MILLER Cambridge , Mass. , July 1 , 1966 ? Federal Role Under Title IV Opposed To the Editor : ? There has seldom appeared in The Times a more wrongheaded statement than the editorial assertion of June 14 that " Congressmen from Northern cities and suburbs can not claim to believe in racial equality if they scuttle Title IV . " Your implication that a legislator must be a bigot in order to question the Administration 's proposed Federal ban on racial and other discrimination in the sale and rental of private housing fails to take account of every Congressman 's responsibility to weigh the necessity , the appropriateness and the constitutidnality of this legislation . Few will attack The Times 's premise that " segregated neighborhoods are the fundamental cause of many racial problems in the North . " But you neglect to point out that serious efforts have been under way for some time to combat this condition on a local basis . Since 1961 , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination in nearly all public and private housing accomodations and that assigns broad enforcement powers to the State Human Rights Commission . New York is far from alone : sixteen states  --  all of them in the " hypocritical " North , and together making up approximately 50 per cent of the population of the ' United States ? and 36 cities had adopted fair housing laws by the latter part of 1965 , aecording to recent - surveys . State 's Record During 1965 at least 24 states had been in the process of strengthening existing legislation or of enacting new measures , and the same surveys reported encouraging judicial and popular response . I have yet to learn of widespread breakdown in this system that might justify resort to Federal legislation . Given the above , one might still argue that Federal regulation would insure comprehensive and uniform enforcement of fair housing policies . It is hard to recall , however , a single instance ( wartime emergencies apart ) in which Federal authorities were successful in enforcing ' policies that depend for their effectiveness on direct sanctions , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our experience with the Volstead Act comes most immediately to mind as an illustration of the inefficiency , even the futility , of Federal attempts to regulate the ordinary activities of individuals without the active co-operation of local law-enforcement officials . The so-called " Mrs. Murphy " exception to fair housing laws is a good example of a policy that ought to be decided upon by states and municipalities , which are in a. better position than Washington to assess the good or ill effect of such details upon the achievement of ultimate goals . Even if a Congressman were to conclude that Title IV was necessary and appropriate legislation , he would still be bound by his oath of office to consider the serious constitutional objections that have been raised against this bill . Increased Power Federal power over commerce - has most assuredly grown with tremendous strides over the last three decades , as the Civil Rights ' Act of 1964 will illustrate . But one may still justifiably entertain doubts that the rental of an apartment in Manhattan , the sale of a home in Queens , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house substantially affects interstate commerce . If Congress were nevertheless to enact Title IV , and if the courts were to sustain it , would any limitations remain on Federal power over local affairs ? The foregoing considerations deserve the concern of every Congressman . The Times ill serves the public interest when , by oversimplifying the issue as being whether a legislator Is for or against " racial equality , " ' it encourages unjustified attacks on responsible men . JOSEPH MCLAUGHLIN New York , June 30 , 1966 ? Too Early to Judge Medicare To the Editor : The announcements that after twelve hours of Medicare the hospitals were still doing well would be absurd and laughable were it not for the obvious attempt to delude and misinform . No news of this sort can have any meaning at all until at least several months have elapsed . This official cynicism is being continued with the hints that physicians ' fees are now rising unreasonably . This new campaign is clearly intended to provide the Government with a readily available scapegoat when the economic inadequacies of Medicare become evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , 1966 ? British-Rhodesian Talks Assailed To the Editor : The June 28 news article by Dana A. Schmidt on the socalled British - Rhodesia talks about talks can not pass without comment . Unless the " informed diplomatic sources " were ' misinformed , then all those who take pride in the fair execution of democracy should be alarmed as to what the British Government is up to in Rhodesia . The British have shamefully mishandled and are still mishandling the Rhodesian question . It is a political weakness and wickedness for the British Government to hold talks with an illegal government . Such talks are themselves illegal , irresponsible , diabolical and treacherous . They are a mockery on democracy , and are a betrayal , on racial grounds , of the majority population of Rhodesia . No Change Under Ian Smith Let your reading public not be misled by the assumption that the racist Ian Smith will renounce his seven - month - old unilaterally declared independence . From my personal knowledge of Rhodesia , I believe that , unless the British give in to the Rhodesian rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason . It is , indeed , such a piteous thing to those who held a high esteem of the British Government to see that Govern , meat fail to take a firm stand to assert their authority on their break-away colony . It is still possible , however , for stronger measures , including military force , to be applied with no , or very little , loss of life . For there is growing evidence that the white Rhodesians are daily losing confidence in the rebel regime that has brought nothing to them but economic disruption and an imposed severance of ties with their Queen in Britain . The British should wake up to the fact that Ian Smith is following a tactful economic scorched-earth : policy he full well knows that , come what may , the - Africans shall rule in Rhodesia . And so the economic sanctions do not frighten him at all . H welcomes them because they damage the black man 's country . It is for this reason that I fear unless some outside force steps in vigorously to save the chaotic situation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which Britain will be held responsible ; the economic dislocation will be such that it will be too costly to remedy when the blacks come to power . Resistance to Recognition Let it be strongly warned that any move by the British Government to recognize or to imply a recognition of the atrocious , repressive minority rebel government of Rhodesia shall be peremptorily resisted not only by the Rhodesians but also by all independent African countries and all those in other corners of the world who cherish and respect government by the majority . Independence must come to Rhodesia soon , but only if it is preceded by a truly representative and popularly elected government . I hope that the British realize this fact . AMUSAA K. MWANAMWAMBWA Ridgewood , N. J. , June 29 , 1966 The writer is a citizen of Zambia . ? India 's Food Supplies To the Editor : As one who has recently spent several weeks traveling extensively in India I would like to point out that a shortage of food supplies is by no means universal in that very large country . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , similar to the long droughts in parts of Australia , South Africa and northeastern United States . But the southern region centered around Madras State has had rains amounting to floods and consequent abundant crops of . rice . A difficulty is that the central government has only a loose authority over the states , and according to recurring debates in Parliament has not Succeeded in getting credible statistics from the more fortunate areas as to their harvest successes . It is thus in a weak position to demand that prosperous communities share their supplies with " famine " areas . Aid Bar to Reforms As long ago as November 1965 the late Prime Minister Shastri tried to quiet criticism of the lack of communication between states by saying that soon it was hoped to arrive at statistics that would be satisfactory both to the states and to the central government . As far as I know this has never been achieved , and will probably not be achieved as long as massive shipments of American grain permit the postponement of already-enacted legislation for effective land use , production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to another . MARGARET C. H. FLINT New Haven , Conn. , July 4 , 1966 ? Change in Draft Age To the Editor : General Hershey 's plan to draft men 26 to 35 can not " eliminate the temptation now confronting college students to continue seeking deferment past their 26th birthday to escape military service altogether . " His plan will uselessly and needlessly disrupt the lives of men who stood ready to serve , but who were not called . Once more they are supposed to make no plans while someone in Washington plays God with their lives . Advantaged Group It Is obvious that as long as the Selective Service can say one man is more valuable than another , men will try to get deferred . Though men might not avoid the draft by remaining in school until they are 26 , they will avoid military service by remaining in school until they marry and have a child . Once more the economically well off have the advantage . Other students can avoid military service by studying the right subjects while in school . Engineers may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not . If it is necessary to defend the country some must be called . But why must the men now 26 to 35 be subject to call twice as long as others ? Even if the law should be changed , why make the change retroactive nine years ? Extending the limit one year at a time over the next nine years would accomplish the same purpose without punishing those who have already been prepared to serve . AARON KNOTT Cambridge , Mass. , July 1 , 1966 sanders In The Kansas On Star " The leader of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee gave it to us ! "                     