@@721823

txt Shortly after dawn yesterday morning the Greek tanker Ioannis Zafirakis moved up to Dock No. 3 in the harbor of this border city and began to pump its cargo of 100.000 barrels of Mexican crude oil into neat by storage tanks A few minutes later . a convoy of big tank ti licks pulled up to the sten age tanks , loaded tip with the oil and set off on a strange Journey The trucks thundered up International Boulevard to the Memcan border , crossed the Gateway Bridge over the Rio Grande , exchanged papers with Mexican border officials , turned around and returned to Brownsville . After the 14-mile round trip , they unloaded their cargo into storage tanks a few blocks from the point where they had picked it up . Although this may seem like economic nonsense , it actually serves a hard-headed business purpose . Trips back and forth across the border are enabling some U.S. oil companies to ease the impact of Federal import quotas . The quotas specifically exempt " overland " imports  --  those which come in by truck , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Re ? Export When the Mexican oil is first brought into Brownsville , it is put under bond in sealed tanks and tagged for re-export ; the import quotas do not apply to ' oil that 's due to be shipped to another nation . The oil then is exported to Mexico and imported from there . Even domestic oil producers , who are unhappy to see the import quotas thwarted , concede the Brownsville system is entirely within the law . Until recently , nearly all oil imports from Meru o had moved Into the U.S. entirely by sea Long hauls by truck or rail would have been much more costly , and there have been few pipelines . But via the Brownsville system . overland imports from Mexico jumped from an insignificant amount in 1959 to a high of about 50,000 barrels a day last month . Import quotas became mandatory In 1959 . With a similar aim but with no such complicated maneuvers , U.S. oil men also have been sharply increasing overland imports from Canada ; such imports now are running at a rate of 154,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the level of 1959 . The question of oil Imports will come in for new attention today , when the Interior Department in Washington opens hearings on the quota system . Certain to be an issue are the Brownsville maneuvers : six representatives of the Texas Independent Producers &; Royalty Owners Association , a group of domestic oil men , will be on hand to complain about the rise in overland shipments from Mexico.They 're far from satisfied by Interior Secretary Udall 's order last week limiting truck imports through Brownsville to 30,000 barrels daily , 60% of the recent volume . PILNili for Higher Quotas At the same time , U.S. oil companies that rely heavily on imports will be pushing hard for higher quotas . And the companies using the Brownsville system will be stoutly defend . ing it . Most of the oil which makes the truck trip into Mexico and back again is headed for East Coast refineries of Cities Service Co. and Tidewater Oil Co. and the Brownsville refinery of Western Natural Gas Co . A spokesman for Cities Service defends the Brownsville imports in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of Western Hemispheric crude " and found the Mexican oil is best for making asphalt . He adds that the company long has been using crude oil from Mexico for this purpose . A Tidewater spokesman says the low-gravity oil which comes from Mexico is in " short supply " in the U.S. ; and that the oil is needed to keep its Delaware City . Del. , refinery operating . Although the tank-truck-tank system adds up to 10 cents a barrel to handling costs , m addition to a 5,4-cents-a-barrel import duty when the oil is trucked back into the U.S. the U S. companies claim they 're saving money . The nearest substitute source for this type of crude , one U S. firm says , would be Venezuela and the cost of such oil would be 45 cents a barrel higher , mainly because of the longer ocean haul .                     