@@722145

txt The Roman Catholic Bishops of the United States urged Americans today to reverse what they called a serious decline in the nation 's morality . The prelates examined the problem and recommended remedies in a statement issued after their annual meeting at the Catholic University of America . The three-day meeting , attended by 186 of the 228 members of the church 's United States hierarchy , ended yesterday . The churchmen 's annual statement was entitled " Unchanging Duty in a Changing World . " In it they held that " our national ideal no longer rests upon a foundation of broad and solid popular morality . " Moral Notions Rejected " Ignorance of moral principles and the rejection of the very notion of morality are on the rise today and threaten to undermine our nation and its most sacred traditions , " they declared . As evidence , they cited an " alarming " increase in crime , particularly among the young ; " sensational " treatment of Violence and sexuality in literature and the performing arts ; disclosures of " greed and cynicism " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuance " of racial prejudice and injustice , and a rising divorce rate with the rapid disintegration of the family . The Bishops viewed the country 's " moral deterioration " as a basic evil rather than a fleeting one . Many Americans are cutting themselves off completely from moral traditions , they said , and for the first time in history " they find themselves without a moral law to break . " Man Left on His Own A fundamental cause of the trend may be found in the deInial of God , the prelates reported . " Many modern men find themselves without God and religion , on a lonely eminence of their own making , left to create their own moral values , forced to determine for themselves what is good and evil , right and wrong . " The Bishops placed much of the responsibility on major segments of the scientific community , on popular education and on the country 's communications media . Beneath the trend away from morality , they detected the " pervading " influence of secularism , which they defined as " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthronement of human nature in His place . " Even among those who have not rejected moral principles , the bishops said , the trend has produced " a widespread moral apathy which touches practically every group . " They declared that Catholics ' had a special obligation to promote a rebuilding of the moral principles and ideals on which the country was founded . Catholics should do so , they said , by the open profession of religious beliefs and moral convictions , by words and acts bearing " personal witness ' , to moral principles based on religion in personal and family life and by the application in community life of moral and social principles taught by the church . Tempered by Charity The prelates also advised the I practice of justice complemented by charity in dealing with tensions and misunderstandings arising from differences in religious beliefs , race and national origin . They called on Americans to apply high moral principles in international as well as national affairs . The newer nations and some of the older ones have looked to the United States for material help and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the Bishops observed . But these nations , particularly the newer ones , must also have " spiritual ideals and spiritual leadership , " they asserted . " We must inspire , even help these nations wherever possible to build on a. religious and moral foundation if we are to contribute significantly to the achievement of their national aspirations , " the churchmen said . Opportunity at Hand " The hour of greatest opportunity , " they added , " is striking now , as the forces of freedom and of tyranny gird for a decision . America 's strength , bestowed by Divine Providence , has been given for this hour ? that freedom may not fail . " Our hope is for a world in which men , imperfect though they be , will accept the reign of God  --  a world in which the principle of the natural law and of the Christian dispensation will be recognized as the CATHOLIC BISHOPS FIND A ERR LAG // norm of moral judgment and the basis of the social order . " Should such an order take hold on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , no matter what its magnitude , which would not admit of a reasonable and , on the whole , a satisfactory solution . " The statement was signed by the members of the administrative board of the National Catholic Welfare Conference on behalf of all the Bishops . The board consists of six Cardinals and nine other Archbishops and Bishops .                     