@@724206

txt Phoenix , Ariz. , Sept. 4 ? Sen. Barry Goldwater said tonight that he believed he could balance the federal budget in his first year in office if elected President . It could be done , Goldwater said , without drastic stens which could harm the economy . He emphasized , as he did in his opening campaign speech yesterday , that reversal of the " socialized state " could not he undertaken overnight and that some programs  --  social security , unemployment compensation , federal deposit insurance , and the Securities and Exchange commission  --  are fixtures which be would not want to change . Plans Peace Speech The G. 0 . P. candidate made these remarks in a television interview . He said he regarded his emphasis on " peace thru strength " the major point of his opening speech , and wants to address the entire nation by television on that theme . Hundreds of telephone calls and telegrams were received by the Arizona senator as he spent the day in his home here before flying tomorrow to join his running mate , Rep. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominee 's campaign at Lockport , N. Y. Most Indorse Theme Most of the messages saluted the theme stressed by Goldwater yesterday at Prescott , Ariz. , in which he associated mob rule in big cities with scandals touching the White House itself . There is a sickness in the land , he said , fostered by the welfare state . " Low morality and lawlessness will be top issues in the campaign , " Goldwater told reporters as he said good-by to Miller , who flew here yesterday . " It is not so much a matter of cases such as the Bobby Baker , McCloskey , and Billie Sol Estes scandals as the whole morality situation . " Claims First Triumph Thru Dean Burch , chairman of the Republican national committee , who is Goldwater 's companion on his campaign trips , the G. 0 . P. nominee issued a claim of " the first campaign triumph in behalf of better government for the American people , " as a result of the Prescott speech . This was a reference to the Pentagon 's reply yesterday to Goldwater 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected President . " Minutes later , the present administration jumped up and shouted ' me , too ' , " said Burch . " Therefore , thanks to the Republican party , this outdated and worn out system seems headed for oblivion . May Get a Following " If we are lucky and patient , we may find more of Sen. Goldwater 's sound positions being adopted by this administration . Who knows ? " President Johnson , Burch noted , might even mention in opening his campaign next week the threat of interne tional communism , " thereby remedying a glaring oversight in his acceptance speech at the Democratic national conven tion . " Burch added that he war . weary of seeing press stork . about " the Pentagon says , " and noted that the name of a minor official , Nils A. Lennartson , deputy assistant secretary el defense for public affairs , war attached to the Pentagon state ment about the draft . " What the public and we want to know is what the real bosses are willing to stand up and say on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burch remarked . " We know , of course , that Lyndon Johnson will not face Sen. Goldwater in a man-to-man debate . And we can understand why he would want to dodge this confrontation . " Pentagon Rejects Thesis But the civilian chief of the Pentagon Secretary of Defense Robert S. should not hide behind the " Pentagon " label , Burch said , or some " virtually anonymous public affairs spokesman . " " I hope that no one gets the idea that ' the Pentagon ' means the military services , " he concluded . The Pentagon statement , noting that President Johnson had ordered a study made of the feasibility of ending the military draft as soon as possible , rejected Goldwater 's charge that the draft was being used for social schemes as well as military objectives . Such an accusation was " irresponsible , " the Pentagon statement asserted . 60,000 Army Misfits Elaborating on his advocacy of an end to the military draft , Goldwater said that there were " 60,000 misfits " in the army and that it was being turned I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal project of the 1930s camp " by the induction of men not qualified for the highly technical duties of modern warfare . Sen. Goldwater will climax his first cross-country campaign trip with speeches Sept. 11 in Chicago and Rockford , Ill . The swing will start Tuesday in southern California , move north to Oregon and Washington , and turn east thru Montana and Minnesota , before ending in Illinois . Goldwater will then return to Washington , D. C. , where after a three-day rest , he will renew his cam-1 paign , probably with a south- , ern tour . Nine major speeches will be made by the candidate in the four-day period . By modern1 political standards , this is a comparatively relaxed schedule . The late President Kennedy and former Vice President Nixon in the 1960 campaign frequently made five to ten major speeches each day . Concentrates on TV Goldwater has determined to inject a fresh topic into each address , not engage in repetition , if possible , and to concentrate on televised speeches . California and Illinois are regarded as vital to success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearances in each state . The schedule calls for speeches , plus informal talks , in San Diego and Los Angeles on Sept. 8 ; in Sacramerto , Cal. , Klamath Falls , Ore. , Eugene , Ore. , and Seattle , Wash. , on Sept. 9 ; in Boise , Idaho , Great Falls , Mont. , and Minneapolis on Sept. 10 ; and in Chicago and Rockford , on Sept. 11.                     