@@726358

txt The Soviet Government said today that it was considering a French proposal for action by the Soviet Union , the United States , Britain and France to end the crisis in the Middle East . It made the disclosure at an extraordinary news conference in which a Government spokesman set forth Soviet views on the crisis between the Arabs and the Israelis . There had been no prior official Soviet reaction to the French idea , Which has been endorsed by the United States and Britain . The Russians were said to have received the proposal last night and not to have had time to come to a decision on it . Kremlin Blames Israel In presenting its views on the Middle East crisis , the Kremlin again blamed Israel for the trouble and said the United States , Britain and their allies should restrain her , Official Soviet stands on major issues are usually given in speeches by Kremlin leaders or 2 statements issued through Tass , the official press agency . No reason was announced for he hasty summoning of the sews conference , except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a visit to Moscow by Foreign Secretary George Brown of Britain . Mr. Brown had come here for talks with Soviet officials . His trip had been planned before // the crisis erupted . Before leaving Moscow , Mr. Brown told reporters that he had found in his talks here " an urgent desire to defuse the situation " in the Middle East . He said the position taken by the Kremlin was " what one might call the Nasserite line . " At the news conference only a few hours after Mr. Brown 's departure , Leonid M. Zamyatin , a Government spokesman , said that , in the Soviet view , the United Arab Republic and Syria were doing all they could to prevent war in the Middle East . " Our understanding is that the source of tension is Israel , " he said . " We believe it is for the United States , Britain and other Western powers to use their influence , to exert their influence on Israel to make it stop its provocations , This will be a real contribution to peace . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war in Vietnam . 4i both cases , he said , one side provoked a crisis , then sought guarantees to stop it . He contended that United Nations guarantees were being sought by the West for Israel , just as Hanoi was being asked to give guarantees to Washington before American air attacks on North Vietnam were halted . Soviet policies in the Middle East , Mr. Zamyatin said , " stem from our desire to secure peace in this area . " " The Soviet Government , " he added , " has drawn the conclusion that the real reason for the crisis lies in the policies and acts of the state of Israel . " No Comment on Blockade He declined to discuss specific points of policy , such as the Soviet attitude toward the announcement by President Gavial Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic that the Gulf of Aqaba , the route to Israel 's southern port , Elath , had been blockaded . The alleged blockade is considered to be a chief issue in the crisis . Israel has said she would fight if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenged the Arabs in the gulf . Mr. Zamyatin also declined to discuss a visit to Moscow by the Egyptian Defense Minister , Shams al-Din Bedran , who conferred today with Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin . The Soviet spokesman said Mr. Brown 's talks ; with Mr. Kosygin , President Nikolai V. Podgorny and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko showed " that the British Government actually supports the state of Israel . ' " But actually it is really . Israel that is to blame for the situation in the Middle East , " Mr. Zamyatin added . " Israel pursues policies hostile to the Arab Governments . " He asserted that the Arab Governments " are compelled to carry out defensive measures to oppose the pressures of imperialism . " Summarizing Mr. Brown 's visit , Mr. Zamyatin said the talks were frank and useful , " although the , approaches of Britain and the Soviet Union still differ on a number of questions . "                     