@@722568

txt The United States failed again today in an attempt to conduct a high-altitude nuclear test over Johnston Island in the Pacific . A Thor rocket burst into flames I and was destroyed on the launching pad . The rocket failure , the third in the long-delayed high-altitude test program , presented the Administration with an embarrassing dilemma . It must now decide whether to cut short the scheduled tests or exceed a deadline set by the President for concluding the series . The Thor missile was to have carried a nuclear device to an altitude of about 100 miles . It was intended to test the effects of a medium-range explosion on radio and radar , and to provide information on whether such a blast could neutralize an incoming ballistic missile warhead . The cause of the rocket failure has not yet been determined . Failure Upsets Test Plans For more than half an hour after the launching attempt at 11:15 P. M. ( 5:15 A. M. Eastern Daylight Time ) , a fierce blaze , fed by the rocket fuels , raged around the hurriedly constructed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that there were no injuries and there was no danger from radioactivity . The unsuccessful launching was the third time in the last seven weeks that attempts to 3onduct high-altitude nuclear test had failed because of difficulties in the usually reliable Thor rocket . Only one of the four launchngs has been successful  --  the spectacular detonation on July ) of a megaton device some 200 niles over Johnston Island . A negaton is equal to 1,000,000 , ons of TNT . To the Administration , the latest failure was particularly embarrassing because it upset plans for concluding the Pacific test series and turning attention to the test-ban negotiations in Geneva . A committee of disarmament advisers met in secrecy at the State Department today to discuss wthat modifications the United States could make in its test-ban proposals in view of recent advances in detection of underground explosions . The so-called " Committee of Principals , " established in the Eisenhower Administration to advise the President on disarmament policy , will submit its recommendations to President Kennedy at a White House meeting tomorrow . While no final decision was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration would propose a reduction in the size of the international control system and in the number of onsite inspections . The Johnston Island explosion was to have been the last atmospheric test by the military in the current test series . The launching attempt delayed by technical difficulties and unfavorable weather , came on the date set by the President for ending the test series . On March 2 , in announcing his decision to resume atmospheric tests , the President said that the Pacific series , ' which began on April 25 ; should end in two to three months. original The original plane for the Pacific series called for three high-altitude shots  --  one submegaton explosion at about 100 miles , one megaton-range explosion at 200 miles and a submegaton explosion at about 500 miles . Depending on the outcome of these tests , there also were tentative plans for a fourth highaltitude test , but this shot was eliminated when the experiments slipped far behind schedule because of the rocket failures . For the moment , the Administration was undecided as to whether to make a third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 4 . The third test failure occurred at Johnston Island on June 20 when a malfunctioning rocket was destroyed in flight . The issue that will now be carried to the President for a decision is whether he wants to extend the test series or cancel two experiments that he had described as important reasons for resuming atmospheric testing . It would probably be midAugust before another launching could be attempted from Johnston Island . After a launching , a period of two weeks is normally required to repair the facilities , which are of a military type designed only for one launching . In this . case , . however , the repair period could be longer because of damage caused by the fire . If the Administration decides to continue the high-altitude tests , it would mean that the series would undoubtedly extend through August . The problem is complicated by the expectation that the Soviet Union will resume atmospheric testing by mid-August . The Administration had hoped that the United States could conclude its test series before the Russians resumed theirs , thus shifting the onus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasized , meanwhile , that the three Thor failures on Johnston Island should not be interpreted as reflecting upon the military readiness of the Thor and other ballistic missiles . At least two of the failures , it was pointed out , were caused by difficulties unrelated to the Thor as a military missile . In normal military and space launchings , Air Force officials said , the Thor missile has better than a 90 per cent reliability record . Geneva Talks Mark Time Special to The New York Times , GENEVA , July 26 ? The United States , British and Soviet negotiators on the projected treaty to ban nuclear testing met today in what one Western diplomat described as a " holding operation . " The negotiators in the disarmament conference 's threepower subcommittee are marking time while the United States finishes processing its new data on the detection and identification of underground nuclear explosions . As soon as this is done , Arthur H. Dean of the United States said today , the West hopes to modify its position in order " to advance the area of agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy at a meeting tomorrow with his diplomatic and military advisers . They are expected to be presented to , the conference here .. next week .                     