@@722908

txt Staff Correspondent 01 The Christian Science Monitor AVashington The administration is contemplating its next moves to counter any anti-American trade barriers that might follow the rapidly changing political scene in Europe . Some congressmen are already restless and urging the administration to retaliate with new tariff restrictions at this end . Either this , say the legislators , or a step-up in trade with Eastern Europe and the Soviet bloc to cut in on European Economic Community ( EEC ) business in that direction . So far the administration has adopted a wait-and-see approach . The President and his economic advisers are considering various courses of action but feel it is too soon to act . Too much is unclear still . There is also the question of what course the Soviet Union will take , how or whether it will attempt to capitalize on this split in the Western alliance . But Congress secs changing trade patterns whatever happens . Some members are urging immediate formation of a liberal trade bloc including this U.S. and Britain country , Britain , and the Commonwealth , along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So far no major legislation has been introduced to affect the situation . The Trade Expansion Act , as it now stands , gives the President power to eliminate all tariffs on commodity categories where the United States and the EEC together account for 80 percent of free-world trade . Alternative Suggested But it assumes a European market community Including Great Britain and its European Free Trade Association partners  --  Norway , Denmark , Sweden , Austria , Portugal , and Switzerland . No alternative was provided although it was proposed last year by Sen. Paul Douglas ( D ) of Illinois . He then suggested an alternative formula under which tariff-cutting powers would become effective even without Great Britain in the Common Market . The administration did not go along with the idea , however , the State Department advising it would not be politically wise to assume that Great Britain might be excluded from the Common Market . Now that the country is faced with this very development , the three legislators who backed this alternative proposal ? Senator Douglas , Sen. Jacob K. Javits ( R ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of Wisconsin ? have again introduced these provisions . Senator Douglas says he feels Great Britain should have the opportunity to lower tariffs hand in hand with the United States since its failure to gain admission to the Common Market has placed it at a disadvantage . He reasons that if a longer list of products was made eligible for tariff reduction it would help to offset the developing protectionist tendencies of the Common Market countries . Passage of Senator Douglas 's proposed amendment to the Trade Expansion Act would , of course , need administration support for passage . It is not apparent yet whether White House sentiment regarding such a move has changed . Support Sighted Both Senator Javits and Mr. Reuss have renewed pleas for action . Mr. Reuss says the administration " twisted " its foreign and trade policies in order to goad Britain into the Common Market and now is left without an alternative . He says he feels that all countries opposed to President de Gaulle 's action would welcome such a move by the United States toward a liberal trade bloc . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President 's tariff-cutting powers , feels strongly that the United States should amend the Trade Expansion Act and offer full economic partnership to Britain and the Commonwealth .                     