@@724391

txt The Wagner administration optimistic that it will win leg- , islative approval in 1965 of a , bill it is preparing , for the sixthi year in a row , to legalize and , tax offtrack betting . Both Mayor Wagner and Controller Abraham D. Beame seemed confident in separate ind terviews that the new Legislal ture would authorize local areas i to adopt this new tax source if they chose . Fifteen cents out ' of each dollar bet would con-I stitute a service charge to bel divided equally between city , and state , under the proposal , The city 's high hopes for the new tax are based on factors not present in 1959 , 1960 , 1961 , 1962 and 1963 , when the bill never got out of committee . Democrats Sympathetic The new factors include the following : CDenmerats who control both houses of the Legislature for the first time in 30 years are more likely to be sympathetic to the , request of a Democratic city administration for a tax source of this kind . ? C.Speaker Joseph F. Carlino @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track betting , was defeated in the Democratic sweep Nov. 3 that knocked his party out of control ! of the Legislature , cGovernor Rockefeller , hardpressed for money to balance the state 's first $3 billion budget , has conceded that there must be higher taxation , there- , by abandoning a no-new-tax pledge made when he was reelected in 1962 . CH Mr. Rockefeller , once strongly aligned with Mr. Carlino against offtrack betting , should veto a local option bill , Republican communities around the state , also caught in the financial squeeze , might very well urge their representatives at Albany to join the Democrats in a move to override the veto . A motion to override requires a two-thirds vote of the full membership in both the Assembly and the Senate . The Democrats have an 88-to-62 edge , Republican votes there . And in the Assembly where the Democrats , who control the Senate 33 to Ds , would need only six only 12 Republicans would be needed to override a veto . Sentiment for off track betting runs high in Nassau and Suffolk Counties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of Supervisors and several school districts have endorsed it in official votes . Such organizations would be influential with Republican legislators from those counties . If New York City imposed an offtrack betting tax , under authority voted by the Legislature , the levy would produce little first-year revenue , although ultimately , the city maintains , the city and state would get $100 million each from a. full year 's operation . Both the Mayor and Mr. Beame recognize this fact . Setting up the betting ' shops , which would have a bank-like atmosphere , would take months , and Mr. Beame said it was " not inconceivable that the first shop might not be , : Open until late in the coming budge year . " The next fiscal year starts July 1 . 1965 , and runs through June 30 , 1966 , Many Details Involved Finding the proper locations , buying or leasing them , installing the necessary machinery , for the issuance of tickets ands other details of operation would bring about the delay . More than a score of manufacturers have ) expressed interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their planning is , still on the drawing board . It is estimated that it would take six to eight months to , begin production of the machines . Controller Beam ' working closely with Budget ; Director William F. Shea , has : been checking through aides on ; the needs of operation , The Citizens Committee for Offtrack Betting recommended many safeguards in operation , such as not having betting shops within a half mile of a race track or within 200 feet ) of an unemployment insurance office . But it is believed that any authorization bill that emerges from the Legislature will fix broad shtandards that will have statewide application . New York City voters went 3 to 1 for off-track betting in a referendum a year ago and it is assumed that , if a local MAYOR OPTIMISTIC ON OFFTRACK TAX The New York 1 , es HOPEFUL ON BETTING : Mayor Wagner seems confident Legislature will act to permit offtrack betting . option bill were enacted , that the city would put it into effect by a local law passed by the Council and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might put the issue , directly to their citizens in reflerendum . As contemplated by the city , lofftrack betting would be a year-round project and would cover state tracks while they are open and other major tracks around the country . The city estimates that there is now twice as much illegal betting done away from the tracks as there is in legal betting at state tracks , from which the state derives more than $100 million a year in revenue . " And that 's a conservative figure , " Mr. Beame said .                     