@@722214

txt WASHINGTON , Jan. 2 ? Representative Richard Bolling has decided to withdraw from the race for majority leader of the House , competent sources reported today : The Missouri Democrat may announce his decision at a news conference tomorrow . He declined tonight to . ' comment on the report . Nor would he say whether he planned . to hold a news conference . The . prospective withdrawal of . Mr. Bolling will leave . Rep : . resentative . Carl B. Albert of Oklahoma as the only avowed candidate for the post . ? . It appeared : likely , as a consequence , that Mr. Albert ' would be elected , without a contest at a ? caucus . of House Democrats next week . The majority ' lead , ershiP will be ' vacated by the probable election of the incumbent , Representative John ? W. McCormack of Massachusetts , as Speaker and chief Democratic leader of the- House : Mr ... Bolling apparently decided to step : aside in ' the ! nterest of party harmony when it became clear that . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? support of a majority of his Colleagues . With 255 voting in ' the Democratic caucus , 128 votes . are needed to win .. The Missourian and his Campaign aides had been able to obtain only . seventy-eight firm commitments of support . Canvasses indicated a maximum strength of 110 if all colleagues listed - as " possibilities " were counted as backers . Representative ' Bolling was // the choice of a group of House liberals who contended he would ' be a more forceful and effective majority , leader , particularly on civil rights issues , - than Representative Albert . The voting records of the . two are almost identical on all major issues , except civil rights , pitting . liberals against conservatives . Mr. ? Bolling - has voted consistently for civil- rights bills while Mr. ' Albert has done so only on.rare occasions . . Both men have voted in gen , . eral : for . Administration-backed measures. ? In. the last session , according ' to a rating by Congressional Quarterly , both men scored over 90 per cent on " party unity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , Mr. Bolling was more liberal than his Oklahoma colleague . Mr. Albert voted for . the LandrumGriffin Labor Reform Act in 1959 ; Mr. Bolling voted against it . Mr. Eolling voted for aid for school construction in 1956 , Mr. Albert voted against . Mr. Albert was less favorably inclined toward foreign aid spending and regulation of natural gas production than Mr. Bolling was . In the leadership fight , Mr. Bolling had the active backing of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , leaders of Americans for Democratic Action and others keenly interested in civil rights legislation . The White House , however , maintained a hands-off policy . As a consequence , there never was any realistic hope for Mr. Bolling 's election . It is possible that Mr. Bolling will be named chairman of a new House Democratic Steering Committee to give the liberal elements who backed him a voice in the leadership . As Steering Committee chairman , Mr. Bolling would presumably be one of a " big four " group of House Democratic leaders who would consult at the weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy . The others would be the Speaker , the majority leader and the Democratic whip , or assistant leader . The whip is appointed by the majority ? leader in consultation with the Speaker . Mr. McCormack and Mr. Albert have declined to indicate their choice for the post . The candidate mentioned most frequently by knowledgeable colleagues is ; Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana . House Democrats will caucus twice to choose their new leadership . Mr. McCormack is expected to be unanimously nominated as the late Sam Rayburn 's successor on Tuesday afternoon . On the following morning , shortly before Congress con- I venes at noon , a caucus will elect Mr. McCormack 's successor as majority leader . Mr. McCormack 's nomination for . Speaker will then go to the ; full House at the opening ses- ' sion . His immediate election appears certain . Representative . McCormack predicted in an interview today that President Kennedy would get most of what he wants in the new session . He said that " a determined effort " would be made in the new session for passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how-1 ever , of forecasting favorable action . Optimistic on Retraining He said he believed Congress would approve bills to retrain jobless workers , create a Department of Urban Affairs , revise tax laws and increase postal rates . He saw " a good chance " for approval of liberal foreign trade legislation and Federal aid for college scholarships and academic facilities . The President 's program of medical care for the aged under Social Security probably cane ' win House approval " if it comes out of the Ways and Means committee , " he said . He would not comment on what might be done to get a bill out of the committee , where a majority apparently oppose the program .                     