@@728291

txt Thomas A. Foran , United States attorney in Chicago , announced yesterday that a federal grand jury will investigate both the Dec. 4 killings by police of two Black Panthers and the killings of two white Chicago policemen by Panthers Nov , 13 . In Washington , Atty . Ger John N. Mitchell said the gran jury inquiry here will personal ly be conducted by Jerris Leon ard , chief of the justice depart ment 's civil rights division . Mitchell named six assistan United States attorneys , in eluding a member of Foran ' staff , to aid Leonard . January Start Likely No date was set for the star of the grand jury action , bu Foran said it will probably begin shortly after Jan. 1 . He and Mitchell said it wa necessary to convene a gram jury meeting in secrecy t probe the controversial fats shooting of Fred Hampton , 21 and Mark Clark , 22 , Pantile party lenders , because of tht refusal of " several witnesses ' to the shooting to cooperate with federal investigators . A preliminary investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hanrahan Cook county state 's attorney had been ordered of the Fed oral Bureau of Investigatior last Friday by Mitchell . Raiders Had Warrant The raid was made with a search warrant on a suspected Panther arsenal in an apartment at 2337 Monroe st . Authorities said 17 guns , including a stolen Chicago police shotgun , and more than 1,000 rounds el ammunition , were found in the place . Contrary to reports from Washington on Thursday , Foran said Hanrahan 's 14 raiders made themselves available for interviews with the FBI . However , ho declined comment when asked if that also was true of seven reputed Panther party members and associates arrested in the apartment . Ilanrahan , tho , said it was n't so . At a press conference , he disclosed that Leonard had phoned him earlier in the day to inform him of the grand Jury action and that the seven had refused to talk to FBI agents . Hanrahan said . " It is outrageous that the federal government is forced to abandon its practice of field investigation first because the Black Panthers will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suhpena witnesses and compel truthful testimony . Those who refuse may be held in contempt of court . Foran said that in addition to investigating possible violations of civil rights , the grand jury also will be asked to check for any other violation of federal law in both killing incidents , including federal gun law statutes . Most of what he said referred to the Dec. 4 raid . He said the probe of it would attempt to ' establish the true facts . . and hopefully will put an end to the rumors and speculation that have surrounded that incident . " Sees Report to Judge Foran told newsmen he ex pests that the 23-member pane will he asked to make a report to the federal District court ' : chief judge , William J. Camp bell , in addition to returning any indictments . Referring to both shooting in eldents involving police am members of the revolutionary Panthers , he noted that " seri ous allegations have been made critical of police tactics " and added : " A number of respectable citizens have questioned wheth ? er @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . It was decided that the best way to answer those questions and allay fears is to conduct this federal inquiry . " Ferias said the FBI " will continue to be fully involved " in the investigation . Policemen John J. Gilhooly Jr. , 21 , and Francis Rappaport , 32 , were shot to death on the south side Nov. 13 in an exchange of gunfire that also claimed the life of one Black Panther . Seven other policemen and one Panther also were wounded . Police said the Panthers opened fire first . Hanrahan 's version of the Dec. 4 incident is that his men were fired upon first . Those arrested inside the apartment have contended the raiders burst in without warning and that they singled out Hampton and Clark for execution . List Assistants Named by Mitchell to assist Leonard were James P. Turner , 39 , Leonard 's deputy ; K William O'Connor , 38 , another Leonard aid ; Jesse H. Queen , 46 , a senior department trial attorney ; Milton C. Branch , 49 , a federal prosecutor from Colorado ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert J. Breakstone , an assistant United States attorney assigned to Foran 's office . Queen and Hubbard are Negroes . A thoro justice department investigation of the Dec. 4 raid had been demanded by numerous civil rights groups , including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . Sen. Charles Percy R. , Ill. reacted to the announcement of the grand jury probe with a statement urging the justice department to coordinate its efforts with the national commission of inquiry , as well as other official and pr iv a t e groups that have indicated they will probe the Panther deaths . The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh , president of the University of Notre Dame and head of the Federal Commission on Civil Rights , said the commission favors the grand jury action . He spoke at O'Hare International airport while an route to Mexico to say mass in orphanages there . Defense of Police Daniel Green , a ' Chicago policeman and president of the Confederation of Patrolmen , released ' a statement yesterday charging that the " FBI and others . .. have found themselves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Referring to the Panthers ; he said in a written statement : " The people who were in the apartment , the only ones who know what happened besides the police , now refuse to cooperate by giving statements . " The police have cooperated even beyond the letter of the investigation by offering proof of what happened in detail . . The Black Panthers have not proved a single fact . The truth is that the police did act properly and lawfully . "                     