@@727944

txt It had never occurred to Lorraine Zalisk that Old Town was a dangerous place . As she told Damen avenue detectives yesterday , she and her fiance , James Pratscher , went there frequently . joining hundreds of other young couples to whom the gaudy north side district meant nothing more than a good time . They went again Thursday night and their good time ended with a robber 's bullet in Pratscher 's heart . Yesterday , in a hot , cramped room in the Damen avenue police station , the frail , slender girl retold what happened . Describes Attack They had parked in the 1400 block of Orleans street , she said , feeling safe because of the light from a street lamp . It had been a pleasant evening , and they were about to return home , just getting into their car . " Then all of a sudden there was this young boy . " she said . " He came up to Jim and asked for his wallet . He explained he had a gun . " Lorraine 's voice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the shooting and had gone to the the police station only because it might help the detectives find the killer . Her parents stood next to her , trying to comfort her as she remembered things she will some day hope to forget . Denied He Had Wallet " I did n't know he had a gun , " she saki . " I did n't see it until I was already in the car . Jim was just getting in. he said he did n't have a wallet , but the boy kept on. , Give me your wallet. ' he said . ' I 'm not kidding . I got a gun and its real . ' " Two shots rang out , and then another and another . and Pratscher crumpled in his seat . falling over Lorraine . She began to scream . " He the robber was angry , " she said . " He shouted at me to get Jim 's wallet out of his pants . He reached over Jim and put the gun to my head and said he would shoot me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She looked up at her mother and then back at the reporter . She seemed about to cry again . Kept On Screaming " I kept screaming , " she said , softly . " I tried to close the door but Jim 's foot was in the way . I leaned on the horn . That 's when the police came . The boy with the gun ran away . " She had nothing more to say . She and her parents left the police station , leaving the detectives to puzzle out the case . The robbery attempt had failed . Pratscher still had his wallet , containing $4.10 . Lorraine and Pratscher were to have been married when he finished college . She credited the policemen who arrived on the scene with saving her life . For her fiance . they reached the dark street in Old Town too late .                     