@@725874

txt The next time you have an urge to fire a cannon , wear a mask , carry a black flag , or skin an animal on a public way in Chicano , do n't . Especially if a policeman is standing nearby . Tickets can be issued for these and other offenses under a new police department order announced by Supt. 0 . W. Wilson . It provides for a " violation citation " dealing with limited misdemeanors , in addition to traffic or parking violations . Only police sergeants can issue them presently , but not to minors . Things That Are Unlawful This makes it a lot easier for policemen to keep citizens honest and law abiding . In the past , they had to accompany a suspect to the police station to book him for nonvehicular , unlawful actions . A TRIBUNE reporter , curious about a possible flurry of instant tickets , thumbed thru the city code and concluded that citizens have a lot to beware of . For it is written in the code that it is , against the law to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' buildings , sewers , water hydrants , or sidewalks . Carry a lighted cigaret in elevators , large retail stores , or on public conveyances . . Wear a mask , cap , eowl , or hood concealing your.identity in a public way unless you have a written permit from the mayor . Exempted are those going to carnivals or masked Wear a hatpin in any public place if the exposed point protrudes more than a half inch . Keep flowerpots , wooden boxes , bowls , and pitchers on window sills unless they are firmly fastened . Carry a red or black flag on a public way Enter a cultivated field unless you are the owner or lessee or are authorized to enter . Fire a cannon on a public way . License Not Much Help Hunt in the city , even tho you have a state hunting license , except on Wolf lake , Hyde lake , or Lake . Calumet . Even then , You must not be within 750 feet of a building , and can use only a shotgun . ? For those intent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ map department disclosed you bad better forget it . What once was Hyde lake now is partly a subdivision and partly a ' swamp northwest of Wolf lake . The code also prohibits giving away cigarets , cigars , or any tobacco products within 100 feet of a school . And who would have suspected that the maximum load for a one horse or one mule wagon is 3,500 pounds ? Last but not least , it is still against the law to allow a pigeon to fly over the 7th ward .                     