@@725760

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times HERBERT J. SPIROHAZEL HENDERSON Letters to the Editor of The Times Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Secret Research at Universities To the Editor : I agree with your editorial ( " Universities and Secrecy , " Sept. 7 ) that opposition to the war in Vietnam is a separate and irrelevant issue from the conduct of highly classified research on biochemical warfare at the University of Pennsylvania . That is why some of my colleagues and I urged adoption of a policy under which the university would maintain its academic integrity by establishing safeguards on the input side of research contracts instead of the output end . This has been the policy of Harvard University . Dean Bundy stated this policy before the Senate Committee on Government Operations : " Except in time of all-out war , it has been the historic policy of Harvard University to emphasize the importance to the nation of open research in basic subjects ; for this reason we avoid engagement in. secret Government research , and we do not accept responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scholars ' Obligation The Times rightly states that " there are times when a higher obligation may supersede the university 's basic commitment to the spread of knowledge . " But such situations arise not only when weapons like the atomic bomb are about to be invented . For a variety of reasons  --  public health and " decency , " considerateness for living persons ( in political biographies ) , and scholarly caution among them  --  researchers in all fields , including the humanities , may want to defer publication of some of their findings for definite or indefinite periods of time . So far as I know , none of us is under obligation to publish the results of our work if , for instance , we want to take them to the grave with us . We are under professional obligation to engage , as you put it , in the " acquisition " and the . " spread of knowledge , " or , to put it more generally , to promote the development of knowledge . Nonacademic Standards For those scholars who choose to be members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge is always in part a collegial process . It is hindered when the university becomes the guardian of classified material , and when it has to apply nonacademic standards , i.e. , national security criteria , to ' its collegium . Those scholars who wish to conduct military research , as The Times puts it , now have " many alternative institutions " available to them . They should opt out of the university , a basic law of , whose life is the academic freedom among colleagues to develop knowledge . HERBERT S. SPIRO Philadelphia , Sept. 7 , 1966 The writer is Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania . For a Quieter City To the Editor : It was encouraging to read Times , Sept. 6 that the City Council may take the initiative in investigating the increasingly ear-shattering noise that harried citizens must bear along with all the other irritations of urban life . According to Dr , Vern 0 . Knudsen of the University of California , research has shown that exposure to more than 90 decibels of noise can flush the skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adds that some doctors suspect.that noise may be a hidden factor in heart and artery disease , nervousness and even mental health . Dr. Knudsen estimates traffic noises on New York sidewalks at 103 decibels , and in some subway coaches at over 100 decibels . We can design additional safety into cars , we can design buildings and factories that do not pollute our air or water . Why not quieter operating ma-chinery ? It is just a matter of how long it will take voters to wake up to the fact that they do not have to take it . Our economy is equipped technologically to respond to any such demands , but only if the public will raise its voice above the general cacophony loud enough and long enough to be heard . HAZEL HENDERSON New York , Sept. 6 , 1966 U Thant 's Decision To the Editor : The Times Sept. 2 editorial " U Thant 's Withdrawal " is eminently correct in stating that every effort must be made to induce Secretary General U Thant to change his mind about leaving his post at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could now make toward that end would be a specific new effort to get Hanoi to the negotiating table . The editorial , however , is unfortunately derelict in failing to point out that Washington could best serve this purpose by adopting U Thant 's three-point peace proposal calling for an end to the bombing of North Vietnam , a de-escalation of the war in South Vietnam , and direct negotiations between all parties . Only such a move by our Government might induce U Thant to change his mind , for it would constitute a long overdue vote of confidence in his judgment and his dedicated efforts on behalf of world peace . Should this step not lead to an immediate cessation of hostilities , it would nevertheless create conditions that might enable the United Nations to undertake a peace-keeping role in Southeast Asia that has heretofore been rendered impossible by American unilateralism . HYMAN WEBER New York , Sept. 6 , 1966 Laws Affecting Wills To the Editor : In connection with the Girard College case , Judge Lord was quoted as saying : " It the decision does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applicable laws extant when the disposition was made and with laws which the Legislature may later enact . " Pray tell , how am I to make a will which complies with laws to be enacted later ? WALTER J. PETERSON Walpole , Mass. , Sept. 3 , 1966 For Better Subways To the Editor : On Sept. 5 a Times news article stated that the Transit Authority was concerned that a new hike in fare would be necessary . The Transit Authority spokesman discussed the problem of the drop in riders on trains and subways since the recent fare increase . This was attributed , at least in part , to increased use of autos . In a letter published Sept. 5 Prof. Irving Younger brought up again what I consider to be the only feasible start toward a solution to these problems ? the prohibition of private vehicles from Manhattan during business hours . However , it is not this increased us of automobiles , I believe , that has lessened subway traffic . Despite a fare increase and signs proclaiming that trains run 95 per cent on time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the E and F lines between Queens and Manhattan . A total re-evaluation must be made into the scheduling of trains both as to time and stations . Certain stations , designated local stops years ago , are now immensely overcrowded because of shifts in population and new building . Raising fares merely to pay higher wages to employes of the system , without tackling the underlying problems , will ultimately result in trains carrying satisfied but lonely conductors and engineers . HERBERT L. ASH New York , Sept. 6 , 1966 Border Disputes of Ethiopia and Somalia To the Editor : In his Aug. 27 news article Lawrence Fellows uses an unfortunate and misleading adjective when he refers to Somalia as an " expansionist nation . " I fear that the tendency of American journalists to characterize the Somali Republic as " expansionist " without qualification is to mislead readers to see it as a land-grabbing aggressor . It is indeed true that Somalia would like to incorporate within its borders areas largely inhabited by Somali people but currently Controlled by Kenya and Ethiopia . It would be impossible in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of the Somali border situation . A study of that history , however , forces one to conclude that Somalia 's claims can not be passed off as mere " expansionism . " Treaty Boundaries Frontier adjustments were made , as in the case of the 1897 agreement between Great Britain and Ethiopia , which drew lines cutting across the traditional grazing areas of Somali nomads . The Somalis argue that their treaties with the British in 1884-85 did not transfer Somali territory to Great Britain but preserved Somali independence . Agreeing with this , at least one member of the British Parliament has stated that Britain gave territory to Ethiopia which was not legally Britain 's to give away . The Somalis were rarely represented in the negotiations taking place between Britain and Ethiopia and between Italy and Ethiopia . In fact , important territorial decisions were made not only without Somali consent but even without their knowledge . The question was taken up in the U.N . in the nineteen-fifties , but the frontier was still in dispute when Somalia became independent in July of 1960 . Grazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disputed areas and has agreed to abide by the results of an impartially conducted plebiscite which would be used to define the boundaries . The Somalis are understandably reluctant to honor old treaties made between Ethiopia and the former colonial powers . Nomads continue to cross the border in search of water and grass for their livestock . These movements are not simply a matter of tradition and habit but are essential to the very survival of the people . Ethiopia agreed , in the 1897 agreement with Britain , to permit these movements , but the Somalis naturally fear the consequences of an Ethiopian decision to close the border . In short , the whole question of the Somali border is far too complicated to be characterized simply as expansionism . GEORGE G. DAWSON Head , Social Studies Division New York University New York , Aug. 27 , 1966 War Propaganda To the Editor : In a letter published Sept. 6 Lloyd B. Gale compares a Communist Chinese editorial to Hitler 's " Mein Kampf " because the editorial repeats the phrase " United States imperialism " 31 times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preachings of Hitler on presenting propaganda " to confine itself to little and to repeat this eternally . . . " How many times has Mr. Gale heard the phrase " aggression from the North ? " HERBERT GROSSMAN Arlington , Va. , Sept. 6 , 1966                     