@@725700

txt The Inland Steel Company announced yesterday price increases averaging 2.1 per cent on three major steel products . Inland 's increase , if followed by other producers , would affect more than 30 per cent of total industry shipments and would be the broadest price advance for steel since 1963 . Most other steel producers could not be reached for comment . In telephone interviews , a spokesman for the Kaiser Steel Corporation , which has its headquarters in Oakland , Calif. , said the company was " studying the matter , " and a spokesman for the Armco Steel Corporation , with headquarters in Middletown , Ohio , said the company was " giving it study and consideration . " The products affected are cold rolled sheet , hot rolled sheet , and strip steel , whose biggest markets are in the automotive industry . Gave Kennedy a Victory Inland 's announcement came after the close of the business slay in Chicago , where the company has its headquarter* Besides Inland , other major producers of the products affected are the United States Steel Corporation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation , Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company , Republic Steel Corporation and Jones &; Laughlin Steel Corporation ? companies that make up the " Big Eight " steel producers in the United States . The Inland price increase came in the midst of the Johnson Administration 's attempt to settle the airline strike . Over the weekend , members of the International Association of Machinists voted to reject an Administration - negotiated settlement that would have exceeded the President 's own antiinflationary wage-price guidelines . Inland was the company that handed President Kennedy victory . in his confrontation with the steel industry in April , 1962 , when it refused to join other producers in an across-theboard price increase . The company 's announcement yesterday said : " Inland Steel Company today steel Corporation . That increase was hotly opposed by the Johnson Administration . The dispute was settled when the United States Steel Corporation offered a smaller indeleted 12 lines from the date of President Kennedy 's confrontation with the industry , the Wheeling Steel panes were down from last year , with the exception of the Bethlehem Steel Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depreciation costs . Although Inland Steel reported higher sales , ingot production and mill shipments in the second quarter over last year , its , earnings-for the quarter and for the half- ygr were slightly ' below those of last year . Sales Up , Earnings Down Its second-quarter earnings totaled $18,364,000 , or $1.01 a share , compared with $19,368 , - 000 , or $1.06 a share , in the same quarter of 1965 . Sales in the recent quarter set a record for any quarter , totaling $277 , - 728,000 , or 10 per cent higher than the $252,532,000 of the second quarter last year . In reporting these results last week , Joseph L. Block , chairman of Inland Steel , said , " Despite the greater volume , earnings for the quarter and the half year were both below last year 's levels because higher costs exceeded productivity improvement and slight price increases . " The last major price increase for steel was made at the beginning of this year on structural shapes by the Bethlehem announced a base price increase of 15 cents per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolled sheets , hot rolled well in excess of productivity gains , our profit margins have been reduced by substantially deleted 14 lines effect Inland 's action could have on the auto industry if other steel companies followed suit . Auto producers have customarily passed on such price increases to the consumer . There was already reason to believe that 1967 models would be more expensive than 1966 ones . because of safety equipment incorporated at the insistence of the Government . Even at present prices , sales of 1966 models have been considered a soft spot in the economy . While the Government 's stance on Inland 's action could not be determined , the Administration , has vigorously opposed what it considered inflationary price increases in key industrial commodities . Most recently , the Administration in early July effected a rollback of a price increase for molybdenum , an important alloying agent for steel .                     