@@724180

txt Springfield , III. , Aug. 19-The biggest Republican day audience in the history of the Illinois state fair today cheered Sen. Barry Goldwater as he opened his midwest campaign for President by denouncing the Lyndon Johnson regime . Loudest cheering broke out when Goldwater offered to pay for the television time if Presi dent Johnson will change his mind and debate peace and war issues : Three times in this century this nation has stumbled into . war under Democratic admin istrations , and his opponent does not want it discussed in this campaign , Goldwater asserted . Here in the space of a few sentences Goldwater was interrupted repeatedly by applause . Would n't Mi zzle Issues " I do n't think that you want to put a muzzle on the discussion of this life or death issue , " Goldwater asserted " I do n't think that you want to think only of problems at home , when the world itself is burning with conflict , torn by conquest , and balanced always on the brink of the next Communist crisis . " Democrats controling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major Presidential candidates only . " I 'm willing to debate , " Goldwater said , adding an aside from his prepared text : " And Pm willing to pay for the time . " Come from Other States The prairies seemed to have caught fire with enthusiasm for the G. 0 . P. Presidential nominee . The peak crowd which jammed the grandstand and bleachers , with thousands of standees , exceeded that which heard President Eisenhower in 1954 . Banners identified some of the boosters as being from Kentucky and Missouri . And the crowd was achieved without the customary cooperation of the Cook county G. 0 . P. organization . Altho a strong supporter of Goldwater , Timothy P. Sheehan , Cook county chairman , on Aug. 10 told the organization it might be better to devote the time and money for the 400 mile round trip to Springfield to more pressing matters . Wave upon wave of applause and yells greeted Goldwater when he was introduced by Charles H. Percy , nominee for governor . His speech was interrupted 33 times by applause , most times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bleachers normally seat 11,972 , but more were crowded into this space , aside from thousands who stood in the aisles and on the ground near the speaking platform . Thousands welcomed him at the airport , near Abraham Lincoln 's tomb in Oak Ridge cemetery , and on his way in and out of the fairgrounds . Police said crowds were greater than for John F. Kennedy , who was at the coliseum on the fairgrounds in the 1960 campaign . His far ranging attack took in President Johnson 's advance notice over television that our warplanes were on their way to attack communist bases in North Viet Nam . He said he could not imagine a Republican President doing such a thing . Little Skill with Reds Nor would a Republican President allow our policies in such an area become " so confused " that the enemy would risk one offense , much less repeat it , Goldwater said . And the facts about the twohour advance notice is that it shattered the element of surprise , that two American planes were lost , an American life was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " The administration has shown little skill when negotiating with Communists , " Goldwater said . " Now it appears they have as little skill when fighting with the Communists . " Crime and violence in the streets were taken up , and he even touched on the touchy subject of honesty of the President . Something is amiss when crime rises faster than the population , he said . " You and I know that there is something deeply wrong when law enforcement agencies - police , sheriffs , and the Federal Bureau of Investigationare attacked for trying to do their jobs . Cheers stopped him for some moments before he could conclude the sentence : " . . while open violations of civil order are defended . " There were more cheers for this brief phrase . The senator said he champions every American 's right to speak out  --  and speak out loudly  --  in attempts to redress grievances . " But I can not as a citizen , I have not as a senator , and I would not as President support or incite any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence . . . " Base Cause for Crime Rise The phenomenon was repeated . Applause delayed his conclusion of the sentence : " . . . and hurt to his fellow men , or damage to his property . " Again there was applause from the crowd in the grandstand and bleachers . Goldwater asserted that building the people up to great expectations of everything from the federal government diminishes the sense of personal responsibility , and is " the base cause of the rise in crime and disregard for law and order . " Seeking votes by pitting class against class , and race against race , is bound to " set the stage for malice , " he said . There is too much of " easy morals , and uneasy ethics " in our land , he said . " Let me put it this way , " be said . " There should be no skeletons in the closets of any part of the federal structure ? and that goes for the smallest agency right up to the White House itself . " Tragically , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haunts that federal structure . " The names and incidents that some are trying to turn into nothing persist in coming to life  --  Billie Sol Estes , Bobby Baker , the 6 billion dollars for the Texas-built TFC  --  even tho the services wanted another plane  --  the suppression or distortion of news in the name of news management . " Offers Honest Administration " We offer you an honest administration by honest men , " Goldwater said . He said the general honesty in. government at all levels should not be tarnished by the " unpunished or unexposed misbehavior of anyone else in government service no matter how high or protected his position . " Before Goldwater began reading his text , he poked a finger thru the opening of his glassRepublican Nominees at Illinois Fairless black rimmed spectacles , which he sometimes wears simply to present a familiar image to cameras . " These glasses are just like his Johnson 's program , Goldwater said . " They look good but they do n't work . " To the thousands of farmers in his audience , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much about farming but is long on talk . " " In 60 years we have gone - from Orville Wright to Orville Wrong , " the nominee spoofed . After leaving the podium , he was recalled to be given a state fair trophy by Franklin H. Rust , fair manager . This reminded Goldwater that the G. 0 . P. national committee is preparing campaign nursery rhymes , one line being , " the butcher , the baker , the stereo taker . "                     