@@722553

txt A gentle rain fell over parts of New York , New Jersey and Pennsylvania yesterday , alleviating a drought that has been characterized as one of the worst in many years . ' Agricultural experts said that much more rain was- needed if there was to be any real improvement . Upstate New York , where the drought has been the most severe , received the least rain . The fall there varied from only a trace to a quarter of an inch at Glens Falls . The heaviest rainfall was in New York City , where it was least needed . By early evening the fall here measured almost half an inch . The rain that fell in the city yesterday was the first measurable fall this month . The seventeen-day rainless period was the longest since the Weather Bureau began keeping records here in 1869 . The Weather Bureau here said showers were general all throughout its area  --  southeastern " New York , New Jersey , eastern Pennsylvania and Connecticut  --  and that they Rrobably would continue through the night . Late last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Adirondacks , the Catskills and southern portions of New York State , but said the skies in the metropolitan area would be mostly clear today . Farmers Are Grateful The farmers , who have watched their pastures turn brown and their corn and other grain crops wither in the dry heat , were grateful for the relief , even if it was small . Jacob Tanis Sr. , who has a dairy herd of 1,600 cattle on his 4,000 acres near Ross Corners in Sussex County , N. J. , probably expressed the general feeling when he said : " Rain is always a benefit even if it 's only half an inch . It 's like as if you were broke and someone gave you a half-dollar . What is needed though is five or eight inches of rain over the next week or so . " In Washington , the Department of Agriculture designated twenty-four New York counties as disaster areas . Five northern New Jersey counties had been so designated on Monday . Pennsylvania has listed forty of its counties in that category . Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 3 per cent in1erest and to take hay and grazing lands out of the soil bank  --  that is , to use marginal land that has been set aside as a conservation measure . Most farmers seemed skeptical about the amount of relief that would bring . The loans are available only to those who have exhausted other credit sources and they must first be pr.ssed on by a committee of their peers . In New lirunswick , N. J. , a Federal farm official said much of the land listed with the soil bank also was not suitable for mowing or grazing . The official , H. Earl Propst , head of the Federal Agricultural Stablization and Conservation office , said that 50,000 acres of land were so designated in New Jersey 's five disaster counties of Sussex , Hunterdon , Warren , Somerset and Morris . He said he did not know how much of this was grazable land , or had a hay crop high enough to harvest . His agent in Hunterdon County had estimated that only 25 per cent of the soil bank reserve acreage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an official of the county Department of Public Works said the rain there was " not worth checking . " It helped lawns and plants , he said , but a much heavier fall is needed to bring the water table back to normal . It is 3.12 inches below normal for this time of year , he said . Nassau gets much of its water for irrigation of its vegetable farms from wells . In Westchester County , rainfall also was scant , but it touched lawns and golf courses with green and eased the strain on the water resources by making sprinkling unnecessary yesterday . As for New York City 's water resources , they have not been strained thus far . But Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey said the Delaware River Valley was approaching the critical stage and that it might be necessary to ask some of the industrial plants along the river to shut down for a few days to prevent the possibility of pollution . Wells Runing Dry In areas where communities depend on wells for water , some shortages already exist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wells running dry . The effects of the drought already are being felt by some urban consumers . The New York State Agricultural Department said it had reports from several communities of a rise in retail prices for milk and vegetables . The most serious effect of the drought will hit farmers next winter , an agricultural official in Albany said . They are cutting and feeding alfalfa and other hays now that they customarily would store for winter feeding . " Farmers ' production expenses remain steady while their crops and livelihood are being chopped nearly in half in some cases , " he said .                     