@@723356

txt Los Angeles California 's exhibit at the 1954-95 New York World 's Fair is going to be dramatized  --  and actually organized ? by Hollywood . Originally , George Murphy Associates were planning a Hollywood exhibit for the fair which would be a private-enterprise project supplementing the California exhibit sponsored by the state . But Gov . Edmund G. ( Pat ) Brown did n't sign a bill providing for the latter , which left California without an official plan . So Mr. Murphy and his colleagues got busy and engaged architect Welton Beckett to de- Focus on the West sign a pavilion in two big parts . The dominating portion will represent Hollywood , with a second impressive area set . aside for California cities and industries . j It will occupy a two-acre site ? and be located near pavilions erected by the United States , Ford Motor Company , Chrysler Corporation , and General Motors . As of now the Hollywood-California structure will be sponsored entirely by private enterprise . Wyoming 's Gov . Clifford P. Hanson has set up a Governor 's Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's public schools . Governor Hanson feels sure that Wyoming 's schools are considered among the nation 's best , but many people around the state , he says , are concerned for the schools and will welcome a careful study . lie has appointed as chairman Harry Roberts , Wyoming rancher who has served on school boards and as director and president of the Wyoming School Boards Association . Mr. Roberts is a member of the advisory committee for the Wyoming Taxpayers Association . Japanese industrialists arc showing increasing interest in Alaska 's timber , mineral , and fisheries product resources . The 49th state 's Governor , William A. Egan , finds great encouragement in this for Alaska 's economic future . Governor Regan and his wife recently spent weeks in Japan at the invitation of such firms as Kokusaka Pulp Company , Ltd. ; Mitsubishi Shipping Company , Ltd. ; and the Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company , Ltd.                     