@@726575

txt Atherton , Cal. , Sept. 9 ? " The good ship Lollipop , " Shirley Temple Black said emphatically " is in mothballs- " The former child film star of international acclaim chose this phase to bid farewell to her little girl screen image . Her purpose now , at age 39 , Is to have a voice in running another . ship  --  that of ' state ? as a Republican in Congress . She is one . of .12. gaPglidate:s. ? seven Repdblican , five Democrat ? in a special primary election campaign in San Mateo county , south of San Francisco . The election will be held Nov. 14 . Husband Is Confident Shirley is confident she will poll a majoritY of all the votes cast in the primary and win California 's 11th congressional district seat . Since the death of Republican Rep. J. Arthur Younger last June , the seat has been vacant . Confident also are her husband , ' Charles Black , a wealthy business man , and her three children , Susan , 19 ; Charles Jr. , 15 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign trail with her whenever possible . Heavy mail brings promises of support from Democrats as well as Republicans in the district . Some political observers believe that Shirley has an excellent chance of topping all the Republicans on the ticket but that she will not get a majority of the total primary vote . In that event she , or whoever does lead the G. 0 . P. list , will face the leading Democrat in a run-off election Dec. 12 . Altho Shirley says she has yielded up " the good ship Lollipop " - the title of a song she sang in the film " Bright Eyes , " one of her big hits in the 1930s-her fans have not forgotten . They throng about her in ' her many public appearances . They appear pleased that she has retained her trim girlish figure and her prettiness , that her eyes sparkle , and that a smile lights her face as it did a generation ago . They are also learning the mouth does more than smile ; it utters definite ideas on what is wrong with the Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off with a slogan that all the way with LBJ has brought us where we are today , " Shirley said in an interview , " and we are not in a very good spot . " The interview , incidentally , was conducted as Shirley bolted frank one committee meeting to a second and then to a third and then a fourth . " Running for office is something she means literally , " said her husband , striving to keep up with her . " I am not a military expert , " Shirley said during the sprint , " but I. do believe the President should rely more on the joint chiefs of staff than be does on Secretary of Defense Robert S. for decisions on the conduct of the Viet Nam war . " We must win in Viet Nam , or at least obtain an honorable negotiated peace . Obviously things are not being handled right by our side or we would on the way to obtaining either of those objectives . " Dismal " Domestic Scene " The domestic scene also is very dismal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money is n't enough ? that makes us no friends among the potential troublemakers just as pouring out money for foreign aid does not get us loved in those countries receiving funds . " We need more education and more job training for Negroes and other low income minority groups . Self respect , reached by their being able to do things for themselves thru instruction and training , is what those groups want . " In her campaign , Shirley subscribes to the so-called 11th commandment ? " Thou shalt not speak ill of any other Republican . " This was formulated by Dr. Gaylord Parkinson , former California state G 0 P chairman and until recently director of the organization pushing former Vice President Richard Nixon for the 1968 Republican Presidential nomination . Does n't Discuss Democrats " As for the Democratic candidates in the Congress race , I do n't discuss them at all , " Shirley said . She did , however , comment on Robert Vaughn , star of the television series " The Man From Uncle . " Vaughn , who styles himself a liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nam , under any conditions including bargaining with the Viet Cong . Vaughn has organized a group called Dissenting Democrats , and said he expects to spend money and time in the 11th congressional district campaign on behalf of the Democrat he considers the best peace candidate . Friend Expects Backing Edward Keating , one of the five Democrats entered , a for- i mer editor of Ramparts Magazine , and a close friend of Vaughn. said be expects to be the one to get the group 's backing . If Shirley is elected , she will be the third former show business personality to gain elec. tive political office in this state ' I on the Republican ticket . The others are George Murphy , California 's junior United States Senator , and Gov . Ronald Reagan , both of whom appeared in movies with Shirley . " George is one of my biggest boosters in my drive for Congress , " Shirley said . " Ronald Reagan , as governor and bead of the Republican party in this state , wo n't come out for one Republican over another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans Nov. 19 , but still have to engage in a run-off , I am sure the governor will give me some help . " Anticipates No Backlash Asked if she feared her opponents might try to encourage a " backlash against actors " running for political office , Shirley said , grinning : " I was an actress , not an a c t o r , remember ? I do n't anticipate a backlash . With their talent and character , George Murphy and Ronald Reagan would have been successes in any field before their successes in politics . She is an associate member of the California Republican state central committee and has headed telephoning projects to get out the party vote . She was one of those who helped Milton Marks win a state senate seat from San Francisco in a recent special election . Mostly Residential The 11th congressional district is mostly residential . Atherton , where Shirley and her family live , and Hillsboro and the Woodside-Portol Valley neighborhood , contain some of the largest estates in California . Having a garage full of expensive cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To really rate high , the family must also have a stable full of riding horses . The other extreme in this district is in East Palo Alto , where low income Negro and Mexican-American families live . The Democrats surpass the Republicans in district registration , 138,000 to 110,000 . But the G. 0 . P. , with cooperation of conservative Democrats , have retained the congressional seat since the district was established in 1952 . The seat again is considered a safe one for the G. 0 . P. , no matter which one of its candidates scores in the primary .                     