@@723032

txt BERLIN PROBLEM ASSESSED IN TALK BY 11 . S , AND SOVIET Rusk and Dobrynin Confer for Hour in Reopening of Informal Parleys SESSION ' EXPLORATORY ' Secretary Reported Trying to Find How Long Moscow Will Maintain Status By MAX FRANKEL Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , March 26 ? The Soviet and United States Governments reopened private and informal diplomatic talks here today frith little evident enthusiasm or hope for negotiations of their most important differences . Outwardly , the talks resembled a long series of discussions interrupted by last fall 's Cuban crisis . As before , the advertised subject was Berlin , meaning the division of Germany and the security of all Europe . The participants again were Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Anatoly F. Dobrynin , the Soviet Ambassador . And , once again , the purpose of their one-hour meeting was described as " exploratory . " But both sides were wary about the new round of conferences thus begun ; Each appeared interested primarily in sizing up the other at a moment of convulsive change in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has happened since Cuba and indeed since the Russians proposed the resumption of talks last January  --  as well as some things that have not happened  --  has robbed the meetings of most of their former importance and urgency . Moscow is no longer threatening a unilateral effort to throw the Western powers out of West Berlin . In recent statements , it has not even proposed to negotiate them out . Premier Khrushchev has told the East German Communists to be satisfied with the " sovereignty " they can exercise on their side of the Berlin wall and the frontier with West Germany . Neither Russians nor East Germans have harassed the allied forces in West Berlin or in the air and land corridors connecting it with West Germany . Soviet Aims Not Clear Reports from Berlin to Washington say the tension there subsided so dramatically after the Cuban crisis that there ought to be no question of how the United States fared in the missile confrontation . Accordingly , Secretary Rusk 's main objective in the new talks is to judge how long the Russians are willing to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and without a more formal accommodation . The Soviet purposes are less clear . For some time now , Russian diplomats have been declaring a temporary loss of interest in the Berlin problem . They blame the United States for , the lack of agreement but are not visibly disturbed by it . When the Soviet Government suggested a new round of talks last January , it seemed to officials here to have something specific in mind . But after Washington agreed to hear Moscow 's ' proposals , it took the Russians another month to get around to scheduling today 's meeting . Even after the discussion this afternoon , however , the Administration was wondering about the Russians ' intentions . The meeting was described as friendly and businesslike . Berlin and Germany were said to have been the only subjects mentioned , primarily in restatements of familiar views . Further discussions were agreed to but not scheduled . No New Proposals WASHINGTON , March 26 ( UPI ) ? Lincoln White , State Department spokesman , said today that no new proposals were made by either side . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks might someday be successful . Mr. White could offer no clue as to why the Russians asked for the meeting . He said Mr. Dobrynin advanced no new Soviet proposals and no papers were exchanged . The United // Rusk and Dobrynin Reopen Discussion - Of Berlin Problem // incidents , pressures and without a more formal accommodation . IMr . Dobrynin said upon leaving the State Department that " we Just began an exchange of opinions about the German and the Berlin situation . " He agreed that another meeting would be held and said it would come " rather soon . " Sitting in on the Rusk-Dobrynin talks were Llewellyn E. Thompson , former Amb , a , ssador to Moscow and now a State Department adviser on Soviet Affairs ; Martin J. Hillenbrand , hiad of the State Departmertt 's Berlin task force , and Georgi M. Kornienko , Soviet Embassy counselor . Mr. White said that in the talks Mr. Rusk was seeking evidence that Russia had softened its stand enough to warrant full-scale East-West negotiations on the Berlin issue . Mr. White added that there had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to Russian intentions . The fact that the Soviet Union took the initiative to get the talks going again sparked some speculation that Moscow might have a new approach . But most officials believed Soviet Premier Khrushchev , beset by troubles at home and abroad , simply wanted to give the appearance of doing something to appease the Communist East Germans . The Soviet-American " exploratory " talks on Berlin , which have taken place from time to time for several years , were interrupted by the Cuban missile crisis last October .                     