@@727277

txt " Revolutionary " measures that are expected to bring a dramatic increase in the number of Negro and Puerto Rican students attending the City University were announced yesterday by the Board of Higher Education . A new citywide admissions program will make it possible for some students who have high school averages as low as 68 per cent to be admitted this fall to a senior college of the university . The regular requirement is an average of 82 per cent Dr. Albert H. Bowker , chancellor of the City University , called the program " a social necessity . " The university board also said it would ask the city Board of Education and the State Board of Regents for permission to take over and operate next year at least five public high schools here that have the " greatest degree of disadvantage " in a move to upgrade the education of minority-group youngsters . Each of the high schools would then be affiliated with one or more colleges of the City University , which would guarantee to admit all graduates who earn averages of 70 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // and other new measures would give the university in the fall of 1969 an entering freshman class that would be 26 per cent Negro and Puerto Rican  --  the same ethnic distribution as among the city 's high school graduates . Negro and Puerto Rican students made up 12 per cent of last fall 's freshman class . " This is the most revolutionary thing the university has done since I became chancellor , " Dr. Bower said , as he described the board 's plans during a news conference held at university headquarters , 535 East 80th Street Dr. Bowker has been chancellor of the tuition-free , 152,000-student municipal university system since 1963 . A Supplemental Plan The students admitted under the university 's new programs would be in addition to those admitted under the conventional procedures based on high school averages or composites of averages and entrance examination scores . Under the new citywide admission policy , the university would guarantee senior college admission to the top 100 gad - mates annually of each of the city 's 60 academic schools . In most of the schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admission to the university because of their high grade averages . However , in some schools that largely serve disadvantaged students , some youngsters in the top 100 have averages in the high 60 's or low 70 's . Many , moreover , have general diplomas rather than academic ( college-preparatory ) diplomas . Dr. Bowker said the new policy would make about 800 students who bad general diplomas or whose grades fell below the present cut-off point eligible for university admission . The chancellor said he planned to send out " letters of invitation " next week to those among the top 00 at each school who had not already been accepted . 250 May Get In in 1968 Of the 800 newly eligible candidates , about 250 are actually expected to attend the university this fall . Although they will have the same status as other students , Dr. Bowker noted that they would be given special assistance to help overcome present weaknesses in their high school preparation . " We have found that s-uccess in college is not always related to success in high school , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be extended to the top 100 students of non-public academic high schools with over 500 ' graduates and to 20 per cent of the graduates from smaller private high schools . Another action authorized by the university 's governing board grants matriculated  --  or degree-candidate  --  status to the underprivileged students enrolled in the university 's SEEK program . Started three years ago , the program enables youngsters from poverty areas to overcome their educational deficiencies and go on for a college degree . Special Counseling Although the SEEK students will now be regarded as university degree-candidates , they will continue to receive special counseling , tutoring and other help . Dr. Bowker emphasized that the university 's new policies would not affect the " traditional academic excellence " of its constituent colleges . He said that the university 's interest in operating high schools in disadvantaged areas was part of a planned all-out university effort to strengthen the education of minority-group youngsters before they , reached college-age . Dr. Bowker said that the types of schools he had in mind for operation by the university were Boys High in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's new programs were authorized at a special board meeting held Thursday night .                     