@@725455

txt Most people call them teen-agers . Too often the label is applied to youths whose wayward conduct has brought them notoriety and tarnished the image of all in their age group . There is a far more numerous group among them who are outstanding citizens . This Is the first in a series of articles describing the achievements and the attitudes of good teen-agers . BY DONNA GILL Every Wednesday , after school , 30 students from Notre Dame High school , Niles , board buses furnished by the Chicago Area Lay Movement and drive to Blessed Sacrament school , Cermak road and Central Park avenue , to tutor elementary school children . " A group of us were talking and we decided it was time we formed an action group , " said Chris Mathisen , 17 , of 8938 Mason ay. , Morton Grove . Typical of Many Chris and his schoolmates are typical of hundreds of youths in the Chicago area who give up their free time to act as tutors , help in community action programs , be volunteers at hospitals , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When many adults say teenagers do n't take an active part in their community or are n't informed about the world , they 're not talking about Chris . " Teens are more willing to find out about new situations than are adults . " he said . ' The statistics on juvenile delinquency are misleading , " he said . " The crime rate has increased , but so has the population , and so has the crime rate of the adults , not just the teen-agers. i minx most of the teen-agers are a good bunch of people . " The main problem is that parents have a hard time communicating with , their children . " One difference I see in today 's teen-agers is that some of the kids think we should get rid of traditional values . I think the teens are just experimenting with different aspects of life . Eventually there will be a rest period , and even better values . " If one loves mankind and works and acts on this feeling , the values which come will be good and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into practice next fall when he enters the novitiate of the Brothers of the Holy Cross at Rolling Prairies , Ind . At school Chris is vice president of the French club , president of the math club , vice president of the Young Christian Students , president of the science club , and a member of the radio , cinema , chess , and cross and anchor clubs . Also Plays Soccer He also plays soccer , is on the human relations board , attended Boys State , and was the school representative for the Illinois state speech contest . He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Christian H. Mathisen . His father is a telephone repairman and his mother , Dolores , is an information operator . A sister , Mrs. Gail Oakes , 22 , lives in Niles.                     