@@722503

txt Federal courts have no power to halt strikes called in violation of collective bargaining agreements , the Supreme Court ruled today . A 5-to-3 decision settled one of the most important labor questions to come before the court in recent years . Justice Hugo L. Black wrote for the majority , joined by Chief Justice Earl Warren and Justices Toni C. Clark , Potter Stewart and Byron R. White . Justice William J. Brennan dissented in an opinion joined by Justices William 0 . Douglas and John Marshall Harlan . Justice Felix Frankfurter , who is in the hospital , did not take part in the decision . The central issue in the case was a seeming conflict between two Federal statutes ? the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 and the Norris-La Guardia Act of 1932 . Damages Are Collected Section 301 of the TaftHartley Act permits either party to a collective bargaining agreement to sue in Federal court over violations of the contract . Unions have obtained orders compelling employers to abide by arbitration clauses , and employers have collected damages from unions for violating no-strike clauses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts shall have no jurisdiction to issue injunctions " in any case involving or growing out of any labor dispute . " Jurisdiction is the lawyer 's term for judicial power . Thus , the question was whether an employer who sued a union for striking in violation of a contract could get an injunction to stop the strike as well as collecting damages . Most , though not all , lower Federal courts have ruled that he could not . The decision does not affect the power of the Federal courts to enjoin strikes under specific provisions of Federal labor law . For example , the Taft-Hartley Act authorizes the President to seek , and the Federal courts to grant , eighty-day injunctions against strikes affecting the national health or safety . Strikes occurring during mediation proceedings under the Railway Labor Act may also be enjoined . The Taft-Hartley Act also authorizes the Government to seek injunctions against certain unfair labor practices by unions , such as secondary boycotts . The provisions of the Norris-La Guardia Act were specifically repealed for this purpose . What the decision today does affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no-strike clauses in their contracts . Employers , after today , will be unable to go into the Federal courts to halt such strikes as violations of contract . The case today arose in connection with a Sinclair Refining Company refinery in East Chicago , Ind . It was brought by the company against a local of the Oil , Chemical and Atomic Workers International Union and against twenty-four individual members of the union . The company and the union had a contract including a nostrike clause and calling for binding arbitration of all grievances . But the company said that it had been plagued by a series of strikes over grievances , the latest over $2.19 in pay claims . It asked a Federal court to enjoin present and future strikes and to award it damages from the union and members . Justice Black relied today on the sweeping anti-injunction language of the Norris-La Guardia Act . He traced the history of the Taft-Hartley Act in Congress anc1 found no intention to repeal the Norris-La Guardia provisions in providing for suits for violations of labor contracts . Justice Brennan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippling blow to the cause of grievance arbitration . " He noted that , in collective bargaining , employers frequently agreed to arbitration as the price for a no-strike pledge by the union . But if employers know they can not enforce that pledge in the Federal courts , they " will pause long " before agreeing to arbitrate , he said . Justice Brennan also observed that state courts were presumably not bound by the NorrisLa Guardia prohibition . He raised the possibility that suits on labor contracts , for which the Taft-Hartley Act opened the Federal courts , might now flow into state courts and thus hamper the development of uniform Federal standards . The damage aspects of Sinclair 's suit were handled by the Supreme Court in a separate decision today . Justice White wrote the opinion of the court  --  his first since going on the bench April 16 . In keeping with the tradition for new justices ' first opinions , it was for a unanimous court . The decision was that Sinclair could not collect damages from individual employes as agents for the union as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-established Federal policy was not to penalize members for a union 's sins . The two cases were argued by George B. Christensen of Chicago for Sinclair and Gilbert A. Cornfield of Chicagc for the union and its members . Drake Suit Is Stayed WASHINGTON , June 18 ( AP ) ? The Supreme Court agreed today that a union was entitled to a stay of a damage suit filed by Drake Bakeries , Inc. , of New York City , for an alleged violation of a no-strike clause in a working agreement . The union , Local 50 of the American Bakery and Confectionery Workers , contended that the collective bargaining agreement with Drake clearly covered disputes about compliance with the no-strike clause and called for arbitration . Drake contended that breach of a no-sdihe ** was not within the scope of an arbitration clause . The union insisted the no-strike clause had not. ; been violated by the failure of t employes to report to work two Saturdays after holidays . Justice Byron R. White de . t livered the 7-to-1 decision . Justice John Marshall Harlan dissented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inflexible rules linking nostrike and arbitration clauses of every collective bargaining. - contract in every situation . Transit Union Sees Gain The Transport Workers Union said yesterday that the Drake ruling would void a $37,305,000 damage suit brought against the transit union by the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines . On March 9 , midway in a twenty-one-day strike , the company sued in Federal court , charging that the union had perpetrated an illegal walkout . The union contended that management had not exhausted the remedies available to it under the contract . John F. O'Donnell , counsel for the T. W. U. , said that he would seek dismissal of the suit . There was no immediate comment from the company .                     