@@722360

txt Palm Springs , Cal. , March 24 - President Kennedy and former President Eisenhower devoted 50 minutes in this balmy desert playground today to a private discussion of world P vpntc and nrohlems . The Republican former President was host to his Democratic successor in the fieldstone ranch house in which Eisenhower has been sojourning since 0 Ilast December . The dwelling is just off the 11th fairway of the Eldorado Country club where the former President , his health and weather permitting , plays golf . " BasicallyInternational " Altho ' the White House had billed the Kennedy call on his predecessor in advance as a " courtesy visit , " it obviously went beyond the social ameni1 ties and into state business . " They had a general discusIsion of the situation around the world . The president brought Eisenhower up to date on a number of items . The discussion was basically international , " Pierre Salinger , White House press secretary , told reporters . Kennedy flew to Palm Springs last night for a week-end of rest after delivering a speech in Berkeley yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force base . Ike Greets Friends After their meeting the two leaders came out of the living room , where a dancing blaze in the fire place added a cozy touch to the sun drenched stone patio at the rear of the house . They posed for pictures there by a small swimming pool while Eisenhower exchanged greetings with a number of his old friends in the White House press and camera corps . The temperature was a comfortable 75 degrees . Eisenhower , bronzed by the desert sun and wearing a graygreen sport jacket and gray slacks with a blue and white tie , seemed in fine spirits , altho he told reporters he is just getting over a touch of flu he picked up on a recent hunting and fishing trip in Mexico . Kennedy , in a dark blue suit , listened during the pictureposing to Eisenhower describe the Eldorado golf course , its tricky hazards , including ponds , palm trees , and orange groves . The five star general escorted the President back thru the house to a closed car , which took Kennedy back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot of s n o wcapped shadow mountain . The Kennedy retreat is owned by singer Bing Crosby . Mamie Stays in Bed As the two men walked to the car and said good-by , a hundred or so Eldorado club members and guests gathered outside the house clapped and cheered . After his guest left at noon , Eisenhower chatted a few minutes with reporters about his health and golf game . Asked about Mrs. Eisenhower , the general said , " She 's just fine . She 's still in bed . She just thought she 'd stay out of the crowd . " The former President said his bout with flu has cut down his golf , but that he planned to get in a round this afternoon . He said he had played only two times , nine holes each , in the last few weeks . The Eisenhowers plan to return to their Gettysburg , Pa. , farm early next month . Fourth Since Inaugural This was the fourth time Kennedy and Eisenhower have met since the 1961 inauguration . They saw each other in November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tex . The former President was a I Kennedy guest at the White House last June for a state dinner honoring Japanese Premier Hayato Ikeda . Kennedy and his predecessor also conferred at Camp David , Md. , last spring after the Kennedy regime 's Cuban invasion fiasco . The two men seem to hit it off well personally , altho Eisenhower as President campaigned strongly against Sen. Kennedy in the 1960 election and has since denounced the Kennedy administration for its huge spending on domestic policy , particularly vast spending programs . Eisenhower has , however , supported Kennedy requests for continued large scale forei , 5:n aid and gone along generally on the New Frontier 's foreign policy , which is much like that of the Eisenhower years . The White House , thru Press Secretary Salinger , retorted this morning to a sally at Kennedy and the Kennedy clan from former Vice President Nixon . Nixon , Republican candidate for governor of California this ? year , said of the President and other Kennedys : " We welcome them . In November we 're going to show these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and his brother , Atty . Gen. Robert Kennedy , who was in Los Angeles for a speech today , are apparently on hand to aid Gov . Brown 's reelection campaign .                     