@@725182

txt New York City would lose four Senate and seven Assembly seats but would still retain its relative voting strength under a preliminary reapportionment plan being drafted by the Republicans . Reliable sources disclosed today that the Republican plan , which is not completed - and is subject to revision , would give New York City 26 Senators and 68 Assemblymen in a reducedsized Legislature of 57 Senators and 150 Assemblymen . While the New York delegation to Albany would be fewer in numbers , its voting power in the Legislature would still be equivalent to the city 's population ratio in the state , Republican sources said . New York City has 46 per cent of the citizen population in the state . Larger Delegation Under the stopgap Plan A that governed the election of the 1966 Legislature last month , the city had 30 Senators and 75 Assemblymen in an expanded Legislature of 65 Senators and 165 Assemblymen . In addition , New York shares one Senate and one Assembly district with neighboring Nassau County . Those districts that cross the city line would be eliminated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce the first major battle at the 1966 Legislature , which convenes Jan. 5 . With the Republicans controlling the Senate and the Democrats controlling the Assembly , each party is expected to produce its own version of how the legislative districts should be redrawn . The divided Legislature is facing a state Supreme Court deadline of Feb. 1 to come up with a new reapportionment plan . That deadline was upheld yesterday by the Appellate Division with the added warning that the courts will draw the new legislative districts if the lawmakers can not do the job by Feb. 1 . Democrats Set Up Panel Democratic leaders have entrusted the complex reapportionment task to a six-member nonpartisan advisory Council , which plans to use a computer to sift population data and calculate the new legislative district lines . The advisory council and the Republican architects are using the same starting point in their legislative map-making  --  a 57-member Senate and a 150-member Assembly , But the district lines that each group draws are not expected to coincide . They aim to make each district substantially equal in population to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court in 1964 . The Republican map-makers are seeking to draw the districts so about 285,000 persons would be in each senatorial district and 109,000 in each assembly district . Because of the reduced number of legislative seats to be filled , the delegations from the suburban counties also are expected to be trimmed slightly in the new reapportionment plans . Last month , Westchester , Nassau and Suffolk Counties elected a total of 10 Senators and 27 Assemblymen , plus one Nassau Senator and one Assemblyman whose districts crossed into Queens . Under the tentative Republican plan , the three suburban counties would have nine Senators , plus the possibility of the combined Westchester and Putnam County district , and 25 Assemblymen . Following is a summary of the legislative seats that each county in New York City and the suburbs would have under the preliminary Republican plan and the number they have now : Queens  --  Six Senate and 16 Assembly seats . At present Queens has six full Senate districts , plus one shared with Nassau and one with Kings , and 17 Assembly districts plus one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus one shared with Richmond , and 23 Assembly seats . The county now has 10 full Senate districts and one shared with Queens and one with Richmond , and 25 full Assembly districts and one shared with Richmond . Richmond  --  One Senate district that also would include a small section of Kings and two full Assembly seats . The only change would be the loss of part of an Assembly district that Richmond now shares with Kings . New York  --  Five full Senate and 14 full Assembly districts , plus one Senate and one Assembly seat shared with the Bronx . At present New York County has six full Senatorial districts , plus a corner of upper Manhattan that is part of a Bronx district , and 16 full Assembly districts . Bronx  --  Four Senate and 12 Assembly districts , plus one Senate and one Assembly seat shared with New York County . At present the Bronx has five five full Senate districts plus one shared with New York County and 14 Assembly diss tri cts . Westchester  --  Two full Senate seats plus one shared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and eight Assembly districts . Nassau  --  Four Senate seats , plus one shared with Suffolk , and 12 Assembly seats . Nassau now has four full Senate districts , plus one shared with Suffolk and one shared with Queens . Nassau also has 12 full Assembly districts in addition to one shared with Suffolk and one with Queens . Suffolk  --  Two Senate seats , plus one with Nassau. and six Assembly seats . Suffolk now has two full Senate districts , plus one with Nassau , and six Assembly districts , plus one that crosses into Nassau . On Thursday the Appellate 1Division in New York City upheld by a vote of 3 to 2 a lower icourt ruling that if the law ! ! makers failed to adopt a reapportionment plan by Feb. 1 , the State Supreme Court would impose its own plan . Senate Majority Leader Joseph Zaretzki and Assembly Speaker Anthony J. Travia brought the suit in July in an attempt to have the courts , and not the Legislature , draft the new district lines . Their suit , was started after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special off-year election for legislators that Wa5 held Nov. 2.                     