@@721552

txt A Federal court ordered today a continuation of integrated classes in the city schools pending its study of a plea for a temporary suspension . Lawyers for the Orleans Parish ( County ) School Board told a three-judge panel that the process should be suspended until a Federal-state controversy over the issue had been settled . The state contended that all legal proceedings should be dismissed because it had interposed its sovereignty between the Federal courts and the school board , The United States asked that a restraining order be kept in force against state officials to prevent them front interfering with desegregation. - Chief Judge Richard T. Rives of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and District Judges J. Skelly Wright and Herbert W. Christenberry took the questions under advisement . No indication was given as to when the ruling would come . But Judge Rives said that the restraining orders would remain in effect in the meantime . The public schools closed today for a week-long holiday . Court observers expected the constitutional panel to hand down its ruling before classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Supreme Court is con3idered likely no matter what : he judges decide , This would mark the first time in the school desegregation controversy that the interposition issue had been placed before the high bench . The litigation involved the admission last Monday of four Negro girls to two white elementary schools , the first case of desegregation below the college level in the Deep South . The pupils were escorted without incident to and from the schools today by deputy Federal marshals . The crowds of jeering demonstrators that greeted them on Monday have grown progressively smaller . However , no white pupils reported for classes at No. 19 school , where three Negroes are - enrolled . Only three whites appeared at the other desegregated school , William Frantz . Enrollment at the two schools is more than 1,000 . An apparent easing of racial tension brought an increase in attendance at other white public be-n:1ra . Students have been warned t. - u2 they will face disciplinary action it they are absent without a valid excuse . A rash of incidents between , whites and Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared near an end . Merchants and business men re ! ported only a slight drop in trade and advertising , and some denied that it had resulted from the trouble . The Legislature recessed in Baton Rouge until next Wednesday , when lawmakers will begin the Thanksgiving Day holiday after a brief meeting . They had been summoned for the second , special session in as many weeks by Gov . Jimmie H. Davis Ito find new ways to thwart desegregation . The setting for the hearing on the legal issues raised by the desegregation struggle was a walnut-paneled district courtroom in the main Post Office . Deputy Federal marshals screened those seeking admission , and virtually all seats in the second-floor room were occupied by parties to the suits , newsmen , lawyers and court ofificials . Samuel I. Rosenberg , the school board 's lawyer , told the court that desegregation had made the board 's position " completely untenable . " " From a practical point of view , " said Mr. Rosenberg , " the board is reaching a point where it will , regardless of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schools . " Mr. Rosenberg urged the three judges either to nullify the mass of anti-integration legislation or return the schools to a segregated basis while the , interposition question was litigated . Jack P. F. Gremillion , the State Attorney General , said the court should step aside because of the interposition act . He contended that the law had removed the court 's jurisdiction . The act , signed last week by Governor Davis , states that the United States Constitution does not give the Federal Government the right to control a state 's schools , Federal agencies , judges , marshals and other officers are forbidden from carrying out the 1954 Supreme Court desegregation decision under penalty of a $1,000 fine and a year 's imprisonment . Tliurgood Marshall , counsel for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , opposed any suspension of desegregation . " I do n't think there 's any amount of time that 's going to bring any cooperation from the Legislature or the officials of Louisiana , " he said . W. Scott Wilkinson represented a special legislative committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week . The lawyer declared that " the trouble with this- whole sorry mess in the schools of New Orleans is that , there 've been too many court orders . " M. Hepburn Many , United , States Attorney , said the Legislature had challenged the supremacy of the Federal Gov- , ernment by the interposition ' , act .                     