@@725254

txt Col. Frank Borman , a hero returned home , said last night that American space craft will shortly terminate their flights on land instead of water . Borman who was commander of Gemini 7 , which spent two weeks girdling the globe , revealed that his craft was originally designed to come down on land . He disclosed that a collapsible wing , called a pareglider , was planned for the Gemini 7 , but that a hitch in development stages caused the plan to be abandoned . The astronaut explained that the wing is inflated with a gas , which allows the space craft to umbrella down to its land target . Russians Use Parachute Borman said that Russian cosmonauts parachuted out of their space craft during the final leg of their journey . A parachute then floats the craft down to earth , minus its crew members , Borman said . He was answering a question about Russian progress . in bringing their space craft down on land . The hometown hero presented a model Gemini 7 to Mrs. A. Martin Katz , ! wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hero 's welcome . The mayor collapsed during a parade and was taken home . He is believed to be suffering an influenza attack . May Lose Crew Borman said yesterday afternoon that it is inevitable that the United States will lose a crew in a space flight . " It 's part of our business . I trust that the American public is mature enough to know that such a program will cost money and lives , " he told 100 newsmen at a press conference in the Hotel Gary . Borman , who was born in Gary in 1928 , returned there yesterday to help the city celebrate Frank Borman day and start a year-long observance of its 60th anniversary . He said he could see " no feasible rescue attempt in the near future " for a lost crew in space . Will Be Larger He said ho believes that future space craft will be larger and " no doubt will have more sophisticated equipment for the comfort of astronauts . " Asked what improvements he would like in space craft , he said , " Just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a place to sleep . " Borman and his wife , Susan , arrived at Gary 's Municipal airport from Houston , walked down a red carpet from the plane , and were greeted by Glen Vantrease , city controler , and other city officials . A motorcade whisked the Bormans and others to City hall , at 4th avenue and Broadway , where they walked up another red carpet to a landing on the steps and Col. Borman was given a key to the city by Mayor Katz . Mrs. Katz gave the astronaut 's wife a bouquet of red roses . Make Coats Unnecessary " The warmth of this welcome makes these coats unnecessary , " Borman told Mayor Katy and the 800 persons outside City hall . Many in the crowd were without overcoats , while Borman wore an overcoat and his wife wore a furtrimmed white suede coat . The astronaut and his wife had a reunion in Katz 's office with his grandmother , Mrs. Louise Borman , 89 , of 6721 Forest ay. , Gary , and other Gary relatives . His grandmother kissed Borman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I 'm so happy you got back safely . " Borman then was escorted to the city council chambers , where all nine councilmen I praised him and approved a commendatory resolution . The resolution , already framed , was presented to Borman by Cleo Wesson , council president . Six hundred persons attended luncheon at the Hotel Gary , where Borman showed pictures of the space flight he made with James A .. Lovell Jr . and their rendezvous in space with Gemini 6 on Dec. 15 . Orval Kincaid , subdistrict 1 director of the United Steelworkers union , introduced Borman to the audience , which was said to represent every organization in Gary . Ride in Carriage After the luncheon Borman and his wife rode in a horsedrawn carriage from the hotel to Memorial stadium , a couple of blocks away , where he addressed 4,500 seniors ' from Gary public and parochial high schools . " Happiness is flying in your underwear , " Borman told the students , a reference to his and Lovell 's shedding their space suits during the space flight . Police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a parade thru Gary that wound up at the Indiana university extension campus in Gleason park , where Borman addressed students and faculty . 700 in Line Seven hundred persons waited in line to shake hands with the Bormans at a reception at the hotel last night before a dinner which wound up Gary 's salute to their home town hero . Randall Morgan , Gary police commissioner , presented official city gifts to the Bormans , and Borman again showed pictures and gave the commentary on his space flight . Borman and his wife remained at the Hotel Gary overnight for an extension of the visit be had with his grandmother and other relatives . They were scheduled to leave at 6 a. m. today on a flight back to Houston .                     