@@722783

txt The number of Americans on nonfarm payrolls rose in October to a record of 56,308,000 , the Labor Department reported today . The gain over the previous record , set in September , was 58.000 jobs . The Bureau of Labor Statistics attributed it to seasonal factors . The gain was not regarded as meaningful . The average weekly number of hours worked by factory employes declined from 40.4 in September to 40.1 in October , after the figures were adjusted to account for purely seasonal influences . Seymour L. Wolfbein . Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor , refused to attribute any economic significance to the drop . He said it was impossible to tell how much of the decline was attributable to two holidays , Columbus Day and Yom Kippur , that fell within the payroll period in which the figures were gathered . Gains in Government Jobs The biggest changes in payroll employment from September to October were gains of 134,000 jobs in state and local government and 78,000 in trade , and losses of 57,000 in construction and 63,000 in canning and other food-processing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time of year . This one was the largest change in manufacturing employment , which , as expected , declined seasonally to 17,040-000 jobs , a drop of about 78,000 . Manufacturing payroll employment was 433,000 higher than in October last year . Total nonfarm payroll employment was 1,243,000 higher last month than the year before . Within the manufacturing sector , ' employment in the primary metal industries declined last month to 1,126,200 , a drop of 10,800 . The continued decline in this group , which is dominated by steel , occurred despite a rise in steel production , Mr. Wolfbein said . Payroll employment in the primary metal industries last month was 52,500 below last year . Transportation Jobs Rise The transportation equipment industry showed an employment gain of 25,300 from September . About half the employment in this group is in the automobile industry . Total payroll employment in the category was 1,697 , - 500 last month , 192,400 higher than a year before . Average weekly factory hours in primary metals continued to decline , falling from 40 in September to 39.3 last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 42.4 . On the basis of data made available today , Labor Department manpower experts said that the decline in the unemployment rate last month was the result of unemployed women 's finding jobs . ' The drop in the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate from 5.8 per cent to 5.5 was announced last week . It was : known then , that the rate had fallen because of a sharp drop in unemployment among women , an unusually large number of whom entered the labor force in search , of work in August . It was not then known , however , whether the decline in unemployment among . women had resulted from their finding jobs or from their abandoning the search and leaving the labor force . The Labor Department experts said today that data on gross movements within the labor force showed that ninetenths of the women who had moved from the unemployment : category had found jobs . They expressed the belief that most of these were the women who entered the labor force in lAugrst , noting that there had /been a large drop in the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The only aspect of the situation that the labor market experts seemed unable to explain was why there was such a large influx of women into the labor market in August . The record set An payroll employment last month was not unusual . When the figure is not a , record , at least for the month , it means the economy is faltering . Most recently , for example , new monthly records were not set in the first eight months of 1961 , a period of recession . The figures issued today were taken as confirmation that the economy , in respect to the labor market , was still moving sluggishly.                     