@@722683

txt NEW ORLEANS , Sept. ** Ross R. Barnett of Mississippi has rejected notice of a court order to appear in New Orleans Friday to answer civil contempt-of-court charges . He was cited for contempt last night , less than five hours after he had blocked the efforts of a 29-Text of the court order appears on Page 28. year-old Negro to enter the University of Mississippi . The Justice Department charged Mr. Barnett with " willfully and intentionally " disobeying a temporary restraining order issued by the ' United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit earlier in the day . Tonight , Justice Department attorneys obtained a contempt citation against Lieut . Gov . Paul B. Johnson Jr . of Mississippi . This morning he blocked the student 's effort to enter the university at Oxford . The Justice Department charged Mr. Johnson with violating the court 's restraining order of Sept. 25 . The court ordered Mr. Johnson to appear before it Saturday at 10 A.M. Department lawyers filed a petition accusing Mr. Johnson of working in " active participation and concert " with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night , a three-judge panel of the court ordered the Governor to appear // Friday . at 10 A.M. to show cause why he should not be held in contempt .. Because of the seriousness of the case , Chief Judge Elbert P. Tuttle of Atlanta has called all nine judges on the court to at. - tend the hearing . Judge Tuttle and two other judges signed a second contempt citation this morning against the Governor . This action , virtually the same as the Justice Department action , was requested by attorneys for James H. Meredith , the Negro twice barred by Mr. Barnett from entering . the University of Mississippi . The Governor seemed today to be dodging efforts to notify him of the directive that he go to court Friday . If he continues to defy or ignore the appearance order and does not go to court , the Government.is expected to seek his arrest under a bench warrant . The Appeals Court has made three separate efforts to notify the Governor of its command for his appearance . Edward W. Wadsworth , clerk of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order in both a telegram and a certified , air mail special delivery letter to the Governor . He said United States marshals were also trying to serve court papers on Mr. Barnett . Western Union notified Mr. Wadsworth this morning : ? " Your night letter of Sept. 25 to Hon. Ross R. Barnett , Governor of Mississippi , State Capitol , Jackson , is undelivered . The Hon. Ross R. Barnett refused to accept telegram . " The Governor 's office at Jackson was also officially closed today , although staff members were answering telephone calls , Delivery boys were being turned away . This was presumably an effort to prevent Federal marshals from serving the court papers on the Governor by hand . An effort to serve him at Oxford , Miss. , through Mr. Johnson this morning was also rebuffed . Mr. Johnson refused to accept the appearance order from Chief United States Marshal James P. . Yesterday at Jackson , Mr. Barnett twice refused to accept copies of the court restraining orders against him from United States Attorney John Doar . He told Mr. Doar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I am grateful to you for offering them to me . But I have been instructed by the Attorney General of Mississippi , the Hon. Joe T. Patterson , not to accept . " Judge Tuttle , reached by telephone in Atlanta , declined to say whether the Government 's efforts to serve Mr. Barnett were adequate . " This is a legal question that the court will have to pass on , " he said . " I 'm sure you understand why I could not comment upon it now . This could be relied upon in the defense . " Members of the Bench Sitting with Judge Tuttle on the Appeals Court are Judges Joseph C. Hutcheson of Houston ; Richard T. Rives of Montgomery ; Ben F. Cameron of Meridian , Miss. - Warren C. Jones of Jacksonville , Fla. ; John R. Brown of Houston ; John Minor Wisdom of New Orleans ; Walter P. Gewin of Tuscaloosa , Ala. ; and Griffin B. Bell of Atlanta . All except Judge Cameron heard the contempt charges Monday against 17 University of Mississippi officials . Judge Cameron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Barnett was signed by Judges Wisdom , Rives and Gewin . The order issued today was signed by ' Judges Tuttle , Wisdom and Brown . The contempt proceedings filed lay Mr. Meredith 's attorneys today noted that Mr. Barnett had twice blocked the Negro 's attempt to enter the university . The petition also cited the 64-year-old Governor 's speech of Sept. 13 urging Mississippi officials to be prepared to go to jail rather than see the university integrated . " Defendant Ross R. Barnett has willfully and deliberately violated all the orders of this court in this case , " Mr. Meredith 's attorneys said . The petition was filed by Mrs. Constance Baker Motley , a Negro , and Jack Greenberg , white , both of New York and of the staff of the N. A. A. C. P. Legal Defense and Educational Fund .                     