@@725278

txt Miami , Jan. ** first woman was called for possible jury service in the MossierPowers murder trial today at the end of the trial 's third day . Her name was drawn from the jury list by Circuit Judge George E. Schulz as the 43d prospective juror to be called into the jury box for interrogation by counsel . The first 42 persons drawn were males , a circumstance that had begun to annoy the court in view of a promised constitutional challenge by defense counsel to Florida 's law exempting all women from jury service except volunteers . Sends Jurors Home " Here 's the first woman , " the judge whispered to his clerk when he looked at the name . Names of 250 women are placed in the jury box to each 4,750 men . The woman was identified as Thessalania Walker but she missed a chance at an actual appearance in court . The judge a few minutes before had dismissed all prospective jurors still on call and she already was on her way home . She will take her jury seat tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her nephew , Melvin Powers , of the 1964 bludgeon and stabbing slaying of her millionaire husband , Jacques Mossier , 68 , brightened perceptibly at the news there was now a chance that a woman would be among those who will decide her guilt or innocence . She smiled as she discussed this development with her three lawyers . Denies Separate Trials As on previous trial days , Mrs. Mossier sat as far as possible at the counsel table from her stolid co-defendant , a rangy six-footer who has worn a scowl since the start of the trial . Between them were their array of lawyers , three for each of them . Schulz announced at a recess press conference this afternoon that be has overruled defense motions for separate trials . No argument on these motions were heard in open court and no reason was given for the ruling . Such motions often are supported by contentions that counsel for the defendants disagree over trial strategy . Several times today Mrs. Mossier and Powers heard Percy Foreman , attorney for Powers , inform prospective jurors that evidence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cites Other Evidence - There may be evidence introduced ? even evidence you may believe ? of a love affair , " Foreman said on one occasion . " There may be evidence of such offenses as adultery . My question is , would you convict persons of murder because you believed them guilty of other offenses ? " All jurors questioned along this line said they would require proof of murder before convicting of murder . The defense won a duel with the prosecution over whether defense attorneys could question prospective witnesses about their willingness to follow instructions from the court on weight to be given circumstantial evidence .                     