@@724108

txt The United States is sending about 300 more of its elite Special Forces to South Vietnam to advise the Saigon regime and help bolster its defenses against North Vietnamese infiltration . In addition , another group of 300 military advisers is being sent to South Vietnam to assist the South Vietnamese Army at the battalion level . In Saigon American intelligence sources said regular officers of the North Vietnamese Army were commanding and fighting in Communist battalions in four northern provinces of South Vietnam . In Peking , Foreign Minister Chen Yi said the United States was imperiling Indochina by military intervention in Laos and Vietnam . The United States reinforcements over the coming weeks will establish the total American military manpower commitment at 16,000 . Thus the withdrawals that were set in motion last Christmas when 1,000 of 16,500 men were withdrawn have been reversed . Howitzers Provided The plans became known today . There were also authoritative reports of increases in supplies for the South Vietnamese forces . The materiel includes 105-mm. howitzers , M-113 personnel carriers , radios and other " odds and ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem the Communist advances of recent months . The State Department said it could not confirm American intelligence reports in the South Vietnamese capital that regular officers of North Vietnam 's army had moved across the border and were fighting in four northern provinces . Other sources stressed that there was no information available to permit Washington to make a major diplomatic issue of the situation . Training in North Heretofore the Communist assaults on South Vietnam have been supported in the north , but always under the banner of a South Vietnamese " liberation " movement involving Communist-trained South Vietnamese . In the usual pattern , many of the South Vietnamese members of the Vietcong were trained in North Vietnam . If the Hanoi regime in North Vietnam has started sending its own regulars into the fighting , the hostilities have taken on a new complexion , it was asserted here . However , all that is known in Washington is that two North Vietnamese have been captured . The two men said that they were regulars , that they had been drafted for military service and that they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units , presumably designating North Vietnamese regular units . The - North Vietnamese told their captors that they had been transported to Laos from North Vietnam and that they had crossed the border into South Vietnam on foot . They said their mission was sabotage and harassment of hamlets that have been fortified as centers of the Saigon Government 's counterinsurgency effort . United States intelligence authorities here were said to have held off thus far on drawing the conclusion that North Vietnamese regular forces had joined the fighting . The caution here was said to be based on two important premises : First , that the Administration is not ready to press a formal diplomatic complaint ; second , that the Administration is wary of encouraging elements in the country demanding an expansion of the war . The planned composition of United States forces in South Vietnam was indicated here as follows : About 16,000 officers and men , including 1,000 from the Special Forces . The present number of Special Forces was given as 700 . The United States Special Forces units are trained in counterinsurgency activities , including action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and operations with natives . The addition of Special Forces in the northern area of South Vietnam , it was said , was designed to bolster the mountain peoples , many of whom have relatives in North Vietnam and are unaware of the poorly marked boundaries . It is felt The New York Times July 15. 1964 North Vietnam officers are said to be active in four provinces ( diagonal shading ) of South Vietnam . that with additional help , the training of the Montagnards would shut off areas that have been used for Communist infiltration . In addition , there will be reinforcements of United States military advisers with all South Vietnamese units , army , air force and naval . The United States now assigns one officer and two enlisted men to each South Vietnamese battalion . With the reinforcements , each battalion will get an additional officer and enlisted man .                     