@@724821

txt The Cracks in the Business ConSe1-7SUS Ay 31 . ROSSANT Cracks are beginning to appear in the business consensus so carefully put together by President Johnson . William McChesney Martin , the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , shocked Wall Street last week when he warned that the economic outlook is not as trouble-free and recessionproof as the Administration has been suggesting . George Cham " pion , chairman of New York 's Chase Manhattan Bank , has criticized the White House 's increased reliance on voluntary yardsticks for business , claiming that ' governn ent by guideline " creates an insidious and dangerous threat to free enterprise . And the aluminum industry , after agreeing to a wage settlement that went beyond the Administration 's wage guideposts , promptly announced a price increase that flouted the price guideposts . Most Still Happy These signs of dissent are not general , Most businessmen are pleased with the way that Mr. Johnson has been running things ? on both the foreign and domestic fronts . They are enjoying banner sales and , as the President never tires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Johnson has more muscle than they do . So there is little disposition to challenge his authority . By insisting that business support is absolutely essential to maintaining expansion , Mr. Johnson has made the economy more vulnerable to criticism , He also is compelled to pay a high price to keep businessmen happy . Mr. Champion is correct in suggesting that the " government by guideline " approach " consists of short-run measures aimed at achieving quick reSnits . " But the costs of gaining acquiescence to the guidelines are expensive and permanent . The Business Constituency Jusiness has been treated with undeniable largess ever since the steel industry lost its celebrated battle in the spring of 1962 . President Kennedy began the process by providing tax advantages and promising tax reductions . President Johnson , however , has been pushing it to extremes , He got business backing for tax cuts by pledging to hold down business spending and by sweeping tax reforms under the rug . In addition , he let it be known that business was not to be harassed , which has led Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The White House has continued to treat businessmen as a favored constituency commanding a huge bloc of votes . Mr. Johnson has put through another relaxation of the tax rules on depreciation , which will mean an extra ** million bonus to corporations ; he has promised to sell off Government enterprises competing with private businesses ; and he is rushing through a big reduction in excise taxes that has long been sought by manufacturers . So long as Mr. Johnson persists in thinking that consensus is essential to expansion , he will have to continue making longrange concessions to businessmen in return for their shorts term acceptance of his guidelines . This policy has worked , although it haF. : not been nearly so successful as the President claims or so onerous as Mc . Champion indicates . The economy was expanding long before consensus was an article of faith . And businessmen have complied with the guidelines not only because of White House pressure and favors but also because the existence of unemployment , excess capacity and intensified competition have made for price stability . The real tests for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cracks that are now appearing suggest that the critical point is not far off . As the economy comes closer to full employment , there is more danger that a major industry will ignore the wage-price guideposts , And if corporations are faced with a narrowing of their profit margins , they are likely to explore ways and means of getting out from under voluntary restraint that has led them to forgo profits abroad . Whether the President counters by invoking controls or by yielding , the consensus will crumble . Asking for Trouble The economy might be better off if businessmen were a little more inclined to resist the Pres- . ident and the President was a. little less eager to please the business community . A consensus is far from essential for continued prosperity . Indeed , in giving the impression that he can achieve miracles , Mr. Johnson is asking for trouble . For the cost is likely to be excessive and there will come a time when he wo n't have any more sizable bonuses to proffer . The alternative to voluntary but explicit guidelines is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winning the battle of the payments deficit . Mr. Johnson might be exposed to greater criticism , but criticism is what has been largely lacking . The economy needs a dialogue . not a consensus , between the President and busines. 31 . ROSSANT is a member , of the editorial board of The Times .                     