@@726098

txt Socelnl to Tile Nov York Times WASHINGTON , Feb. 2 ? One of the National Traffic Safety Agency 's top engineering consultants , William I. Stieglitz , resigned today in protest against the Federal standards for vehicular safety that were issued Tuesday . Mr. Stieglitz sent his resignation to Dr. William Haddon Jr. , the administrator of the safety agency , in a sharply worded , three-page letter . Dr. Haddon said tonight that he had accepted the res:gnation . Indications were that the successor would be George Nield , a trucking engineer with safety experience in the Post Office Department . In his letter , Mr. Stieglitz // charged that most of the new standards were " totally inadequate . " The standards would require that most cars , trucks , buses and motorcycles manufactured for sale in the United States next year carry such safety features as seat belts , ruptureresistant fuel tanks , outside rearview mirrors , emergency brake systems and impact-absorbing steering wheels . However , Mr. Stieglitz de-clared : " For the most part , they the standards merely give an official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporated in 1968 vehicles even if Federal standards had not been issued and endorse the lowest level of performance within the industry , worldwide , in each area covered . " Mr. Sticglitz asserted that at times the agency had ignored his advice and at other times had not even sought it out . He said his first look at the safety standards , as finally issued , came after they had been released to the public . Therefore , he said , he could not " in good conscience " continue to serve as an agency consultant . Mr. Stieglitz 's difficulties at the safety agency , Dr. Haddon said , stemmed from his " preposterously impossible " recommendations . Dr. Haddon said the agency was required by law to promulgate " reasonable and practicable " standards , but that such regulations would have been out of the question if Mr. Stieglitz 's advice had been followed . Mr. Stieglitz is known as a man who does not like to yield on his safety convictions . Mr. Stieglitz , who is 55 years old , works wherever he has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Road in Huntington , L.I . He has a background in both automotive and aviation safety and has served in recent years as a consultant to the Air Force , the Federal Aviation Agency and the Civil Aeronautics Board . Dr. Haddon said tonight that Mr. Stieglitz " apparently knew more about airplanes than he did cars . " He added . however . that the agency would like to retain him as an " idea man . " an cffcr Stieglitz said he would not accept . Although Mr. Stieglitz initially went with the agency on a strict consulting basis , and thus could work for the Government only four months of the year , Dr. Haddon gave considerable thought at one point to appointing him as full-time director of the agency 's motor vehicle safety performance service . " But , " Dr. Haddon said tonight , " that just did n't work out either . " Mr. Stieglitz 's resignation adds another dimension to the furor that has grown since the 20 safety standards were issued , Heretofore , the criticism of the regulations came from outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best-seller " Unsafe at Any Speed " and who was a key figure in passage of last year 's auto safety laws , criticized the standards again today . He termed them " virtually meaningless . " And on Capitol Hill there was talk among persons familiar with the auto safety field that the Senate Commerce Committee and the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce might take a look at the standards . What upsets the critics , including Mr. Sticglitz , are the manner and extent of the modification of the standards as originally proposed Dec. 3 . Initially , there were to he 23 standards . But three -- relating to tires , wheel rims and head rests  --  were dropped on the ground that more technical data were needed . Further , of the 20 standards finally issued , all were reworded , most were softened somewhat and six were scheduled for further modification . The date for most to go into effect was moved bark four months , from Sept. 1 , 1967 , to Jan. 1 , 1968 . The critics , particularly Mr. Nader , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands allegedly made by the auto manufacturers , both domestic and foreign . Generally speaking , companies both here and abroad had asserted that the standards . as originally proposed , would have required expensive retooling and in some cases abandonment of production schedules . There were also hints from abroad that the standards , if adopted in full , might be detrimental to good trade relations . American and foreign automotive officials have reacted cautiously to the standards , as finally issued . Publicly the companies say they are still studying the regulations . But privately there have been some small expressions of satisfaction . No Comment in Detroit Special to The New York Times DETROIT , Feb. ** resignation of Mr. Stieglitz brought no official comment from auto manufacturers today . Spokesmen for the industry stressed that there had been little direct communication between the traffic safety agency and Detroit automakers while the initial Federal safety standards for 1968 model cars were being elaborated . This apparent lack of contact was cited to rebut reports of industry pressure on Dr. Haddon . However , other informed sources here who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new standards in Washington on Tuesday had been preceded by considerable behind-the-scenes maneuvering . These sources pointed to Thomas C. Mann , the new president of the Automobile Manufacturers Association , as a powerful force in the tug of war between the Federal Government and big business in which Dr. Haddon had found himself involved over the auto safety issue . Mr. Mann , a Texas lawyer and personal friend of President Johnson , was an Under Secretary of State for economic affairs until he joined the manufacturers association last summer as chief executive officer . Although he had no previous connection with the auto industry , he is credited here with considerable influence as Detroit 's envoy to Washington since he took office in the association early this year . On the record , Dr. Haddon had only one meeting with the representatives of United States auto manufacturers since they submitted their voluminous comments on the 23 original proposals for safety standards early this year . In the meeting in Washington on Jan. 25 , some technical information was exchanged , and Mr. Mann said afterward the session had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impression prevails in Detroit that aside from this short meeting there have been confidential approaches and contacts .                     