@@726697

txt To the Editor : The report of the Mayor 's Advisory Panel on Decentralization of the New York City Schools ( now known for its chairman as the Bundy Report ) is a welcome addition to the increasing literature on school decentralization in New York . It is certainly imaginative and courageous and system-shaking . It has stirred the zoo and got the bureaucrats off their seats . This is no mean accomplishment and in itself is a valuable contribution by the Bundy panel . It is to be hoped that this ... on income . Thus , the additional tax would be the larger , the greater a taxpayer 's present liability . I fail to see how this adjustment falls mainly on lowincome recipients . There is something to be said for postponing nonurgent public spending , although it is not evident why nonurgent private spending should not be postponed as well . Be this as it may , I too favor postponing the highway program and discontinuing the supersonic plane but the scope for reduction is limited , and the blame for not doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the Editor : I share the concern expressed so well in your editorial of Nov. 7 that the burden of airtiinflation policy should not be permitted to fall on the poor through cutbacks in social services ; but I am appalled by the muddled thinking in your editorial ( " Inflation Myopia " ) of the preceding day . You hold that the Administration has erred in reducing excess demand , but complain that it has caused inflation by excessive spending . You say that the proposed income tax surcharge will not check inflation but may raise prices , while suggesting that an increase in excises would be the most effective defense . You maintain that the surcharge will be in- ' equitable , but conclude that an increase in excises would lessen the burden on lower incomes . This , I submit , is confusion compounded . ' As reflected in the common appraisal by economists from all quarters , demand is likely to outrun available supplies . This will add to pressure originating from already existing tendencies for cost-push . There is no question that the proposed surcharge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will reduce demand and that this will lessen inflation pressure ; and there is every reason to expect that prices will rise less if the restriction is through income tax , mainly individual , than if it is through excises . Letters to the Editor of The Times Tax Increase Backed ness to undertake these cutbacks , the Administration 's proposal for a fairly distributed and temporary income tax surcharge is the responsible and sensible approach . The Ways and Means Committee position which proposes to trade economic stability against the politics of expenditure reduction , especially in reduction in social services , is not . It is unfortunate then to see your continued opposition to the tax increase , thereby undermining your valid case against the scuttling of the poverty program . RICHARD A. MUSGRAVE Professor of Economics Harvard University Cambridge , Mass. , Nov. 8 , 1967 ? Decentralized Schools Report Approved It is a good idea to get the community into the schools , particularly through the parents . But it will not be helpful to give parents a greater voice in the operation of the schools if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and no greater prestige in the school than he has today . Giving the parents greater influence without building up the classroom teacher will merely create a new disequilibrium and exacerbate the tensions that already exist between the school and the community . Specifically , the plan submitted by the Citizens Committee for Children to the Board of Education last spring meets this aspect of decentralization . It was ignored by the Bundy panel . There are other questions raised by the Bundy report which will require more detailed consideration by the Legislature and the Temporary Commission on Transition . Though in detail it may not always be practicable  --  or always sound ? I applaud the report . JAMES MARSH ALL New York , Nov. 9 , 1967 The writer was President of New York City 's Board of Education from 1938 to 1942.                     