@@725675

txt Washington , July 19 - Julius Klein , board chairman of a Chicago public relations firm , swore to Senate investigators today that he had never attempted to pressure Sen. Thomas J. Dodd ( D. , Conn. into helping him with West German clients . Summoned to answer charges that Dodd acted as an " errand boy " for him , Klein called the charges ridiculous and said he was merely exercising an American right to petition a member of Congress to redress a wrong . After all-day questioning cf Klein , the Senate ethics committee , headed by Sen. John Stennis ( D. , Miss. concluded its inquiry into allegations that Dodd had abused his office to assist Klein , a registered foreign agent for West German industry . Statement Is Barred Stennis said the committee would hold further hearings at an unspecified date on charges that Dodd made improper use of campaign funds . The staff , Stennis said , was busy " ferreting out financial records " 2:2:1 was making steady progress . Stennis refused to admit to the record a statement by Klein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anderson , and four employes in Dodd 's office who stole about 4,000 documents from Dodd 's files and gave them to the columnists . Stennis made the ruling after being informed that Klein 's lawyers had released the statement to the press . He expressed his irritation and said this action was discourteous to the com-1 mittee . " No Money , Gift " Klein swore that he had never given any money or gift of value to Dodd . His friendship with Dodd , dating back 20 years , had been twisted into an alleged unethical relationship , Klein said , and he had never asked Dodd to do anything contrary to his conscience or judgment . The hearing attracted one of the biggest crowds of the session . Klein , a retired major general , had been depicted as an ebullient character , likely to indulge in bold chailenges of the committee . Listeners were disappointed . The commitee counsel , Benjamin Fern , and members of the leommittee were restrained in their questioning and Klein was subdued , waxing indignant only when referring to 1963 hearings by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate foreign relations committee . Klein , a voluntary witness before Fulbright , said he was made to appear in German press accounts as a defendant in a criminal proceeding . " One Contract Lost " , As a result , Klein lost one $50,000 contract in Germany and faced the loss of other s . He wrote Dodd and all members of the foreign relations committee , he said , seeking to repair " the damage done to my image . " When he heard Dodd was planning to make a trip to Germany to interview a confessed member of the Russian terror apparatus , he concentrated on the Connecticut senator . Klein 's major client was the Society for Promotion of German-American cooperation . He registered under the law as a foreign agent . He was questioned at great length concerning the source of funds for this organization and whether it was subsidized by the German government . He said he had been trying to get these financial details but thus far had been unsuccessful . Folder of Dossiers Klein identified a number of letters he had written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the senator went to Germany in April , 1964 . A bulky folder of dossiers on eight German officials , prepared by Klein 's staff , also was shown him . He said he had never seen it before but identified its contents as coming from his office . Dodd testified he never saw this folder . " I had the right to ask Sen. Dodd or any United States senator to correct a wrong , " Klein told the committee . " I had been portrayed in the German press , as a result of the Fulbright hearings , as having been indicted or censured , a distortion which Fulbright refused to correct . " The distortions had caused my clients to lose faith in me . My image was damaged just as it is being damaged again by this hearing . I have a right to ask any senator to see anybody . He can ignore it or throw me out of the office if he wants , but that is my right as a citizen . " Notes Javits Trip Sen. Eugene McCarthy D. , Minn. noted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 24 , 1964 , expressed disappointment that Dodd had postponed his German trip until April . If he had known of the delay , Klein wrote , he would have asked Sen. Hubert Humphrey D. , Minn. , now Vice President , or Sen. Stuart Symington D. , Mo. to come to Germany in his behalf " just as Sen Jacob K. Javits R. , N.Y. did for Sen. Dirksen IR. , I11.1 and other G.O.P. colleagues . " McCarthy wanted to know if Klein had " briefed " Javits on this trip . Spoke to Adenauer " " Javits is completely indoctrinated on this issue , " Klein retorted . " He did n't need a memorandum . He is a distinguished senator and highly respected in Jewish circles and he personally took an interest in me when I was portrayed as a Nazi . I spent a lot of time talking to Javits . He is intimately acquainted with the issue . " Javits later told reporters that , on a trip to Germany in January , 1964 , he had mentioned Klein in favorable terms in conversations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to Germany he spoke to only one German official , former Chacellor Konrad Adenauer , about Klein . Adenauer asked about the Fulbright hearings , Dodd said , and he clarified Klein 's status as a voluntary witness , not a " defendant . " When Dodd returned from Germany , Klein said , he saw him about a week later and was told of the conversation with Adenauer . " Pictured as Spy " " Did he say he put in a good word for you ? " Klein was asked . " I really do n't remember , " Klein replied . " He did tell me he spoke to Adenauer . I did not ask him if he had put in a good word for me . He told me it had been a very successful visit and that they understood the issue now , and he had tried to clear up the difference between a Senate hearing and a Senate trial . Klein repeatedly emphasized that he was seeking to repair his damaged riputation in asking Dodd to talk to German officials about the true nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a foreign agent or spy , " he remarked . " There is nothing wrong with being a registered foreign agent . There have been some illustrious American names registered as foreign agents ? Dean Acheson , Tom Dewey . This was ruining my reputation both in Germany and in my home town . You steal my reputation and you steal everything . " Reminded that many of his letters to Dodd stressed the loss of clients in Germany rather than the ' damage to his reputation : he remarked : " My reputation was uppermost in my mind . But 1 thought of the contracts , too . After all , I 'm a business man . "                     