@@725969

txt Premier Aleksei N. Kosygin warned today that " the forces of Fascism and war " were on the rise again in Germany , " more reckless and arrogant " than ever . He declared that German demands for a revision of national borders and for access to nuclear weapons " threatened to disturb the equilibrium and the peace of Europe . " " Even the most heedless should be alarmed " by the recent elections in Bavaria and Hesse , " he said , referring to the gains made by the rightist National Democratic party . His strongly worded remarks were the more striking because the occasion  --  a luncheon at Paris City Hall  --  was intended to be largely ceremonial . Neither President de Gaulle nor any other member of the French Government was at the luncheon , given by the Paris City Council . Bid to de Gaulle Seen The Soviet Premier obliquely urged President de Gaulle to go beyond his recent withdrawal from the integrated command of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and leave the alliance altogether . The " suppression of military organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step . " Mr. Kosygin warned that West Germany must be denied access to nuclear weapons " in any form whatsoever . " He declared that the border between East and West Germany as well as the Oder-Neisse frontier between Germany and Poland must be " inviolate . " This was the program worked out at the conference of Communist parties in Bucharest in July and it is , Mr. Kosygin said , the " only realistic basis " for a European settlement . On the eve of World War II , the European powers were not able to control events and check aggression , he said . He raised his voice when he added : " This must not happen again . " Today , he declared , the Soviet Union has powerful defenses and is in a position as never // before to protect its peaceful development . Diplomatic observers noted that Mr. Kosygin 's insistence on the inviolability of the borders between the two Germanys amounted to a repetition of Soviet request for recognition of East Germany . President de Gaulle has rejected all these requests . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meetings with MrH Kosygin . It was felt that if Mr. ' Kosygin had been intent on narrowing the gap that separates the two Governments on Germany , he would have played down the issue of recognition , at least in his public statements . Observers were struck also by the phrase insisting that German access to nuclear weapons " in any form whatever " be denied . French officials gained the impression earlier that the Soviet position on this point had softened and that the Russians were now prepared to acquiesce , at least tacitly , in the German membership in the so-called Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , where allied consultation on nuclear strategy takes place . Factor in Arms Talks Soviet objection to German participation in this committee had been a main stumbling block in negotiations for an agreement on preventing the spread of nuclear weapons . The reported softening had been the main reason for growing hopes that such an agreement might be realized soon . Why Mr. Kosygin chose the Paris forum and this time for his harsh speech on Germany puzzled foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought that if they attacked German nationalism while the new German Government was formed , the influence of the nationalist forces would be strengthened . With the new government installed , it was felt , Mr. Kosygin no longer felt constrained by such considerations . Germany has been at the top of the agenda for the FrenchSoviet talks . It was the main topic again today at a meeting between President de Gaulle and the Soviet Premier . The Soviet Premier 's oblique reminder to General de Gaulle that " political-military alliances " and not only military headquarters should be broken up came in the form of a repetition of a long-standing offer to scrap the Warsaw Pact if the Western powers did likewise with their counterpart , NATO . He declared that the program adopted at the Communist parties ' conference opened the perspective of a reduction of military tension in Europe through the " dissolution of politicalmilitary alliances or , as initial steps , the suppression of their military organizations . " Mr. Kosygin , like President de Gaulle yesterday , described the new friendship between Moscow and Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Soviet ' Union together can make sure that the Continent will not again become the arena for political and military adventures , he said . Mr. Kosygin is on a nine-day visit to France . He arrived yesterday and is being treated with great ceremonial pomp . But no concrete information on what was said at the meetings between him and the French President has been given out . French officials in charge of press relations have shown an unusual reluctance to talk to French or foreign reporters .                     