@@721277

txt This is primary election day in New York . It is et day vested with somewhat more than the usual excitement for such an election , because there are more contests than in any other year in a decade , and because the Tammany leadership of Carmine G. De Sapio is challenged . But in spite of there being eighty-four contests for nominations to public office or major positions in the Democratic and Republican parties , the primary voter , this year as in past years , can apparently be described as unconcerned and apathetic . The primary election exists as a political institution to settle disputes within parties . It is simply another way of doing , for lesser office , what the national conventions will do in Los Angeles and Chicago next month ; it chooses the candidate who will have the right to bear the party label , or nomination . In our primary in New York City , where the voters will act between 3 P. M. and 10 P. M. , nominees will be chosen for seats in the House of Representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial posts , as delegates and alternates to the national conventions , for membership on the party state committees , and for some party district leaderships . It would seem at first glance that with all House seats , and all State Assembly and Senate seats at stake in the November election , there should be intense interest , almost comparable to that involving national or state convention process . The fact is that although the primary creates the opportunity for a fine demonstration of democracy , the people do not seize it . They do not , for the most part , take any interest in their political organizations between elections . So small has been their usual interest that state law now , pennits polling places to remain closed in districts where no nomination is contested , as will be true today all over Staten Island . Thus the " regular " party designee  --  chosen by the political machine  --  becomes automatically the nominee , when there is no contest , and in a district traditionally Democratic , for instance , the candidate chosen in the smoke-filled back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , however , more meaningful than the November election which ratifies it . In a primary election in New York only Republicans can vote in the contests deciding contests between Republicans , and only Democrats can participate in nominating Democrats . Today 's primary in New York City is made interesting chiefly by what happened in August , 1958 , at the Democratic state convention at Buffalo . Mr. De Sapio , the Tammany leader , was in the saddle . When he brought about the nomination of Frank S. Hogan for United States Senator  --  later defeated by Kenneth B. Keating , the Republican ? it so disturbed some distinguished Democrats that a movement to erase the " image of bossism " was initiated . This rebellion persists , under the **25;1295;TOOLONG leadership , and its effectiveness will be tested today most significantly in the success or failure of William Fitts Ryan 's insurgent effort to retire Representative Ludwig Teller , of the Twentieth Manhattan Congressional District , from the House . Mr. Teller 's defeat would be regarded as Mr. De Sapio 's defeat . Other contests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the fortunes of not only Mr. De Sapio , but also other Democratic and Republican leaders , the Powell-Jack partnership ancl Mayor Wagner 's political influence . So the primary election , this primary more than ordinarily , has importance , and we wish it had more . We urge that you vote today , but even more we urge that the people of New York resolve to take the year-round interest in politics , within the party councils and in seeking public office , that will make the primary count for more in democracy .                     