@@724574

txt Secretary of Defense Robert S. , in an unusual exposition of nuclear war studies , estimated today that more than 120 million Americans would die in the-event of a Soviet " missile attack on the United States in the early nineteen-seventies . The population of the United States is 192 million . The Soviet population is about 220 million . If such a Soviet attack were limited to military targets , the toil would be 122 million lives , Mr. estimated . If it were to include urban centers , which he indicated he believed more likely , the death toll would be 149 million , he said . Mr. disclosed the estimates in his annual " military posture ' . statement to the House Armed Services Committee . A version of his statement that did not include secret material was made public as he appeared before the panel in a closed session today . By comparison , he repeated previous ' estimates that a United States retaliatory blow against the Soviet Union would // PFNAMARA FEARS 220 MILLION TOLL s ? ' Continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similarly high toll of more than 100 million dead and would destroy SO per cent Of that nation 's industrial capacity . Mr. used these estimates and related material to argue in behalf of a nationwide fallout shelter program but against proposals for producing new manned bombers and a new jet interceptor . Such aircraft , he said , would provide " insufficient extra protection per billion spent . " Drops ' No Cities ' Strategy The Defense Secretaryrindicated that , for purposes ? of military planning , lid hadeabandoned the " no cities " strategy he once suggested to the Soviet Union . In a speech June 16 , 1862 , at the University of Islichigins Mr. pointed outs . that both major nuclear powers could wreak devastation upon each other . But he enunciated the thesis that the United States was so strong as ' to make it prudent for the , Russians to limit any attack upon the United States to military targets only , lest a broader provocation result in destruction of Soviet society itself . ' In the report released today , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missile strike against United States military targets , it was " unlikely " the Russians would delay to any significant extent an assault upon urban centers . Mr. 's accounting of the premises of . nuclear weapons strategy was laid out in unemotional terms . He said that a deliberate nuclear strike against the United States " may seem highly unlikely " because of " our unmistakeable assured . destruction capability . " Nevertheless , the possibility of such an attack must " receive our urgent attention because of the enormous consequences it would have , " he went on . At the same time , cognizant of the possible impact that the Pentagon 's assessment of the nuclear danger would have on allies of the United States , he underscored two points . " First , in order to preclude any possibility of miscalculation by others , I want to reiterate that , although the United States would itself suffer severely in the event of a general nuclear war , we are fully committed to the- defense of ? our allies , " he declared . " Second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of concern only to the United States , " he went on . " Our offensive forces cover strategic enemy capabilities to inflict damage on our allies in Europe just as they cover enemy threats to the continental United States . " The phrase " damage limitation " was used by Mr. to identify the category of weapons in the United States arsenal that could be directed against enemy military targets after an initial strike was launched by an enemy . It has been standing American policy that the United States would Stever initiate an all-out nuclear assault , although it has reserved the right to use small nuclear weapons in lim= ited war situations . Opposes New Bomber Mr. 's assurances ' that the United States would not hesitate to respond to a nuclear assault against its allies , despite the possibility of severe danger to itself , was in tedded to cope with such arguments as those raised by President de Gaulle . of France . President de Gaulle has justified France's. nuclear weapons program on the ground that , in a West European crisis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hesitate to engage in nuclear hostilities with the Soviet Union . While rejecting proposals for developing a new manned bomber , the Defense Secretary said the defense budget called for research in this field . He said this was intended to provide " options " so that such warplanes could be produced at a later date if warranted by changes in the . strategic situation or technical breakthrough . Mr. , repeatedly comparing the effectiveness of missiles and manned bombers , insisted that strategic missiles provided " less costly " ways of destroying enemy military targets .. He said this was so , " even ignoring the fact that- enemy missile sites and bomber fields are far more likely to be ' empty by the time the bombers pass over than . when the missiles arrive . " " The large outlays for manned bomber - defenses made during the nineteen-fifties ' now contribute **25;486;TOOLONG to our damage-limiting capabilities , " Mr. said .                     