@@724043

txt WASHINGTON , June 14 ? With Senate passage now all but assured , backers of the civil rights bill are making plans to get past the last obstacles and speed the bill to President Johnson . The final vote in the Senate is now expected this week , probably Wednesday or Thursday . The 71-to-29 vote last Wednesday to close debate made passage almost an anticlimax . But the Senate has adopted numerous amendments to the bill , and it will therefore have to go back to the House for concurrence . There a large obstacle could appear in the per , son of Representative Howard W. Smith , the Virginia Democrat who heads the Rules Committee . Committee Approval Needed The approval of the Rules Committee will be needed to send the bill to conference or to have a House vote under ordinary procedure on . acceptance of the Senate version . Mr. Smith is not likely to be in any hurry to call the committee into session . The prospect now is for the House to accept the Senate bill and not to insist on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for criminal contempt cases arising under all but the voting title of the bill . House leaders will probably.accept this . The alternative would be to arrange a compromise and bring it before the Senate . Southerners could and probably would filbuster again , and dilution of the jury-trial provision would make closure more difficult - to obtain . Thus , the real question before the Administration and Congressional leaders is how to obtain a quick House vote on the bill as modified in the Senate . One idea is to bring it up under suspension of the rules . This is a special House procedure , bypassing the Rules Committee , which permits only the briefest debate but requires a two-thirds vote for passage . The suspension approach would be swift , but it also has dangers . Any unhappy feeling in the House about having the Senate amendments forced down without adequate debate might risk the chance of obtaining the necessary two-thirds margin . The alternative will presumably be to force a meeting of the Rules Committee , as a majority can do . This would take about two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action can be completed on . civil rights before Congress adjourns for the Republican National Convention , which starts July 13 . The bill will probably be ready for the President to sign by July 4 , and it could be sooner . The Senate will meet at 11 A.M. tomorrow to continue disposing of hundreds of backed up amendments under the tight closure-time limits . Goldwater Stand of Interest The one really interesting question remaining about the final Senate action is whether Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona will vote for the bill . The leading candidate for the Republican " Presidential nomination voted against closure , a move that hurt him in moderate Republican ranks . In anticipation of quick final action , Senator Hubert H. Humphrey suggested today that the President might want to call a national conference after passage on enforcement of the bill . The Minnesota Democrat has led the fight for it on ! the floor . The conference would , Mr. Humphrey said , " talk about the continuing problems that beset us , how we implement this law on the state and local and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action and community support . " The House will act tomorrow on the public works appropriations bill , the 11th of the 12 regular appropriations bills to go through the House . None has yet reached the Senate floor because of the civil rights debate . The President 's antipoverty program comes up for a vote in the Rules Committee on Tuesday . Later in the week the House will consider extension of Federal excise taxes and a bill to raise the debt limit .                     