@@723328

txt Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev has made a momentous speech which sounds like a breakthrough out of the thickets of mutual suspicion into the virgin lands of common endeavor for peace . The Premier 's unearthing of Soviet proposals of 1958 to set up control posts at airports , railway junctions , and major ports for the purpose of preventing the possibility of a surprise attack , and his suggestion to have Western inspection teams with the Soviet forces in East Germany and ( Eastern ) " representatives in the Western forces stationed in West Germany , " do not constitute a formal offer , but are an indication of the direction which Mr. Khrushchev would like East-West affairs to take . The speech undoubtedly was designed to improve the East-West atmosphere and to rally the peace forces inside the bloc . Logic Disputed There must be an end of the mood of crusade , the Premier said in essence . " The Communist Party of one country China does not have " the right to unleash an ultimately thermonuclear war against this or that capitalist country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberate the working class of the given country from capitalist oppression . " " Who , " . Mr. Khrushchev asked , " has given these ' the- oreticians ' the right to decide the destines of the peoples of other countries at their own discretion ? " " According to this lOgic , the imperialist countries also would have the ' right ' to unleash wars against the socialist nations with a view to restoring capitalist order in these countries . " The burden of the speech is an appeal to common sense and another indictment of his Chinese Communist critics . Hungarian Question Speaking it a Soviet-Hungarian friendship rally in the Kremlin , Mr. Khrushchev disclosed that the Chinese now have gone so far as to " place the responsibility " for the uprising in Hungary the soviets call it the counterrevolutionary rebellion on the fraternal parties rather than on the imperialists and on the enemies of the socialist system . " In plain language this means that the Chinese pin the blame for the events in Hungary on those Soviet leaders who sought to do away with Hungaritin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in East-West relations makes sense only against the background of the increasingly bitter Sino-Soviet debate . Once Izvestia , on July 16 , could go so far as to accuse the Chinese Communist leaders of " setting the disinherited and colored people of the world against . a replete and satiated Europe and of practicing " racism in reverse . " There can 15e no doubt where Mr. Khrushchev stands . Seeking a new departure , the Premier applied the old Communist adage : " Start big , drive hard , and learn from mistakes . " Premier Khrushchev , the tactician , could not have chosen a more favorable moment for his peace drive . At the current East-West talks it was decided that each proposal should be examined on ita own merits , independently . Thus there would be no ultimatums , no " take-it-or-leave-it " package programs . Shadow Cast Favorable also is the expectation that the Chinese Communists in the near future will make a nuclear test of their own . An East-West agreement prior to such a test would isolate Peking and lead to a loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of goodwill as a result of the discovery of high-placed former Nazi spies in the federal intelligence agency and of prominent ex-Nazis in other strategic positions also favors the Premier 's aims because it casts a shadow over Bonn 's almost certain opposition to the stationing of Eastern inspection teams with Western ( NATO ) forces in West Germany .                     