@@725447

txt The first of American golf 's great triad of tournaments ? the Masters ? tees off April 7 . Golf 's two other big meets ? the United States-Open and the PGA Championship ? switch venues each year . But the Masters is always played at the Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia . This year-after-year sameness in the Masters site has spawned a sameness in winners , too . Since 1959 either Arnold Palmer , Jack Nicklaus , or Gary Player has won it . Most experts do n't think it will be any different this year . The sweeping fairways of Augusta seem tailor-made for the long hitting games of golf 's three best players . But nothing is foregone in the Masters . Several players  --  Doug Sanders and Gay Brewer , for instance  --  could upset all predictions . Both have been winning big early this year on the pro circuit . Like ships about to collide at sea , baseball 's 1966 season and its travail in court will soon burst on the sports scene Simultaneously . The season 's first pitch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the approximate deadline for a decision in the case of Wisconsin vs. the Milwaukee Braves . Wisconsin wants the Braves or a reasonable facsimile returned to Milwaukee this season . But the Braves have moved to Atlanta . Baseball insists that adding another team this season is impossible . However , a Wisconsin circuit judge has told the National League to be ready to do so if he orders it . Orders or no , tight pennant races will grip both leagues this year . Minnesota is barely favored in the American League and Cincinnati in the National . But nobody is willing to risk his reputation as an expert on it . 0 The rough and tumble of this year 's pro basketball playoffs so far suggest that maybe they should be continued in a cement mixer . In the Eastern Division semifinals , Boston and Cincinnati elbowed each other through five rugged games . And St. Louis upset Baltimore in the Western semifinals chiefly with grab and hold tactics . With Boston now up against Philadelphia in the Eastern finals and St. Louis and Los Angeles mixing elbows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two division survivors will collide in a best-of-seven-game playoff for the championship . Finesse-minded Los Angeles should win in the West . But whoever wins in the East ( Philadelpia was favored , but Boston has just won the first game ) is most likely to wind up wearing basketball 's crown . Trends . ? ? The classless society is overtaking British golf . For as far back as anybody can remember , the British have hewed to an artisan system . Artisans are members who can play at golf clubs at cut-rate prices . Their eligibility is judged by their occupations . Now they are on the way out . Today 's sociological leveling is making such distinctions obsolete . One Kent club closed its artisan section on finding it included a headmaster , several police inspectors , and a storeownerall financially able to pay the higher annual subscription . Another club in Norfolk had 50 artisans in 1938 , but only six today . Artisan golfers hope not to lose out altogether . They hope if their social status is now irrelevant , their willingness to play at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anybody for 18 holes tomorrow at mid-night ? How and why . . . Basketball has bounded into high popularity in Italy . It now is second only to soccer in attendance . A few years back it was a little-known sport with only a handful of devotees . Part of this sudden boom harks to a handful of imported American stars . They have helped make better players of the Italians , besides drawing crowds themselves . Doug Moe of North Carolina is the top scorer of the Italian championship . Warren Isaac of Iona College is second highest . But the biggest hit of all has been Bill Bradley , the former Princeton All-American now a Rhodes scholar at Oxford . He flew over from Britain to play in the Italian championships this year . Last season Italian teams were allowed to sign foreigners for the first time . It sent turnstiles spinning , so they doubtless will be signed again .                     