@@723300

txt Washington The United States still is losing gold abroad , and some congressmen and bankers call it a " crisis . " Treasury officials , including Secretary of the Treasury C. Douglas Dillon and Undersecretary for Monetary Affairs Robert V. Roosa , think remedies already . adopted will cure the situation in time , if only the United States can quicken its economy . The United States has had an unfavorable balance of payments every year since 1950 with the single exception of 1957 , when the Suez crisis increased exports . Figures in mi-August are expected to sholv a much more serious situation than in the similar six months last year . Solid Trade Balance Messrs . Dillon and Roosa walked a tightrope in testifying before the congressional Joint Economic Committee on Monday . They wanted to show concern with the problem , but they did not want to say it was so bad that Congress should cut foreign aid . The fact is , the United States has a big favorable balance of world trade in merchandise exports : that is , it sells abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial surplus is more than offset by other adverse items . According to Mr. Dillon and Mr. Roosa some of the net losses in 1962 were : Millions Military expenditures abroad ( net ) 32,000 Foreign aid 1,000 Capital outflow ( investments ) 2.700 Tourist , expenditures .... 1,500 All told , the United States had an unfavorable balance of more than $2,000 million in 1962 , and there is no certainty it wo n't be as much this year . Drastic Action Urged Members of the Joint Economic Committee think the Treasury should take more drastic and dramatic action . So do some Republicans . Sen. Jacob K. Javits ( R ) of New York , and Rep. Thomas B. Curtis ( R ) of Missouri submitted a resolution declaring the payments problem " should receive the highest priority . " Allan Sproul , former head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , says it should have " top national priority . " Advocates of heroic measures thought they were winning over President Kennedy , judging by a speech he made at Frankfurt , Germany , on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations of the world must take control of our monetary problems if those problems are not to take control of us . " The President is expected to make a speech on monetary problems in the near future . Radical Steps Rejected But Mr. Dillon told the congressional committee that Mr. Kennedy 's utterances were misinterpreted . Mr. Dillon agreed that progress toward a balance of payments has been " disappointingly slow , " but he rejected radical solutions . He said , in effect , that the country should push the long-range remedies now being used , cut production costs , expand exports , manipulate interest rates , cut taxes , and only after achieving a favorable balance adopt new global pl ans . Seine observers think Messrs . Dillon and Roosa are being isolated in the administration as others demand stronger action . There is no general shortage of liquidity at the moment , Mr. Dillon declared emphatically . Most important immediate action for Congress , Mr. Dillon said , is to pass President Kennedy 's $10 billion tax-cut program . The United States payments deficit is typified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take gold in return for the dollars they are accumulating . The United States is today the world 's banker . Any faltering of the dollar would produce a " run " and would throw international trade into disarray . The United States is the only nation on earth committed to exchange its currency for gold at a fixed price ? $35 an ounce . Ironically . American citizens can not get gold , only foreign bankers and governments to settle debts .                     