@@727106

txt There is accruing evidence that Hungary is playing a role not unsympathetic to the Czechoslovak reformers in their ideological fight with the Soviet Union and other bloc countries . It is understood that Hungarian support for the Czechoslovaks surfaced at the recent five-party meeting in Moscow . This was the meeting ? a week . after Czechoslovak leaders journeyed to Moscow for talks with the Soviets  --  at which the Poles , the East Germans , . Hungarians , and Bulgarians met with the Russians . Little detail has emerged from either conference , except that both were prompted by mounting Soviet bloc concern over the Czech liberalization movement that has quickly escalated over the past few months . Important trend seen It is now , however , very credibly reported that : First , . the five-party gathering was requested by Walter Ulbricht , head of the East German Communist Party , one of the two parties which takes the chilliest , most hostile view of the Czech reforms . Second , that Janos Kadar of Hungary came out as a champion of the Czechoslovaks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to these reports , wanted sanctions considered as a means of pulling Prague back into line . Mr. Kadar Associated Press Janos Kadar of Hungary . . is reported to have defended the right of Czechoslovaks for self-determination . stoutly opposed sanctions . He not only had reservations about the meeting being held behind Prague 's back , but he objected to the creation of any kind of common front against another Communist state . If this is true  --  and the supporting evidence comes from good sources in Budapest and elsewhere  --  it is a turn of great importance in the present conflict of ideas between the Soviet Union and its orthodox supporters-On one side and the Czechoslovak reformers on the other . It also portends. still another difficulty for the Soviets : Their attempt to rally their major forces on any truly united platform at the world meeting of Communist parties later this year . Mr. Kadar 's stand is not inconsistent with // *Hungarian leader defends Prague ? // the situation in Hungary . The highest hopes of the would-be reformers in 1956 have not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime has on the whole developed as one of the more liberal and moderate in Eastern Europe . The standstill of the past two years might be ascribed to pressing economic problems as much as to greater party caution in the classic dilemma which faces all Communist parties once they have begun to liberalize : how far to go . Kadar issues warning Good information from Budapest suggests that in Moscow , Mr. Kadar strongly resisted pressure tending toward a common anti-Czechoslovak platform or any kind of intimidation of Prague . To some extent , this relieved the tension in the present situation between the Czechs and their allies . Mr. Kadar 's reactions must have had a sobering effect , at least on the Russians , with the hint of yet another ally who would be reluctant to participate in anything savoring of interference in another Communist country 's internal affairs . The Hungarian leader is said , in fact , to have gone so far as to warn his colleagues that in his own country , at least , there would be strong popular reactions to concrete moves to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyed enviously by the Hungarians . There is no doubt that Hungarian reaction would be as Mr. Kadar indicated . There is no doubt either that the Polish Communist Party  --  whose spokesmen are still taking a harsh line with commentators here whom they accuse of hostility toward Poland and socialism  --  would encounter similar resistance . A meeting between Czechoslovak party leader Alexander Dubcek and Mr. Kadar is scheduled for some time this month . This is an apparent sequel to the friendly stand taken by the latter . Mr. Kadar 's job , presumably , will be to report on the misgivings voiced in Moscow about the scope of the Czech reforms . Dubcek continues defense Mr. Dubcek 's aim will be to bring about , through this sympathetic intermediary , a less panic-stricken and more sensible approach by his bloc critics to his program . Above all he will also try to convince the bloc that he is a party leader capable of retaining control of events in his country . This last aspect has been commented upon by the Yugoslays too , though much more calmly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were also criticized last week by the editor of the Soviet magazine Komunist . He attacked liberalization ideas in both middle and southeastern Europe and , insisting on the leading role of the party at all points , roughly ruled out the concept of opposition parties in a Communist state . Mr. Dubcek and , incidentally , Marshal Tito agree . The Czech leader approves full freedom of debate and criticism and for opposing views . He also approves a full and active role for interest groups or the thus far nominal parties within the so-called National Front . But he firmly opposes the idea of an opposition per se , though the more radical reformers are already advocating it . Appearance of inaction But even the Yugoslays are expressing some concern over the present situation in Prague and apparently see some political parallels with the trend in Hungary in 1956 when the short-lived Nagy government was beset with pressures from both the ultra-progressive and the conservative wings . One Yugoslav commentator , for example , chides the Czech radicals for raising pre- mature and for the moment , unrealistic demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Dubcek leadership for failing to give clear-cut , resolute party answers to both sets of critics . Meanwhile , superficially , the non-Communist outsider , too , gets an impression of indecision and inaction . The skies  --  so sunny in March and April  --  are clouded . Politically , the exhilaration of the revolutionary spring has abated . The press is still questioning but not , as exuberant . That , in the present situation , might not be a bad thing . Mr. Dubcek may not be doing the wrong thing in refusing to get involved in an open , public hassle with his allies . Or in declining comment on reported Soviet troop movements which evaporated over the weekend .                     