@@723839

txt The Maryland General Assembly overrode tonight strong rural segregationist sentiment and its tradition of local option for counties and passed the first statewide Public Accommodations Law in a Southern state . The vote indicated a sharp shift in sentiment on civil rights . The majorities for passage were overwhelming in both houses . The result was a ' I victory for a belated drive by Gov . J. Millard Tawes to meet Negro demands and head off further demonstrations . Final passage of the bill , which forbids discrimination against Negroes in hotels , motels and restaurants that do not sell liquor , was a stunning victory for the Governor , an Eastern Shore Democrat who had never before taken so strong a position on a civil rights issue . Mr. Tawes said he was " highly pleased " with the result . He was ebullient and , pacing the anteroom of his office , he became so excited as well-wishers pressed in upon him that he struck a match Associated Press Gov. a . Millard Tawes and held it before his face to light a nonexistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great step forward in race relations . " The Governor has been the target of bitter criticism by both Negroes and whites for his " lack of leadership " in Maryland 's racial crisis . The Governor and a majority of legislators were anxious today about threats  --  implied rather than articulated by Negro leaders  --  that Maryland was headed for new interracial conflict this spring and summer , particularly on the tradition-bound Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay . There , last month , state police used K-9 dogs and fire hoses to disperse a demonstration by Nearo students in Princess Anne . " Now we can lift our faces out of the mud , " an exuberant aide of the Governor said tonight . Eastern Shore legislators , however , accused the administration of " appeasing " Negro leaders " at a time when we should be showing strength . " They predicted that attempts to enforce the law in their rural districts would have an " incendiary effect that will only fan the flames of contention . " Goes in Effect June 1 The statewide law passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ petitioning it to a referndum . Its effect would then be delayed until the November election . Segregationists failed in a pe-i drive last year , but another well-organized attempt to force a referendum is expected now . The outcome of such a vote , officials here acknowledged , would be " uncertain . " Some administration officials  --  a minority  --  also conceded that they were far from certain that all Negro groups would " rejoice in the passage of this bill . " Noting the exemption for restaurants serving liquor , one high administration spokesman predicted there would be " an awful rush for liquor licenses " by restaurateurs seeking to escape the law 's provisions . The law provides that complaints of violations must be investigated by the Maryland Commission on Interracial Problems and Relations , which then is directed to attempt private conciliation . The commission can recommend prosecution if mediation fails . The maximum penalty upon conviction is a $300 fine for each offense . Thg new law repeals and reenacts a similar measure passed last year . The difference was that last year , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " legislative courtesy " that allowed 11 of Maryland 's 23 county delegations to " amend themselves out " of a " statewide " measure . The tradition of local option is as strong in rural areas of this state as is the sentiment for segregation . So the action here tonight was a double victory for urban legislators whose sympathies are with the Negro equality movement . The Public Accommodations Law passed the House of Delegates by 83 to 50 , with only 9 of the 142 members not voting . In the Senate passage was 26 to 3 , with all 29 Senators voting . The significant power plays , however , had come earlier on attempts by the rural legislators to exempt their counties from coverage of the law . Two such amendments were defeated in the House by votes of 75 to 49 and 70 to 52 . Mr. Tawes watched attentively from the galleries and his aides moved about on the floor of both chambers as the votes were taken . The Governor 's support redeemed his pledge to Negro students from Princess Anne that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to help pass the bill . In a conference with the student leaders here last week , the Governor obtained from them a promise that they would withhold further demonstrations in the Somerset County town " to give the Legislature a chance to act . "                     