@@721198

txt WASHINGTON , Apr21 26 ? Dick Clark , disk jockey , was accused today of having paid others in his field to play records in which he had an interest . This new payola charge was made as the House Special Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight began long-delayed hearings on Mr. Clark and his many enterprises . Mr. Clark is expected to take the stand later in the week . The subcommittee counsel , Robert W. Lishman , made the charge while questioning another witness , Thomas Noonan ' of Billboard magazine , about Bilboard 's method of calculating record popularity . " Does Billboard take into account , " Mr. Lishman asked , " the fact that Clark and his companies have paid payola to numerous jockeys throughout the country to get his records exposed ? " Mr. Noonan said he knew nothing about it . Mr. Lishman did not elaborate , and he dropped the subject there . Until now the only public allegation against Mr. Clark was that he had promoted records in which he had an interest by playing them to excess on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " a daily feature on the American Broadcasting Company television network . Playing a tune on the pro // gram could increase its popularity sharply . Teen-agers , who have a strong influence on popular music taste , are said to idolize Mr. Clark . Mr. Noonan said today that Mr. Clark was the " single most influential person " in determining popular record sales . Mr. Clark is the owner or part-owner of several music publishing companies , a record pressing plant , three record manufacturing concerns and a record distributing company . He also manages several artists and has some record albums of his own . Today 's hearing focused on the question whether Mr. Clark had promoted records put out by these various enterprises . , Most of the discussion concerned ' an elaborate study designed to prove that he had not . The study was made by Cornputech , Inc. , a New York , concern devoted to what it termed " data processing . " Mr. Clark ordered and paid for the study . The price was not disclosed . Computech 's vice president , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , presented the study . He ran into a barrage of committee questions that left his theories somewhat tattered , though he remained calm . ' Statistical Bickering ' " We have no intention of getting into the rarefied atmosphere of statistical bickering , " Mr. Goldstein said at one point . Unhappily , he and the committee were in that atmosphere most of the day . Mr. Goldstein said his study had been designed to expose " the universe of Dick Clark . " To accomplish this it analyzed every record played on " American Bandstand " between Aug. 5 , 1957 , and last Nov. 30 . There were 1,885 records , played a total of 15,662 times . Of those 15,662 plays , Mr. Goldstein said , 4,230  --  or 27 per cent  --  were records in which Mr. Clark might possibly have had a financial interest . Each of the records used was played an average of fourteen times on the program , about twice as often as records in which Mr. Clark had no interest . Mr. Goldstein said these figures were not out of line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records . To prove this theory he produced a chart based on record popularity tables in the magazines Billboard and Cashbox . Using a mathematical technique that eluded most or all of his listeners , Mr. Goldstein ar-1 rived at an average " popularity score " of 23.9 for Clark-affiliated records . He said that was not far from their playing per-1 percentage of 27 on the Clark program , but it was not clear how the figures could be compared . Representative John E. Moss , Democrat of California , was highly critical of the Computech study . He said it had left out relevant statistics and had included the irrelevant . For example , he noted that the study had included the Clark theme song , which was played 1,322 times . Since Mr. Clark had no interest in this tune , representative Moss said , its inclusion tended to reduce the percentage of songs in which he did have an interest . " You were far more interested in getting the account than in getting the facts , " Mr. Moss said to Mr. Goldstein . Mr. Goldstein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this had been the first effort by his company at " data processing with semi-judicial implications . " The opening witness today was Paul Ackerman , musk ; editor of Billboard . He traced the historical development of payola , saying it was an outgrowth of the music business tradition of song plugging . One remedy , he suggested , might be the creation of a selfpolicing arm headed by a commissioner of national stature , similar to programs in the film industry and some professional sports .                     