@@727997

txt Concern in the nation about the perils of an accelerated nuclear missile race will not be terminated by yesterday 's razor-edge defeat of Senate efforts to delay deployment of the Safeguard antiballistic missile system ( ABM ) . The great missile debate of 1969 will go on . what President Nixon must now decide is whether it is sound to push ahead post-haste on policies of such fateful importance when the Senate is so evenly divided on the desirability of going ahead at all . With authority in his pocket to initiate Safeguard deployment , the President will have little to lose and much to gain by announcing a brief delay to await opening of the strategic arms limitation talks ( SALT ) with the Soviet Union . Such a gesture would heal the wounds of the recent struggle , replace national division with national unity and do far more to impress Moscow than news that the first steps had been taken to deploy a system that will not be operational , in any event , for six years . The Russians have deployed about seventy obsolete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready yet to install the later models they have been testing . Is the Soviet Union prepared to abandon further deployment if the United States abandons the 900-missile Safeguard system ? Or does it ? as the Nixon Administration argues  --  prefer an agreement tnat would permit both countries a " thin " ABM defense against China ? A delay of a few weeks in Safeguard deployment to obtain answers to these questions would be in the interest of America and the world . The SALT talks should also help clarify Moscow 's intentions on offensive missiles . The assumption that the Soviet Union intends , over the next six years , to double its force of SS-9 intercontinental ballistic missiles and equip them with MIRV multiple warheads ? thus multiplying sixfold the threat to the American Minuteman force  --  can be checked by proposing an immediate moratorium on MIRV testing and deployment . Without MIRV , the Soviet SS-9 force poses no early danger . There is little support in the Senate or the country for unilateral American disarmament . If Moscow is not prepared to freeze defensive and offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Administration will face little opposition to a balancing American effort , wasteful and dangerous as such action would be for both sides . But for the United States , already in the lead , to launch a missile build-up of its own before exploring the Soviet position not only prejudices the negotiations in advance but weakens American security by further dividing an already badly divided nation . There is no parallel with the situation in 1941 , when a single House vote extended the draft . Then , war was under way in Europe and threatening in the Pacific ; the draft was vital and urgent to permit expansion of the armed forces . No such urgency attaches to the present trend in the nuclear missile balance . A delay of a few weeks in initiating Safeguard deployment would be an act of statesmanship that would undoubtedly bring a favorable response in the Senate and might well stimulate a Soviet gesture of comparable importance .                     