@@728014

txt LONDONDERRY . Northern Ireland , Aug. 14 Sepciall  --  Two elements are involved in the background of the violence that is raging thru Northern Ireland . First , the history of Catholic . Protestant strife dates back to the early 1600s when the first English colonies were estab ? lished in Ulster . Second . there are nets gaged in what is called " the civil rights movement . " Outnumbered 2 to I Roman Catholics are outnumbered 2 to 1 in Northern Ireland . They say they are subject to discrimination in jobs , housing , and voting . Protests over jobs revolve around three charges . First , Catholics charge that private Protestant employers . who outnumber Catholic employers , favor Protestant job applicants . Second , Catholics say the government encourages new industry to move into Protestant areas , thereby providing new Protestant jobs . Third , it is contended that while the civil service divides proportionately . it favors Protestants in promotion . Companies say that they ignore religious affiliations of applicants for jobs . The depart . ' ment. of commerce denies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooted in the history of Ireland , first under English domination and later an Ireland divided between the predominantly Catholic south and the Protestant north . Unionists Are Dominant In 1916 , following an uprising against the British , Ireland ' became a republic . The civil , war which followed resulted in a division between the 26 counties of the south and the ! six of the north . The north is dominated by . the Unionist party , which is Protestant , related to British Conservatives , and devoted to Northern Ireland ' s ties to Britain . The Nationalists , who are Catholic . spring from the anti-British rebels who fought England a half century ago . The Protestant majority means that the Nationalists are outvoted o n major issues . North Ireland 's government , under new leadership , has moved to meet some of the Catholics ' complaints , , but the pace has not satisfied many of them . The situation has been aggravated by extremists . ' The civil rights movement has shunned all connection with evory religious and political organization . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has concentrated on issues which are the basis of roost political movements in western Europe . appeals to the employe against the employer and the poor ' against the rich . Change . Not Violence Civil rights leaders declare they will secure change without violence , but there has been evidence that " street rabble " and social extremists working for total revolution have joined the movement . The " rabble " consist mainly of teen-agers who get pleasure out of throwing stones at police and smashing windows . They are considered a nuisance but not a danger . The revolutionaries are seen as a real danger . Their tactics are traditional : join a popular movement which seeks to rectify justified grievances and turn its demonstrations into clashes in order to discredit police .                     