@@725960

txt President de Gaulle dedicated a tidal power plant on the Rance River near here today with ringing words of patriotic pride on the historic engineering achievement . The hydroelectric project , with its dam across the Rance Estuary , represents , the President said , " the first large-scale use of the ocean in its ebb and flow . " It also may be one of the last . Progress in nuclear energy has ruled out other tidal projects in France and most of the rest of the world . Today , however , the . accent was on the positive . A drizzle from the gray sky halted just before the President arrived hatless in an open car and was greeted by an undemonstrative Breton crowd of 5,000 . The President , who turned 76 Tuesday , patiently listened to a lecture about- the plant and strode tairough meat of the quarter-mile length of the power segment . Then in a strong , slow , clear voice , he saluted " a great victory , " " a ring added to the endless chain of French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sive accomplishments of the century . " Foreign experts do not contest this , although the economic value of the darn is still an open question . Since ancient times , men have used power from water I wheels turned by tidal flow , and for centuries engineers have doodled with more ambitious plans , In the 1930 's the United 1States and Canada planned a ' project at Passamaquoddy to harness the 60-foot tides of the Bay of Fundy , but abandoned the project . This year , new studies have been urged for the project . The dam across the Rance was completed , and it works . After five years of construction and an acknowledged investment of $85-million , which does not include heavy outlays for research , France has a new 240,000-kilowatt power plant and a new 2,400-foot bridge across the estuary . What made this possible was the development of the new type of turbine , the " groupe bulbe " , a spheroid-shaped device with a propeller . Inside the bulb is a generator that can operate on a water flow in either direction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generator acting as a motor . It can produce electricity economically from a water head as low as six feet , as compared with 18 feet for conventional turbines . Tides Average 30 Feet The tides of the Rance average more than 30 feet between high and low water at the dam site , with a maximum of nearly 40 feet . To harness it , French engineers built a pair of locks and a bypass , then installed two arcs of coffer dams to create a sort of drydock . Inside they built the power plant itself , consisting of 24 tubes for turbines each the size of a boxcar The New York Timex Nov. 27. 1966 Dam across the Rance River ( cross ) cost $85-million. with a tunnel above for working on them when necessary , and a bridge over all . Sixteen bulbs , each capable of producing 10,000 kilowatts , have already been installed and four were producing electricity today . Full operation is expected by next summer . Passamaquoddy would have produced power twice a day , once for each tide cycle . The Rance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the incoming and the outgoing tides , or four times a day . The need for power , however , does not follow the tides . The great problem in power management is the enormous swing ' in demand for electricity from hour to hour . To meet these peaks and declines is extremely costly , especially for steam plants . Since France and Britain are in different time zones and have different peak hours , they are able to exchange power profitably through a 150,000-kilowatt cable under the English Channel . Water power from mountain streams is a huge asset to the power systems because it normally can be stored in reservoirs , and even pumped uphill with surplus electricity from thermal plants , and released during peak hours . This would not be true of a. tidal dam if it . followed the rhythm of the tides . And so the engineers of the Rance project have combined the tidal rhythm with the reservoir idea . They will hold back water and also pump water into the reservoir , taking excess electricity from the French power grid when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Fishermen , boatmen and farmers have complained and have obtained decrees limiting the periods of peak level in the 12-mile-long reservoir . This will also limit its usefulness . Pierre Courcambeck , the chief engineer for the dam , conceded in an interview that the announced production figure of 544-million kilowatt hours a year was a theoretical maximum that could not be met . He also said it was impossible to compute the cost and value of the kilowatts that would be produced except in actual experience .                     