@@723977

txt WASHINGTON , May 1.8 . ? A secret draft report by the staff of the Senate Rules Committee recommends a stiff code of ethical conduct for Senators as well as their employes . The proposal is a result of the committee 's investigation into the financial affairs of Robert G. Baker , former secretary to the Senate Democratic majority . " No amount of sophistry can relieve the Senate of the public criticism now directed , against it , " the report asserts . " The disclosures made in this investigation justify , beyond any reasonable do-at , the necessity for protecting the good and faithful public servant against a minority who would take advantage of every , opportunity to engage in all manner of money-making and influencepeddling schemes . " It is with these views in mind that the committee feels compelled to recommend what some people may judge to be far-reaching and unprecedented legislation , rules and regulations , applicable to Senators themselves and to all officers and employes of the Senate . " These and other conclusions and recommendations represent , at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief counsel , Maj. Lennox P. . They have been submitted in secrecy to the nine members of the committee for study'and are scheduled to come up for amendment and adoption at a meeting of the committee on Wednesday . It is certain that those provisions dealing with rules of // Senate conduct , in particular , will be subject to harsh scrutiny . In respect to Mr. Baker , the report states that no evidence of violation of the conflict of interest statutes was found . However , it offers a catalogue of " gross improprieties " of which it says Mr. Baker was Minty . " To be sure , " . the report ' states , " it can not be truthfulli asserted that the Senate is responsible for all wrongdoings of Baker and certain other individuals . " But on the other hand , it i can not be denied that the Senate is responsible for putting Baker and others in places of responsibility without imposing upon them the enforcable standards of honesty and integrity the American people have a right to demand or their public servants . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governing Senators and employes of the Senate : Vompulsory disclosure of the identity of all financial interests . A prohibition " of all associations by Senators , officers and employes with persons and organizations outside the Senate who are engaged in conducting business with the Government , or who have business before Government officers or agents . " tiThe establishment as a matter of permanent policy a requirement that all Senators must respond to requests from any of its committees to give testimony within their knowledge concerning matters under investigation . Would Clarify Authority The report also recommends ? action making it clear that members of the staffs of individual Senators and Senate committees are employes of the Senate and answerable to Senate discipline . The report touches upon a number of procedural questions concerning which the committee , itself , has come under repreated criticism . One of these involves Walter Jenkins , a long-lime aide of President Johnson , whose sworn statement about advertising kickback was distoited by Don B. Reynolds , an insurance man . Mr. Reynolds told the cotnmittee under oath that he was persuaded by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Johnson family in return for having placed a $100,000 insurance policy on Mr. Johnson 's life . Mr. Jenkins gave the committee an affidavit saying he had no knowledge of any arrangement . Confrontation Refused The committee refused repeated demands by its-Republican minority that Mr. Jenkins and Mr. Reynolds be called to the stand to resolve this conflict . The report dismisses the importance of any fresh evidence Mr. Jenkins might have given the committee , saying : " It is of no consequence to the main object of the investigation whether Reynolds bought the advertising time at the request of Jenkins or Baker , or both . " ? The report credits Mr. Reynolds with having given the committee some worthwhile information , but also of having misled it  --  and the public ? in much else that he had to say off the stand . . The report says the commit : tee found " no more than a mere scintilla of evidence " to support the allegations that Mr. Baker had used " call girls or other immoral women " to help , promote his outside business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " well-laid plan and design " to Induce the committee to take ; testimony on this subject as a - means of promoting a kind of : blackmail and of obtaining im-munity in suits for libel that : Might have grown out of using ; . the testimony in various ways . Although the report does not elaborate on this alleged conspiracy , it relates to certain tape recordings made by a prostitute and- known to have been ? in circulation during the sevenmonths-long investigation . The report is silent on one point about which critics of the committee have been most ciferous ? Mr. Baker 's operaptions as a collector and distributor of campaign funds in bedeleted 18 lines It describes his rapidly prolifirating business empire , operated from his office in the counsel in Baker inquiry . Capitol Building , which grew to include part ownership ? in half . a dozen enterprises , extensive stock ownerships , and participation as  --  a borrower in almost a score of . bank loans , which at one point grossed more than $1 million . Most of his business affairs were wrapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report notes , saying : " A commonly recognized badge of wrongdoing is concealment . Baker and some of his business allies repeatedly concealed both their identities and their interests in specific business transactions . " Among the " gross improprieties " ascribed to Mr. Baker are : 4 " Baker used his public office in the Capitol as if it were a private business office , " liThe volume of his private operations " is completely inconsistent with his official duties and responsibilities . " %Ls knowledge and official position made it " highly improper " for him to engage in many of these business activities . " Certain of these activities in connection with corporations doing business with the Government justify the conclusion that " he had impaired , if indeert he had not sold , his freedom to act always in the interest of the government . "                     