@@724335

txt What can The American nation learn from this election ? What can the rest of the world conclude ? For Americans , one of the great lessons may be that to depart from the traditional , deeply rooted path of political moderation bears great dangers . The Johnson landslide , resulting from the Goldwater nomination , has grievously damaged two-party government in much of the nation . Only restraint on the part of the victors will preserve balanced power . But , as in 1936 , balance could soon be restored . For the world , the steadiness of Americans in pursuit of the goals they have followed for a quarter of a century is reaffirmed . A great wave of relief now arises from many nations . A A A The ardent minority which supported Senator Goldwater has most to ponder today . Many of them upheld him and voted for him for the best of reasons . Only a few  --  but they were very vocal  --  really partook of actual extremism . The rest were sincere , thoughtful , dedicated people who believed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wished to " win " over communism , who were distrustful of President Johnson 's political maneuverings . These people should not blame the eloquent outcome on press reporting , on manipulation , or on skulduggery of any kind . Their candidate lost because the overwhelming majority of Americans flatly rejected an extremist position , and were unpersuaded of the presidential qualifications of Senator Goldwater . A A A The test which the right-wing elements in American partisanship have long desired has taken place . Its results prove that most citizens of the republic are in the vast middle ground of political thought , where the Republican and Democratic parties have shared presidential office almost equally during this entire century . Many of the people who voted for President Johnson split their tickets and supported local Republicans . Never before has a Republican or Democratic nominee run so far behind the rest of his ticket as did the Arizona Senator . But the magnitude of the sweep removed temporarily from public life many useful Republicans , most of them moderates . The consequences will be felt in both houses of Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Franklin Roosevelt 's sweep in 1936 ? the most comparable election result in this century ? was soon followed by his effort to alter the membership of the Supreme Court . Congress refused to follow him . But the complexion of the court soon changed through its own internal processes . By 1938. the power of New Deal majorities was greatly curbed . In the years just ahead , President Johnson raay also find a Congress impressed by his tremendous sweep and responsive to his political prowess but nevertheless determined to be near the middle of the road . A * /-President Johnson has himself shown many signs of political moderation and restraint . He owes the magnitude of his victory ( alongside the limitations of his opponent ) to his appeal to the vast middle ground . He will lead the nation effectively as he continues to be the President of all the people . The United States is instinctively a two-party nation . Its . parties , indeed , always have been coalitions balanced from within . The first effort to " realign " them into monolithic conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Over all , Americans have spoken with unmistakable urgency . They want moderate government ; not left-wing or right-wing govern7.2ent but steady , balanced progress toward solution of pressing problems .                     