@@723008

txt down the Georgia county unit system , used to give rural voters extra weight in choosing Governors , Senators , and other statewide officers . Justice William 0 . Douglas , writing for the Court , said any =it system separating voters for one office into different classes was a denial of " the equal protection of the , laws " under the 14th Amendment . Justice Douglas said the constitutionality of a unit system was entirely different from the problem ? now being debated across the nation  --  whether a state may choose the members of its legislature in districts of different populations . Last March , in the great Tennessee case , the Supreme Court said these questions of equality in voting could be examined by the Federal courts . But the justices did not say then  --  and have not since ? exactly what limits the Constitution puts on legislative districts . Ten cases raising this question are now awaiting action in the Supreme Court . Ruling Is Limited Justice Douglas made a point of saying that he was not now considering the larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give comfort to those pressing for fairer apportionments . " The concept of political equality , " he said , " from the Declaration of Independence to Lincoln 's Gettysburg Address to the 15th , 17th and 19th Amendments can mean only one thing ? one person , one vote . " The 15th Amendment banned racial discrimination in voting . The 17th provided that Senators be elected " by the people . " The 19th gave the vote to women . Only one other state , Maryland , is known to have a unit system like Georgia 's , and the sweep of today 's opinion made clear that it would have to fall . Under the Georgia system each county is given a number of " units , " and the candidate who carries the county gets its " unit vote . " The unit system applies in the Democratic primary , which is equivalent to election . Rural counties are given many more units than their population would indicate . As a result , until recently , a vote in tiny Echols County , Ga. , was worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last year , when a lawsuit was filed shortly after the Tennessee decision , the Legislature quickly amended the unit system to give city and suburban areas more weight . Still , a third of Georgia 's voters had a majority of the units . A three-judge Federal District Court held the amended law unconstitutional . The Supreme Court agreed to review this decision , but did not block its effect on last year 's primary . As a result , a popular vote primary was held for the first time in this century . A moderate-minded urban resident , Gov . Carl Sanders , was elected . There was also an important effect on one race for the House of Representatives , where the Democratic party had used the unit system . Representative James C. Davis , an old-line segregationist , won the unit vote but lost the popular vote  --  and the race  --  to a young moderate , Charles L. Weltner . The lower court had not ruled out all unit systems . It said one only moderately discriminatory would be permissible , using as an analogy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against populous states . Analogy Rejected Justice Douglas rejected this analogy to the electoral college , which he said the framers of the Constitution - had created with no reference to state elections . His opinion flatly ruled out as inherently invidious any unit system . Justice John Marshall Harlan was the dissenter . He said he did not see how Georgia 's power to weigh the vote in apportioning legislative districts could be separated from the same device in the choice of a governor . In either case , Justice Harlan said , history dispels any idea that absolute equality should be the rule . He said " one person , one vote " ? quoting ' Justice Douglas ? " has never been the universally accepted political philosophy . " Thus Justice Harlan said the Supreme Court could not properly decide the Georgia case without exploring the whole question of constitutional standards for legislative districts . He said the record in this case was too meager for that task and so suggested sending the case back for full trial . System Abandoned According to reports from Georgia , the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unit system . No politicians have tried very hard to bring it back . This was reflected in a statement this afternoon by Attorney General Eugene Cook , who said his purpose in appealing the lower court decision was to get a decisive Supreme Court decision " so that hereafter there would be no confusion in elections . " " Now that the court has spoken , " Mr. Cook added , " that 's the law . " The decision was a big victory for Attorney General Robert . F. Kennedy , who argued it for the Government as a friend of the court . It was his first case in any court . Morris B. Abram , fortherly of Atlanta bUt now of New York , represented the complainants against the unit system . B. D. Murphy and E. Freeman Leverett , Deputy Assistant Attorneys General of Georgia , argued for the unit system .                     