@@721565

txt The leaders of Cuba 's Communist movement are confident that they have won the battle for Fidel Castro 's mind and are striving , under his protection , to convert the Cuban people to their ideology . After a bitter fight within their own ranks , the Communists have decided to consolidate their position of great influence here and to forego an open bid for total power . They are confident that Premier Castro 's nationalistic revolution is only a transitory stage on the way to Communist rule in Cuba and the rest of Latin America . This assessment of the Communists ' situation in Cuba and the following material represent the substance of interviews with many Cubans and foreign observers in Havana . The information was confirmed in almost every detail by Carlos Rafael Rodriguez , the Communists ' leading ideologist , in a long conversation . The disciplined Communist party , which counts itself a true member the international Communist movement , is content to stand behind the banner of Cuban nationalism and to lend its considerable organization and political talents to Premier Castro . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it conforms to their estimate of the progress of history . But they also fear that a premature bid for greater power would alienate the Cuban people , possibly arouse the wrath of the Fidelistas and almost certainly cause military intervention by the United States and possibly other Latin countries to destroy the Castro regime and its Communist adherents . All this was acknowledged by // Extent of Red Grip in Cuba Related by a Party Leader the Communists to this correspondent . They all but indicate the same in word and deed before the Cuban people . Like the Soviet Union 's Communists in a larger context , the Cubans believe that Washington must concede that Cuba is a " lost cause " because United States policy is doomed in Latin America if it does act with force against them , and doomed if it does not . In the short struggle with weakly organized non-Communits revolutionaries , the Cuban Communists have persuaded Premier Castro that anti-communiem was really anti-revolutionism , that they were not only loyal but also essential to the consolidation of the power that he won without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a combination of their efforts , the force of events and the Fidelista 's own development , the Cuban Government has come to be almost unalterably in conflict with the United States .. They are sure that Cuba is desperately dependent upon Soviet and Chinese economic and military assistance and Communist organizational power within Cuba . They view the Government as being more or less Marxist in its class conscious and socialistic approach to the Cuban economy , more or less totalitarian in format and desirous of concentrating all political , economic and military and social power in a relatively few hands . Quarrels Have Ended The party has had its differences with Dr. Castro but they occurred , in the words of one of its leaders , " before he understood . " It has no important quarrel with him now and he believes he has no important quarrel with the party . Fortified by official recognition as the only meaningful political party in Cuba today , the Communist organization is deliberately restricting its membership and working within the Government and every other important center of power alongside men whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a newspaper , subsidized by the Government , it is in virtual control of the labor movement , it influences or controls all official propaganda and it is being entrusted with increasing responsibility in the supervision of education at all levels . How many Government offi. ciais are subject to its discipline is a secret . That there are not more , the party says , is due to its self-imposed policy of restraint . How the party views its situation was detailed by Senor Rafael Rodriguez , a leader of the Popular Socialist party , as the Communists call themselves here . He is now the editor of Hoy , the party newspaper , and in that position he is the ideological guardian of much of the official Cuban propaganda . He joined the faculty of political sciences at Havana University this year and has emerged as an important figure in the Government 's current reorganization of the university structure , curricula and faculty . Groups Lectured Each week Senor Rafael Rodriguez delivers three to five ideological lectures to Government employes , student groups and other influential organizations and television @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party since its congress last summer , speaks for it without hesitation and will pay his first visit to the Soviet Union next month to study educational techniques that might be applied in Cuba . A. well-read man with a middle-class background and an intellectual bent , Senor Rafael Rodriguez has been a leader of Cuban Communists since his student days at Havana University . He is 44 years old . In the early years of the first regime of Fulgencio Batista , with whom the Communists then cooperated , Senor Rafael Rodriguez was a minister without portfolio with special responsibilities for education . Perhaps because of this prominent association with the dictator who was overthrown by Dr. Castro , but more likely because of his unproletarian background and manner , Senor Rafael Rodriguez has not held top organization jobs in the Communist party . But toward the end of 1958 it was he who went into the hills to join forces with Dr. Castro 's fighters and to pledge them the Communists ' support . Today he is one of the most influential advisers to the Government as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows , arranged by subject , are his views on the Cuban revolution and the Communists ' role therein as given to this reporter in the conversation this week . RELATIONS WITH CASTRO In the early days after Fidel Castro seized power here the Communist party had " many disagreements " with him about tactics and ideology . Gradually , however , it was able to convince the Premier that " anti-communism " was a threat to his revolution and power , Thereafter the ideological differences withered away until now there are " only little things between us . " Premier Castro does not like " a few of our ideas and we do not like a few of his ? nothing important . " The reported impression that diplomatic observers here that the Communists are close enough to Premier Castro " to shape his thoughts , to flatter his person and concept of independence and to manage much or the day-to-day affairs of his government " is " perfectly correct . " Observers are also accurate // in their doubts that the party can always " control or restrain " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " seems to nave come to understand " and to appreciate the value of a completely loyal , dedicated , disciplined and competent organization , such as the Communist party , that is prepared to aid his cause as long as he protects it as a vital element of his revolution . Thus the party , needs Dr. Castro and he needs the party and their relationship is cemented by this fact . Ideology requires organization to survive and there is no Castro organization in this sense . THE COMMUNIST TACTICS If the Communists had been fighting alone in the Sierra Maestra against Batista and waving a Red flag , there would have been no Cuban revolution . The party 's support of the essentially nationalistic Castro movement was at first a necessity and , to a considerable extent , its support of the Castro Government continues to be a matter of " life or death . " But virtually everyone in Cuba supported the revolution at first ; the Communists were virtually alone in that they had a proper appreciation of its true meaning and opportunity for their ideology . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any other country . There are some differences of approach , even within Latin America , depending upon local situations . Cubans by nature may be a bit more noisy , have different tastes in music , but the similarities in all Communists run deep and are always surprising to discover at international gatherings . Most recently - the Cuban Communists have had considerable trouble among themselves , however . The trouble was with " sectarians " in the movement ? " sectarians " being Leftist extremists who would rush the Communist advance in a reckless fashion . " Sectarians " is the epithet most recently hurled by Premier Khrushchev 's Soviet party at the Chinese Communists . The difficulties developed because Communists for decades had been taught that in situations of upheaval and strife they must be prepared to seize power . " There are many in Cuba now who want to make a bigger revolution than the Bolsheviks . " They clamor for more positions in the unions , in the Government , in other organizations , and for more control over the peasants . To preserve the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be restrained and the more moderate faction ' of the party has been successful in this . If geography were different , if Cuba were not directly in the United States sphere of influence or at least closer to the frontiers of the Communist nations , these tactics might be different . As it is , the party 's main job now is the promotion of its ideology in the government and among the Cuban people . It must also acquire respectability and overcome the essentially uninformed anti-Communist prejudice of many Cubans . The one unique development of Communist tactics in the Cuban situation is the party 's present " thorough cooperation " with Castro organizations and other revolutionary groups . In many situations it is not a question of the Communists " dictating " to other groups as in the early days of the Chinese and East German seizures of power , but a situation of genuine association in a common effort . The Cuban Communist party is being kept deliberately small in numbers . Now that it has influence and control a great number of Cubans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectiveness of the party . Because of its monopoly standing here , the party 's undue growth might also affront or anger some public figures . The exact size of the party is not public information . The party does not distribute information about the membership of specific persons . But it still uses the membership cards of a decade ago , when it had about 60,000 active members . The " Leninist " core of the party today probably numbers between 20,000 and 30.000 . REVOLUTION AND SUPPORT From the Communist point of view the Castro forces made some " serious mistakes " early in the revolution , by alienating potentially useful middle class elements , including small land owners , business men and technicians whose relationship to the former ruling class had been only " marginal . " Zealous young officials of the Castro movement interpreted revolution to mean the need to seize everything in sight , every tractor and every house and all the land that was available and the weak Castro organization was unable to discipline its members sufficiently . But Premier Castro has realized the harm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to frighten useful supporters into opposition . Strong popular support for the revolutionary government persists , although it does not rest upon a sound ideological base . The emotional , often screaming crowds upon which flamboyant speakers have been able to play , could all too easily be lost if they suffered the inevitable economic injuries that revolution and forced industrialization will bring . " It is no military secret , however , that the hostile policy of the imperialists toward Cuba has helped the revolution tremendously , " in maintaining a fever pitch of fear and anxiety among the people . This external challenge has enabled the revolution " to keep the women screaming . " The austerity that would have come in any case will now be presented as the fault of the " aggression " and boycotts and embargoes of the United States and it will therefore be far more easily acceptable . The Government and the Communists are agreed that non-Communists as well as Communists will hold . official positions , teach at the universities and have other forums of expression and influence . But the universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be dedicated " to the complete service of the revolution " and no one will be allowed to teach , advocate or organize anti-revolutionary or anti-Communist doctrines or groups . This policy has already alienated some good and valuable Cubans but it is a price that must be paid by the revolution . CUBA 'S FUTURE The country 's agriculture in , say , five years will be developed " tremendously , " if things go as the leaders wish . Surveys show that Cuban soils could feed 80,000,000 people . The country has a population of fewer than 7,000,000 . Unlike Indonesia or China , Cuba will have trouble not in feeding itself but in finding markets for her agricultural exports . The Communist bloc nations are sufficiently developed industrially to meet Cuba 's modest needs for machinery and " gadgets , " not necessarily in the style or quantity to which some Cubans had been accustomed , but well enough . Cuba itself in five years will have many new industries , including a steel mill , a refrigerator plant and other essential factories , if all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be very different . No one within Cuba " is going to drive Fidel from power . " The situation may have stabilized somewhat , " especially if external threats are removed . " There may be some kind of elections , but it is doubtful that the United States pressure will in fact be eased . RELATIONS WITH SOVIET Senor Rafael Rodriguez is an admirer of Premier Khrushchev , whom he has never met , but also of Stalin , because of the latter 's skill in organizing and industrializing his country at the proper pace . Cuba 's leaders and the Communist party here were " very surprised " and pleased by the strong statements of support from Moscow last summer , ineluding a qualified threat that the Soviet Union would use its rocket power against the United States to protect Cuba . These pledges from Moscow were not " emotional phrases " composed on the spur of the moment but a careful and deliberate decision of the top Soviet leadership . The statements have been clear and strong and if Cuba is invaded and the Soviet Union does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in Latin America but in Asia and Africa . " The Soviet Union " will have to do something " to defend Cuba in case of an attack . RELATIONS WITH U. S. Premier Krushchev may have spoken in the conviction that the United States would not act in Cuba as the Soviet Union felt compelled to act in Hungary , but the world must still ' be legitimately afraid that the United States will feel compelled to prove its standing by crushing the Cuban revolution regardless of the consequences for United States prestige in the rest of the world . It is to be hoped that the United States realizes that Cuba is a Most cause . " If the Cuban revolution survives , say , another two years , it will stand as an example before all Latin America that the " imperialists " can be defied . Invasion on the other hand might be an even bigger defeat for the United States in Latin America . From the United States point of view , probably the only intelligent approach is one similar to that advocated by Chester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy . This would be to deal with Cuba on the basis of " mutual respect " while marshaling ideas and - financial aid to postpone ? " you will never prevent " ? revolution in the other , nations of the Western Hemisphere . Senor Rafael Rodriguez said he was reading Mr. Kenndey 's book , " Profiles in Courage , " in order to gain an insight into his character . He said he has become " frightened " by the thought that Mr. Kennedy will want to prove his courage to history with military action against Cuba . Furthermore , the Democratic convention last summer seemed to indicate that reasonable forces like those repe resented by Adlai Stevenson and Mr. Bowles had been " defeated " within the party . In the end the United States is bound to lose its battle with the Soviet Union because its economy is unhealthy and because nationalist forces are pushing the world toward the Communists . But the problem of Cuba will probably be influenced , unfortunately , by the general international situation which is not likely to improve in the near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful example for the entire hemisphere . Revolutionaries ' throughout the continent can be expected to cooperate and to concentrate on the places where they are strongest . The reason why Cuba 's propaganda against the Trujillo regime in the Dominican Republic has virtually stopped while it is increasing against other governments is not because President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela is a greater enemy than Leonidas Trujillo Molina , but because " we have no one " in the Dominican Republic , while revolutionary and Come munist forces are strong in ' places like Nicaragua and because revolt is in the air in Venezuela . The New York limes Premier Fidel Castro . The Communists in Cuba look upon his regime as a phase on way to Communist rule .                     