@@727876

txt We heard very little about " black power " during our tour of American " ghettos . " We did hear a good deal about " colonies " and " colonial status . " This seems to be the new way of express . ing a condition which distresses American Negroes of all classes . The best way of explaining it is to tell a story . I will omit names and place lest I make a tense and difficult situation even worse . I visited a fine modern junior high school on a Monday morning . On the previous Friday night someone had set fire to the central communications room . The choice of the room and the residual smell indicated that someone entirely familiar with the building and its wiring system had deliberately set the fire . It had put out of commission electric lights , telephones , and bell systems . By strenuous efforts the school was back in operating order on Monday morning . Many of the parents in the all-Negro community had rallied and helped clear up the damage . Several of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order in a tense and difficult situation . Clearly , a lot of parents were ready to contribute of their time and effort to keep the school open and working . Principal praised The quick recovery of the school from a damaging fire was in large measure due to the energy and competence and devotion of the white principal of that school . Without any doubt , he is an able schoolmaster and a man dedicated to the cause of education . I would be delighted to have my children in a school run by him . And yet in truth the white principal is the cause of trouble about the school .. His predecessor , also white , had been forced out of the principal 's job two months before . The local board of education had sent in another white man to replace the first . Negro activists promptly vowed to drive out the new principal . They will not be satisfied until they do . The campaign to drive the white man out of the top job in the school is relentless and brutal . It employs all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use all the ugly words so dear to the new radicals of the Left . Unfair charges are made against the principal . A man of obviously high quality and qualifications is made to appear to be a racist monster . What does the man himself do under these circumstances ? What should the school board do ? Secret ballot , perhaps ? A secret ballot of parents of children in the school might well show a majority in favor of the principal . Who knows ? He himself says he has no intention of quitting under fire of this kind which obviously comes from the radical Left . One can well understand a school board feeling that it must stand up to unfair pressure and must also take its stand for highest qualifications . Yet here is precisely the issue which arose in each former British colony as the Union Jack came down and government was handed over to the natives . Time and time again a highly qualified British civil servant doing an excellent job in some branch of public service was replaced by a native of lower qualifications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self-respect of the native community went up . To modern blacks it seems intolerable that the positions of honor , respect , distinction * Pleas turn to Page 7 //  --  and good pay  --  in an all-Negro community should continue to be held by white men . So far as I could determine during our tour under the auspices of the Urban Coalition the blacks do not object to having white teachers in their schools . In fact they seem to welcome them . But to have a white at , the top in the post of command is a condition which they call " colonialism . " They simply will not stand for it any longer . Pride affronted In the particular case I have described I am sure that the school will be spared any further trouble from the moment a black man is put into the principal 's chair . He may be less competent than the present white principal . But the school will be able to run free of fear of more burnings . I am sure the school board Makes a mistake in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more competent than black . It is also relevant that in that particular school the repair work was being done by white men . We noticed the same in many other places . In Atlanta a pathetic excuse for a neighborhood recreation center in a dreadful slum was getting a new screen door . The work was being done by two white carpenters . In a nearby school white men were repairing electric wiring . Another white man was rearranging the playground facilities . All of this was in all  --  black communities . The reason lies in the exclusiveness of the trade unions . The skilled craft unions seldom open their ranks to blacks . And their influence at City Hall gives them exclusive access to jobs paid out of public funds . They have a monopoly . Effect assessed But the effect of that monopoly is the spectacle in an all  --  black community of white men doing the skilled work , at full union wages . Blacks perfectly capable of doing the work , and probably willing to do it for lower wages , are deprived not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black communities will not long tol- erate this monopoly by whites of honorable p'ositions and skilled wink . The existing'condition an invitation to riet . It-is as doomed to extinction . ' as was white rule of African colonies . Times have changed . ' The black communities are demanding that blacks take over the commanding posftions in their midst . Inevitably they will . The only question is whether the whites will move out gracefully , or cling to their existing privileged position . This matter of pride is obviously of enormous importance in the proceis the black communities are going through now . They are reaching for self-respect . They will sooner or later destroy those practices and habits which hold over from the days when the black man was expected to do only the cheapest and menial labor . Projects visited ' Self-help is a small part of the story of changes in the ghetto . But it is very small . On our tour we visited many a local community project . Some are interesting . Many are commendable in their goals and aspirations . All probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profitmaking success . And the number of people affected is sadly small . To move and talk and live in the ghettos is to learn one thing above all else . Jobs have to be found or provided . All else is of marginal value . Other programs have - their uses . They help a small.group herb or there to move ahead . But when there is work housing ceases to be a prOblem . Economic status leads to social status . Relations with the police improve as the economic ladder is climbed . Race friction is worst at the bottom of the ladder . Inferiority and lack of self-respect and resentment are all worst at the bottom . I am satisfied that when the Negro or black , as he seems to prefer to be called , is let in to the affluent society , the problems which seem so difficult now will disappear .                     