@@723860

txt A. small town , rural Post Office post office can evoke in the memories akin to the comfort of an Country attic on a rainy day in childhood . It radiates a warmth that brings a feeling of security . The country post office is different from its highly impersonal city counterpart where clerks ( one seldom gets to see the postmaster ) have no time for pleasantries . " Ten fives , please , " you say to the man at the window , and leave quickly . But in one town that Haven is far removed from Plug the expanding smogvilles , the postmaster Stamps and his cozy store-office are a haven and a place of brief , delightful business . The red-brick post office in Amagansett , an Indiannamed town at the end of Long Island 's South Shore a little more than 100 miles out of Manhattan , radiates spring warmth . For 23 of its nearly 85 years , this clearing house of stamped joys and sorrows has been run by Louis C. Nielsen , a first-generation Dane , whose philosophy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpful answer . Now , in the seasonal lull , he sorts 700-odd envelopes and packages a day into a few hundred of the " nest " of 632 brass-door boxes that cover the east and part of the north walls of the post office . It is next door to the library on Main Street . In summer he and two assistants are steadily on the go , handling about 2,500 letters every day , many of them vaguely addressed to vacation . ing visitors . About three years Telephone ago , modernity forced Brings a its way into the quiet Touch of the post office . New Yesteryear had been emphasized in the solid , hard maplewood flooring and the two sloped writing counters  --  where no one eikr steals the ballpoints . Then a telephone was installed . When word got around , many of the vacation people would call up to ask if the PM would be good enough to see if there was any mail addressed to so-and-so , care of General Delivery . He could honestly have said he was too busy , i and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " But I do n't , " he says . Youngsters love to visit the post office in a small town . They peek through the little windows of their families ' rented mail boxes ( quarterly rents range from 70 cents for the small box and 90 cents for the larger ones , to $1.25 for the so-called drawer ) , and , if there are any letters , to twirl the dial and have the door pop open . But they must have a note from a parent , or else have been ' " cleared " earlier , before the postmaster can permit this privilege . Many adults forget the combinations after a winter away ; most children can recall them as quickly as their home addresses in the city . What produces Patience and patience that would Country rattle many a barLiving tied clerk behind the window in a big-city post office ? Perhaps it takes most of a lifetime in an unrushed atmosphere . Mr. Nielsen , like many of his colleagues in rural post offices throughout the nation , was born in the town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small town . The quiet is broken now and then when the town siren goes off ( he recently received his 30-year pin in the volunteer fire brigade ) , or an evening by the hearth may be cut short because of a meeting of the school board , on which he has served for fifteen years . But his larger world is the post office , where a reserved intimacy and a bit of humor can be exchanged on pleasant common ground . In the barber shops of towns , a certain amount of commercialism has to creep in between customer and cutter ; usually barbers do n't like to have youngsters around . And what barber shop calendar ever held the appeal to the imagination of the RBI flyers on the post office bulletin board , describing the " most wanted " criminals who could , possibly , be stopping off in the quiet town ? All this , for the price of a 5-cent stamp .                     