@@722583

txt Gary fighters for civic decency got a lot of ammunition yesterday-9,400 coconuts . The coconuts ? 2I/2 tons of them - were donated to the Glen-Park Citizens association by an anonymous Chicago produce wholesaler . The donor was inspired by the association 's mailing Thursday of Gary 's entire retail supply of coconuts to President Kennedy . Each one  --  addressed to the White House  --  carried a plea for the President to order a federal crackdown on corruption and graft in Gary and Lake county government , The citizens complained that they were unable to buy more coconuts to mall to the President . " Friendly Natives : Help ! " The idea of the coconut barrage was conceived by William Mackowiak , a member of the association 's executive board , who recalled that when Kennedy was a PT boat captain in the Pacific , he and his crew were stranded on a small island , after their boat was sunk . The Kennedy crew tossed a coconut into the ocean carrying the message : " Friendly natives . Help ! " That is precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by fourth class mail to Washington Thursday . For them , the association paid from 19 to 25 cents apiece , and an additional 33 to 40 cents for postage . Each carried a return address . Calls Condition Serious Dale Baxter , 4136 Tyler st. , Gary , president of the association , said that the nut bombardment is deadly serious . " There 're a lot of scared people here . The politicians are dormant , they 'll do nothing to clean up the graft , vice , and corruption . We 've tried everything to get relief locally , " Baxter said . A number of high Lake county and Gary government officials are currently under indictment for charges ranging from failure to do their duties thru income tax evasion . " Half the people in government here are under indictment now . But it 's done no good . They just laugh , " Baxter said . A Promise : 5 a Day Baxter and other association members borrowed three trucks yesterday to transport the nuts from a Chicago warehouse to the parking lot of a restaurant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association members had crayons and other marking devices , which they provided to citizens who wanted to send coconuts to the White House . " We promise the President five coconuts a day  --  for eternity if necessary  --  until he sends a group of federal investigators here and cleans up the mess , " Baxter said . Baxter said daily salvos would be taken to the main Gary postoffice . " Perhaps a hundred will go out this weekend . We may keep it up at that rate or not . But five a day he 'll get . "                     