@@724735

txt London It is being said of Harold Wilson as he enters his second six months in power that he is behaving more like an American president than a British Prime Minister . Sometimes this is a Tory criticism . But certainly Mr. Wilson has been the undisputed government leader and innovator ? launching new ministries , traveling extensively abroad , planning unprecedented " brains trust " dinners at No. 10 Downing Street . By contrast the last Labor Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee was the quiet chairman of the board in his Cabinet , with giants all around him . Controls tight Likening Harold Wilson 's role to that of President Johnson 's would be an overstatement . The United States Constitution lodges mammoth and exclusive powers in its chief executive . But Mr. Wilson has played a very large " executive " role in his government . He has kept his ministers under tight control and has left no illusions as to who is minding the store . The first six months of Mr. Wilson 's tenure have produced several strong decisions : He early decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishes of his backbenchers . In fact he decided almost at once to reinforce the somewhat-lapsed " special relationship " between the United States and Britain . French tics rebuilt For a government which needed strong American backing in its battle to defend the pound sterling , and which was as much committed in Malaysia as the United States was in Vietnam , this was a shrewd decision . Mr. Wilson also moved  --  successfully  --  to postpone if not scuttle the multilateral force proposal . He began to rebuild cordial relations with France 's President de Gaulle . He talked bravely if not with complete clarity of the need for Britain to tunnel under the Common Market by special technical cooperation with France and other European countries . Meanwhile , on the domestic side , he was strengthening the Cabinet secretariat and the Treasury . He brought in , among others , two Hungarian-born economists , Thomas Balogh and Nicholas Kalder , as advisers . He laid plans , not wholly implemented yet , for holding " working dinner parties " at No. 10 Downing with leaders of export industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bankers . New ministries " The Prime Minister intends to make No. 10 a powerhouse and not a monastic retreat , " one member of Parliament comments . Mr. Wilson has set up five new ministries : on Economic Affairs , Technology , Land and Natural Resources , Overseas Development , and Disarmament . He commissioned George Brown as Minister of Economic Affairs to make an income-restraint policy work which failed to work under the Tories . Mr. Brown has obtained " declarations of intent " to hold down wages and prices from both management and labor . But a number of wage increases have come along , willy-nilly , as well as price boosts . Mr. Brown 's battle is still in the skirmish stage . Energies channeled Mr. Wilson sought to channel the energies of Frank Cousins , fiery leftwing trade union leader , by making him Minister of Technology ? a move akin to Attlee 's appointment of Aneurin Bevan as Minister of Housing . The toughest problem with which the Prime Minister has had to do battle , of course , has been the weakness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Wilson pledged anew that sterling will not be devalued . If failure of the exports drive or global dissatisfaction with Britain 's belt-tightening should force devaluation , Mr. Wilson would undoubtedly have to resign . Opinion polls indicated recently that the public was sufficiently impressed with Labor 's record in office so that if a general election were held tomorrow , Labor might boost its parliamentary majority of three up to 100 . Budget impacts Conservatives admit that Mr. Wilson has been combative and effective in the House of Commons . He has made no " great " speeches , but the Tories are wary of taking on the Prime Minister at question time . What the critics mainly ask is : " Has the Prime Minister taken on those extra inches of stature which make the difference between a pugnacious politician and a persuasive prime minister ? " Mr. Wilson is excellent at public relations . He has introduced drive and zest into Whitehall . He is handled with care if not received with affection . The next six months will tell more about the stature history will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              