@@723274

txt Letters to The Times FREDERIC C. SMEDLEY.HENRY RATLIFF-PASTOR.VACLOVAS SIDZIKAUSKAS , ARNOLD WITTE , J ... Letters to The Times President 's Two Speeches Failure in Berlin to Continue ' Strategy of Peace ' Regretted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Prof. L. A. D. Dellin 's letter published July 8 properly points out the dichotomy between the President 's American University speech and his Berlin speech a few days later . Instead of applauding the first and deploring the latter , Professor Dellin is disturbed at any idea of re-examining Our attitude toward the Soviet Union . If we never revise that attitude , no matter what happens , how can we take advantage of such changing circumstances as now make it to Russia 's advantage to arrange a workable detente with the West that will also be to the West 's advantage ? I refer , of course , to China 's attempt to make Russia remain as inflexible toward the West as Mr. Dellin seems to feel we should remain against Russia . When Stalin died we had a similar opportunity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , instead of being blinded by concepts such as the professor 's letter expresses , most cold war problems between the West and Russia might well have long since been settled by . now , and Malenkov ? would probably be top man in Moscow , pursuing his program of liquidating the cold war . I agree with The Times and Dr. Homer A. Jack that the President 's speech at American University was far wiser and more constructive than his speech at Berlin . If he follows up the former by an attempt to establish a neutral belt in Central Europe that includes a democratically elected East German government under the leadership of the Mayor of Berlin from which all troops and arms have been removed save reasonable local police and coast guard forces , he will get much further , much faster , toward eliminating the wall in Berlin than he will by talking about the reunification of Germany , a prospect which frightens most Central Europeans . Rigid Dogmas If the Communists want to hamstring themselves with rigid dogmas , that is their lookout . Their dogma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development up to the Russian level . Russia wants to continue to back out of that box . That is what the talks in Moscow are about . Despite this glaring example of the dangers of an inflexible position , Mr. Dellin thinks that re-examining our Russian policy now would be " digging for nonexistent virtues in the Communist system . " On the contrary , in a swiftly changing world we should be constantly re-examining our positions , so that in times like the present when new circumstances make it imperative for Russia to make concessions to the West to extricate herself from a precarious position vis-a-vis China , we will have the wit and the will to push her in the direction of establishing a sane world order in which humanity can survive . That is what the President was driving at in his speech at American University . Instead of being puzzled by that speech Professor Dellin should be puzzled , as I am , by the President 's failure to pursue that theme further in Berlin , where it would have been understood and applauded on both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he made there . FREDERIC C. SMEDLEY . New York , July 8 , 1963. lation of Western and international pledges to the contrary . Few serious people believe that the Soviet leaders are afraid of Western aggression or that they need assurances on the subject . Even e , sBurning that assurances were desired , they are already contained in the U.N . Charter . A nonaggression pact would merely add new  --  unnecessary  --  Western pledges and new  --  worthless  --  Soviet pledges . Against this more than meager value one must weigh the extreme damage to the morale of the captive peoples and to the moral , political and . strategic position of the West which the nonaggression pact would entail . Special security arrangements should crown and not precede a peace settlement based on self-determination . VACLOVAS SIDZIKAUSKAS , Acting Chairman , Assembly of Captive European Nations . New York , July 1 , 1963 . Mayor 's Budgetary Power It Is Criticized as Reducing the Stature of City 's Legislatures To THE EDITOR OF THIS NEW YORK TIMES : The support announced in The Times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Charter for an amendment eliminating the Board of Estimate from budgetary procedures shows a continued lack of understanding of the major vice of those procedures . The principal innovation of the charter in fiscal matters was to give to the office of the Mayor the right of appropriation of funds and to the legislative body ( whether bicameral or unicameral ) the veto power . This is accomplishld by giving the Mayor the right to put back into the budget anything the local legislature may have taken out ? and the Mayor 's action stands unless the Council and Board of Estimate , by two-thirds action of each , again removes the item . The reduction of the stature of the city 's legislature in the budgetary process is the basic error that must be corrected . It was this , plus other unusual financial powers lodged in the office of Mayor , which caused the Commerce and Industry Association to warn those who would listen in 1961 that the new charter has the potential of making the office of Mayor that of the city 's fiscal dictator , Incidentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new charter proponents to the Mayor 's action of the other day in which he barred most city department and agency heads from exercising charter-given control over their departmental budgets . This was accomplished through another charter prerogative of the Mayor to withdraw such power from the commissioners . ARNOLD WITTE , General Manager , Commerce and Industry Association of New York . New York , July 5 , 1963 . Breezy Point Park Too Costly To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read in your issue of July 9 a letter from Mrs. Marshall Field , chairman of a committee for a park at Breezy Point . I am one of the poor people with $18,000 of my life 's savings invested in an all-year home at Breezy Point . However , I , too , am for parks . I think parks in large cities are needed . But the financial structure of a city must also be considered . A park at Breezy Point would be very costly . The burden of additional taxes to be imposed on all the people to finance it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I must put food on the table besides paying my share of taxes . More taxes , less food . J. GLENNON FLYNN . Rockaway Point , L. I. , July 9 , 1963 . Not Free to Travel To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Freedom to Wander " in the June 30 issue is a gem as far as it goes ? which is not far enough , It is true and to be deplored that " Soviet citizens enjoy Freedom to Yearn but not Freedom to Wander . " But in our democracy where , as you state , " the Supreme Court has held that Freedom to Travel can not be curbed ' without due process of law , ' " travel to Cuba , China , North Vietnam , North Korea , Albania is prohibited . For the pot to call the kettle black in this instance seems even more hypocritical when we realize that present Soviet policies , inadequate as they are , at least represent some liberalization of past policies , while here at home our policy has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously held . LEO BERNSTEIN . Brooklyn , July 3 , 1963 . Demonstrating for Rights Nonviolent Action Considered an Aspect of Democratic Process To THE EDITOR OF THE NM YORK TIMER : Although Arthur Krock in his June 25 column expresses doubts about mass action in Washington while Congress is deliberating on civil rights bills , he nevertheless explicitly states : " But history offers no support to those who see in the project a defiance of the Constitution or of American tradition . That will arise only in the event of violence initiated by the demonstrators . Negroes and their supporters are keenly aware of the fact that the absence of massive demonstrations in the past when civil rights legislation was under consideration did not result in the passage of satisfactory laws . Exactly the contrary . Political maneuvering and the ultimate resort to filibuster have systematically thwarted Negroes in achieving the redress of even elementary grievances . It has been said by foes of integration that Negroes were for the most part satisfied with the status quo . The present crisis is the result of such misrepresentation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War II , I called for a march on Washington to insist on the removal of gross discrimination in industries producing war materiel , the mere preparation for the march resulted in President Roosevelt 's historic proclamation of Executive Order 8802 . Later , a similarly projected nonviolent protest led President Truman to issue Executive Order 9981 outlawing discrimination in the armed forces . Help for Cause In view of such evidence It is useless now to try to persuade supporters of civil rights legislation that it will help their cause if they refrain from mass demonstrations in Washington or from any other peaceful measure to bring their grievances and demands before the country and before members of Congress . The President himself declared , when he submitted his legislative proposals to Congress , that it was the nonviolent direct action movement which had brought the nation to the point , where the reforms he advocated had to be - enacted and Congress was obligated to remain in session until that job had been accomplished . Can it then be argued that for Negroes and their supporters to continue such activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again be drawn that the country and Congtess could relax . We too want Congress to deliberate and Congressmen to art in obedience to conscience and not intimidation . But to accept filibuster from a minority of avowedly segregationist Senators and their allies as somehow legal , orderly and legitimate , and nonviolent demonstration against this obstructionism as inappropriate and un-American , could do fatal injury to this nation in the present state of world affairs . We contend that our legislators can truly deliberate only if they are made aware , by every nonviolent means , of the dangers of delay and the profoundly moral character of the issue before them . Pollee , Troopers Blamed The only question , as Arthur Krock suggests , is violence , but what has occurred in recent months has been almost exclusively violence on the part of police and state troops against men , women , children and the aged who were nonviolently demonstrating for freedom and equality through freedom marches , sit-ins , prayer vigils . It is with violence from these quarters that the Administration , members of Congress , liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order should be concerned . The Negro organizations working for integration and their supporters are deeply committed to nonviolence , While prepared , in responsible fashion to consider tactical problems as they arise we certainly do not classify freedom marches , sit-ins , and prayer vigils as violent or undemocratic . On the contrary , they are nonviolent and the freedom to resort to them when great issues are at stake is an essential aspect of the democratic process and of American tradition . A. PHILIP RANDOLPH , President , Negro American Labor Council . New York , July 1 , 1963 . Fluoridation Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ; Since knowledge concerning the benefits and hazards of fluoridation is not definitive ( note the differences of opinion in the medical profession ) , why does your newspaper urge this measure upon the public ? MILTON M. GOLDMAN . New York , July 9 , 1963 . Feeding Future Populations To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With modern agricultural implements and science , universal teaching of birth control , elementary hygiene and literacy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food , mankind can be properly fed . To this objective we Americans should commit ourselves . HENRY RATLIFF-PASTOR . Purdys , N. Y. , July 8 , 1963 . Aggression Pact Questioned To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorial " Is This Trip Necessary ? " contains a very timely caution against the acceptance of " peaceful coexistence " on Soviet terms in Europe by overstepping the " fine line between a pledge not to use force to change the status quo and recognition of that status quo as a permanent peace settlement . " It is in this light that one must view the now eagerly touted nonaggression pact between NATO and the so-called Warsaw Pact powers that would entail the recognition against which you have warned .                     