@@727655

txt PARIS  --  The dispute between France , Britain and West Germany on the eve of Nixon 's European tour is exceptionally dangerous because it touches the central nerve of General de Gaulle 's body politic . De Gaulle is obviously convinced London and Bonn have handed the keys of their independence to Washington , whose " hegemony " he rejects as unacceptable to Paris . This Is what lies behind the latest confusing fuss . If Britain and West Germany continue trying to intrude the United Kingdom into the Common Market through the back door of Western European Union ( W.E.U. ) , they will in fact produce only one thing : the threat of Franca-Soviet alliance . This is less unimaginable than it sounds . French ' Independence ' De Gaulle is obsessed with defending what he sees as France 's " independence . " Although he hopes Nixon 's visit will achieve a new rapprochement between Paris and Washington , he will not yield one tittle of French prestige or sovereign rights as he defines them . He does n't fear the danger of Communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by French nationalism . Moreover , on the social front he hopes to undercut the left by sharing industrial productivity between workers and management . He used to call this association but now calls it participation : the same program under two different names . Because of his conviction that French nationalism is vital he disapproves of too close an involvement with - America or countries he regards as American stooges . He feels Britain sold its independence to Washington in exchange for " special advantages " and that Germany , bisected and blessed with a singularly short history as a nation state , is far readier than France to accept U.S. domination . Yet he evidently feels that while he can handle West Germany alone in the Common Market , the addition of Britain would be too much in any but the loosest association . De Gaulle sought to encourage close ties with Bonn by a special friendship treaty , but it is indicated he feels this is no longer working well and has lost importance . Likewise , W. E. U. is regarded as rather meaningless by the general and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Market . Apparently he now envisions the possibility of a Britain with which France has quarreled and a West Germany which France increasingly mistrusts drawing together at France 's expense . The French currency crisis last autumn confirmed his fear that Bonn was getting too cocky . Although Paris has gone along with the idea of electing the next Federal German President in West Berlin ? thereby risking a needless crisis with Moscow ? it did so with maximum reluctance . The general feels West Germany . is exaggerating on the Berlin election business just as . Britain is exaggerating on Western European Union . " Exaggeration " is a bad word in his lexicon . De Gaulle thought Israel exaggerated in June , 1967 . And , regarding current signposts  --  France 's withdrawal from NATO and virtual withdrawal from SEATO ; its readiness to minimize both W.E.U . and the Franco-German treaty ? one should n't forget what might theoretically lie at the end of that road . Franco-Soviet Ties Although it has no desire to do so yet , France is now legally entitled to denounce the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany is a danger to what he considers France 's rightful place , he may conceivably wish to consider alliance ties with Russia . Improvement of FrancoSoviet relations through commercial , economic and cultural exchanges are n't intended to lead to that conclusion ; but they obviously are no barrier . The general recalls how much France and Russia suffered during World War II . The minute he feels Germany is becoming a big power , militarily , economically , politically or ? above anatomically , he apparently feels the only logical recourse would be another pact with Moscow . Wartime Allies De Gaulle recognizes that America is regarded as an . old friend by the French . Also , however , Russia , under Czar and commissar , has been an old ally . Against this background Franco-Russian accord is seen as a natural counterweight if German dynamic potential gets away from French control . In December 1944 de Gaulle told Stalin ( according to the official Moscow account ) : " French policy compels Frenchmen , to desire first of all a mutual assistance pact With the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed this and vitiated the first wartime pact . However , what the general might again today define as German resurgence could revive ' all this . If others forget , de Gaulle himself remembers that he reminded Stalin : " We have the same interest with respect to Germany . "                     