@@727746

txt The opposition to the Administration 's antimissile defense took a new tack today by seeking to demonstrate that the United States had so strong an " overkill " capacity that it need not fear the build-up in Soviet missile strength . The debate on the antimissile system turned into an unusual battle of charts before the Senate Foreign Relations Disarmament Subcommittee . Deputy Defense Secretary David Packard , who was kept waiting in the wings last week by the subcommittee , was finally given an opportunity to present the Pentagon 's carefully drawn charts . They showed that the Soviet Union was reaching parity with the United States in land-based and submarine-based missiles . Commitment From Packard From this development , Mr. Packard once again drew the Administration 's conclusion that the Soviet Union was seeking to achieve a " first strike " capability and that the United States , therefore , must protect its Minuteman missile force with the Safeguard ' system . The subcommittee also obtained a commitment from Mr. Packard that the Administration would not proceed with the Safeguard system , using leftover funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorization bills will not come before Congress until , late spring , this gives the opposition about two months to build an intensive " educational " case against the Safeguard system . There was a new feeling of optimism among the opposition Senators that by this spring they could round up enough // support to block the Safeguard system . Mr. Packard had not sooner finished his " chart talk " than Senator Albert Gore , Democrat of Tennessee , the subcommittee chairman , asked him " to lend me your wand " and unveiled charts that he and his staff had sat up until midnight preparing . The Gore charts were . designed to demonstrate that , in terms of deliverable nuclear warheads , the United States would retain so strong an " overkill " capacity that it need not fear the Soviet Union would acquire a " first strike " capability . " First strike " capability is the ability to launch so devastating an attack on an adversary 's missile and bomber forces that the adversary can not retaliate . " Overkill " is the capacity to launch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective . In his first solo appearance before a Congressional committee , Mr. Packard , a former West Coast electronics manufacturer , may have stubbed his toe to the potential embarrassment of the Administration in the atimissile debate . Talk Called ' Casual ' Pressed by Senator J. W. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas as to whether non-Pentagon scientists had been consulted in the Administration 's review of the antimissile system , Mr. Packard finally mentioned Wolfgang Panofsky of Stanford University . A leading authority on radar , Dr. Panofsky helped develop the Klystron tube , a key component in the highpowered radar that will be used in the Safeguard system . Dr. Panofsky , who entered the hearing room as the session was closing , told reporters that he had had only a " casual " conversation with Mr. Packard : Furthermore , he said , " I have some very serious engineering criticism of the Safeguard system . " Dr. Panofsky was so agitated over the Packard statement that he asked permission to testify to " straighten out the record . " Senator Gore then announced that the scientist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Criticism Is Reported With Dr. Panofsky the subcommittee may have gained a foothold in the inner councils of the Administration and may be able to demonstrate that there was dissension among President Nixon 's science advisers over proceeding with the Safeguard system . Dr. Panofsky reportedly served . on the panel of the President 's Science Advisory Committee that reviewed the proposed Safeguard system . Th ? New York Times March 27 , 1969 Senator Albert Gore relied on chart adapted above to show U.S. lead in warheads , saying 400 of them would inflict ' unacceptable ' damage . Congressional sources say that the panel submitted a critical report questioning the engineering design and feasibility of the $6.6-billion system . Senator Gore said that , on the basis of Defense Department figures and projections , the United States now has " a larger overkill capability " than the Soviet Union and will have it into the next decade . As of today , he : , the United States has ' 2,400 strategic warheads and the Soviet Union about 1,100 . By 1975 , when both sides have developed multiple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have about 8,000 and the Soviet Union 5,000 . To destroy 50 large cities , he postulated , would require about 250 warheads pointing his " wand " toward the graph showing the growth in warheads over the next six years , he said : " This is all overkill . And . yet we want to build another weapons system . This is madness . If we keep on going this way , we will blow the whole world up . " Senator Gore 's argument was that , with such an American " overkill " capability , the Soviet Union could not hope to acquire a " first strike " capability . Senator Gore 's argument was never directly answered by Mr. Packard , who reinterated his argument that the United States was only trying to protect its retaliatory capability . Opponents of the Safeguard system also began developing another argument ? that the best way to protect the Minuteman force and deter the Russians would be to make clear that the Minuteman missiles would be fired before attacking Soviet wareheads could reach their targets . Mr. Packard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive the United States toward " a form of doomsday machine . " Before ordering re taliation , he said , the President " might want to check the facts rather than shoot from the hip . "                     