@@727253

txt Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower warmly endorsed Richard M. Nixon today for the Republican Presidential nomination . The 77-year-old general lauded Mr. Nixon 's " experience , " " decisiveness , " and " intelligence " and described him as a man fully equipped to deal with the " exceptional " problems facing the nation . General Eisenhower 's views were expressed in a statement read to a small group of newsmen in his suite at Walter Reed Hospital , where he is recuperating from his fifth heart attack . Observers agreed that the statement was one of the warmest public tributes made by General Eisenhower about the man who served him for eight years as Vice President . It broke General Eisenhower 's practice of avoiding endorsements before the nominating convention . Obviously elated , Mr. Nixon told newsmen that he deeply appreciated the endorsement and said that it would give his preconvention drive a " great lift . " The former Vice President , who brought his campaign to the capital today , said he did not think the endorsement had assured him of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very good impact with a number of delegates who may have been waiting to see which way to go . " General Eisenhower made no promises to campaign for Mr. Nixon . He said there were other candidates whom he admired and respected , and he pledged to support " whoever is nominated . " But he expressed his preference for the former Vice President in unmistakable terms . The statement , which he composed himself , read as follows : " For some weeks I 've been waiting to make a statement about the current situation , but illness has prevented me from saying anything before now . " This year is an exceptional one . The issues are so great and the situation so confusing that I thought I would like to break my personal precedent and , prior to the Presidential nomination , express my own preference for the nominee . " I endorse Richard M. Nixon for the Republican Presidential nomination . " I do this not only for my appreciation for his great services to the country during the years of my Administration , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He 's a man of great reading , a man of great intelligence , and a man of great decisiveness . He 's had great experience over the years and he 's still quite a young man . " I believe his nomination and election in this year 's election would serve the best interests of the United States . " In making this judgment , in no means do I want to be intensifying any differences within my own party . I express my own preference among a number of men , all of whom I admire and respect and count among my personal friends . " Finally , I want to say that I , like every other Republican , feel that whoever is nominated , we will get behind the Republican nominee and work to the limit of our ability . " I think when that 's done we will win . " No Surprise To Nixon The endorsement took some observers , but not its beneficiary , by surprise . Mr. Nixon slipped into Washington last Monday for a private , 45-minute visit with the ailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon that he had been persuaded after careful consideration that Mr. Nixon could win the election against any Democratic opponent and that further neutrality on his part could only damage Mr. Nixon 's chances for the nomination . The brief news conference at which General Eisenhower issued his statement was restricted to a half-dozen newsmen , including representatives of The Associated Press and United Press International . According to an Associated Press dispatch , the general told the group that he hoped the statement would lay to rest persistent speculation that he had never particularly admired the man who served him as Vice President between 1952 and 1960 . " Many people have mistakenly thought that I never liked or supported or really believed in Nixon , " the dispatch quoted the general as saying . " This is a mere misapprehension . I just want the country to know that I have admired and respected this man and liked the man ever since I met him in 1952 . " Interfamily Influence Serious and intense throughout most of the interview , General Eisonhower flashed a broad grin when a newsman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's daughter , Julie , who are engaged to be married , had influenced his decision . " I think , " he said with a twinkle in his eye , " they tried to . " General Eisenhower endorsed Mr. Nixon for the Presidency in 1960 , but Mr. Nixon was haunted throughout the campaign by a remark General Eisenhower made at a news conference in August of that year . In an effort to praise his Vice President , General Eisenhower pointed out that Mr. Nixon had joined in all the important discussion in his Administration . But when a reporter asked for a Nixon idea that General Eisenhower had adopted , the President replied : " If you give me a week I might think of one . I do n't remember . " General Eisenhower has since said that he has always regretted his answer , explaining that the question had taken him iv surprise . The theory that General Eisenhower regarded Mr. Nixon with something less than total confidence received fresh support when , at a news conference last year , the general listed several Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eisenhower whispered something in his ear ? at which point her husband quickly added Mr. Nixon 's name to the List .                     