@@725122

txt Commonwealth Edison company was standing by last night , ready to furnish surplus power from its 7,351,000 kilowatt capacity in the Chicago area to help alleviate the power blackout in the east . In the event of necessity , the power would not flow directly to the stricken eastern areas . It would go into the transmission lines of the Indiana and Michigan Electric company at New Carlisle , Ind. , to replace power that system would be furnishing to distributing systems farther east . Part of ** Pool Murray Joslin , a vice president of Commonwealth Edison , explained that Chicago 's generating capacity is linked to other systems in what is known as the mid-America interpool network , which embraces six member systems covering a 17-state area from Virginia to Montana . In situations such as the New York power blackout , power systems in areas contiguous to the affected area transmit power on demand of other companies that can not fill their immediate needs . Tells Meaning of " Grid " As demand increases on these nearby utilities , they in turn ask other neighboring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is borrowed from them . In this way , the demand for extra power would move westward , step by step . Joslin explained that the term " grid " merely means an interlacing network of lines . Under normalconditions , this transfer or " borrowing " of power is effected automatically when the generating capacity of one system falls below the demand on the system . In yesterday 's power failure , he conjectured that a series ol power failures , triggered by some undetermined cause , cascaded " like a row of dominoes . " While the failure in the east did not exceed the capacity ol the various grids to fill in the reserve power , it made it impossible to deliver the excess generating capacity available in the middle west and elsewhere . Says Power Is Available Altho the power is available until the eastern systems " get themselves off the ground , " he explained , there is little that can be done to feed surplus power into their transmission lines . The mid - America interpool includes such smaller power pools as the American Electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wisconsin planning group , the Indiana power pool , and Edison . The Federal Power commission recently conducted a survey looking toward a system which would link the nation 's 3,600 public and private power systems into a national network . It is estimated that such a national network , however , could not be put into operation until 1980.                     