@@725376

txt The Lindsay administration has asked the state for a sixmonth delay on construction of a parkway through Staten Island 's green belt area , to permit study of five alternate routes . The city also has threatened to rescind permission to start the road  --  permission that was granted two days before Robert F. Wagner ended his tenure as Mayor . But state officials believe Mayor Lindsay lacks legal power to make such a reversal . The green belt area consists of a chain of parks , camps , a country club and low-density residential area . Officials say it contains the only major untouched natural domain in the city . The parkway dispute , part of a much larger power struggle between Mayor Lindsay and Robert Moses , will reach its first decision point this morning in the Albany offices of the . state 's Department of Public Works . Mr. Moses is the coordinator of city roads that are built with state and Federal funds . The state must decide by 10:30 A.M. whether to open bids for construction of . another section of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy . If the decision is no , it will be tantamount to acceptance of Mayor Lindsay 's request for a six-month delay , a department spokesman . said . If it is yes , it may mean Governor Rockefeller 's administration is prepared to challenge City Hall and push ahead with construction through the green belt . Only Friday , Mr. Rockefeller wrote Mr. Lindsay a detailed letter warning that delays could jeopardize Federal as well as state financial support of the project . The five alternate routes would either cut through small ' er stretches of woodland or completely avoid such areas . The city 's position is that the currently planned route should be followed only if all the alternates prove unfeasible . Mr. Moses first conceived  --  the ' Richmond roadway 25 years ago ' and has insisted that the plan not be changed . City Hall sources said the Lindsay request for a six-month delay was made Tuesday in a phone call from Transportation Administrator Arthur E. Palmer Jr . to the offite of J. Burch , head of the city 's Public Works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by his deputy , E. Burton Hughes . The call was followed up with a detailed letter to Mr. and an engineering report on the alternate routes . The delay request brought an immediate outcry from Staten Island 's Borough President , Robert R. Connor , who wired Governor Rockefeller . He said in part : " A delay of six months probably means the end of the arterial highway system for Staten Island . The fact that Staten Island has suddenly become the playground for all types of planners should not be allowed to interfere - with the orderly , well-designed , longthought-out arterial planning . " State Senator John J. March ' of Staten Island and other legislators from the borough also were reported urging the Governor to resist any delay . Parks Commissioner Thomas P. F. Hoving , meanwhile , raised his voice against the idea of ripping through the green belt . He threatened , as a last resort , to try to block the project legally by having the proposed right of way mapped by the city as a park . In a luncheon speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " buncombe billingsgate and sheer blather " repeated contentions by : r . Moses that rerouting would cost millions , delay the roadway five or six years and involve relocation of large numbers ox people from their homes . The highway , called the mond . Parkway , would run in any ' case from the Outerbridge Crossing , which connects with New Jersey , in the south to the east-west Staten Island Expressway in the north . ? As currently mapped it would run 9.3 miles . The heart of the dispute is the long-standing plan to have the northern five . miles cut through the greenbelt . A. collateral issue is the City Planning Commission 's recommendation , vehemently opposed by Mr. Moses , that it be changed from a parkway for passenger cars only to an expressway open to commercial traffic . Bids for construction of the green belt segment were opened by the state late in January despite a request from Mr. Lindsay to hold up matters . By law the low bid must be accepted or rejected within 45 days . That period expires March 12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Section 2 , a two-mile segment just south of the greenbelt segment . Mr. Rockefeller told Mr. Lindsay in his Feb. 25 letter that the bids would have to be returned unopened if uncertainty over the green belt segment persisted . The Governor may have a flat answer this morning to the request for a six-month delay . If not , the answer may be implicit in the decision whether or not to open the Section 2 bids . City officials have suggested to the state that it start building Section 2 ahead of Section 1 , but revise the plan to provide expressway standards . The advantage would be that construction could get started without awaiting the outcome of any six-month study .                     