@@724718

txt Washington However tentative , the leaven of the peacemaking process has at least started to work in Southeast Asia . The first round of opening offers is complete . The fact that they stand rejected is less important than the fact that they were made . It has always been understood in Washington , no doubt in Hanoi , and surely in Moscow and Peking , that the widely differing positions of the two sides would take time to shake down . Hanoi began from strength and the United States from rapidly spreading weakness . The tables could not be turned overnight . Nevertheless , and even with the details lacking , the United States has achieved one major objective in the first exchange of talk , as well as from the first direct exchange of weapons : It has removed the conflict in Vietnam from the unsatisfactory level of civil war and concealed war of aggression carried out by guerrilla means . It has lifted the conflict onto the level of the great powers , the only place where it can be resolved . Four Hanoi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Premier Pham Van Dong to the National Assembly on Monday , that the acceptance of his four points would make possible " the reconvening of an international conference along the pattern of the 1954 Geneva conference on Vietnam : " That conference produced , not a local settlement , but a settlement dictated by the big powers led by the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain , and Communist China . Premier Dong 's points were : " 1 . Recognition of the basic national rights of the Vietnam people : peace , independence , sovereignty , unity , and territorial integrity .. . . " ? . This will have to be interpreted . It could be noncontroversial or it could contain hooks . " 2 . Pending peaceful reunification of Vietnam , while Vietnam is still temporarily divided into two zones , the military provijsions of the 1954 Geneva agreements on Vietnam must be strictly respected ; the two zones must refrain from joining any military alliance with foreign countries , there must be no foreign military bases , troops , and military personnel in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both sides . But how soon ? And how policed ? " 3 . The internal affairs of South Vietnam must be settled by the South Vietnamese people themselves , in accordance with the program of the South Vietnam National Front for liberation ( Viet Cong ) , without any foreign interference . " This is obviously unacceptable . It means victory for the Viet Cong . 4 . " The peaceful reunification of Vietnam is to be settled by the Vietnamese people in both zones , without any foreign interference . " Truce outlook At first glance this looks also like a guarantee of Viet Cong success , but it might be worked around into an equitable procedure . In any event , reunification is obviously far in the future . No one in Washington expects that a big power settlement , when negotiations finally reach the point where a conference could be convened , would be " satisfactory " to anyone . Such cold-war settlements have never been and probably can not be as long as the cold-war conflict continues . What has traditionally been achieved is an uneasy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot conflict , with which the great powers can live for a while , until the next crisis comes . If this much can be achieved , South Vietnam will remain independent and the aggression will have been stopped . That is the main object of the international exercise now in process . And for the United States it would be enough . It remains to be seen how long it will take and whether the American position in Asia is strong enough politically as well as militarily to pull it off .                     