@@726790

txt A ministerial conference of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ended today with France suffering tactical defeats on two fronts . She was unable to block efforts to strengthen the alliance on either the military or political side . Her partners in the European Economic Community lined up in defense of British entry against her objections . American officials said the response of the other members of the alliance to French withdrawal from the integrated military command was a demonstration of determination to go forward without her . ? It has been showed , the officials said , that one nation of 50 million people can not determine the affairs of several hundred million people in matters of defense . France is one of the 15 allies in the political councils of the alliance . She has withdrawn from the military councils in which the 14 took in // portant decisions on a new NATO strategy of flexible response and on force levels for the next five years . Foreign , ministers of the five countries that support Britain in the Common Market , here to attend the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions that in effect will put France on the ' spot at a crucial Common Market meeting next Monday and Tuesday . The five ? ministers from Germany , Italy , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg ? agreed that there should be negotiations with Britain and that a decision by the community was required on this point by next Tuesday . They said this must be a unanimous decision , but that if it is not ? in other words , if the French veto negotiations ? then the British should nevertheless keep their membership application on the table . What would happen then was not specified , but Willy Brandt , the West German Foreign Minister , told reporters that . a veto would cause " great damage to the , community " because there would be ' ' a period of stagnation . " President de Gaulle said at a news conference two weeks ago that he would not permit negotiations to go forward . But at earlier news conferences he maintained that there was no question of a French veto . The five are now saying forcefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of a French veto . The British reaction to this initiative by the five was that they were " not discouraged " over the course of events . It has been their hope all along to show that it is President deGaulle alone who is keeping them . out of the market . British officials said there was no question of withdrawing their application and that they were now in a far better position to press their bid . There was a good deal of corridor discussion at the NATO meeting over events in Greece , but the matter came up only briefly in the formal council sessions . Mr. Brandt , supported by Foreign Minister Hans R. Tabor of Denmark , proposed that the final communique express the concern of the allies over the failure of the return of constitutional government to Greece . The prevailing view , however , was that King Constantine 's failure to overthrow the military junta was an internal matter not within the purview of NATO . American officials took up the problem of the balance of payments losses the United States suffers because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem studied by , the permanent representatives in Brussels . In a speech prepared by Secretary of Defense Robert S. and read at the meeting by Under Secretary of Defense Paul Nitze , the United States criticized the prevailing attitude in Europe that the loss of foreign exchange caused by American military expenditure was not a European problem . Mr. alluded to the European desire to have the United States maintain its tares ence in Europe and the European refusal to see the problem of deficits as " an anomaly ' in thinking that can not persist . " 1 The United States argues that ' troop deployment should not lead to balance of payments windfalls for the Europeans . It has stressed , however , that the overriding concern was not the balance of payments but the security of the Western world . Thus , the United States has indicated that there is no threat in any of this to withdraw its forces . The 15 allies , including France , agreed to publication of their agreement strengthenInc the political side of the alliance . The four-page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to achieve a just and lasting peaceful order in Europe accompanied by appropriate security guarantees . " Noting that " no final and stable settlement in Europe is possible without a solution of the German question , " the document states that any such settlement " must end tha unnatural barriers between Eastern and Western Europe . "                     