@@721767

txt Washington , April 4 ? President ' Kennedy returned to Washington from a Florida vacation late today and prepared . to devote most of the remainder of this week to a series of cold War strategy talks with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan of Britain . Macmillan arrived in Washington about two hours after the President and Mrs. Kennedy and their two children landed in a jet plane at Andrews air force base on the outskirts of the capital . The Kennedys flew from Palm Beach , where the chief executive had spent an Easter holiday of six days golfing , swim ? ming and relaxing in his father 's ocean-front mansion . Fly from Jamaica The British prime minister ? and his wife ? flew here from Jamaica , also landing at the Andrews base . They had been on a tour of the West Indies . Macmillan said upon his arrival that he and President Kennedy were prepared to take up " the great issues of the day . ' The prime  --  minister said he was sure the forth . coming White House talks would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain and their allies are united , the future can be faced with confidence . Shortly after his arrival in Washington , President Kennedy met with his top advisers on the Laotian crisis . After the unannounced session , the President said " we are hopeful " the Russian 's will agree to a cease-fire . That , he said , " is what we are most anxious to have . " Open Talks Today Tomorrow , the President and Macmillan get together for the first of four talks in the White House on international issues and problems , concentrating on the critical Laos situation . They are scheduled to meet tomorrow morning , again tomorrow afternoon , Thursday afternoon and , finally , Saturday morning . Secretary of State Dean Rusk ' and Lord Alexander Home , Britain 's foreign secretary , met earlier today in the state department to prepare for the Kennedy-Macmillan conferences . Home arrived in Washington from London last night . Work on Reply The state ? department said it would have nothing to report on the discussions between Rusk and Home because their talk was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President and the prime minister . A ' department spokes. man said the White House will issue a statement Saturday at the conclusion of the Kennedy-Macmillan talks . It was learned today , however , that Rusk and Home set to work immediately to draft a United ' States-Britain reply to Russia 's note of last Saturday on Laos . A state department source said Rusk and Home expect to have a preliminary draft of the reply ready for President Kennedy and Macmillan when they meet tomorrow morn : ing . Expect Early Reply It is believed likely that the reply will be sent to Russia before the President and the prime minister end their talks , inasmuch as the United States and Britain are substantially in agreement - on the form the reply will take . Britain last month sent a note to Russia urging the soviet union to join in an appeal to government forces and communist rebels to stop their civil war in Laos . Britain , backed by the United States , laid down a cease fire as the key condition to a 14 nation conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Replying last Saturday , Russia said it was " positively disposed " to call for a ceasefire in Laos , but proposed that the first order of business be an ' international conference in Cambodia this month . President Kennedy held an emergency meeting on Laos with Macmillan March 26 in Key West , Fla. , the prime minister flying to the naval base there from Trinidad . The next day , the President met in the White House with Andrei A. Gromyko , Russia 's foreign minister . The President and his wife and their children flew to the White House in a helicopter from the Maryland air force base after their two hour flight from Florida . Macmillan and his wife also boarded a helicopter after their plane landed at Andrews air force base early this ' evening .                     