@@726440

txt An earlier dispatch from Washington reported the contradiction confronting the United States in the South Vietnam election campaign . The United States wants stability , which it thinks the military ticket could best furnish , and social revolution , which would more likely come from a civilian regime . This dispatch records official attitudes thereon . Now that South Vietnam is coming out of its cocoon , politically , and moving toward its first presidential election in the middle of a war , the United States is holding its official breath . These will be two months filled with unpredictable dangers and promise , from the American point of view , leading up to the Sept. 3 voting . But they are what both countries wanted . Come what may , the turbulence and ferment that accompany the process of a country coming alive politically , on its own , are welcome here . This is the more detached view of those who think further ahead in the American Government . They candidly favor , for the most part , the military ticket which now is running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for president . They do n't say this in so many words , because the United States is remaining technically impartial . But there is no doubt here or in Saigon where official American sympathy presently lies . Nor is there great concern to conceal it . Nevertheless , at the top levels of government there is a willingness to accept a civilian candidate if one should win . The United States would live with the outcome , as long as there . was no irrevocable , hostile break between the civilian regime and the armed forces which are essential , whatever their shortcomings , to the war . Suspicions observed It is important from the Washington standpoint to have this recorded because of the deep-lying suspicions that surround the election - campaign . For many months some of the civilian political leaders in Saigon , including moderates , have been saying that the military junta would rig the elections if // * U.S. ready to accept Viet choice // it could n't win them , and that the United States would support it in so doing . That is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the world , and so it is widely accepted outside Vietnam as well as inside . This does not accord with the situation here . There are , in fact , many American officials at different levels of the govern . ment who expect the military ticket to win and want it to . This is the prevailing attitude . But it does not extend to the extreme of playing an imperialist role . It is recognized here that whatever the assumed advantages of a Thieu victory for the United States , it is also possible that popular dislike for the military will boil up in the campaign , or even if it is subdued in the public debate , emerge in the private voting . Many officials here know more about the depth and spread of opposition to military rule in South Vietnam than they will acknowledge . Will the election , then , be rigged ? The United States 's answer is that it should not , and must not  --  and must not even appear to be  --  rigged . Said one official , " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair one . " Said another , " There will be lots of people observing in lots of places , and a widespread tampering with the result simply could not be concealed . " Says a third , " Elections , even in South Vietnam in wartime , are something fundamental that we really believe in . It would n't make sense for us to give them our strong support and then connive at undercutting them . We would have done much better not to support them in the first place , if military rule was all ' we wanted . " Still another official said , " If they elect a civilian candidate , it will be they who did it  --  and that is good whether outsiders agree with the choice or not . " It was pointed out that the United States has publicly agreed to accept Viet Cong participation in the government , if it were voted by the people after a peace settlement , in free elections . " If we are willing to agree to that , our sincerity ought to be apparent when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was fairly elected in September . " What is the argument for the military ticket , as things stand now ? Because the civilian candidates are good citizens but not experienced in administration . Because the military is the largest organization in the country , and persons with administrative talent gravitate toward it , and because they have already gained experience in running a government . Because the military contains a large ele- ment , particularly among the younger men , who strongly sympathize with the concept of social revolution in their country , and have gained experience in working for it . Because the best administrator in this field in the country  --  Gen. Nguyen Duc Thang , who is a Cabinet minister  --  is in the Army . These are among the main arguments that are unofficially advanced here .                     