@@721189

txt General de Gaulle 's stature has never been higher abroad than it is today , nor has any foreigner visited the United States in recent years who can speak with as much personal prestige . He has successfully re-created a myth of France 's grandeur and this , combined with his lofty character , enables him to approach the President of the greatest Western power as an equal , something no other Frenchman has done in more than two decades . Yet de Gaulle 's position in France itself is paradoxically less secure . Had the revolt against his authority not exploded prematurely last January , this country might now be in the throes of crisis and . the Gaullist regime endangered . For there is considerable evidence that the network of conspiracies uncovered since the last Algiers uprising planned to move against de Gaulle at this precise instant , while he was in the United States . Only the indiscretions of General Massu , a loyal but foolish man , and the stupidity of certain nervous key conspirators , exposed the plot three months early and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-Gaullist elements are disorganized and off balance ; but they still exist . A widespread purge of army generals has restored military discipline . Nevertheless , the disgruntlement of numerous officers frustrated by the Algerian war remains . Various underground movements , almost all of them linked in one or another way to the " ultras " of Algiers , continue to scheme , to publish inflammatory declarations and to work for de Gaulle 's overthrow . So far , however , these disparate secret committees appear to lack centralized direction . Beneath France 's prosperity and behind its seemingly placid political surface and mounting international influence there are ugly rumblings of anger against this epoch 's greatest Frenchman . Veterans ' organizations , fascist cells and extreme nationalists still conspire . And de Gaulle 's repute , so immense abroad , falters in his native land . Even on the Left , which rallies to the General in emergency , there has been a sudden decline since the extirpated Rightist coup of January . One sarcastic journal observes : " The General , in general , is n't here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President is a man of " enormous genius 63 per cent , much genius 29 per cent or genius 8 per cent " and cynically asserts the answers prove that France is not " an apathetic and chloroformed country . " The same " poll " pretends 64 per cent of the people believe de Gaulle 's Premier Debr ? " does not exist " ; 21 per cent " do n't know . " While the Cat 's Away Aware of this uneasy background , de Gaulle , who is a shrewd and earthy statesman as well as a noble symbol , took the precaution before flying to North America of issuing an ordinance enabling his Cabinet to declare a state of emergency for a period of twelve days without the need for parliamentary approval . In - other words , if anything should happen during his triumphal transAtlantic tour , if any of the bitter crackpots working for his downfall should try to assemble the playful mice while the cat is overseas , the " nonexistent " Debrd could establish a temporary dictatorship until the General returned . Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspirators . Notwithstanding , the subsurface situation is restless . The Algerian conflict is about to enter a new and dramatic phase and , as the world has learned to its dismay , Algeria can produce nasty surprises . Large stocks of arms including bazookas have been gathered by the Moslem rebels in Tunisia and Morocco . The French Army itself 1.5. poised for sudden action . In this atmosphere the United States - should not confine itself to merely honoring de Gaulle and France during his present journey . We must recognize that the Genera requires substantial concrete sup . port in his struggle to consolidate the Fifth Repubic and to lance the Algerian abcess that persistently in. fects the entire French nation . Such recognition must be accorded with sympathy and tolerance . Obviously some of de Gaulle ' : views are not in accord with ours However , the essential that we must never forget is this imperative : Ir . what President Eisenhower woulc term our own " enlightened self ? interest , " the Gaullist experiment must succeed in re-establishing a tranquil , prosperous , steady nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rustling wheal field . There is , for the present , m alternative to him but chaos .                     