@@722184

txt Adolf Eichmann was convicted this morning of crimes against the Jewish people , crimes against humanity , war crimes and membership in hostile Nazi organizations . The former Nazi colonel faces death by hanging . The verdict came with startling suddenness a few minutes after the court opened . Instead of launching into a preamble defending the court 's sovereignty , as had been expected , Presiding Judge Moshe Landau coldly ordered Eichman to the stand . " The court finds you guilty , " Judge Landau said , and he ! enumerated the crimes . He then ' ordered the prisoner to be seated while he began reading the massive 200-page judgment . Prisoner Sits Stiffly Eichmann sat stiffly in his chair , showing no flicker of emotion . The shock possibly had come too quickly . Judge Landau read the judgment in Hebrew , which was translated simultaneously into German for the defendant . Sitting with Judge Landau on the tribunal are Judges Itzhak Raveh and Judge Benjamin Halevi . When Eichmann has had his final comment the court may adjourn for a few hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence will be delivered Friday . Eichmann looked cadaverous , but was seemingly less pallid than during the final weeks of the hearings in his trial , which began last April 11 and ran to Aug. 14 . A nervous tic that had frequently contorted his face during the hearing was not immediately apparent . He was wearing the same dark suit an Israeli tailor had made for him last spring . The eiteges Enter The police said Eichmann had picked up a few pounds since August . His suit still fits him badly , Large bony wrists protruded from his nappy sleeves . Eichmann 's scrawny neck and bald head with beak nose emerged like a turkey buzzard 's from a jacket that hung loosely . ? From his skeletal frame Eichmann smiled and nodded to his German lawyer , Dr. Robert Servatius . The prisoner ignored the crowded gallery . All through the long trial Eichmann had made his glass cubicle a tiny island of fussy bureaucracy . placing his papers in neat stacks on the desk in front of him . But today he carried only one sheaf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and waited . A court aide . Joseph Sha // meth , said , " Beit Hamishpat , " which means " The Court . " Everyone rose as the judges entered . The youngest of the three , Judge Halevy , entered first in his flowing black , robe , Then came Presiding Judge Landau , whose relaxed tolerant han- , dling of the courtroom drew ' wide admiration last summer ; then Judge Raveh , who had discoursed with the prisoner on ' Kantian philosophy , Eichmann stood rigidly at at tention , heels together , head thrown back , hands stiffly at trouser seams , staring at the judges until they were seated . The reading of the verdict by Judge Landau is expected to take two days . Anything short of a sentence of death seems highly improbable under the Israeli law for the punishment of Nazis and Nazi collaborators . Mitigating Terms Limited The law sounds explicit enough . It applies the strong Hebrew term " dino-mitah , " literally translated " shall be sentenced to death , " to persons guilty of crimes committed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in. part . " The law allows the court to consider only these mitigating circumstances : that the offender may have done his best to reduce the gravity of actions carried out by him against Jews ; that the offense was committed with the intent to avert consequences more serious than , those resulting from the offense.1 In the unlikely event that the court accepts , such mitigating circumstances in Eichmann 's case , he would elude the hangman and receive a prison sentence of not less than ten years . When Judge Landau finishes reading the judgment he will call upon Attorney General Gideon Hausner to discuss the application . Almost certainly Mr. Hausner will tell the court that it has no alternative but to impose the death sentence . Then will come the turn of Eichmann 's counsel , Dr. Robert Servatius of West Germany , to plead mitigating circumstances . On the final day of the trial , Dr. Servatius made an eloquent plea for a " Solomonic judgment " that would erase the stigma of Israel 's abduction . of Eichmann from his refuge in Argentina . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen since the war , Dr. Servatius portrayed his client as a small cog in the Nazi machine , , a minor officer obliged to follow his superiors ' orders . He was ex pected to repeat this theme . Finally , Judge Landau will turn to the glass cage and ask , the former lieutenant colonel in the Gestapo ( secret police ) for " a last word before the senten.H cing . Eichmann , who was a gar-I ' rulous witness in own defense during the four-month trial , probably will leap at the chance . Ever since the end of the trial the fussy , bureaucratic minded defendant has been busy at his memoirs , which he has promised , will warn future generations against the evils of anti-Semitism . His basic contentions ? from which he was never shaken by Attorney General Hausner 's cross-examination  --  were : " I did not hate Jews . I was never an anti-Semite , " I have never killed a Jew or a non-Jew ? I have never killed anybody . " I never had anything to do with decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters . " Sentencing May Come Friday When Eichmann has had his final comment the court may adjourn for a few hours before the sentencing . There is a possibility that the sentence will be delivered Friday . After that Dr. Servatius will have ten days to file an appeal with the Israeli Supreme Court plus another five days to submit his reasoning . This appeal might delay the final confirmation of the sentence for six months more . As a last resort , Eichmann may beg clemency from the Israeli President . No Israeli believes Eichmann is innocent . The former Nazi acknowledged during the trial that he had organized the deportation of Jews from Western Europe to Poland with wthe knowledge that some were go straight to the gas chambers . While contending he had had ) no role in the planning and direction of the Nazi conspiracy to exterminate the Jews , Eichmann admitted he was guilty of , " aiding and abetting " the genocide effort . But Israelis , although convinced of Eichmann 's " monstrous crimes , " are nagged by doubts over a death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1954 except for wartime treason , subversion in areas under military administration and crimes by Nazis and Nazi collaborators . Civil courts before then had condemned several murderers to death , but the sentences were , never carried out . One man was shot for treason in 1948 , but this summary execution , ' ordered by a military court , caused a wave of revulsion . A military review board exonerated the victim and his widow was provided with a pension . As for the 1950 law under which Eichmann is being tried , this has been applied only once . In 1952 , Yehzkel Ingster , a " kapo " or trusty in a Nazi death camp , was convicted of having caused the death of fellow Jews . The court found some mitiGUILTY AS CHARGED : Adolf Eichmann , former official of the Nazi Gestapo .. Camera Press-P:x DELIVERS JUDGMENT : Moshe Landau , who is the presiding Israeli judge . gating circumstances , but it felt bound to impose the death penalty . The conviction was ' upset by the Supreme Court , which did not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty was mandatory . Ingster died in prison . 12 Death Counts Involved Of the fifteen counts against Eichmann , twelve carry the death penalty . ' He is charged with crimes against the Jewish people , crimes against humanity and membership in hostile Nazi organizations . In his effort to portray Eichmann as an " arch-exterminator " of Jews , Attorney General Hausner felt obliged to argue that the accused was something of a fiend rather than a zealous bureaucrat . Hausner apparently feared that a portrait of Eichmann as a bureaucrat who could suspend imagination and conscience while sitting behind his desk planning the deporta-I tion of Jews was not villainous enough . Mr. Hausner , therefore , insisted on trying to prove that Eichmann personally killed a Jewish youth in 1944 for the theft of fruit at his villa in Budapest , Hungary . In the opinion of many observers this , was the weakest chapter of the prosecution 's case . Not only , was the evidence considered inadequate , but it was thought unlikely that a fastidious bureaucrat like Eichmann would be psychologically capable of personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 16-week trial , which began ' April 11 , Dr. Servatius declared that the Eichmann case was politically inspired and that the verdict was bound to be political . He seemed to feel that his best chance of saving Eichmann was to challenge the moral right of Israel to abduct Eichmann from Argentina , where the prisoner could not have been tried because of a statute of limitations , and to try him here under an ex post ' facto law for crimes committed ! before Israel was a state . The Israeli tribunal , consisting of Jewish judges who fled from Germany after the rise of Hitler , rejected Dr. Servatius ' challenge of its right to try Eichmann . The reasons for this rejection will be given today by Judge Landau . But Dr. Servatius probably will renew the challenge in the appeal he is expected to make to the Supreme Court .                     