@@721645

txt President Eisenhower urged today that election and inauguration dates be advanced to allow a new President about eighty days to organize his work before outlining his policies and program to Congress . In his final news conference , the President called for a constitutional amendment to end the present " silly " system that requires the retiring President to prepare messages to Congress on the State of the Union , the budget and the economy , only to have them followed by the superseding views of his successor . Questions 1 and 6 , Page 18 . President in Top Shape President Eisenhower was in his best form for his farewell meeting with reporters , ranging in his replies from the light to the deadly serious . Physically and mentally he seemed full of bounce . He refused to be irritated by a " loaded " question and he declined to acct , an invitation to explain the Republican defeat at the polls . Questions 7 and 11.3 Although pressed to elaborate what he termed his " radical " ideas about changing the time between administrations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not say he favored shortening the transition period , nor did he suggest changing the Jan. 3 date for the convening Congress . The Constitution fixes that date , unless Congress by law sets a different time , as when Jan. 3 falls on a Sunday . Although he did not say so , the President appeared to be conscious that his own recent Budget Message had been overtaken , even before it was transmitted , by recommendations of President-elect John F. Kennedy 's task force that called for an increase of $3,000,000,000 to $5,000,000,000 in Federal spending to spur economic activity . Opposed to Spending IIe showed no hesitation and lacked no words to express his opinion on the spending issue . Question 16 . " I really do n't go in very much for the theory that by suddenly expanding three or four or five billion dollars ' worth of Federal programs that you get a tremendous boost , " President Eisenhower said . The trouble with these pumppriming programs , he said , is they begin to take effect about eighteen months after the end of the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy is booming again . The one certain result is that the amounts so spent . become an addition to the national debt that have to be paid off some day , he added . Far more effective than all the spending intended to alleviate the recession of 1958 , the President contended , was the decision of the Federal Government to " pick up the tab for all of the unemployment insurance benefits that had been exhausted by people in theseveral states and where there was no help . " The action was effective because it involved no long delay but ended suffering quickly and helped restore . confidence so that people began to build and buy again , the President said . President Eisenhower was sparing in his advice to his younger successor as he looked forward to the problems Mr. Kennedy faced and back on his own experience in trying to deal with them . He said that the greatest problem ' awaiting Mr. Kennedy unquestionably was the one from which stemmed all other major problems of the day . The President identified it as " the intransigent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 . There was levity in the President 's handling of questions about his relations with the press and whether he thought reporters had been " fair " to him in their inquiries . Questions 5 and . 13 . He took a sly dig at one of these , saying that , " When you come down to it , I do n't see what a reporter could do much to a President , do you ? " But the grin faded from his face when the questioning turned to considerations of war and peace and what he considered his'Administration 's greatest achievement sand worst disappointment . Question 8 . He did not try to gloss over his frustration over the fact that after eight years he still could not say that a permanent peace with justice appeared to be in sight . That was the disappointment . The achievement was the avoidance of war during a period when all the ingredients for one were present , when the Chinese Communists threatened to provoke one and their Soviet allies were supporting the provocation . It was a period in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness on the part of the United States would have changed the risk into a reality . Then the President 's good humor returned as he observed with a chuckle that , as another disappointment , " I 'd say Nov. 8 was one . " But he would not be drawn into analyzing the Republican ' defeat or into prescribing how to void a repetition . Except to say that Vice President Nixon had not asked his advice about the public television debates with Mr. Kennedy and that he had entered the campaign as soon as he was asked to do so . This was the time " to keep still . " Questions 7 and 11 . One reporter prevailed on the President to talk about his views on the press and the kind of questions put to him over the years . Question 13 . " I have never objected to penetrating or searching questions . The ' only thing I object to is something that tries to ? it 's like the beating of your wife question  --  I do n't like that , but I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have been annoying nor have I anyone to argue with . " The President s farewell meeting with reporters at a White House news conference  --  his 193d since Feb. 17 , 1953 ? drew one of the largest audiences of any . He had already invited the next question when a press association reporter brought the session to an end two minutes ahead of the scheduled halfhour with the customary , " Thank you , Mr. President . " As he was leaving the room the newsmen gave him a standing ovation with mixed cheering and applause . The President turned and raised both arms . The 305 newsmen present were still applauding as he disappeared around a corner .                     