@@721612

txt House Speaker Sam Rayburn moved today , on the eve of the opening of the Eighty-seventh Congress , to break a conservative coalition 's power to obstruct President-elect John F. Kennedy 's legislative program . Mr. ' Rayburn took steps to bring this about through the purge of a Southern Democrat , Representative William M. Colmer of Mississippi , from the , House Rules Committee . Mr. Colmer 's replacement by a party regular would give the Democratic leadership a 7-to-5 majority and end the coalition 's domination of the twelve-man panel , which functions as a legislative trafficcontrol center for the House . Meanwhile , in the Senate , a bipartisan group of liberals laid strategy for a new effort tomorrow to strengthen the Senate rule for curbing filibusters . Spokesmen claimed sufficient support to achieve or at least come close to a significant victory . Nixon Will Preside The House and Senate will convene at noon tomorrow . Vice President Nixon will call the Senate to order and con tinue as presiding officer until he is succeeded Jan , 20 by the Vice President-elect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House , Ralph R. Roberts , will call the House to order and preside over organizational proceedings until Mr. Rayburn is elected Speaker for the tenth time a few min-i utes later . Speaker Rayburn outlined his plan privately to a delegation of House liberals and then sought to enlist the cooperation of the Democratic Committee on Committees , which has initial jurisdiction over committee assignments . The House itself will have the final say , and a sharp battle is consequently in prospect . The Rayburn formula for ' gaining control of the Rules Committee would delay a show-i down on the House floor until ! later this week , or possibly next week . A plan favored by Mr. Ray // burn but abandoned yesterday called for enlargement of the committee . This would have entailed a change of House rules and an opening-day floor fight . The rules are adopted on the first day of each new Congress every two years . Under the approach now being pursued by the Speaker , the Democratic Committee on committees will be asked to replace Mr. Colmer with another Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the new Congress . The roster is ordinarily approved by the House as a routine formality . This time , it would first beratified by a caucus of all House Democrats and then submitted to the House for approval . If the Committee on Committees refuses to cooperate , Mr. Rayburn and the Democratic majority leader , Representative John W. McCormack of Massachusetts , are prepared to take personal charge of the fight in caucus and on the floor , according to sources close to them . The Rules Committee coalition consists of two conservative Southern Democrats , Representatives Colmer and Howard W. Smith of Virginia , the chairman , and the panel 's four Republican members . By tie votes of 6 to 6 , the coalition has blocked or delayed floor consideration of much liberal legislation in recent sessions . Mr. Colmer 's active opposition to the Kennedy-Johnson ticket in the Presidential election is the ostensible basis for the proposed purge . While Mr. Smith failed to endorse the ticket , he did not openly oppose it . Mr. Colmer was one of five Southern Democratic members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were Representatives Jamie L. Whitten , John Bell Williams and Arthur Winstead of Mississippi and Otto E. Passman of Louisiana . The possibility that all five would be deprived of choice committee assignments remains . Mr. Rayburn is said to be sympathetic to a purge , at least of Mr. Winstead and Mr. Whitten , in addition to Mr. Colmer . It was not known , however , whether he would actively seek such action . The Speaker presented his plan this morning to a threeman delegation from the Democratic study group , an organization of more than 100 House liberals . The delegation consisted of Representatives Chet Holifield of California , Frank Thompson Jr . of New Jersey and John A , Blatnik of " Minnesota . Representative Richard Bolling , Democrat of Missouri , was also present . The study group had instructed the delegation at a meeting Friday to press Mr. Rayburn for a commitment on how he intended to cope with the Rules Committee problem . The delegation reported back to the study group later this morning , Mr. Holifield told reporters : " The Speaker proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enactment of the Democratic legislative program . The details of that plan at this time are not to be announced , at the Speaker 's request . * * * I am optimistic that there will be a solution to the conservative roadblock in the House Rules Committee . " The study group accepted Mr. Rayburn 's assurances , as relayed by Mr. Holifield . The problem consequently was ignored at the regular pre-session caucus of all House Democrats , which convened a few minutes later . The caucus attended to routine organizational matters and elected two members to fill Democratic vacancies on the Ways and Means Committee . The two , both classified as liberals and loyal supporters of the leadership , are Representatives James A. Burke of Massachusetts and Al Ullman of Oregon . They are replacements for two other liberals , Aime J. Forand of Rhode Island , who retired from Congress , and Senator-elect Lee Metcalf of Montana . Mr. Rayburn 's decision to seek Mr. Colmer 's replacement on the Rules Committee was reported to have been reached last night after a series of week-end conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rules change to enlarge the committee to fifteen members  --  ten Democrats and five Republicans . The present division is eight Democrats and four Republicans . Mr. Rayburn was said to have requested Representative Smith , as chairman of the Rules Committee , to propose such a rules change on opening day . When he refused , it was reported , the Speaker decided to try to purge Mr. Colmer.                     