@@727874

txt Galo Plaza , Secretary General of the Organization of ' American States , said today ( that student violence against ' Governor Rockefeller 's factfinding mission reflected an increasing disillusionment and frustration in Latin America toward the United States . Mr. Plaza , who had breakfast here with Mr. Rockefeller and his advisers , told them not to fool themselves into thinking that student protests in Latin America were just the work of an extremist minority . Mr. Rockefeller later flew to New York , two days ahead of schedule , because of the cancellation of his planned visit to Venezuela . Before his departure , he declared that he had no intention of canceling any of the I1 visits remaining on his itinerary in two future Latin-American trips . In Washington , the White House said that it supported the Governor 's decision and that the two remaining trips would not be canceled . Mr. Plaza , a former President of Ecuador , who was educated in the United States and is an old friend of Governor Rockefeller , arrived last night from Washington to open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today he declared that ' " there is a deep feeling throughout Latin America at all levels of society that relations with the United States need a change . " He attributed the LatinAmerican discontent to the slowness of the Alliance for Progress in achieving its goals of economic growth and social reform , and to a feeling in Latin America that the area has become a " backwater " in United States foreign policy priorities . Mr. Plaza said the student demonstrations that have disrupted Mr. Rockefeller 's mission ? undertaken , at the request of President Nixon , to prepare a report on United States policy toward Latin America ? could not be ascribed simply to Communist agitators . " Whatever interest outside groups may have , there is a genuine national resentment that does n't need much outside influence , " the tall , gray-haired secretary of the 21-year-old inter-American regional organization told the Governor . Outside Influence Seen Mr. Rockefeller said yesterday that there was " a pattern of organized protest " indicating that anti-American influences " inside and outside the hemisphere " had mobilized militant student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his wife and a large group of advisers and staff was curtailed when the Venezuelan Government , threatened with student riots , asked Mr. Rockefeller yesterday to postpone his visit The risk of bloodshed over student demonstrations also reduced Mr. Rockefeller 's visit to Bolivia to a three-hour airport meeting Saturday with President Luis Adolfo Siles Salinas . Students in Ecuador rioted for two days during Mr. Rockefeller 's visit to Quito , that country 's capital , and university campuses in Bogota , Colombia , were scenes of strikes and violence when the mission began its current trip there last Tuesday . Despite these setbacks , Mr. Rockefeller emphasized at a news conference today that he intended to complete his mission for the President . " I am hopeful that the situation will permit me in the next few weeks to include Venezuela and Peru among the visits , " Mr. Rockefeller said . Peru canceled her invitation to Mr. Rockefeller after the United States disclosed its suspension of arms sales because of a dispute over Peruvian seizure of United States fishing boats . The mission 's next trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ June 16 . An authoritative source said Mr. Plaza felt that the success Associated Press Gab Plaza of the Rockefeller mission in the countries remaining on the itinerary would be strongly influenced by the Nixon Administration 's reaction to what Mr. Rockefeller has called the " signarof student protest . Mr. Rockefeller , during his visits , has heard constant complaints about trade restrictions by the United States on LatinAmerican exports , high interest rates on development loans and the United States ' use of aid money to promote sales of uncompetitive United States goods in Latin America . Many of these criticisms have to do with the way in which the United States has administered its commitment of $1 billion a year to the Alliance for Progress , the regional development program initiated by the Kennedy Administration . in 1961 . Mr. Plaza said today there was resentment in Latin America because the goals of more rapid economic growth , housing , education , land reform and other targets of the program were not being achieved . " The commitments of the alliance continue to be valid , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what must be done in the coming decade to fulfill the goals , which were too ambitious for just one decade . "                     