@@727319

txt In an air of confusion and dissension , the Democratic party begins setting the stage tomorrow for its national convention , divided over Vietnam policy and quarrels over delegates . As a controversial prelude to the convention , opening Aug. 26 in Chicago , two committees will begin hearings to deterI mine the membership of the delegations and to set forth the party 's platform for the coming election . Both issues may prove to be more controversial than the selection of a Presidential candidate and indirectly may influence the nomination . Underlying both issues is a power struggle between Vice President Humphrey and Senator Eugene J. McCarthy for the nomination . From his dominant position , the aim of the Vice President is to keep the two subjects from mushrooming into divisive party fights . On the other hand , the ap- ' parent strategy of Senator Mc Carthy is to exploit the issues so as to turn the tide of the convention away from the Vice President . The opening rounds in the struggle , which eventually may be carried by Senator McCarthy to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Credentials Committee , headed by Gov . Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey , and the Resolutions ( Platform ) Committee , headed by Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana . The Credentials Committee will open six days of hearings in Chicago tomorrow ; the platform committee will hold its first two and a half days of hearings in Washington and then shift to Chicago for the final two days of hearings before drafting the platform . Before the platform committee the dominant , if not the only , major issue is the Vietnam plank . Here once again the Humphrey camp is attempting , by way of compromise , to maneuver Senator McCarthy into a decidedly minority position so that he can not wage a divisive floor fight . In line with this strategy , top Humphrey officials are holding forth the possibility of a compromise Vietnam plank broad enough in its commitment to a negotiated peace to bring together most of the dissident factions in the party ; yet it would be ambiguous enough to loosen the Vice President 's bonds with Johnson Administration policy . The essence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam plank , setting forth long-term objectives in Southeast Asia rather than being retrospectively critical of past decisions in Vietnam . Thus , in addition to committing the party to ending the war in Vietnam , the platform would set forth goals for building up the political and economic security of Southeast Asia once the war was over . This approach , according to his advisers , is in line with Mr. Humphrey 's thinking that either before or after the election the Vietnam war is going to be settled . Thus he is said to feel that the primary problems facing the new Administration wi21 not be ending the war but will be the postwar rehabilitation of Southeast Asia , tensions in the Middle East and a detente with the Soviet Union . As one key Humphrey adviser sized up the situation : " There is no difference of opinion on whether the objective is to get out of Vietnam . No one favors a strong hawkish position . The only problem is how to phrase a plank that looks ahead , emphasizes peace and does not gratuitously stab the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Senator McCarthy is doubtful . Only last week he suggested that the first requirement in the Vietnam plank should be recognition of what he termed the failure of past policies ? a requirement completely unacceptable to the Humphrey people . Aside from avoiding criticism of past policies , the Humphrey camp wants the plank ' not to be too specific in its proposals , and thus perhaps indirectly critical of Johnson Administration decisions . The Humphrey majority on the platform committee therefore can be expected to oppose the Vietnam plank being advanced by a coalition made up of supporters of Senator McCarthy and of aides of Senator Robert F. Kennedy who have shifted their allegiance to Senator George S. of South Dakota . As drafted by this minority coalition , the plank would call for an unconditional halt in the bombing of North Vietnam , an American initiative to deescalate the war , a demand that the Saigon Government open discussions with the National Liberation Front , the political arm of the Vietcong , and a proposal that new elections be held in South Vietnam open to all citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Humphrey group has two basic objections to such a detailed plank : one , that it would tend to undermine the American bargaining position in any peace negotiations , and second , that , implicitly at least , it is critical of past decisions , such as the Johnson Administration 's refusal to halt the bombing without some reciprocal military response by North Vietnam .                     