@@724536

txt Washington , Feb. 4-President Johnson 's former chief Confidential aid , Walter Jenkins , faced the possibility tonight of contempt of Congress charges after he had ignored a Senate rules committee subpena to appear for questioning in the Bobby Baker scandal . Instead of appearing with his financial records , Jenkins , a familiar figure at Washington parties in the last few weeks , sent up two psychiatrists and a lawyer to say he would be harmed by questioning because of his mental condition . They did not produce the records . Johnson Wo n't Comment Other major developments in the investigation of the scandal were : 1 . President Johnson declined to comment on the case of Jenkins , who resigned from the White House after being arrested twice on morals charges . The President was reminded of the philosophy of President Kennedy that the moral leadership of the nation should come from the White House . It did not move Johnson to comment . Defer Action on Case 2 . Rep. H. R. Gross R. , Ia. commented that Johnson now has failed to utter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson 's protege . Jenkins is the former treasurer of the Johnson family 's broadcasting company in Texas . 3 . Clint Murchison Jr. , one of the heads of the Murchison family 's Texas financial empire , was questioned in a closed door session along with Murray C. Spett , a law partner of Rep. Emanuel Celler D. , N. Y. , whose firm has acknowledged splitting  --  a fee with Baker . The committee spent most of the day in a closed door examination of Jenkins ' refusal to testify , and decided to defer action until Monday . Should the Democrats decide that keeping Jenkins off the witness stand would bring them too much public condemnation and demand that he honor the subpena , he could be charged with contempt of Congress . ? The Democrats outnumber the Republicans on the committee 6 to 3 and today the figure was ' 6 to 2 because Sen. Hugh Scott R. , Pa. a member , is in England . Charge Protection Republicans charge that the committee Democrats have bused their voting power to protect figures in high places . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of witnesses sought by the Republicans . Among these were Jenkins and Matthew McCloskey , former Democratic national treasurer and former ambassalor to Ireland . With public clamor increasing , the Democrats finally agreed to call both men . McCloskey testified in December , regarding the 20 million dollar District of Columbia athletic stadium , which his construction firm built . He acknowledged a $35,000 overpayment to Don R. Reynolds for arranging the performance bond on the construction , but denied Reynolds ' story that this was a coverup for a $25,000 contribution to the Kennedy-Johnson campaign fund . McCloskey 's story was that the overpayment was a bookkeeping " goof . " Curtis Quizzes Them At the hearing today , Sen. Carl Curtis R. , Neb. is said to have questioned closely the psychiatrists , Dr. Leon Yochelson and Dr. Gene Gordon for an explanation of why Jenkins is unablehto withstand questioning if he can still go partying , as he did the night of his second arrest on a morals charge . Emerging from the session at one point , Sen. Joseph Clark D , Pa. said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek to question Jenkins about the charge of Don B. Reynolds that JPnkinq shook him down for $1,208 for advertising time Reynolds could not use on the Johnson broadcasting station . Reynolds , an insurance man and partner of Baker , had sold Johnson $200,000 worth of life insurance at the time . The Democrats refused to permit Jenkins , then in the White House , to be called to discuss the matter , but permitted him to deny it in an affidavit . Republicans say that one of the men committed perjury . Johnson was asked at a press conference if in , view of Kennedy 's repeated statements that the nation 's moral leadership on ethical questions should come from the White House , Johnson would not comment on the Jenkins case . " No , I would not comment on a question under investigation by the grand jury , " Johnson replied .                     