@@722841

txt President Kennedy began toclay a round of meetings expected to produce far-reaching decisions on some of his Administration 's major problems ? taxes , the budget , education and defense . Mr. Kennedy consulted first with the Senate Majority Leader , Mike Mansfield of Montana . Mr. and Mrs. Mansfield flew here from Washington for lunch with the President and Mrs. Kennedy aboard the Presidential yacht , Honey Fitz . Later , Mr. Kennedy met at his holiday White House , the home of C. M. Paul , with a covey of Treasury , Budget and White House officials for what was described as a policy-making discussion on the Administration 's tax reduction and reform proposals . At the meeting were Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon , who drove here from Hobe Sound , where he has been on holiday ; Henry Fowler , Under Secretary of the Treasury ; Stanley Surrey , Assistant Secretary for Internal Revenue Taxation ; Walter Heller , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers ; Kermit Gordon , Budget Director , and Theodore C. Sorensen , Myer Feldman and Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flew in from Washington at mid-day . Review of Military Tomorrow morning , Mr. Kennedy will meet with Secretary of Defense Robert S. and the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Pierre Salinger , White House Press Secretary , said the President and Defense officials would review the " yearend military situation " and " take a final look " at the defense budget to be presented to the Congress in January . The President also will meet tomorrow with the Foreign Secretary of Israel , Mrs. Golda Meir . She is returning to Tel Aviv after attending United Nations sessions in New York . On Friday , Mr. Kennedy will shift his aim to the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , one of the major founts of Federal spending . Conferring with him will be Anthony J. Celebrezze , the Secretary ; As sistant Wilbur Cohen and the new Commissioner of Educe tion , Francis Keppel . The presence here of Senator ' Mansfield and Mr. O'Brien , the President 's Special Assistant for Congressional Affairs , indicated that legislative tactics and strategy would be a major topic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day or two after Mr. Kennedy is expected to return to Washington . Mr. Salinger said other Congressional figures , including speaker of the House John Mc:lormaelt and Republican leaders , might confer with the President here . He announced no definite plans for such talks , but Mr. Kennedy customarily1 has held them before the opening of Congressional sessions , Mr. Salinger said today 's discussion of tax and budgetary matters was directed " toward the policy decisions that will affect the tax bill . " The Administration 's proposals in this area , he said , have not yet reached the bill-drafting stage . A major purpose was to take a hard look at the economic forecast for calendar 1963 and for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1964 . On the estimates of business activity in these periods rest the Government 's estimates of its potential income from tax revenues . Before a detailed tax program can be drafted for submission to the Congress , the Administration must decide how much revenue it could expect under present tax laws , and how much less might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total tax program . These estimates must be balanced against proposed Government expenditures in fiscal 1964 . A decision must be made on how much of a budget deficit can be proposed in trying to achieve maximum stimulation of the economy through tax reductions and to win the necessary approval of a Congress , always suspicious of deficit spending . Beyond these over-all policy decisions , a number of questions remain to be settled . One of them is : Should tax reduction and reform be presented in a single piece of legislation ? Mr. Kennedy , in a recent speech to the Economic Club of New York , indicated that they would be ; other Administration sources concur . Tax-Cut Date a Question Another is : What should be the effective dates of the reduced tax rates and the reform programs ? Mr. Kennedy has said that there would be some tax reduction " involving 1963 . " But Representative Wilbur D. Mills , Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , has expressed opposition to tax cuts effective before Jan. 1 , 1964 . Still another is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tax reduction Mr. Kennedy suggested to the Economic Club that tax reduction should take priority , and that " the possible should not wait on the perfect ... " As to tax cutting , this question arises : What emphasis will be placed on personal and what on corporation taxes ? Somewhat facetiously , Mr. Kennedy told the Economic Club that the major problem was to increase consumer spending , thus building business profits for greater investment in plant and equipment . All of these matters will be affected by the discussions on defense and on health , education and welfare spending .                     