@@723324

txt San Francisco , July 19 navy practice bomb dropped on downtown Market street during the noon rush hour today and bounced over an eight-story building . No one was hurt . The 25-pound , nonexplosive missile slightly damaged two office buildings while on the bounce . Acknowledged 4 Hours Later Four hours after the incident the navy acknowledged the bomb was dropped inadvertently by a reserve pilot on a routine bombing exercise flight . The Alameda naval air station headquarters identified the ' pilot as Lt. R. A. Kiner , 32 , of Anaheim , Cal . Squadron ordnance personnel learned of the bomb 's loss after ' Kiner had landed his A-4-A Sky1 hawk attack bomber . He had been on a bomb exercise flight over the navy 's auxiliary landing field at Crows Landing near Modesto . Pilot Did n't Know of It Kiner , unaware of the incident , was headed home in his car when he was told about the bombing . He had completed his assignment before it was discovered . " Bombing San Francisco ? " he repeated incredulously . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punched a small hole at the intersection of Market and Front streets , bounced over the eight-story International Business Machine 's building at that corner , breaking a window on its way , and knocked pieces of concrete off the face of the Phoenix building at 360 Pine street , three blocks away . Ralph Sommer , 31 , Mill Valley , said the bomb landed 15 feet from him in the center of ' the street . Army ordnance experts identified the bomb as one used both by the Navy and the air force . No one on the street saw the plane from which it fell . Witnesses at Market and Front streets said the bomb appeared to be about 5 by 12 inches . Army ordnance experts estimated it was 24 inches long and 4 inches in diameter . Bomb Falls on San Francisco UPI Telephoto ; Inset , AP Viirephotol Photo-diagram shows how navy practice bomb bounced from street to street in San Francisco yesterday after it fell from plane . Bomb fell into Market street ( 1 ) , bounced over building and struck cornice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street ( 3 ) . Fragment shattered a seventh floor window of International Business Machines building ( 4 ) . Policeman William Porter ( inset ) holds bomb and tailfin . Navy acknowledged bomb was dropped inadvertently by reserve pilot on exercise flight . ( Story on page 1 )                     