@@723844

txt ASSEMBLY KILLS GOVERNOR 'S PLAN ON HOUSINGFUNDS G.O.P. Members , Angered by School-Aid Dispute , Bar Low-Income Program UPSTATE VOTE A FACTOR City Democrats . Favor Bills ? Defeat May Affect Other Rockefeller Proposals By LATIIIMOND ROBINSON , Special to The New York Times ALBANY , March 18 ? Angry Assembly Republicans crushed Governor Rockefeller 's major housing proposals tonight . The Republican members of the lower house , who have been feuding with the Governor over increased school aid , refused to endorse a Rockefeller plan to provide $165 million for statesupported public housing projects for which present funds are nearly depleted . They also refused to go along with a proposal by the Governor that would have provided state subsidies to help low-income families obtain apartments in middle-income housing projects . New York City Democrats ' voted almost unanimously for the proposals , but a heavy vote against them came from upstate Republicans and Democrats . Plans Lose by 10 Votes The vote was 66 for and 73 against , 10 short of the 76 favorable votes needed for a majority in the 150-member house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only 16 supported them . One of those casting a negative vote was ' Assemblyman A. Bruce Manley of Fredonia , the Republican whip on the Assembly floor . Fifty Democrats came to the support of Mr. Rockefeller on the vote , with only 10 against the proposals . The negative vote on the measure , plus the continuing impasse between Mr. Rockefeller and the Assembly Repub .. licans over school aid , indicates that other parts of the Governor 's legislative program face a stormy reception in. the lower house . Ironically , the Assembly is headed by Joseph F. Carlino , who has been called " the Governor 's man " in the Legislature . Mr. Carlin ? has sought to cast off that role during the present legislative session and has assumed a position independent of the Governor 's on a wide // range of matters before the house . That leaves Mr. Rockefeller with no strong voice to champion his program in either house , as he has frequently been at odds with Senate Majority Leader Walter Mahoney also . When the housing proposals were defeated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing them in a legislative limbo until a decision is made to call theft up again . But there is no expectation that they wilL be called up unless the Assembly Republicans settle the dispute over more money for schools with Mr. Rackefeler . The Senate approved the Rockefeller proposals yesterday by a 34-20 vote . If the public housing , proposal is ultimately approved by the Assembly , it would provide for a $165 Million bond issue to be used to finance more public housing projects for low-income families . Another part of the program would authorize funds to enable low-income families to live in limited - profit middle-income projects . Linder this rent-subsidy proposal , the state would lease up to 20 per cent of the apartments from operators of a middle-income development at the usual rent . The apartments would pay the usual low-income rent of $15 to $18 a room . The subsidy proposal was defeated in a voters ' referendum in November , 1962 , Opponents of the measure in the Assembly today charged that the Governor 's largest plan was designed to circumvent the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper resentment running against Mr. Rockefeller in the lower House . It has been an open secret that Assemblymen  --  and especially Republican Assemblymen  --  have been bitter over the Governor 's frequent absences from Albany In pursuit of his Presidential ambition . They cite this as the principal reason for the deadlock on increased school aid . If Mr. Rockefeller had been present they argue , the matter could have been settled long ago . Advocates of the Governor 's plan argued that the housing subsidy was needed to help poor families achieve a decent level of housing , They cited the continuing spread of slums in New York to support their stand . Strikebreaker Bill Held ' In another important action the lower house sent back to committee a controversial measure to bar the importation of professional strikebreakers in labor ' disputes . The action reinforced the view that the bill would be killed at this session . There was no indication of when it ' would be called up again . The Assembly also pushed through a measure to continue for another year the system of permitting both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption cases . Another bill putting the concurrent jurisdiction on a permanent basis has been approved by the Governor . But this ogle has not been sent to the Governor . Now both measures will be sent to him at the same time to choose between . The Senate passed a measure requiring New York City and other municipalities to submit proposed tax legislation to the Legislature by the third Tuesday in February . Many members of the Legislature have complained that Mayor Wagner has habitually waited until the closing days of the legislative session to submit tax proposals . ? The Assembly approved , over vigorous objections of New York City Democrats , a bill authorizing Putnam County to divert an additional 2 million gallons of water from the city 's reservoir in the county . The purpose is to provide water for the Ruppert Brewery , which is relocating in Putnam.                     