@@726609

txt Probably no American president would dare deliver as blunt and candid an assessment of the state of the Union as U Thant has just made on the state of the world . As the 22d UN General Assembly meets , its Secretary-General has confronted it with an uncompromising summary of the year 's progress in his annual report . Mr. Thant is basically an optimist . But ' his 1967 report is gravely pessimistic . He obviously hopes to rouse the world leaders converging here to what they might do to improve matters . Dire warnings alternate with constructive ideas . Warning sounded Thus he warns grimly : " During 1967 the international political situation has not only not improved , it has in fact deteriorated considerably . . . . The savagery of the war in Vietnam has steadily escalated . . . The flare-up in the Middle East has led to further deterioration . " And he urges : an unorthodox use of the Security Council . Under Article 28 of the UN Charter , summit-level meetings of the council are suggested . Mr. Thant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming month while great-power foreign ministers and other world leaders are in New York for the General Assembly . He suggests- " informal and closed " meetings with a public session at the end to announce any results achieved . - Mr. ' Thant warns : " I am bound to express my fear that , if again no effort is exerted and no progress is made toward removing the root causes of the Middle East conflict , within a few years at the most there will be ineluctably a new eruption of war . " Then he urges : authorization to allow him to appoint a special representative to act as a go-between from Arab to Israeli capitals . This plan is considered by some big-power diplomats to be the most acceptable method of starting a dialogue between the two sides . Problems examined He warns : " When prejudice and hatred dominate the relations of nations , or groups of nations , the whole world takes a step backward toward the Dark Ages . When violence is highlighted and even glamorized by mass media , thus instilling in society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solving problems by force , the turbulences of today are dangerously fanned . . . . The nightmare of a third world war comes steadily nearer to the world of reality . " And he urges : more specific UN-created machinery to stop disputes before they explode ? machinery for negotiation , inquiry , mediation , conciliation , arbitration , judicial settlement , and regional agencies . More use of the World Court . In the sharp , impatient but frequently eloquent rhetoric of this document , the Secretary-General examines a score of other problems facing the world . He finds the UN 's financial condition still " precarious , " and utters an urgent plea for long-delayed , big-power voluntary contributions . Remedy outlined " We are near the point of no return , " he asserts about food supplies . " Unless all countries are prepared to do more , much more than they have been doing , the world will not solve the food problem . The lives of hundreds of millions of rural youth will be wasted . The swelling migration to the cities will make living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Violence will become the rule rather than the exception . " To remedy this situation he calls for the industrial powers to put much more effort and less lip service into training , capital investment , more generous terms of trade , distribution of food , and aid with fertilizers , pesticides , tractors , and other farm goods . Mr. Thant urges the foreign ministries of the major powers to regularize the use of stand-by forces offered by the smaller states for peace-keeping duty . He asks the Assembly to study standardization of equipment and training for such forces . And he asserts that more should be done to try to heal such disputes as those in Cyprus and Kashmir , where UN peace keeping has become a semipermanent and costly fact of life .                     