@@722286

txt The Cuban delegation walked out of the Council of the Organization of American States today before the Council could act to exclude Cuba from participation in the affairs of the organization . Carlos M. Lechuga , Cuban representative to the Council , and two aides stalked out of the Council chamber six minutes after the session opened . The walkout followed an unsuccessful attempt by Senor Lechuga to gain the floor to protest what he called the " illegality " of the decision by an inter-American conference last month to exclude Cuba from participation in hemisphere affairs . At the United Nations , the United States accused Cuba and the Soviet Union of " gross misuse " of the world organization 's machinery to obscure decisions against Cuba by the Organization of American States . Resolutions Are Received Cuba 's exclusion from interAmerican affairs was made formal when the Council received the resolutions aimed against Cuba that were approved at the foreign ministers ' meeting The resolution ordering Cuin Punta del Este , Uruguay . ba 's exclusion was based on findings that her MarxistLeninist system was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inter-American community . The Council 's meeting fulfilled the conference 's instructions for action " as soon as possible " to carry out the decision on Cuba 's exclusion . For all practical purposes , the Cuban regime of Premier Fidel Castro ceased to be a member of the Organization of American States ' principal organ . The organization 's other bodies will subsequently act separately to formalize Cuba 's exclusion . Conference Action Decisive Although the conference 's action was considered decisive in excluding Cuba from participation in hemisphere affairs , Senor Lechuga insisted on attending the meeting . Senor Lechuga 's appearance was considered by most observers a final attempt to extract some propaganda value from the situation . Arriving early in the council chamber , Senor Lechuga took his seat while the other memlbers met in a caucus to agree Ion how to handle the situation . Last week , officials removed ' Cuba 's seat and nameplate from the Council table , but these were restored yesterday following a protest from Mexico , which contended that the conference had excluded the present Cuban regime , but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lechuga said he would have " stood up " if necessary to register his protest against what he repeatedly described as " illegal and shameful " procedure of the Organization of American States . As the session opened , Dr. Alberto Zuleta Angel of Colombia , the Council 's chairman , read the operative part of the exclusion resolution and proposed that the body 's general commission act on it . At that point , Senor Lechuga sought to gain the floor , but Dr. Zuleta told the Cuban that he had not been granted the right to speak . After two minutes of this exchange , Senor Lechuga shouted that Dr. Zuleta was out of order in giving an erroneous interpretation to the Council 's rules of procedure and announced that " we are going to leave . " He gathered his papers and rose from the table . Senor Lechuga expected to be advised by the United States Government that his diplomatic visa here and the visas of his five staff members were no longer valid . This would require the Cubans to leave the United States and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration of Senora Lechuga 's dislike of flying , the United States Government did not impose a departure , deadline on Senor Lechuga and his family . He was allowed all the necessary time to make convenient arrangements . In his news conference , held simultaneously with the Council session , President Kennedy said that the finding by the hemisphere countries that Cuba and the Communist system were not a part of the interAmerican system was " a most important declaration . " ( Question 10 , Page 14 . ) The President said he disagreed with the view expressed by Governor Rockefeller of New York that the Punta del Este conference was a " diplomatic failure " for the United States . " I do have a different opinion of the results , even though there is a division , of course , among countries , as there is bound to be , as to the best methods of containing expansion of communism , " he said . " On the general opposition to its expansion in this hemisphere , I think there was unanimity , and I regard that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    