@@727387

txt President Johnson announced today the resignation of George W. Ball as chief United States representative to the United Nations and nominated James Russell Wiggins , editor and executive vice president of The Washington Post , to succeed i him . Mr. Ball , a former Under Secretary of State , will become a foreign policy adviser to Vice President Humphrey . He was named to the United Nations post last April 25 to replace Arthur J. Goldberg , and his surprise resignation came just a day after the Senate confirmed his appointment as chief of the American delegation to this session of the General Assembly . Compelled by Conscience At a news conference at the State . Department this afternoon . Mr. Ball said he was " compelled by conscience to adopt my present course of action " because he felt that the Republican Presidential nominee , Richard M. Nixon , " lamentably lacks " the qualities necessary to conduct a successful foreign policy . " I have taken this step so that I may devote all my time and energy between now and Nov. 5 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Richard Nixon , " he said in a prepared statement . Both the President and Mr. Ball sought to convey the impression that his resignation was motivated by deep opposition to Mr. Nixon and not by any disagreement with the Administration over foreign policy . Although loyal to the President , Mr. Ball has consistently held dovish views on the Vietnam war . Linked to Politics In his announcement in the Cabinet Room at the White House the President said Mr. Ball 's resignation " has nothing to do with public policy but does have something to do with domestic polities . " Mr. Ball declared that " soulsearching logic " had led him to resign because " during the years immediately ahead our nation will face unparalleled dangers and opportunities in the larger world arena . " " To surmount those dangers and utilize those opportunities will require leadership with the most exacting qualities of mind and spirit , " he said . " It is essential that the President of the United States be a man with // settled principles and clear vision . It is not enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more important , he must possess the perception and compassion that will enable him to feel and widerstand the epic forces now at work in a fast-changing world . " He said he was " convinced that Hubert Humphrey has those qualities . " Mr. Ball said his decision to become " a principal foreign policy adviser " to Mr. Humphrey " was entirely my idea " and was arrived at last week in Europe . On his return t this weekend , he said , " I telephoned my decision to the President in Texas " and also discussed it with Secretary of State ? Dean Rusk . He talked with Mr. ? umphrey on Monday night , he said , and " at 5:30 last night I met the President and he , accepted my decision , recognizing it as a matter of ; conscience . " White House sources said the President and Mr. Ball . : then worked out the procedure- for the virtually simultaneous announcement of his resignation today , and then conferred on a however , whether Mr. Baltthad successor . It was unknown , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that ( Mr. Ball had told the President he was appalled at the foreign policy consequences of iv-vic-s tory by Mr. Nixon and that the President had accepted ? , the depth of Mr. Ball 's feeling . and was not annoyed at his resignation . No Speculation on Break But there was ' Immediate speculation in Congress ' that Mr. Ball 's resignation foreshadowed a move by Mr. Humphrey away from ' the President 's Vietnam policy . It was considered ' significant that Mr. Humphrey 's Senior foreign policy , adviser will now be a man who , was ' long known as the resident dove in- , .. the Administration and'Who quietly resigned in 1966 as Under Secretary of State bbeauSe oCdisagreement with the ' war . Mr. Goldberg , who ' resigned in unpleasant circuinstatices in April because of opposition to the war , today became " cochairman ' of the ' National zens Committeefor HumphreyMuskie and immediately - ? reiterated , his call for a complete halt in the bribing of , North Vietnam . Mr. Ball , , however .. has , always , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite his views on , the Wat'and sought today to deprecate , the bombing question somewhat by accusing the press of a , " fixation " on the issue that " creates a distortion . " He said , nevertheless , ' that he felt the war " is likely . to find a political solution fairly early on in the termorthe next President , that is , . if ' it is Humphrey  --  I have no idea what Mr. Nixon would do " Some observers also speculated that if ' Mr. Ball did ! attempt to move Mr. ' Humphrey , away from the President ; on Vietnam he would encourage a gradual separation and not any , dramatic break . Mr. Ball , 58 years old , seilred 1for nearly six year in the'No. 3 and No. 2 positions at ' the State Department , as Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and then as Under ' Secretary , before resigning in the fall of 1966 to become the chairman of Lehman ' Brothers Ltd. , an investment banking concern . Began as a Lawyer He began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration , and has been a Democrat throughout his career . Mr. Wiggins , 64 years old , is an old acquaintance of the President and has been consistently sympathetic toward Mr. Johnson 's Vietnam policy . His views have been reflected in Post editorials , which have disagreed at times with details of Vietnam policy but have supported the President 's essential war aims . Unlike a number of other liberal newspapers in the country , The Post has not called for a complete halt in the bombing of North Vietnam at this time . The President praised ill ' . Wiggins today as " a very WIND and constructive objective ' observer of public affairs " and said the country had gained , ' " a great advocate for peace , and for justice in the affairs ' of man " in its new chief delegate to the United Nations . Mr. Wiggins was praised by some of his colleagues on The Washington Post today as " a genuine self-made man . " Born on Dec. 4 , 1903 , , in Luverne , Minn. , Mr. Wiggins never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Phi Beta Kappa chapter of Haryard University . He ran a weekly newspai4r , The Rock County Star , published in Luverne , before ? ne was 25 . Mr. Wiggins had planned to retire at the end of this year and live in Maine , where he is the owner of The Ellsworth American , a weekly . In 1946 and 1947 he was assistant to the publisher of The New York Times . He became managing editor of The Post In May , 1947 . He was vice president and managing editor from May , 1953 to July , 1955 and vice president and executive editor until February , 1961.                     