@@722026

txt Winds of 125 miles an hour and tides nearly ten feet above normal smashed at the Texas Coast last night as Hurricane Carla . hit the mainland . The center of the storm was due to move inland between Matagorda Bay and Aransas Pass . The eye was 110 miles due least of Corpus Christi at midnight last night . The 125-mile-an-hour gusts were recorded at Matagorda . The Weather Bureau said winds of 150 miles an hour could be ' expected . Winds in gusts up to 104 miles an hour lashed ? ort O'Connor and water surged through streets and industrial plants of cities and towns along a 200-mile sector of the Gulf Coast . Power failures blacked out sections of Bay City , Port O'Con-1 nor and many other places . Thel winds and waves smashed piers , small boats and beach houses . Windows were broken and signs and awnings ripped away . President Kennedy alerted Federal disaster agencies to aid stricken areas . The Red Cross reported that refugees from the hurricane were approaching the 300,000 mark . Cities and towns along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children fled before the storm in a mass , evacuation termed by the Red ' Cross as a huge " modern day exodus . " Loading their cars with food , clothing and pets , they jammed highways as they moved to inland centers . Rains . Up to 15 Caches The rains , which reached torrential proportions along the ' coast last night , moved northward into the state . The United Weather Bureau said that up to fifteen inches of rain could be expected in the path of the hurricane . Tides twelve to fifteen feet above normal were predicted from Matagorda to Galveston , eight to ten feet from Galveston to Cameron , La. , and five to ten feet elsewhere . Although the center of the hurricane was still well out to sea , hurricane winds with gusts ' to ninety miles an hour battered Galveston and tides 8.8 feet above normal surged into low-lying areas of the resort island . Large areas of Port O'Con nor , Texas City , Seabrook , Free ! port and other coastal towns were under water . All avenues of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when waters covered the causeway . Chief of Police W. L. Burns estimated that only about 15,000 of the 73,000 residents remained on the island . Many of the smaller cities along the coast were " ghost towns " as only police and a handful of residents remained behind , The Weather Bureau extended the range of expected fifteenfoot tides to 150 miles east of Carla 's center , an expansion of fifty miles , late yesterday . Tides , more than winds , are feared on the low-lying Louisiana-Texas coast . The high-tide prediction puts , the range far into Louisiana , where residents still recall Hurricane Audrey of 1957 , which took 590 lives , mostly near Cameron , La . As Carla appears set to do , Audrey 's eye came over the Texas coast , with limited damage , but with the always devastating northeast quadrant hitting Cameron . . Town Is Inundated Smashing waves , which one observer described as looking " like great white ships , " pounded Cameron yesterday . Six feet of water covered the evacuated town of 5,000 . Pounding waves also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , forty-five miles southwest of Galveston , a levee broke and water poured into the city . Civil Defense headquarters at Lake Charles , La. , said the Galveston Coast Guard Station had reported high waters were eroding away the foundations of the station last night . It said the Coast Guard reported no immediate danger to personnel . The Civil Defense officials said they were in constant touch with the Galveston Coast Guard station by radio . In Louisiana 40.000 or more ' persons fled t'he marshy , low coast , and only trappers and emergency rescue workers remained . The New Orleans weather bureau issued an advisory on the hurricane at midnight , New York time . It said : " Hurricane warnings are displayed from Corpus Christi , Tex. , to Grand Isle , La. , and gale warnings elsewhere from Brownsville to New Orleans . Hurricane Carla is moving on a northwesterly course at about 10 miles an hour and the center is expected to move inland in the Aransas Pass-Matagorda Bay area late tonight . " Winds have reached hurricane force along much of the central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour winds and squalls are occurring elsewhere in area of warnings . Winds and squalls will continue to increase on most of the Texas Coast throughout tonight . " Tides are already extremely high on the Texas and Louisiana coasts , and they will continue to rise , reaching twelve to fifteen feet from where the center crosses the coast to the Galveston area and eight to twelve feet from Galveston to Cameron , La. , and five to ten feet elsewhere in area of display . " Extremely Dingerous " " Every precautionary measure possible that has not already been taken for the protection of life and property should be hastened before it is too Late . Carla is an extremely dangerous hurricane and the large size of the hurricane will result in extremely dangerous winds . Small craft from Brownsville , Tex. , to St. Marks , Fla. , should remain in safe shelter . " At 10 P. M. , Central standard time , Hurricane Carla was centered near Latitude 27.4 and ' Longitude 95.5 , or about 120 statute miles almost east of Corpus Christi , Tex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour near the center and hurricane winds extend outward about 120 miles from the center . Gales and squalls cover all of the northwestern Gulf and are spreading inland on the Texas and west Louisiana coasts . " Heavy rain associated with Carla should reach the central and upper Texas coast early tonight and spread northward with eight to fifteen inches indicated for a broad area near the center as it moves inland . "                     