@@726023

txt The City University 's graduate program " draws off professors and replaces them in the undergraduate program by less qualified lecturers , " according to a report by a faculty committee at City College . The report was made before a conflicting confidential evaluation of the graduate program by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools became known Sunday . This evaluation said that having a strong graduate division made it easier for the City University to recruit outstanding scholars for the undergraduate faculties and that most members of the graduate faculty also taught undergraduates . The association made the comment in reporting that the university 's five-year-old graduate program had been " notably successful " in providing doctoral programs of C.C.N.Y. UNIT SAYS to indicate a grave weakness in the staffing of the college , " it said . The proportion of lecturers increased at the college from 30 per cent of the teaching staff in 1960 to 41 per cent in 1965 , although it dropped to 39 per cent this year , the report shows . The lecturers , who " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty rank , teach half of the 562 daysession undergraduate class hours in mathematics , the report shows ; 62 per cent of the 503 hours of Romance languages taught ; 60 per cent of the classes in sociology , and 53 per cent of the class hours in art courses . Faculty ranks include the positions of instructor , assistant professor , associate professor and professor . Lecturers are not given faculty ranks . About 40 per cent of the courses in most of the college " departments are taught by lecturers . The lowest proportion , 29 per cent , is in the 505 hours of chemistry taught . Lecturers Employed TEACHING SUFFERS // " high quality . " The City College report , presented to the Liberal Arts and Sciences Faculty Council by its faculty interests committee three weeks ago , is concerned only with City College and does not deal with Queens , Brooklyn or Hunter , the other City University senior colleges . The report reflects a growing concern among both faculty members and students with the quality of undergraduate instruction . Dr. Buell G. Gallagher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for comment yesterday . An administrative assistant said , however , that Dr. Gallagher had often spoken out against . overemphasis on the graduate division at the expense of the undergraduate program . Dr. Albert H. Bowker , the chancellor of the City University , said that although he had not read the City College report , he " strongly suspects " that the lateness of the budget last year rather than " any shift , in educational philosophy " was the reason for an increase in the use of lecturers . The budget was submitted " too late to really hire permanent faculty for the following term , " he said . Members of the Middle States Association committee whose report was made public Sunday could not be reached for comment . The City College report said that lecturers , who are often graduate students , nonacademic professionals such as engineers and lawyers , or high school teachers , were taking over an increasing proportion of the undergraduate teaching load . Their " presence in substantial numbers may be expect &; In the college 's liberal arts evening courses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments is done by lecturers , The lowest proportion is in biology courses , 11 per cent of which are taught by lecturers . The highest proportion is in classes in Classical languages and in economics , all of which are taught by lecturers . Most of the departments employ lecturers for 40 to 80 per cent of their evening courses . Liberal arts courses at the Bernard M Baruch School of Business and Public Administration are also handled largely by lecturers , the report shows , During the day session 47 per cent of the classes are taught by lecturers . In evening-session classes the figure is 82 pet cent . Factors that may have contributed to the " sharp " increase in the number of lecturers over the last five or ten years . the report suggests . may include the " poor physical facilities etc. , which fail to attract professional faculty to City " and " a nationwide shortage of highly qualified faculty . " While lecturers are , on the whole , poorer teachers , the report concluded . " it should be noted that some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that some are better than many professors , " Prof. Julius Elias , one of the authors of the report , said . The report said teaching by g.raduate students was justified only if they were properly supervised . But Professor Elias said in an interview . " Supervision is perfunctory  --  most are visited once . " This report criticized the use of high school and other outside teachers as lecturers , sayin:i ; that many of them came to the college after a full day 's work : it other institutions . Although the school 's administration and some acaderi ; : ? deans are concerned about the problem , Professor Elias said , his report " fell completely deal on its face " because the college 's Faculty Council is overloaded with other matters .                     