@@722312

txt The story , however , draws the line pretty sharply when it states that no representative of national headquarters was in New York to assist this local union . The fact is that no request had ever been made by Local 3 for special assistance from Washington . The conduct of strikes and the issues involved are determined and conducted by the members of each union involved . The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations does not intrude in these situations unless requested to do so by the specific union involved . This is in accordance with sound , basic trade union principles . The fact is , however , that A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . through this office was requested to and did render such support as was desirable and necessary by the local union in this situation . The breakthrough by the electrical workers in its own industry will have a most wholesome effect in future bargaining , certainly in this area , in the not too-distant future . MICHAEL MANN , Director , Region 2 , A. F. L.-C @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 . Oldest College Literary Society TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : Your news story of Feb. 28 headed " Columbia to Revive a Literary Society Organized in 1802 " reported that the only literary societies older than Philolexian at Columbia are those at Williams and at North Carolina . There is at least one other , that being the American WhigCliosophic Society at Princeton University . As a matter of fact , I believe that you will find the society at Princeton to be older than any of those mentioned in the Feb. 28 story , as it was founded in 1765 . Today the society engages in political and debating activities as well as ) iterary ones and four times a year it publishes the oldest college literary review in this country , the Nassau Literary Magazine . Please do not deny an organization founded nearly two hundred years ago by such men as James Madison , Philip Frerieau and signers of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution , its rightful place . MARK W. SHACKELFORD , President , American Whig-Cliosophic Society . Princeton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Though I agree with the headline of your editorial of March 5 that " Eloquence Is Not Enough , " I think you should have also stressed the fact that when a leader  --  and in this case the President  --  has fully presented the case , it is up to the public to Jake interest in the matter and work on their Representatives in the Congress to back up the President . As a member of the Senior Citizens I must admit that I do n't find the necessary awareness and willingness among my age group to cooperate with the President for passage of the bill of medical aid through Social Security . If good government depends upon informed citizenship , I think the President by his eloquent presentation of our needs has done his best . Similarly , there should be no argument that there are vast areas of the city which have deteriorated beyond the stage where rehabilitation or conservation can effectively be used . What techniques , other than the " bulldozer , " could be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mention only three ? How many buildings in these areas would the planners save ? We are unmoved by those who , like Mr. Moscow , emphasize preserving the character of neighborhoods at all costs . In reality this means preservation of the miserable conditions in which vast numbers of people live . In sponsoring Corlears Hook , Seward Park , Penn Station South and Amalgamated - Warbasse Houses , we rehoused approximately 17,400 people . In almost 100 per cent of the cases families were rehoused in better accommodations than they previously occupied . The impartial Bureau of Real Estate will testify that all units met their requirements for being " decent , safe and sanitary . " More than that , we provided new housing for approximately 30,000 persons . While rebuilding slum areas may not be a pleasant experience , nevertheless the facts are it has to be done and it can result in improving conditions for those who have to be involved . Low-Income Families Let us be realistic about another aspect of the housing situation . We would all like to be able to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In reality , however , large numbers of families find it difficult to pay even $20 a room a month for shelter . It is these families we are concerned about . A proposal for the Seward Park Extension in which the buildings would vary in size will cost at least $5 more a room a month in rent than the high-rise Seward Park buildings across the street . In Seward Park the average rental is $21 . Those who condemn the accomplishments achieved under Title I with the bulldozer may take satisfaction in the knowledge that their efforts have halted the program . We would prefer to continue the program and provide housing for another 30,000 people . ABRAHAM E. KAZAN , President , United Housing Foundation . New York , March 9 , 1962 . Violence in Algeria To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : While I have no wish to condone the violence perpetrated by the 0 . A. S. in Algeria , should not your correspondent C. L. Sulzberger and your editorialists , instead of lashing themselves into moral indignation about the terrorist bullying of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impunity ( March 7 ) , practice a little historical perspective ? With greater objectivity H. Huizinga reminded the readers of The London Times on March 3 that " The wheel has indeed come full circle . Seven years ago it was a handful of militant Moslems who used . . . terror , to compel the large number of quietists in their camp to support them in the seemingly hopeless fight .                     