@@725723

txt United States Air Force jets killed 24 persons , including at least eight civilians and possibly some Vietcong , in an air strike Tuesday on two Vietcong- ' controlled hamlets eight miles west of this southern provincial capital , American officers said today . The number of wounded was put at 84 . The officers reported that a South Vietnamese captain on the province chief 's staff had requested the raid after " highly reliable " intelligence had indicated that.a Vietcong company was in the area of the hamlets , which form part of the village of Truongthanli , 80 miles southeast of Saigon . The request was passed up the chain of command and approved by American and South Vietnamese officers at the mill , . tary headquarters for the southern quarter of South Vietnam here . Two Jets Involved In the ground war , United States marines were engaged in heavy fighting with enemy soldiers on the coastal plain 340 miles northeast of Saigon . Page 3 . Two F-100 Supersabre jets carried out the strike , dropping napalm and what were described as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They also fired 20-mm. cannon shells that burst on impact . " We 're all very broken up about the casualties , " said Lieut . Col. Josia A. Wallace Jr . of Rapid City , S.D. , the chief American adviser in the hamlet 's province , Phuongdinh . He said that disciplinary action against those responsible for the incident was possible , but that none had yet been taken . Colonel Wallace said that inquiries after the incident showed that two Vietcong platoons had been in the hamlet , and that they had held the peasants there at gunpoint to prevent them from fleeing when they saw an American spotter plane flying overhead . Such spotter plane flights normally preceded air or artillery attacks . Allied officers knew that the area was inhabited , Colonel Wallace said in an interview in his office here , but " there was no reason to suspect that there was undue hazard " to the populace when the mission was carried out . " If there 's a fault somewhere , if we made a mistake we Americans and Vietnamese made it together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurately placed in the area designated by the South Vietnamese captain , . Le Xuan , adding that if the Vietnamese officers " say go , we almost always go . " Wounded Moved by Sampan The raid was carried out at about 6 P.M. Tuesday . Within a few hours residents of the hamlets , Truongtrung and Truongtay , were bringing out their wounded toward Cantho in sampans through the waterways of the Mekong Delta region . South Vietnamese authorities sent ambulances to pick up the wounded and bring them to the provincial hospital here , where they were treated by teams of Vietnamese and American doctors and nurses . Colonel Wallace said the Vietcong units , which withdrew from the hamlets after the raid , had apparently taken additional dead and wounded with them . Four of the wounded at the hospital are suspected to be Vietcong . After the raid the Vietnamese province chief visited the village and passed out money to the remaining inhabitants , he said . The villagers are also entitled ' to claim compensation from the South Vietnamese Government for death and property loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with wounded with about 50 seriously wounded villagers were there this morning . Others had been treated and released . Relatives Are Soldiers One of the villagers , a 38-year-old peasant named Iran Van Sau , said through an interpreter , I do not think they deliberately wanted to kill our people because many of the injured are the relatives of Government soldiers . " Mr. Sau was nursing a nephew who had been hit by shrapnel . Several villagers said they had been trying to escape by sampan to seek shelter near a nearby Government outpost when they were hit by ordnance from the planes . Vietnamese peasants frequently gather near Government outposts or churches during allied air strikes , on the assumption that they will not be bombed there . Colonial Wallace said the inhabitants of the raided hamlets The New York Times Aug. 11 , 1966 8 civilians were killed at Truongthanh ( 1 ) . Build-up is planned in Mekong Delta ( 2 ) . U.S. marines battled enemy soldiers on a plain 340 miles from Saigon ( 3 ) . " were undoubtedly Vietcong sympathizers " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they could have moved out of the area earlier . " This was not a cavalier decision to go out and tap some village , " he observed . " It was our best professional estimate of the situation , the intention was good and the nature of the target was appropriate for an air strike . " The extent of the casualties , he said , " surprised the hell out of us . " At the hospital , peasants who were caring for wounded relatives said that the Vietcong visited their hamlet often at night , but they said they had no knowledge of any Vietcong unit in the area at the time of the air strike . The province chief , Col. Le Cong Tuong , was not immediately available for comment , nor was the captain who had originally requested the air strike .                     