@@723065

txt From Canada The voters of Canada have defeated the Progressive Conservative government of Prime Minister John G. Diefenbaker but have failed to give the Liberal Party , led by Lester B. Pearson , a clear majority in the next Parlia ? ment . With two parliamentary seats still in doubt until the votes of the military forces are counted Mr. Pearson 's Liberals hold 127 seats in a Parliament of 265 , just 6 short of the 133 needed for even a technical majority . , Returns Awaited The Conservatives hold 95 seats . The Social Credit Party suffered a loss of 6 seats and returned with only 24 . The other splinter , the left-wing New Democratic Party slipped from 19 to 17 . After so close a national verdict in terms of parliamentary arithmetic , it is not known whether Mr. Diefenbaker will resign at once or decide to meet Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence  --  which he seems unlikely to receive . The Prime Minister said on election night only that he would determine his course after all the election returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system ne has the constitutional right to call Parliament and allow it to decide whether it wishes him to continue in office or not . Presumably his decision will depend upon the attitude of the splinter parties both of which will have to support him if he is to win a confidence vote . Support Pledged T. C. Douglas , leader of the New Democratic Party said in the election campaign that he would back the largest elected group , now controlled by Mr. Pearson . Leaders of both the New Democratic Party and the Social Credit Party indicated on election night they would support a minority Liberal government , though both parties have expressed reservations . The Liberal leader 's only comment so far is that the controversy and bitterness of the campaign must be set aside and that all parties must work for the good of the nation . He voiced no claim for office but his party expects it without delay . e The nation 's vote followed accurately ' the forecast of public-opinion polls . Of the total ballots cast , the Liberal Party won 42 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party 12 percent . And the new Democratic Party 13- percent . These figures are subject to marginal change in the final count . New Pattern Geographically the poll established a new pattern . The two major parties split the Maritime Provinces of the Atlantic coast . The Liberals repossessed most of their historic stronghold of Quebec , where the Conservatives were reduced to 9 scats and the upsurge of Social Credit in last year 's election was definitely arrested . The return of only 20-odd Social Crediters representing French Canadian nationalism was one of the most significant results of the election . Mr. Diefenbaker , easily reelected to his Saskatchewan seat , held the three Prairie Provinces almost solidly , and British Columbia returned 3 Conservatives , 7 Liberals , 9 New Democrats and 2 Social Creditors . Among the Conservative casualties on the Pacific coast was Howard Green , Minister of External Affairs , who strongly opposed the introduction of American nuclear weapons to Canada . The poor showing of the New Democratic Party , which took the same position and made it the core of its campaign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons . In any case , if the Liberal Party forms a government it will install them without , delay . ?                     