@@723886

txt Illinois Central railroad offi rials said early today that they are " hopeful " that commuter and freight train service will be resumed this afternoon . A telegram received at 2:55 a. m. by the Brotherhood of Firemen and Enginemen from H. E. Gilbert , international uion president , cleared the way for resumption of train service . Union Awaits Word Efforts to call off a strike scheduled for midnight against the railroad hit a snag when the firemen refused to comply with a Presidential order to postpone the strike for 15 days on the ground that the union had not been officially notified by union headquarters to end the strike . Three other striking unions complied with the order . " The telegram came too late to establish service this morning , " an I. C. spokesman said . " If it had not been for the fact that the firemen dragged their feet , we could have provided service for commuters this morning , " he added . Face Traffic Chaos After receiving the telegram , R. N. Pennington , general chairman of the union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike officially was over . Union officials said it was up to the railroad to call the workers back as they are needed to begin operations . The line employs 7,200 persons . More than 95,000 south side and south suburban commuters are faced with another morning of car pools , bus trips , and taxi rides along clogged highways in order to get to work today . It is the third day of inconvenience for Illinois Central riders . Puts Blame on Union I. C. officials had announced earlier that they expected to resume commuter and freight service by 5 a. in . This was countermanded at 1:30 a. m. , when it became apparent that the firemen were not returning to work . An official said at that time : " It is now too late for us to get our suburban service in operation due to the deliberate delays of the union , " the spokesman said . Union 's Statement A spokesman for the Brotherhood of Firemen and Engin.eI men working for the I. C. said : " We are waiting for the official telegram from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formally telling us the strike should be withdrawn . We need this official notification before we can stop a strike in accordance with brotherhood law . " The spokesman blamed Western Union for being unable to clear its wires early to get the communications thru . He said union officials are awaiting the official notification . Union men were walking picket lines at scattered points thruout the nation and in the Chicago area nearly five hours after the agreement in Washington . Union leaders in Chicago said the walkouts resulted from poor communications . They said rail workers probably would be going back to work as soon as notification of the strilte postponement got thru complex union channels . It was expected early today by union officials that six other Chicago commuter railroads will be running on time this morning . These roads are the Chicago and North Western , Milwaukee , Rock Island , Chicago and Western Indiana , South Shore , and Pennsylvania . Minutes after President Johnson announced a 15-day delay in a threatened nation-wide strike , commuter rail officials in Chicago gave assurances of uninterrupted service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parking , and traffic - officials to handle a surge of strikebound commuters were shelved . The officials , put to the test on a smaller scale by the Illinois Central strike Wednesday and yesterday , had sought ways to handle the daily flow of 121,000 suburban commuters and 25,000 long distance travelers who normally ride trains into or out of the city .                     