@@723937

txt Some of those who have talked recently with former President Dwight D. Eisenhower have come away with a distinct impression that he may yet say publicly what kind of candidate he believes should be his party 's nominee in November . It is no more than an impression , for General Eisenhower seems to do a lot more listening than talking on the subject of candidates . But his mobile face can speak volumes to the visitor whose purpose is to have the former President express publicly his preference for some candidate . When someone first mentioned the possibility of a Goldwater nomination on the second ballot , General Eisenhower 's expression was much the same as that shown in the famous news photograph that caught his reaction to President Truman 's dismissal of General of the Army Douglas . But he said nothing . By nom general Eisenhower United Press International General Eisenhower as , in 1951 , he learned about Gen. eral 's being relieved of Korean command . has been asked by supporters of every potential candidate still in the Republican contest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his public endorsement to their candidate . His consistent reply has been that as the most recent Republican President he will not indulge in personalities , that he will remain neutral . An even stronger impression A Broad Statement More Likely Than an Endorsement left with some recent visitors is that he will not depart from this rule unless he is convinced that his pronouncement will not on balance add to the divisive influences already apparent in the Republican party . General Eisenhower has long felt that only a united Republican party can win a Presidential election . He knows from personal experience that only through such unity can it make up for its historic weakness in the South and its organizational weakness in the big cities . Thus , the chances seem better than even that if he has anything to say publicly about the party 's choice of a nominee , it will not constitute a personal endorsement of any one contender . Much more likely would be a broad statement saying what he has said many times in the past ? that the problems of the nation at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world call few the nomination and election of a forward-looking and progressive Republican who can interpret the main stream of Republican thinking and who is qualified by experience and temperament to cope with such problems . There is no certainty at this time that General Eisenhower will depart from his self-imposed neutrality even to this extent , but the pressure on him to do so has been increasing . General Eisenhower has said several times that he would not be a part of any movement to stop Goldwater. or stop anybody else before or during the convention . He has also said that he could actively support ay candidate that could gain his party 's nomination . Any statement by General Eisenhower about the kind of candidate he favors would probH ably be interpreted by the ex- , treme right-wing supporters of Senator Goldwater as an at- , tempt to diminish the Senator 's chances to win the nomination . ' , Appeal Recalled On the other hand , General E ; senhower appealed to Senator Goldwater months ago to make clear during his primary cam- ! paigns just where he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palm Desert is that this process is far from complete . , General Eisenhower finds much of the current published speculation about candidates arid about his own attitude on them more than a little irritating . An amazingly vigorous man for his 74 years , the former President is pictured by visir , tors as appearing doubly vigorous When striding about his tiny office at Indio gesturing with both hands to make a point . That is usually what happens when he is explaining how he has tried to avoid " discussing personalities " because he wanted to get people to think and talk more in terms of ideas and issues rather than candidates . He has tried to . keep himself out of the national political picture as much as possible because he wants the party to concentrate on the men who will have to shoulder its responsibilities from now on . General Eisenhower tolerates few criticisms of the Republican party from others . But as a self-styled " has-been , " one criticism that he has been known to permit himself is that there has been too much " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too many Republicans . He has been known to remark with some impatience that he does not want to be thought of as the party leader , , preferring to be regarded as the former party leader . This seems just another way of saying that he prefers the casual slacks and open-throated western shirt he wears in and around his cottage bordering the fairway at Eldorado Country Club at Palm Desert to . the business suit and four-inhand tie he wears to the little office at Indio . He thinks politics in its proper sense is important and fascinating . But he has developed an even stronger aversion to " politics " ? as popularly understood  --  than he had when he was President . General Eisenhower has been asked time and again whether he dislikes Senator Goldwater and , if so , why . He has been heard to say that he likes Mr. Goldwater but deplores the Senator 's confessed weakness of " shooting from the hip " on important issues without sufficient reflection and , in General Eisenhower 's view , the Senator 's apparent unwillingness or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do on such specific questions of domestic policy as medical care for the aged , urban renewal and farm laws . Regarding this matter of a positive approach , General Eisenhower feels little better about the other prospective candidates . General Eisenhower also likes Henry Cabot Lodge , Ambassador to South Vietnam , Governor Rockefeller of New York , , Gov . William W. Scranton of , Pennsylvania and Gov . George , Romney of Michigan . But in , what order he is not about to ; say in any offhand manner ; or in the immediate future . For much as he may dislike ; the pulling and hauling Of tical politics , he is not so innocent as to suppose that al statement by him on the candidates would not have some effect on their chances for , the nomination . So for the time being General Eisenhower is trying to avoid trouble while enjoying his golf and the plush world of the desert country . When someone asked him recently what he would do or say in the event of a deadlocked convention , he shrugged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it .                     