@@722210

txt Letters to The Times WALTER E. O'DONNELL , M.D. Letters to The Times ress . Every other author may aspire Pr , o Select Teaching to praise ; the lexicographer can only hope to escape reproach and even There are certainly very good reasons for the United States to recognize Communist China . As you pointed out , there is the need for close observation . It is generally realized that Peiping 's participation in a world disarmament agreement is essential to the prevention of a nuclear war and that American recognition of Peiping would further the cause of such an agreement . The establishment of diplomatic relations between Washington and Peiping may help the West to exploit the rift between Moscow and Peiping , however doubtful the outcome of such an effort may be . It is important to note , however . that only the willingness of both the recognizing state and the government to be recognized can bring about a successful consummation of the act of recognition and , more importantly , serve a practical purpose . ( The British theory that an existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless of the latter 's attitude has no support outside the United Kingdom . ) Thus the United States recognized the Soviet Union in 1933 after a lapse of sixteen years only when the latter expressed its willingness to accept it under mutually acceptable " conditions . " ? The time may come when Communist China becomes willing ( under a new leadership , for instance ) to accept American recognition under conditions agreeable to both . But , for the present , the only condition ander which American recognition can be favorably , rtained is a complete reversal t. ' ? can policy toward Taiwan , the .. ipposite to your proposed condition for granting recognition . Policy Tied to Taiwan This is the crux of the whole issue , as the entire fabric of Communist China 's foreign policy ( from the anti-American campaign to the doctrine of inevitability of war ) is directly or indirectly related to the Taiwan question . The two Chinas may exist as a political reality with or without American recognition of Peiping . Indeed , it is the American policy of withholding recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day an area of agreement may be found between the United States and Communist China . But the willingness of Communist China to accept American recognition on mutually acceptable terms has to be clearly established if the American offer is to be meaningful and useful . I-KUA CiiOU , Professor of Government , College of William and Mary . Williamsburg , Va. , Jan. 4 , 1962 , Johnson on Lexicographers TO THEEDITOR OF T HE NEW YORK TIMES : Your recent editorial taking to task the editors of the new Webster 's Dictionary and their rejoinder brings to mind the complaint of an illustrious lexicographer : " It is the fate of those who toil at the lower employments ; of life , to be rather driven by the fear of evil , ' than attracted by the prospect of good ; to be exposed to censure , without hope of praise ; to be disgraced by miscarriage , or punished for neglect , where success would have been without applause , and diligence without reward . " Among these unhappy mortals is the writer of dictionaries ; whom mankind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave of science , the pioneer of literature , doomed only to remove rubbish and clear obstructions from the paths through which learning and genius press forward to conquest and glory , without bestowing a smile on the humble drudge that facilitates their progthis negative recompense has been yet granted to very few . " These are the opening paragraphs of Samuel Johnson 's preface to his ' English Dictionary published in 1755 . WALTER E. O'DONNELL , M. D. Gloucester , Mass , , Dec. 19 , 1961 . Goa Called Liberation Act To THE EDITOR OF THE New YORK TIMES : In your comment ( Dec. 23 ) on the recent Indian action in Goa , you blissfully forget : ( 1 ) That India has lost esteem only in the capitals of the West , which makes it appear that the West is still trying to cling to whatever colonies it has . ( 2 ) That the Indian action was hailed all over Asia and Africa as an act of liberation . India 's esteem in these areas went up . ( 3 ) That Mr. Nehru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to negotiate . ( 4 ) That there was no other way , as Tanganyika 's Julius Nyerere has said , since the Portuguese simply would have stayed and stayed . ( 5 ) That your own Government used , even indirectly , force in Cuba . GERALD Wle KRE I ESOORIY.1 . Colombo , Ceylon , Dec. 2S , 1961 . Library Building Praised To THE EDITOR OF T II E NEW YoRK TIDIES : Your editorial of Dec. 26 " New York 's Great Library " merits high approval . As a rather frequent visitor from Boston , I find it truly inspiring to behold the beautiful structure of Grecian style on Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street , with the figures above the fountains on either side of the entrance by F. Macmonnies , that of Truth on the north and of Beauty on the south . Surmounting these statues one reads two monumental inscriptions : Above the figure of Truth , the inscription from Apocrypha ( 1 Esdras , Chapter 3 ) , " But above all things truth beareth away the victory " ; above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's poem , " The Shadow and the Light , " one reads : " Beauty old yet ever new ! Eternal voice and inward word . " How well the esthetic design of the building , the immortal beauty of these figures and the beautiful phi.osophy of the inscriptions reflect the , words which are enshrined within . STANLEY J. G. NOWAK , M. D. Boston , Dec. 29 , 1961 . Staff Schinnerer Recommendation to Abolish Examiners Opposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Schinnerer report on the New York City school system , discussed in your Jan. 5 editorial , has value , but has one recommendation that would undermine the quality of the teaching staff rather than improve it . Dr. Schinnerer recommends that the objective examination system of Iseleeting teachers and supervisors be abandoned and that the Board of Examiners be eliminated . In place of these , he recommends that Personnel Division staff members , without the safeguard of tenure or the legal status of a Board of Examiners , should do the selecting by personal interviews , relying upon " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York this subjective method of selecting teachers and supervisors by individuals without tenure or legal safeguards in office would destroy the present merit system of selection and promotion , would lower standards and would bring back favoritism , nepotism , and behind-the-scenes influence . It would not take long for the political clubs and similar organizations to become the avenues for obtaining jobs as teachers and school supervisors . What would then be the effect upon the quality and morale of the school staff and upon the quality of education in our city Safeguards Needed Subjective , informal selection of school staff may work satisfactorily in smaller communities where the public is able to exercise closer surveillance over school administration . In a vast , complex , heterogeneous city such as New York more safeguards and controls are needed . Elimination of an impartial merit system , which gives equal opportunity to all , regardless of race , religion or political belief , is not the way to secure capable teachers . An impartial merit system based upon examinations , to which all college students are accustomed , is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff . The facts are that there is a national shortage of teachers just as acute in places where no examinations are used ; that the New York City salary schedule is less attractive than it should be , and that enough teachers have been licensed by the Board of Examiners to staff our schools , but that many decline to serve because they are unwilling to accept appointment to what . they regard as difficult schools . The appointment policy has been under the complete control of the Board of Education , not the Board of Examiners . Law Repeal Opposed These are the basic problems that require solution . However , the educational authorities are reported to be considering the destructive solution suggested in the Schinnerer report  --  namely , repeal of the state law which sets up an impartial merit system of selection by a Board of Examiners in New York City . Such a step would inevitably undermine the quality and the standards of teaching and supervision in the New York City school system . To be sure , dynamic . imaginative action and improvements are needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to the acceptance of unsound proposals that would cause irreparable harm to the education of our children . HARRY GILBERT , Chairman ; JAY E. GREENE , PAUL DENN , ISADORE BOGEN , ARTHUR KLEIN , ABRAHAM KROLL , SAMUEL STREICHER , GERTRUDE E. UNSER , Board of Examiners , Board of Education of the City of New York . Brooklyn . Jan . S. 1962 . Recognizing Peiping Her Acceptance Held Dependent on New U. S. Policy for Taiwan TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your Dec. 29 editorial performed an important public service by opening the discussion on - recognizing Communist China , an issue which this country must face sooner or later . Public opinion ought to be prepared for this eventuality . Quite apart from the interpretation that recognition does not imply moral approval of a foreign government ( which has actually been the policy of the United States except for the Wilsonian era ) , it may be pertinent to know what Communist China regards as the basis for accepting American recognition . It has been made clear on numerDUS occasions by Chou @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American forces from the Taiwan area as the sine qua non for entering into diplomatic relations with the United States . By the same line of reasonmg , it considers the ouster of the Nationalist delegation from the United Nations as a prerequisite for its entry into the world organization . Advantages of Step Gilpatric Defends Change Deputy Defense Secretary Explains Increase in Army Divisions TOTHE EDITOR Or THE NEW YORK TIMEs : The editorial in your Jan. 6 issue on " Professional Advice Needed " leaps to a conclusion the lack of foundation for which could have been readily ascertained through your excellent Pentagon coverage . The President 's decision on a sixteen-division Army was not reached " without the benefit of professional and legally responsible advice from the service affected . " The President well knew when he made his decision that the proposal put to him by the Secretary of Defense for the activation of two more Army divisions had been strongly recommended by the Secretary of the Army and its Chief of Staff . Moreover , as the President was also advised , the Joint Chiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been differing views about the proposal in either the Department of the Army or the Joint Chiefs , it would have been appropriate for the President to listen to the dissenting voices . It is likewise inaccurate to state that Secretary 's endorsement of the sixteen-division Army " represents a direct reversal of his prior stand . " As noted in your preceding editorial on " The Army 's Reorganization , " there have long been differences of opinion as to the number of active divisions needed by the Army . In the summer of 1961 the Secretary of Defense recommended , and secured approval for , an increase in Army manpower sufficient to make battle-worthy three Army training divisions , thereby increasing the Army 's combat-ready divisions from eleven to fourteen . On all such matters the Secretary and I have had the benefit of " detailed and continuous professional military advice . " Rosw ELL L. Git.e.vreic , Deputy Secretary of Defense . Washington , Jan. 8 , 1962 . The Times editorial specifically stated that the Army was not represented , except by Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which approved the sixteen-division Army . This increase of two divisions was not approved by Secretary when it was submitted to him by the Army earlier in 1961 . ? Editor , The Times . Earlier Retiring Age Proposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Many men come to my office at age 62 eager to retire . Informed that they will lose 20 per cent of their Social Security payments if they do not wait until they are 65 , they return grumbling to their jobs . If full Social Security could be granted on retirement to men who are 61 , 63 or even 62 , many would retire gladly . These older men , many with homes paid for and children on their own , would be happy to let younger unemployed workers take over while they took a holiday . If we needed these older workers in an emergency , they could return to work at the bottom of the seniority list . DAVID MANDEL . Perth Amboy , N. J. , Dec. 29 , 1961 . Doubled Bus Fare Protested To THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the interests of the people when he agreed to abolish transfers ? To many New Vorkprs the . fare is now 30 cents . Mrs. WILLIAM LENINSoN . New York , Jan. 6 , 1962.                     