@@724922

txt BADILLO JOINING SCREVANE SLATE Relocation Chief Will Run for President of Bronx ? Reformers Disappointed By R. W. APPLE Jr . Herman Badillo , the Commissioner of Relocation , has agreed to seek the Democratic nomination for Bronx Borough President on the slate headed by City Council President Paul R. Screvane . Mr. Badillo , a 35-year-old lawyer and accountant who was born in Caguas , P. R. , must obtain the signatures of 2,500 registered voters within the next ? .. ight clays to win a position on ithe ballot for the Sept. 14 primary . For the Bronx Reform Democrats who are backing Mr. Screvane for the Democratic mayoral nomination , the selection of Mr. Badillo was a disappointment . They had hoped the Council President would choose a member of the Reform organization . Political Error ' Seen Mr. Badillo was at one time considered a Reformer , but he has never joined any of the ReIform clubs in the Bronx . One prominent Reform Democrat said he thought Mr. Screvane had made a " serious political error . " He was careful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a Reform candidate for Borough President would have made Mr. Screvane more attractive to Bronx Reform voters . The chairman of the Committee tor Democratic Voters in the Bronx , Jay D. Fischer , had bcen mentioned by some Reform leaders as a possible designee . Mr. Screvane 's chief rival , Controller Abraham D. Beanie , // has selected State Senator Ivan Warner to run for the Borough Presidency on his slate . Mr. Warner is allied with the regular Democratic organization in the Bronx , which is headed by Charles A. Buckley , a key supporter of Mr. Beanie . Political observers suggested that Mr. Screvane had chosen Mr. Badillo in part because of a need to appeal to members of minority groups . Senator Warner is a Negro . As a concession to the Reformers , the Council President was reportedly preparing to announce today that Walter Hinkley , Reform state committeeman from the old Ninth Assembly District in the Bronx , would run with him for Councilman at Large . The Council seat is now held by Edmund C. Farrell , who is not seeking re-election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Ryan . Mr. Badillo , whose present job is to supervise the moving of families from the sites of public improvements , is the first Puerto Rican commissioner in the city 's history . He pronounces his name Bah-DEE-yo . Announcing the selection at a news conference in the Warwick Hotel , Mr. Screvane described Mr. Badillo as an " extremely attractive young candidate " who through " tenaciousness and talent " had set a target for all young New Yorkers . Lindsay Attacks Rivals Representative John V. Lindsay , the Republican-Liberal designee for Mayor , said yesterday that two of his Democratic rivals were engaged in an open fight for control of the Democratic party machine . Alluding to Mr. Screvane and Mr. Beanie , Mr. Lindsay said : " The two chief contenders on the other side each have a half piece of their party machine . It 's 50-50 . Each is fighting for the whole machine to take control of the city for another four years and another quarter of a century . " " We 've had enough of it , enough of clubhouse rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Congressman , standing on top of a blue cam . paign station wagon , addressed about 200 persons at 159th Street and Broadway . In another development , Frederic R. Coudert Jr. , Mr. Lindsay 's predecessor as Representative from the 17th Congressional District , said that he had accepted the chairmanship of the Buckley for Mayor Committee . The group was organized to support ' ' William F. Buckley Jr . as the Conservative party candidate for Mayor . Beame Assails Sales Tax Mr. Beame began his day in Brooklyn , participating in a protest against the new state sales tax that went into effect Sunday . He told Brooklyn merchants that he had fought . against the tax while Mr. Serevane " stood mutely behind the arrangements Rockefeller and Wagner had made . " Later in the day , he ex'pressed shock at the Council President 's assertion that he might run in the general election as the candidate of the I Fusion party if he was defeated in the primary by Mr. Beanie or another Democratic candidate . " I want to state as emphatically as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will abide by the result and under no circumstances will I run as an independant or on any other line . " A third Democratic mayoral candidate , Representative William F. Ryan , told a group of students at City College that " those farm boys on Capitol Hill run legislative rings around us city slickers . " He proposed that New York City establish an office in Washington , staffed with " the smoothest , most knowledgeable , most energetic , most stubborn men " available to put the city 's case before Federal officials , including the President .                     