@@725145

txt President Johnson ended a 23-day convalescence today at his ranch here , but before flying back to Washington he entertained two soldiers who had served in Vietnam . A White House source said the President would remain in Washington at least through Thursday . The Johnsons will entertain Princess Margaret of Britain and her husband , the Earl of Snowdon , at the White House Wednesday . The President is expected to return to the ranch before Thanksgiving to resume his convalescence . The source said Mr. Johnson was still bothered by constant pain in the area of the incision In his upper right abdomen , through which his gall bladder and a kidney stone were removed Oct . S. The President also has pain in his right hip , the area in which the kidney stone had been lodged , and his back still aches . Mr. Johnson , the source said , does not feel so well as he did when he went into the hospital . Physical activity is still difficult for him and when he forgets himself and moves suddenly , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today were Sgt. 1st Cl . Robert S. Vandiver , 28 years old , of Shreveport , La. , and Specialist 5 Robert G. Sullivan , 24 , of Norwich , Conn . They were accompanied by their wives and the two Vandiver children , Cynthia , 7 , and Kathleen , 5 . The men were chosen as the outstanding soldiers in the Fourth Army area this month . Sergeant Vandiver was an adviser to South Vietnamese troops for a year before returning to this country in February . He is now in New Orleans as an adviser to the Louisiana National Guard . Specialist Sullivan was with a medical unit in South Vietnam and returned to the United States last July . He is stationed at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio , Tex . Arrangements had been made for them to tour the ranch , but having the President as their , guide was a surprise . After breakfast Mr. Johnson asked , " Do you want to go to church with us ? " They did , and joined the President , Mrs. Johnson and their daughter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Fredericksburg for 9 A.M. services at St. Barnabas Episcopal Church , to which Mrs. Johnson and Lynda belong . " We 've got a lot to pray for and particularly for our men in Vietnam who are fighting for us this morning , " Mr. Johnson remarked to the soldiers . After the services , the President took his guests and reporters back to the ranch for cookies and coffee .                     