@@722621

txt MOSCOW , Aug. 24 Reuters - Russia and the west today exchanged sharp protest notes over tension loaded Berlin with the three western allies again calling for a four power meeting in the divided city to try to ease the situation . In three identically worded notes handed over to the Russian foreign ministry , the United States , France , and Britain charged Russia with responsibility for East Germany 's killing of women and youths trying to escape to West Berlin and said the brutality was " causing growing horror in the civilized world . " Russia in turn protested to the United Stales against attacks by " fascist elements " on Russian military and civilian personnel passing thru the American sector of Berlin . Stone Army Bus West Berliners , infuriated by the communist killings , stoned a Russian army bus and held violent anti-communist demonstrations for three nights running this month , at times clashing with West Berlin police who were trying to keep order . The allied notes also renewed their June 25 proposal for four power talks in Berlin to review incidents which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city in August , 1961 . An authoritative source in London disclosed that last week Russia rejected an AngloAmerican proposal for regular meetings on Berlin by deputy foreign ministers of the big four powers . He said the Russian ambassador to the United States , Anatoly Dobrynin , turned down the proposal at a meeting with American Secretary of State Dean Rusk . Refers to Slaying The Russian protest note , handed over in Moscow by Deputy Foreign Minister Arkady Sobolev , warned that Russia would take the " necessary measures " if the attacks on its personnel in Berlin were repeated . It also charged that American authorities were " directly responsible " for " these dangerour provocations " and demanded " immediate steps to stop . . . and severely punish those guilty . " The western notes said the shooting of . an East German youth , Peter Fechter , 18 , who was left to die near the wall by communist border police last Friday , was a " particular revolting " incident . Recall Other Rejections The allied note recalled that Russia had rejected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasions -- July 14 and Aug. 10 . In view of these rejections , the notes said " It is hard to see bow the soviet government expects the tension provoked by the East Berlin and East German authorities to be reduced . " The notes said that for their part the western allies made every effort to maintain calm and order in the city and added , " There have been no western acts endangering Im ? man life . "                     