@@727116

txt President Johnson voiced hope today that the negotiations in Paris between theVnited States and the North Vietnamese would " silence the guns in a free Vietnam . " He spoke at a rare ceremony at the Pentagon ? the first in which the century-old Medal of Honor was given at one time to four men , one from each of the military services . " The world prays that the way to peace wilt be found at that distant table ? the peace with honor for which these men , and their comrades , have fought so long and so nobly , " the President said . Mr. Johnson conferred the nation 's highest military award for bravery in combat on a soldier , sailor , marine and Air Force officer . He then dedicated the Pentagon 's new " Hall of Heroes , " where the medals and the names of the 3,210 winners , including those honored today , are displayed . In the huge gray building 's leafy central court , while a mockingbird sang in a tree , the President spoke of another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other men ? in Paris  --  are beginning the very hard negotiations that we hope will one day silence the guns in a free ' Vietnam , " he said . " Diplomacy 's painful , work now is to forge , from the fires of hostility , the way in which men can live without conflict and in mutual accord . " The President then hung the medal , suspended from a pale blue moire ribbon , on these four men in turn : Army . Specialist 5 Charles C. Hagemeister , 21 years old , of Lincoln , Neb . Marine Sgt. Richard A. Pittman , 22 , of Stockton , Calif. , who finally got into service after fighting a draft board rating of 4-F for poor eyesight . Navy Boatswain 's Mate James E. Williams , 37 , of Darlington , S. C. , with 20 years of service . Air Force Capt . Gerald 0 . Young , 37 , of Anacortes , Wash. , who first served as an enlisted man in the Navy after World War II . Including those decorated today , 37 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam war . Those who witnessed today 's ceremony included about 60 members of ' the winners ' families ; a dozen others who have won the medal ; the Joint Chiefs of Staff ; high civilian officials of the Defense Department , and a small number of Senators and Representatives . Secretary of Defense Clark M. Clifford escorted the President onto the outdoor platform . After the courtyard ceremony , Mr. Johnson climbed a staircase to the prolonged ap.plause of Pentagon employes , thousands of ? wham massed in the grassy enclosure and clustered at windows . He then snipped a red , white and blue ribbon to open an alcove at the end of a wide corridor where the Medals of Honor and the winners ' names are on display . ' Specialist Hagemeister was cited for tending the wounded under enemy fire while a medical aidman with Company A , First Battalion , Fifth Cavalry . In the same action on March 20 , 1967 , in Binhdinh Province , he also seized a rifle from a fallen comrade to kill four enemy soldiers and then dashed through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a frontal attack by 30 to 40 enemy soldiers near the Demilitarized Zone of Vietnam while a member of First Platoon , Company I , Third Battalion . of the Fifth Marine Regiment . The engagement took place on . July 24 , 1966 . Petty Officer Williams ; cur Oct. 31 , 1966 , . led patrol boats on the Mekong River to destroy 65 enemy sampans and junks through a three-hourlong hail ? of enemy gunfire . Captain Young distinguished himself on Nov. 9 , 1967 , while flying escort for a rescue helicopter in ' Southeast Asia . His ' craft crashed under fire . Al : ? though badly burned , the captain aided . a wounded man and refused to accept rescue for 17 hours until he had evaded the enemy and aircraft could be brought safety into the area . Larger groups of men have previously received the medal simultaneously but never has such a group represented all the services .                     