@@725695

txt Letters to the Editor of The Times pg . 30 Letters to the Editor of The Times Mail Sellers ' Curb Wanted on Firearms To the Editor : If the assassination of President Kennedy failed to produce legislation to control the sale of firearms , it is almost too much to hope that the mass killings at the University of Texas will dislodge this urgently needed reform from a reluctant Congess . President Johnson has now urged the prompt enactment of a gun control law . But even this is no guarantee that the formidable opposition of the National Rifle Association and other vested interests can be overcome . It seems to me that regardless of the outcome of the rekindled debate , a first and salutary step toward ending the proliferation and accessibility of firearms could and should be taken by the purveyors of guns themselves . If large mail order houses voluntarily decided to eliminate firearms from their shelves and catalogs , the loss in business would be minuscule when weighed against the public service that they would render . While such voluntary curbs on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as the Texas slayings , they would go a long way toward lifting what The Times has so aptly expressed as the " ' shadow of horror " that bangs over all of us . PETER PHILIPPS New York , Aug. 3 , 1966 Black Segregation To the Editor : You are to be congratulated for devoting so much attention to the new concept of " black power , " and particularly for printing excerpts in your Aug. 5 issue of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee position paper on the subject . This civil rights organization has reached the divisive conclusion that " whites must be excluded . " One aspect of the inhumanity of this attitude has not yet been mentioned , but we see it developing in the position paper 's question , " who are black people , what are black people ? " The logical answer must inevitably be an arbitrary rule screening human beings by ancestry . Who is black : the man with four Negro grandparents ? or three ? or one ? S.N.C.C. can not avoid eventually making some such smug distinction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of the German blood and the German honor . " The person with the proper number of acceptable grandparents will enjoy " our own institutions , credit unions , co-ops , political parties " ; persons with unacceptable grandparents presumably " must try to raise themselves to our humanistic level . " " Black power " is a slogan of demagogues who exploit false problems and obscure the real ones . The problems on which S.N.C.C. should concentrate were set forth by the National Urban League , quoted in the same issue . They are how to bring " jobs to the unemployed , housing to the dispossessed , education to the deprived and necessary voter registration to the disfranchised . " Segregation , whether enforced by whites or blacks , is not the way to achieve these goals . Editorial Aug. 7.1 CHARLES E. SELINSKE New York , Aug. 5 , 1966 ? Ky Backed on Invasion Proposal To the Editor : In the recent editorial entitled " Replying to Premier Ky " ( July 30 ) , it was mentioned that the " search for an illusory military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will only lead . . . to the entrance of Chinese forces into the conflict . " Fear of Chinese intervention is in no way an excuse for not invading North Vietnam . If the Chinese should intervene in the Vietnamese war , they would . be exposed to overwhelming United States retaliation , which , in this case , involves the use of conventional bombs to destroy the nuclear facilities of the Red Chinese , and as a last resort , the use of nuclear weapons . The United States , at the present , is in a far better position to meet Chinese aggression than it would be in the future wh , en China will be an industrialized nuclear power . This is why Premier Ky is right when lie states that we should face the Chinese Communists now rather than fifteen years later . Ky 's proposal of an invasion is one of the surest ways of defeating the Communists , and should be taken seriously into consideration as a possible military tactic . CHARLES J. HINRICHSEN , New York , Aug. 2 , 1966 ? Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the accolades have ' subsided , it . appears that another hoax has been perpetrated on the public . Governor Rockefeller and various other politicians hailed the enactment of the state 's medicaid law ( Title XIX ) as a major achievement in advancing adequate medical care for the seven or eight million New Yorkers whose limited income does not permit them to meet the cost of providing health services for themselves . Deductible Clause The ink had hardly dried on the Governor 's signature when the Legislature responded to the selfish interests of the medical societies and a few die-hard ultraconservatives by adding a deductible feature to the law . By now everyone acknowledges that the administration of the deductible may prove to be more costly than the amount " saved . " In mid-July the Department of Social Welfare announced that it had reached agreement with the medical profession on a new " fee schedule . " This new fee schedule was arrived at in private negotiations between the department and the doctors , then announced as a fait accompli . The immediate effect of this new fee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 per cent over the old schedule , is not limited to the beneficiaries of medicaid . Many of us believe that these fees will now become the doctor 's minimum fee which will result in a general escalation of medical fees by as much as 35 to 50 per cent within the next year . But equally as dangerous as the deductible and the fee schedule are the private negotiations now going on with the city and the state to hand over the administration of the medical and hospital services to private agencies such as Blue Cross and Blue Shield . Should this happen all the pledges and promises of providing the medically indigent with high quality medical care will prove to have been simply gestures . Services Not Available In the meantime , the seven or eight million persons now eligible for the various health services under the law are being given double-talk and a runaround . Xoth the state and the city claim that their plans are not ready yet so that those who require services are not even permitted to obtain an application form . The stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a hospital clinic emergency room . I believe that what is required before the medicaid law is completely sabotaged is immediate public hearings where all those concerned will be given the opportunity to air their views on how the law should be implemented and administered . WILLIAM J. TAYLOR New York , Aug. 4 , 1966 The writer is first vice president of Local 1199 Drug and Hospital Employes Union and director of the union 's welfare and pension program . ?                     