@@722656

txt LONDON , Sept. 14 ? President Mohammad Ayub Khan of Pakistan thrust a new issue into the British Commonwealth conference today . He suggested that a meeting be held between leaders of the countries of the European Common Market , and of the Commonwealth . He said that the European Economic Community , or Common Market , should enlarge its scope to include countries outside the Western European area . President Ayub discussed his proposals at a luncheon given for him by the , Foreign Press Association in London . He said he had mentioned his plan to several other Commonwealth heads of government . Some Not Convinced " I do n't think they are all convinced of it , " he declared . " I may . or may not succeed in convincing others . But I believe there is cOnsiderable scope in examining this idea and putting it into practice if possible . " There appeared to be little interest in the plan among other Commonwealth leaders . But the suggestion that Commonwealth countries should be included in the Common Market may create additional problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already ? skeptical of ' Britain 's efforts to join the Common Market and retain , as much as possible , her present relationship with the Commonwealth . President de Gaulle has already complained that Britain // wants to enter the European community accompanied by the " massive escort " of the Commonwealth . Field Marshal Ayub has scheduled a meeting tomorrow in Paris with General de Gaulle . The Pakistani President said today that there was " no sinister significance whatsoever " in this meeting . The visit was initiated as a courtesy call , he said . " But undoubtedly I will be taking the opportunity , if the French President is agreeable , of discussing the problems that confront us as a result of the emergence of the new economic community in Europe , " he added . The British themselves were unreceptive to President Ayub 's suggestion . But as the host country Britain was in no position to attack the plan until it was presented to the conference . In the British view a second conference on such a large scale not only would be difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain 's entry into the Common Market . As the Commonwealth conference entered its fifth day , Prime Minister Macmillan continued what an aide called his " smoke-rooming " , among the individual Commonwealth leaders . Each head of government has a suite of offices on the upper floors of Marlborough House , the new Commonwealth center . Mr. Macmillan 's informal conferences today with Commonwealth leaders were a major part of Britain 's effort to counteract the effects of Commonwealth opposition to her proposed membership in the Common Market . The conference has also been divided into study groups to discuss , with British experts , the progress of , the Common Market negotiations in Brussels and the effects these will have on the Commonwealth economy . Mr. Macmillan is trying to persuade the Commonwealth leaders that Britain can enter the European community without seriously damaging trade or altering the make-up of the Commonwealth association . Almost all the Commonwealth leaders have criticized the vagueness of the Brussels agreements and have expressed their apprehensions over the prospect of Britain 's entry . In her negotiations with the six members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg  --  Britain has attempted to establish safe-guards for Commonwealth exports . Many of these exports , particularly of agricultural products , enter Britain duty-free or with reduced preference . tariffs . Should Britain join the Common Market , these preferences would end . Instead , Commonwealth products would have the Community 's common external tariff applied to them , and some would no longer be able to compete against Common Market products .                     