@@725246

txt FOCUS on science - technology What 's ahead ... Earth crust experts are trying to piece together once and for all a continental jigsaw nuzzle . Two Western Hemisphere institutions  --  the University of California and Brazil 's University of S ? o Paulo  --  are testing the notion that all Southern Hemisphere continents were once one vast supercontinent . Believers in the theory of continental drift say the huge continent , called Gondwanaland , split and its pieces " drifted " to their present positions , making Africa and South America . It 's an old idea , born when geochronologists noticed how much the two coasts look like the matching pieces of one stupendous jigsaw puzzle . Some studies , mainly of rock magnetism , tend to support the theory . Now , with National Science Foundation backing , experts are dating ancient rocks along both the Brazilian and African coasts . If the land ages match , the theory of continental drift will be nearly clinched . If they do n't the theory will probably have to be thrown out . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? an information drift . Some congressmen are irked because vital scientific and research data is so scattered . They complain that research and development suffers because data on new developments is so decentralized that some of it gets buried and lost . They insist that as much as $2 billion of the $15 billion-a-year federal research and development.budget is wasted through lack of centralized pooling . Air travelers who like to look out and see a wing under them will someday soon look out and see it disappearing as the plane takes off . Variable-sweep wings , which fold quietly back , are the coming thing . The Germans thought them up . And the first time many dubious experts heard about them back in the 1940 's they snickered . But now the variable-sweep wing is a flying fact . Eleven new prototype American military P.M. 's , all with fold-back wings , are already in the air . And since such wings let a plane take off and land from short fields and fly economically at high speeds over long distances , they are a cinch soon to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists are growing less Eastern , less Midwestern , and less academic . They are becoming more Southern , Western , research-minded , and administrative . That 's what the National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council say . More than 50 percent of all the nation 's scientific Ph.D.s now graduate from Eastern and Midwestern schools . But only 37 percent of them work there . The South and West only educate 24 percent of the Ph.Ds , but has 42 percent of them on regional payrolls . And the shift of scientists from academe is still picking up steam . About 60 percent of all scientists are still in the nation 's colleges and universities . But 15 percent now work in industry and 8 percent in government . And their numbers are multiplying . Even in the academic world the shift is away from teaching . In 1935 a graduate used to spend 65 percent of his time teaching and the rest on research . Now it is 50.50 . Moreover , many scientists are dropping research and picking up administration ? which pays the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ? Windsor , Ontario , is breathing Detroit 's polluted air and not liking it . Canadian officials first complained to Michigan . But nothing was done . So Canada 's Department of External Affairs has taken the matter up with the United States State Department . Windsor Canadians ca n't help breathing Detroit air . It simply wafts toward them from across the Detroit River . And since the polluting is n't reciprocal , the Canadians are protesting . Experts think the best approach may be through the Clean Air Act , an American measure which provides that foreign nations can enter into abatement action ? providing they have a like law . Canada does n't , but Windsor is petitioning Parliament to pass one . That will take time . But eventually what happens may set the pattern for future pollution solutions all along the border .                     