@@724401

txt - On Dec. 14 the Electoral College will meet to perform its perfunctory duty . Fortunately , this year it will not frustrate the will of the people . Three times in American history , however , the indirect system of voting has helped to defeat the candidate who received a majority of the votes . So , this year as in the past , demands for Electoral College reform arise . There are two new elements in the situation . The Supreme Court , in several recent decisions , has insisted that every vote for Congress ur for state legislators ought to have equal weight . The same principle applies to the more important vote for president . Today , under the winner-takeall practice , the minority votes in a state are virtually Wiped out . When there are more than two major candidates , a minority president could easily be elected . Indeed , today a president need carry only 11 states ( New York , California , Pennsylvania , Illinois , Ohio , Texas , Michigan , New Jersey , Florida , Massachusetts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of the total votes could get a majority of the electors . The second new element is the pressure led by Gov . George C. Wallace of Alabama for unpledged electors . Such slates could bargain and tip the balance in a closely contested election . They could swiftly render the whole system unrepresentative . The intended concept of the Electoral College vanished over a century and a half ago . It was to have been an assemblage of trusted leaders , selecting the best-possible president and vice-president . Soon the people 's right to choose their own president asserted itself . The retention and convening of the Electoral College itself is not the problem . The crux of the difficulty is that the winner takes all , state by state . For a better system , we might well retain presidential electors , one to each congressional district , as at present . We might also add two for each state , representing the two senators , as at present . That addition would recognize geographic , historic , and regional interests . ' If , as in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state remains calculated as at present but is then awarded proportionate to the actual vote in each state , the flaw would be removed . The number of electoral votes Would roughly respond to the popular vote , modified modestly by the principle of federalism . The Lodge - Gossett amendment as a matter of fact , passed the Senate in 1950 but died from failing to get a necessary two-thirds Vote in the House . Probably most Americans would have qualms about a flat majority vote , disregarding altogether the federal principle . They might well decide against what Prof. Robert G. Dixon Jr . calls " majoritarian democracy " and choose what he describes as " consensus democracy . " There is great resistance to reform of the Electoral College . On the whole it has produced the same result as the popular majority . Politicians are comfortable with it . There is fear that change might give urban states and powerful voting groups an inordinate strength . But some of the reform proposals , like the Lodge-Gossett plan , seem to avoid the pitfalls . They retain about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' So demands for change will continue , largely betause some day the present system might ' produce a dreadful distortion of the popular , will . Reapportionrrient , now under way , somewhat reduces the dangers . But ultimately the American people will achieve a system incapable of vast abuse but retaining the consensus principle as nearly as human institutions can .                     