@@724418

txt The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . accepted the Nobel Peace Prize today on behalf of the civil rights movement and " all men who love peace and brotherhood . " The Baptist minister , in a ceremony at Oslo University , said the award came " at a moment when 22 million Negroes of the United States are engaged in a creative battle to end the long night of racial injustice . " Nevertheless , he said that he had an " abiding faith in America " and refused to believe that mankind was " so tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a reality . " Dr. King 's sermon-like acceptance speech was delivered before an audience that included King Olav V of Norway , Government and diplomatic leaders , . members of Dr. King 's family atid his associates in the civil rights movement . He spoke in English and the ceremony was : televised throughout Europe . The award carried a money prize equivalent to about $54,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coveted award , said he recognized that he led a movement " which has not won the very peace and brotherhood which is the essence of the Nobel Prize . " Why , then , award this prize to a movement " which is beleaguered and- committed to unrelenting struggle ? " Dr. King asked . He : said that " after contemplation " he had reached this conclusion : " This award , which I receive on behalf of that movement , is a profound recognition that nonviolence . is the answer to the crucial political and moral questions of our time  --  the need for man to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to violence and op-1 pression . " Speaking for 10 minutes in a slow , deep voice i that filled the marble hall at i Oslo University , Dr. King said that he had come to Oslo as a " trustee " for the " humble children " of the civil rights movement " who were willing to suffer for righteousness ' sake . " " I think Alfred Nobel would know what I mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of a curator of some precious heirloom which he holds in trust for its true owners-1 all those to whom truth is beauty and beauty truth  --  and in whose eyes the beauty of genuine brotherhood and peace is more precious than diamonds , or silver or gold , " he declared . The Negro leader is the third of his race to win the award . The first was Dr. Ralph J. Bunche , for his work:as a United Nations Under Secretary , and the second was Chief Albert Luthuli of South Africa . Dr. King was hailed by Gunnar Jahn , the chairman of the Norwegian Parliament 's Nobel Committee , as an " undaunted champion of peace , " and the " first person in the Western world to have shown us that a struggle can be waged without violence . " Dr. Jahn spoke in Norwegian for more than half an hour describing Dr. King 's background and his fight for civil rights . He said that though Dr. King " has not personally committed himself to the international conflict , his own struggle is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steadfastness Praised He described Dr. King as " the man who has never abandoned his faith and the unarmed struggle he is waging , who has suffered for his faith , been imprisoned on many occasions , whose home has been subject to bomb attacks , whose life and those of his family have been1 threatened , and who nevertheless has never faltered . " Dr. Jahn presented the Nobet medal and diploma to Dr. ' King as the audience of several hundred guests stood and applauded . The ceremony , by tra1 ' dition , takes place on the anniversary of the death in 1896 of Dr. Alfred Nobel , the inventor of dynamite and the donor of the prize . Dr. Nobel was a ! Swedish citizen . After Dr. King 's acceptance ' speech the orchestra of the Norwegian Broadcasting system played excerpts from George Gershwin 's " Porgy and Bess . " Then King Olav and Crown Prince Harald , who had watched the ceremony from seats in the center of the aisle , stepped forward to congratulate Dr. King . Among those in the party of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' mother , M-. and Mrs. Martin Luther King Sr. , from Atlanta , Ga. ; a sister , Mrs. Christine Farris , and a brother , the Rev. A. D. King of Birmingham , Ala . The ceremony of awarding ' the peace prize is always held in Oslo , although the other Nobel prizes are handed out in Stockholm . According to Dr. 1Nobel 's will , the peace prize winner is selected by a fivemember committee that is chosen by the Norwegian Parliament . Recipients of the other prizes are selected by Swedish learned societies .                     