@@722977

txt Karachi . Pakistan With the conclusion of the Sino-Pakistan border agreement the Pakistanis have heaved a tremendous sigh of relief . Had the Sino-Pakistan border degenerated to the state of the Sino-Indian border dispute Pakistan would have been in serious trouble . For it now has become known that of the 3,400 square miles in dispute between Pakistan and Communist China , the latter was in physical occupation of all but 600 square miles , with the terrain obviously favoring the Chinese and with their military superiority in no doubt . The Pakistan Government obviously decided that discretion was the better part of valor . It proceeded to negotiate and come to an agreement . Terms Praised Pakistan suggested to China on March 28 , 1961 , that the countries enter into . negotiations to ensure the tranquillity of the border . The Chinese took a year to react . On Feb. 27 , 1962 , they addressed a note to the Pakistan Embassy in Peking agreeing to such talks . Negotiations thereafter were swift and now an agreement has been signed . The official view here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal this view seems also shared by the people at present . Behind this happiness is the decision of the Chinese Government to hand over to Pakistan 750 square miles of territory that it currently occupies . The official Pakistani interpretation is that in return China will get nothing , ? although Pakistan will in fact give up its claims to quite a chunk of territory , Concessions Cited This is explained here b : officials simply by saying that the present border is largely negotiated on the basis of historical evidence . Where such evidence favored China , Pakistan gave up its claim . Where such evidence favored Pakistan , China offered to withdraw . There is still the formal demarcation to be done but that is not regarded here as a major problem . The view of observers here now is that the border agreement will not aggravate Pakistan 's tension with India nor harm Pakistan-American relations .. While it is conceded here that the Chinese Communist Government may have been prompted by the Sino-India displite to come to terms with Pakistan it is pointed out that Pakistan asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting and the Indo-Pakistan Kashmir talks were not foreseen . By Russel H Lenz . Chief Cartographer Kashmir Torn Three Ways Rival Indian and Chinese troops are In shaded area                     