@@722856

txt BY ROBERT WIEDRICH The contingency funds of all local governmental offices , including that of Mayor Daley , should be examined by State 's Atty . Daniel Ward , Benjamin Adamowski , former Republican prosecutor , said yesterday . Adamowski made his statement after Mayor Daley said that only " authorized persons " would be permitted to check expenditures from his contingency funds . Daley said they are used for " public and civic affairs , dinners , and things like that . " Robertson Asks Answers For the third straight day the controversy over Adamowski 's spending of $490,000 of contingency funds during his four year term as prosecutor continued to rage with repercussions in both Chicago and Springfield . Daley 's reluctance to let unauthorized persons examine his contingency fund of $65,000 a year came during questioning of the mayor about a statement in Springfield by G. 0 . P. County Chairman Hayes Robertson that both Daley and Adamowski , the Republican mayoral candidate , should fully explain handling of their funds . Audited Each Year Mayor Daley , who will face Adamowski in April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audited each year by a firm of private accountants . " Can anyone see these expenditures ? " he was asked . " Any authorized per so n , " Daley replied . " Can I see it ? " a reporter asked . " If you have any specific charges , yes , " Daley said . The mayor 's fund is carried in the city budget " to be expended under direction of the mayor . " " My contingency fund has received more public attention and knowledge than the funds of any state 's attorney in the history of Cook county , " Adamowski said , " even tho the law does n't require such an accounting . " " Mayor Daley 's statement is typical of the prevailing atmosphere where the only person who has been under the spotlight of the present state 's attorney is the former state 's attorney . " I think State 's Atty . Ward should look at Daley 's continency fund expeditures and the contingency fund expenses of all the others . He should n't make fish of one and fowl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had answered as fully as possible , within the limits of safeguarding informants ' identities , questions about the contingency account during his term which ended with defeat for reelection in 1960 . Egan Charges lie Lies The former prosecutor , meanwhile , was attacked by Edward J. Egan , first assistant state 's attorney , one of three men who had copies of Adamowski 's grand jury testimony on the contingency account . The transcript of Adamowski 's testimony was apparently leaked Monday . " The simple fact Is that this man Adamowski is nothing but a liar , " Egan said . " He keeps telling different stories in an effort to account for the money . " Egan charged that Adamowski had first said the funds were spent on informants whose names could not be disclosed , then had " mentioned a big narcotics investigation that his office conducted . " Quiz Informants Egan said his staff had questioned " every informant that Adamowski had " and none admitted receiving " big payments . " Most of them got around $3 , Egan said . In reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but a part of the story of contingency fund expenses which he said also encompassed such things as investigation of three major scandals in the city administration . As for Egan knowing the identity of all Adamowski informants , " that'c impossible , " Adamowski said . " I think John Q. Public knows the how and why of the leak of that transcript , " the former prosecutor said . Transcripts Under Lock A 20 month investigation of the Adamowski contingency funds ended last October with no action by the grand jury . Egan said yesterday he had nothing new to report on the investigation ordered Tuesday by State 's Atty . Ward of the transcript leak . The transcript copies were kept under lock and key by Ward , Egan , and Kevin Gillogly , the special prosecutor who headed the investigation of Adamowski 's spending .                     