@@723672

txt London The breach in the Berlin Wall negotiated between the separated parts of Germany is welcome news indeed , and particularly appropriate to the season . It would almost seem as though even the cold , doctrinaire hearts of East German Communists had been brushed by the wings of Christianity . But , the breach is temporary and only for one-way traffic . Only West Germans will pass through the wall to visit their close relatives in East Germany . The wall remains a prison for East Germans . * The wall presumably will continue to remain a prison for East Germans and for most persons living in the Communist countries unless or until standards and conditions of life in those countries reach the level of the standards and conditions of life which prevail in Western countries . Joseph Stalin once explained at one of those East-West conferences which occurred during World War II that when it was over he would have to close his frontiers because , as he put it , he could not afford to let his people see the outside world until he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and then raised the level to equal that of the West . When people are allowed to move freely where they choose they tend to flow from regions of lower economic conditions to higher ones . It is the reverse of fluids , which flow down from higher to lower levels . If the Iron Curtain were totally dismantled and its residents allowed to go where they wished we would witness the greatest migration of history . The higher - standard Western countries would themselves , of course , raise their own barriers to any such migration simply because they could not accommodate such a sudden inflow of new peoples . The United States maintains its immigration laws for such reasons and the British now practice immigration control even against Commonwealth countries . The time may come when the whole Iron Curtain will be dismantled but the first precondition will be a higher standard of living behind it . It 's noticeable today that the Communist countries with the higher living conditions are more liberal with visas both for visitors wishing to see them and for citizens wishing to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to leave than any of the others . Poland and Yugoslavia have moved farthest away from Soviet-style Marxism . Their economies are distinguished by an agricultural sector in which the bulk of the farms are in private hands . Communism is in a state of crisis . It enjoyed some success in its early years when the economic task was capital formation . The single-party system with its ruthless concentration on heavy industry was able to enforce privation and exploitation on the masses of the people more effectively than could be achieved in a free society . But those times are over . Today the Western Communist countries have achieved their basic heavy industries . They are ready now to enter the consumer phase of economic development . But communism increasingly exposes its inability either to produce the right consumer goods or to distribute them . The dictatorship of the proletariat can produce steel mills but it has never yet produced attractive styling , efficient retail distribution , or abundant , well-prepared food . These weaknesses in communism are now apparent to the people living under it and even in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Iron Curtain will survive as long as the ruling Communist classes attempt to run a consumer economy by Marxist methods . It can and will come down when the failure is recognized and the attempt abandoned . That moment could be less far away than has been generally assumed in the West . Moscow One could hardly believe one 's eyes ! Demonstrators battling police in Red Square . This was something that had not happened here for many years . But although the police were Soviet , the demonstrators were not ; they were Ghanaian students ? some 500 to ' 700 strong , the estimates differ ? who staged the march on the Kremlin , Wednesday , protesting against the reported killing of one of their fellow students . The young Africans , carried homemade cardboard posters . One poster read " Russians live well in Africa . " Another asked , " Is this Moscow or Alabama , U.S.A. ? " First the police limited themselves to clearing ' Red Square of Soviet citizens . Sought Out Officials Later they escorted the demonstrators off in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education is located . Because the Ministry did not have a large enough hall , Minister V. P. Elyutin and Minister of Public Health S. V. Kurashov addressed some 150 students in the large hall of the Institute of Architecture nest door . Mr. Elyutin expressed deep regrets and did his best to convince the demonstrators that their grievances would be thoroughly investigated . Investigation Started ? Ghanaian Ambassador John Elliott told a press conference after what he called the " mourning procession " of African students that he was convinced the Soviet authorities were carefully investigating the circumstances which had led to the demonstration . The immediate cause was the discovery on Dec. 13 of the body of second-year Ghanaian medical student Amund Asari Addo in a suburb of Moscow . His fellow students asserted that he had been thrown out of a ttrain on his way to Kalinin , where he was enrolled . The young student 's friends knew that he had courted a Russian girl whose parents opposed the marriage . This was exactly the kind of situation which was bound to arouse the sensibilities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around their embassy alerting fellow Africans from nearby universities and schools . Explanation Rejected Although Ambassador Elliott said that he had personally convinced himself that the student 's death resulted from overexposure to severe cold , bitter Africans rejected this explanation of the accident . Only a few weeks ago resident Africans told this writer about their problems , They were unhappy about the ignorance and superstitions of many Soviet students and ordinary citizens . Again and again Africans were exposed to tactless questions by people who prior to the youth festival of 1957 never had seen a dark-skinned person . - " I would prefer to be in America , " one postgraduate remarked . " There at least I would know whether I am wanted or not . The contrast between declarations of generous friendship on the part of the authorities and of so much prejudice is hard to bear . " Official Quoted A raw remark of a minor Soviet official that Mr. Addo had been drunk and had only himself to blame seems to have brought the anger of the Africans to a head . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they . too . are in a glass house and that race prejudices of which they accuse Americans also exist in their country .                     