@@723586

txt Irked by the big slowdown on Capitol Hill . President Kennedy yesterday asked critics , in effect , to withhold judging Congress ' response to his legislative program until next summer  --  and well he might For in view of lawmakers friendly to his Administration , never in the 20th century has any Congress fumbled and bumbled so badly as this first session of the Siith , now wheezing toward a close ; defenders of the record , however , hold that the inertia at the Capitol merely reflects la ( k of public support for the Kennedy program At his news conference , the President sought once more to prod the legislative branch toward action on his cis it rights and tax cut hills ( See story on page 2 I Mr. Kennedy suggested it still vi as possible to bring the House-passed tax bill to the Senate floor before year 's end , and he said the House could act on civil rights before adjournment . But if the President seriously entertains these hopes , he is bound to be disappointed As the Capitol clocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Christmas recess ) , the probability that the ? . big two " bills will be frozen in their current status deepens ; it 's probable , indeed , that neither bill will be sent to the White House before late spring " The Land Is Bright " Mr. Kennedy nonetheless forecast a productive 1964 session . " However dark it looks now , " he remarked , " I think that ' westward , look , the land is bright . ' and I think by next summer it will be " This hopeful outlook clashes , however , with this session 's tendency to pile more work on the next . In 1964 . Congress must adjourn in July to allow time for the Republican National Convention Memories of 1960 's fruitless postconvention haggling no doubt will discourage Mr. Kennedy from calling a special session on the eve of fall 's election campaign . The size of the workload and the shortness of the session could make things messy indeed in 1 964 . Some Kennedy proposals arc bound to suffer . New farm or housing bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short , busy session So would the Administration 's Social Security-financed hospital care plan , about which Mr Kennedy spoke confidently yesterday It 's beginning to look as if the first session wo n't even clear all the appropriations hills to finance the Government for the fiscal year that 's approaching the halfway mark ( Only four of the 12 money measures have passed , and agencies are operating under a stop-gap spending arrangement This has n't happened since 1916 , when a Post Office money bill was n't finally approved , and Congress has n't stayed in session all year before except in wartime ; according to Mr. Kennedy , the pending civil rights struggle contributes directly to the appropriations lag , presumably because Southern legislators are n't cooperating . For the rest of the year , then , the lawmakers will be preoccupied mostly with routine chores , including a third extension of the temporary national debt ceiling President Kennedy can expect little else except perhaps final approval of a $1.2 billion , five-year program of grants and loans to higher education Another good possibility is expansion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act , including loans to college students , and aid to schools in so-called impacted areas with major Federal installations . House concurrence in the Senate-passed bill to expand the Manpower Retraining Program stands a similar chance Sen. Ervin Plans Fight But even the compromise , House-approved higher education bill still faces formidable controversy in the Senate . Democratic Sen. Ervin of North Carolina , who is among the Senate 's most respected lawyers , plans a floor fight to kill the measure ; a House-Senate conference committee eliminated his amendment to assure a speedy court test of whether the Constitution permits Federal aid to churchrelated colleges . Faced with a severe yearend logjam , Senate leaders may yet postpone the prickly religious controversy until 1961 . Conservatives in general , of course , are pleased with Congress ' stand-still pace In the conservative view , House and Senate are simply performing the functions assigned to them by the Constitution  --  to check the Executwe branch . " We 're Just doing a better job than usual , that 's all . " says a Midwest Senator . More important , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties that the President has asked for too much . " The country simply is n't ready to start moving , " concedes a leading Democrat . " The general public , " says Vermont 's GOP Senator Aiken , the chamber 's senior Republican . " seems quite content to have us stay here the year around . so long as we do not upset the economic apple-cart with a lot of new laws . " The go-slow sentiment thus detected reinforces Congress ' natural tendency to oppose the President . Further causes of delay : The frictions generated by civil rights , uncertain Congressional leadership , concentration of too much work in too few hands , and , on occasion . inept handling of Congress by Mr. Kennedy 's lieutenants . Some of the blame for the current state of legislative affairs can be laid to various surprises . For one thing , the President himself did n't offer his second , highly controversial set of civil rights proposals until mid-June . Last summer 's railroad strike emergency and the quickly negotiated nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign aid authorization bill , on which the Senate has spent nearly three weeks , would have been approved months ago if the Foreign Relations Committee had n't laid it aside to undertake exhaustive hearings on the test ban treaty . Congress has added to its own burdens . This year its Joint Atomic Energy Committee assumed authority to set ceilings and impose guidelines on construction work requested by the Atomic Energy Commission ; until now this AEC activity had been subject to required scrutiny only by the appropriations committees . And only in the last few years has the Pentagon been required to justify budgets for missiles , ships and planes to the Armed Services committees ; appropriations panels once did the job alone . Relatively new fields of Federal endeavor , space exploration particularly , further dilute legislative energy . Consider the workload of Sen. Magnuson , the burly , cigar-chomping Democrat from Washington who heads the Senate Commerce Committee , the Appropriations subcommittee that handles budgets for Executive agencies outside of Cabinet departments , and the Democratic Senatorial campaign committee . This year the budgets of the agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and during the summer his Commerce Committee wrestled with both the railroad strike and the Administration 's plan to ban racial discrimination in such public accommodations as hotels , restaurants and theaters . " Look at Maggie 's workload , " a Senate aide says , " and you 'll see why we move with such deliberate speed . " Sen. Magnuson did shift some of his responsibilities to the Commerce Committee 's second-ranking Democrat , Sen. Pastore of Rhode Island ; but other senior Democrats , Arkansas ' John McClellan for one , show no such inclination . The State-Justice-Commerce department money bill is only now beginning to move , mostly because Mr. McClellan gave priority to the TFX aircraft contract investigation and to the celebrated crime probe starring informer Joseph Valachi . Sen. McClellan heads both the appropriations subcommittee dealing with this money bill .                     