@@722365

txt Letters to The Times TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The March 28 Times editorial urging teachers not to strike made several points which have , alas , outlived their validity . Point one concerns the fact that the Condon-Wadlin Act has been upheld by the highest state court . It would be more pertinent to mention that the law was conceived in hysteria and armed with penalties so unreasonably stringent that the officers charged with its enforcement have never dared to invoke those penalties . As matters stand now , the vindictive nature of this unenforceable law invites defiance . To claim that a law must be obeyed blindly just because it is on the books is a denial of history ; it rules out the possibility of repeal or amendment brought about by changing social climates . Point two alleges that a teachers ' strike is unethical . Commonly cited are these reasons : that the victims would be the children ; and that government service must not be subject to interruption . Oddly enough , the interests of children are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bakers , milk drivers , hospital workers and bus drivers go on strike . Indeed , I many of the pupils old enough to understand would gain new respect for teachers willing to act decisively in defense of their rights . Inviolability a Myth The inviolability of government service , except for police and fire protection and the armed services , is largely a myth . At the very moment that teachers are reminded that their services are too essential to be interrupted , there are strikes planned or in progress at missile bases , defense plants , bus lines and hospitals . Most pertinent is the inescapable contradiction that exists when government and private enterprise compete in common lines of work . Thus , public school teachers may not strike ; private school teachers may . Trainmen on the Long Island Rail Road may strike but those on the city-owned subways may not . Postal workers are enjoined from striking ; those in telephone , telegraph and radio communications are not . Most ironic of all , the very bus drivers whose right to strike against the private owners was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from striking if the city should take over the franchises and become the new employer . To grant teachers the right to bargain collectively but to withhold the right to strike deliberately mocks the gains incorporated into the labor legislation of the past thirty years . What elected official would dare to perpetrate such insulting nonsense on the main stream of organized labor ? ALLEN KANF .. Little Neck , N. Y. , March 29 , 1962 . Physicist Urges U. S. to Take Initiative in Negotiations TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tuns : If we go along with the Russian bomb-test enthusiasts and start testing in the atmosphere , too , who will believe that we can be trusted to be able to stop the nuclear arms race spiral ? Neither Russia nor the United States seems really serious about taking the necessary steps for an effective control of the nuclear menace and agreeing on crucial meas. tires of disarmament before more countries have H-bombs . The Soviets want to test because they trail behind us in the somber skill of nuclear weaponry . For the same reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders of the West want to have a superiority in nuclear strik. ing power , in a dubious effort to ; negotiate successfully from threat ? ening military strength . If they want to catch up and we want to keep ahead , when can we ever nego ? tiate with tangible results ? True , the Western government : do not want to create a precedent for an unverifiable disarmament agreement in the form of an in. definite moratorium on nuclear tests . It is , however , strange logic when the fear of a clandestine se. ries of nuclear explosions is said to mar all possibilities of a genuine test-ban agreement , while even un . derground tests have been mont tored with unexpected accuracy ii far distant lands , and while neither the U. S. nor Russia is much inter ested in underground tests . Use of Existing Systems In the realm of inspection for dis . armament , few activities can Ix monitored by impartial instrumentation as well as nuclear explosions Is it so unrealistic to suggest that we propose a treaty banning atmos ? 1pheric , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , coordinated through an international control commission ? The present Geneva Disarmament Conference should nominate a committee to negotiate a ban on underground and far outer-space tests with international inspection , be it of the type of three annual on-site inspections which Russia once offered to accept , or of the random sampling type as proposed in a similar context by Prof. Louis Sohn . Inspection should in no case rely on intelligence agencies . If we want to establish mutual trust and confidence among nations , it has to be through open inspection . These more complex and less imminent problems of a complete test-ban treaty could be handled in the framework of control systems to be negotiated for wider disarmament measures . We must take the initiative and decision to turn away from policies of short-sighted expediency , policies which rely on an increasingly unstable deterrent and which lead to destruction . The human race has enough resources , enough competent and compassionate men and women to deal with this situation which demands integrity and responsibility toward the children of the world . T-TFRRERT JEITLF. , Washington , April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor of Theoretical Physics at George Washington University . More Glue on Stamps Wanted TOME EDITOR OF THENEW YORK TIMMS : As the cost of mailing a letter In the United States goes up , so the amount of adhesive spared for the backs of stamps goes down . Today I had to use paste to make sure that stamps on three letters would stick and that the letters would not come back for more , like Oliver Twists . This happened the other day to a letter for England on which I had placed two 15-cent stamps . What 's all this we aliens hear about American efficiency , know-how , and whathave-you ? EDWIN TETLoW , New York , April 2 , 1962 . Teacher Defends Striking Condon-Wadlin Act , Enjoining Civil Employes , Held Unenforceable day , over United States foreign policy . We inuh not fall into the error of placing an exaggerated emphasis on the effectiveness of the U. N. Valuable as it is in its limited way , the U. N. can not be a substitute for a responsible American policy aimed at preserving Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the threat of Eastern totalitarianism if the United States and its major allies fail to support their vital interests . The United States , in particular , can not shift its responsibilities to the untested shoulders of the many politically and economically weak new nations which have the power the control the United Nations today . ERNEST T. CLOUGII . Boston , April 2 , 1962 . To Ban Testing Teachers Criticized TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The United Federation of Teachers maintains that a strike is justified due to the critical situation created by their present salary scale . There are few employes in city agencies satisfied with the current pay scales . Fortunately , at salary negotiation time , they do not resort to strike threats , but instead maintain a , more responsible attitude to the law and the people they serve . ANTHONY FINNERTY . New York , April 4 , 1962 . Jackson Upheld on U. N. To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial of April 1 , in which you state that " . . . what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is that there is no contradiction , and must be no contradiction , between loyalty to our alliances and loyalty to the principles of the U. N. , " implies that the Senator from Washington Is trying " to downgrade the U. N A careful reading of Senator Jackson 's recent National Press Club address , to which you are referring , does not , in my opinion , justify your admonition to him . Are you not using the debater 's technique of putting words into his mouth that he did not say or imply ? The closing paragraph of his address succinctly summarizes his attitude toward the U. N. : " The United Nations is , and should continue to be , an important avenue of American foreign policy . But we need to revise our attitudes in the direction of a more realistic appreciation - of its limitations , more modest hopes for its accomplishments and a more mature sense of the burdens                     