@@722018

txt In abruptly and arrogantly resuming atomic tests in the open air the Soviet Union has given the United States provocation to undertake atomic weapons tests of our own under the remorselessly reciprocal requirements of selfdefense . But it has done more than that . The Russian Government has proved once again how utterly false and cynical have been its protestations of horror over the poisoning of the world 's atmosphere through such testing ; and it has done still more than that . It has declared its contempt for all mankind  --  for the atomic weapon can not be used , - either in open tests or in open warfare , against one choser. nation alone . It is the enemy of all humanity , indeed of all life . The United States faces , as it has faced for many years , the necessity of insuring that our own power in armaments be sufficient to deter an aggressor and , if deterrence fails , to defend ourselves against him . This is the military consideration in the use of the atomic weapon . This is clearly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President of the United States to take the fateful decision he has taken : the aecision to resume nuclear testing so that  --  now that the Russians have done so  --  the continued development of our defensive system will not fall relatively or absolutely behind that of the Russians . While the field of nuclear weapons development is necessarily shrouded in secrecy , it seems clear from what is known that the present series of Russian tests could within a few months give them an advantage that for our own security , and that of the world , we can not afford to give them . Of course the testing that is to be engaged in by the United States is underground testing , which does not involve the lethal fall-out of the Russian above-ground series and makes the resumption of our testing different in kind as well as degree from the resumption of theirs . But there is another consideration beside the military , and that is the political consideration , in some circumstances equally if not more important . While we can understand and even endorse the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed the situation by breaking the moratorium , it is unfortunate that the President has found it necessary to order the resumption so speedily , in defiance of weighty political consid- ? erations . After the prolonged and deeply sincere efforts of the United States to achieve nuclear control at Geneva  --  efforts that continued up to last week  --  the decision to resume testing could throw the entire American position before the world into a false light . We must not look as though we had only been waiting for the chance to resume testing , especially when indeed we were not . The President apparently felt he could not allow more time to elapse before making this serious decision . Some delay would have permitted the emissaries from the Belgrade conference to present their views  --  and would also have allowed the United States time to put forward its position at the coming session of the United Nations . Despite these criticisms the fact remains that it was the Soviet Union , not the United States , that violated the moratorium . It is the Soviet Union , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again . It is the Soviet Union , not the United States , that is engaged in nuclear blackmail and the crudest sort of rocket-rattling diplomacy . In the face of these threats and provocations the United States must stand steady , maintain its course of decency and honor and continue to try to preserve a shaky peace .                     