@@723825

txt An investigation of a report that 15 uniformed Chicago policemen attended a party given last year by a band of armed robbers was ordered yesterday . All were reported to be members of the police task force . Their presence at the affair was reported to supervisors by Chicago detectives who had been watching the gang for months because of data obtained from informants by Chicago police and the Cook county sheriff 's office . The gang is the one to which Policeman Donald Somerville , 33 , of the task force , has been linked by Leon Arnold , an admitted bandit and member of the gang . Cop Refuses to Resign Meanwhile , it was learned that Policeman  --  Somerville had been asked to resign from the , force by officials of the police internal investigations division I. I. D. but had refused . He is still attached to the Maxwell street area of the task force . After the refusal , Lt. Thomas Ryan , head of the I. I. D. , conferred with state 's attorney 's officials about Somerville . Arnold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attorney 's witness quarters . Might Have Been Unaware Deputy Police Supt. Joseph Morris said that investigation of the gang 's social event would be incorporated in the probe of Somerville 's reported connections with the gang , which committed a series of robberies , burglaries , and car thefts in an 18-month period in the Chicago area , southern , Wisconsin , and northern Indiana . Informed sources told THu TiumnsrE that the 15 policemen , who were not on duty at the time , may have attended the party in a Hazel Crest , saloon in which the gang congregated without being aware of the criminal identity of their hosts . Somerville is accused of receiving a 10 per cent share of the $20,000 ' loot the gang obtained in the holdup last March 23 of the Zayre department store , 8847 Harlem ay. , Bridgeview , in which a watchman was ' shot . Arnold has charged that Somerville met the gang the morning after the robbery and divided the cash . Somerville has denied the charges . Informants reported that after the off-duty policemen arrived at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which at least one gang member was severely beaten . It is not known if the policemen participated . Gulp Drinks , Pep Pills Investigators said the party followed the pattern of previous social events staged by the gang at which members consumed large quantities of liquor , laced with " pep " pills , to work up courage for committing a robbery . At least 20 members of the gang , which sometimes numbered 40 , were at the party , sources said . The policemen , they added , may have been invited by one of Somerville 's brothers . Robert A. Somerville , 40 , is a former Chicago policeman who resigned after being named in three robberies . Robert Somerville and two other brothers , Gail , 37 , and Edward , 26 , have been accused by sheriff 's police of being members of the gang and taking part in the Zayre holdup.                     