@@726653

txt Britain is going to examine the whole question of religious education in state schools ? including opposition by minority secularist groups . The work will be done by a commission set up by the Church of England and financed by the National Society , which deals with education in church schools . The commission will attempt to clarify the many contentions which surround the principles , aims and methods of religious education . No official church pronouncement has been made on the subject since 1941 . At that time the Archbishops of Canterbury , York , and Wales helped-shape the religious sections of the Education Act of 1944 , which is still in force . It requires that in state schools an assembly or act of worship shall begin the school day and that religious instruction shall be given to children whose parents desire it . Those who do not may withdraw their children from this instruction . The commission 's report is due in 1969 . It will be offered for study to the DepartMent of Education and Science and to the education committees of Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Nova Scotia will help compile a Gaelic dictionary . It is expected to be the largest and most authoritative ever produced . At last count there were about 81,000 Gaelic speakers in Scotland . Their written , spoken , and " remembered " language will be recorded during a 12-year study by the Department of Celtic at Glasgow University . Prof. Derick S. Thomson , who " has had the Gaelic " all his life and is married to a well-known Gaelic singer , is behind the project . Questionnaires are being sent to schools in Gaelic areas . They invite pupils to ask their parents and neighbors for half-forgotten words used in boat building , peat cutting , and vegetable dyeing . - Trends ... Peace . Corps returnees are in-demand as teachers . Philadelphia says it has attracted the larg-est ? contingent ? more than 200 ? to teach in its public schools . These returnees comprise 13 percent of all new instructors hired there . Their convergence on the Quaker City did n't just happen . The responsible school official , himself a Peace Corps alumnus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled to return home during the summer . He pictured for them a city school system on the move and in urgent need of their services . A month later he sent a follow-up letter and enclosed a simple contract . The response was " overwhelming . " Cutting red tape , the school district hired the former Peace Corpsmen as provisional teachers on a one-year contract without the usual interviews or preliminary testing . In the course of the year they will have to meet certification requirements . The newcomers are being assigned to poorer neighborhoods where teacher shortages are most apparent . Jazz has broken into the  --  until now  --  strictly classical precincts of Leeds ( England ) Music Centre . Beginning this fall a three-year course in jazz , pop , and light music will be offered . This breakthrough marks the first time that music students in Britain have been able to take such a course leading to an internationally recognized diploma . How and why ... Educators from around the world are winding up a five-day conference in the quiet of Colonial Williamsburg , Va @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in education . It comes about , says Dr. James A. Perkins , president of Cornell University and conference keynoter , because " educational systems have been unable to keep pace in the last decade with their rapidly changing environments . " It 's the same story in all countries , he says ? not enough buildings , teachers , or modern courses for the needs of students . The bright side : " In every country education is regarded as one of the most powerful levers and greatest hopes for individual development and social change . Society has said to education , ' You hold the keys to a better life ; therefore you must open your doors to everyone . ' " But present school systems are not set up to educate everyone . The conference aims to make the world 's educational network function better through more efficient use of facilities and closer cooperation among systems and individuals .                     