@@722669

txt Edward M. Kennedy , the 30-year-old brother of the President , won a landslide victory over Edward J. McCormack Jr . yesterday in the Massachusetts I Democratic Senatorial primary . Mr. Kennedy 's opponent in November will be George Cabot Lodge , 35 , who won a hardfought Republican primary battle with Representative Laurence Curtis of Brookline . Mr. Lodge did not go into the lead until nearly midnight , but the Democratic battle was over almost before it began . With 1,224 of 1,988 precincts reporting , Mr. Lodge 's margin was 129,123 to 104,067 . With 1,294 precincts reported , Edward Kennedy had a statewide lead of 333,755 to 153,592 for Mr. McCormack . Late last night , Mr. McCormack , 39 , nephew of the Speaker of the House of Representatives , conceded defeat and pledged support to Mr. Kennedy in the general election . " I want everyone who worked for me and voted for me to work and vote for Ted Kennedy and all other Democratic nciminees , " Mr. McCormack told , a dejected band of supporters at his headquarters on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was " a great tribute to the Administration of President Kennedy and the loyalty and love and affection in which he is held by the people of Massa-J chusetts . " Edward Kennedy , in a victory statement , thanked Mr. McCormack for his offer of support and predicted party unity for the fall campaign . " We Democrats often disagree in the primary because we care about our personal convictions , " he told a television audience . " In the campaign we are united because we care about the people of Massachusetts . " Just before his television appearance he stopped in at the loser 's headquarters next door to his own and exchanged greetings . There was never a moment 's doubt about the outcome of the Democratic primary . Mr. Kennedy 's victory was sweeping and apparent from the first returns . They were from Pittsfield in the Berkshires , where Mr. McCormack was thought to have great strength . Mr. Kennedy carried the city by more than 2,000 votes , setting the pattern for what was to happen almost everywhere else even in the McCormack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own home precinct in - Dorchester even went to Mr. Kennedy , 317 to 304 . All through the Boston wards Mr. Kennedy moved steadily to victory and the 50,000-vote margin that Mr. McCormack was believed to need in the city never was in prospect . Instead , Boston gave a margin of about that size to Mr. Kennedy , who carried the city by 101,270 to 54,847 ? undoubtedly the biggest factor in his landslide . It was the third open clash between the houses of Kenneiy and McCormack  --  and the third hands down Kennedy victory . In 1956 , John F. Kennedy , 1 then a Senator , now the President , won over John W. McCormack , now Speaker of the House , in a struggle for Democratic party - supremacy in Massachusetts . Last June at Springfield , Edward Kennedy won an overwhelming victory over Edward McCormack for the Democratic convention endorsement for the United States Senate seat once occupied by the President . McCormack Fights On As is customary in Massachusetts Democratic politics , Mr. McCormack refused to accept that decision as final . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed and announced that he would fight Mr. Kennedy again in the primary . Their struggle continued , highlighted by two televised debates . In the first of these Mr. McCormack launched a verbal assault on the President 's brother unmatched even in the political annals of this city . Mr. Kennedy 's candidacy , Mr. McCormack said , would be " joke " if his name were anything but Kennedy . He pointed out that Edward Kennedy had never held public office and said he had- " never worked a day in his life . " Many observers here believe the vigor of this attack cost Mr. McCormack support , particularly among women voters . He discounted suggestions that the first debate had been decisive against him . " I do n't feel anything could have changed the tide that swept my opponent to victory , " Mr. McCormack said , in conceding . Whatever caused it , the size of Mr. Kennedy 's victory stunned some observers . Analyzing the returns for a Boston television station , John E. Powers , the president of the State Senate , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign will be the fourth political clash between their families . In 1916 , Henry Cabot Lodge , George Lodge 's great-grandfather , defeated John F. Fitzgerald , Mr. Kennedy 's maternal grandfather , for the United States Senate . In 1952 , John F. Kennedy defeated George Lodge 's father , Henry . Cabot Lodge , the younger , for the Senate seat that is being contested again this year . In 1960 , Mr. Lodge was the Republican nominee for Vice President and went down to defeat before Mr. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson . In a Democratic contest for the gubernatorial nomination , Endicott Peabody defeated Clement A. Riley . In a close Republican race for Attorney General , Edward W. Brooks , a Negro who had been endorsed by the state convention , - defeated Elliot L. Richardson . Among those contributing to Edward Kennedy 's victory were President and Mrs. Kennedy . They left the America 's Cup yacht race to vote in the Massachusetts primary . Another brother , Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy , flew here from Washington this afternoon , then proceeded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaker Casts Vote Early this " morning Speaker John W. McCormack cast his ballot in Dorchester on the south side of Boston . The stars of the day 's heavy turnout of voters , however , were President and Mrs. Kennedy . Hours before they arrived at the Joy Street police station , their polling place , crowds had gathered along the steep narrow street . Joy Street is on the north slope of Beacon Hill near the State House and the apartment at 122 Bowdoin Street which still is the President 's voting address . It was his official residence , though he seldom liven there , when he held the Senate seat now being sought by his brother . By the time Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy drove in from Logan International Airport several thousand persons were being held back by police and barricades along Joy Street . They gave the Kennedys a good cheer and a round of applause as they entered the basement of the police station . Both were deeply tanned . They were accompanied by John E. Powers , president of the Massachusetts State Senate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day near his residence at Charles River Square . The crowd cheered as they emerged from the police station basement . Almost directly in front of them was a large billboard urging votes for John A. Volpe , Republican Governor of Massachusetts , who is seeking re-election . At least one Edward McCormack placard was waving above the crowd . No such throng around the polling place greeted Speaker McCormack when he voted this morning at the William E. Russell School on Columbia Raod near Dorchester Avenue . Edward Kennedy and Mr. : urtis drew first blood as returns began to trickle in . First to report was the Town of Gosnold on Cuttyhunk Island , near Martha 's Vineyard . Two Votes for Kennedy Gosnold gave Mr. Kennedy two votes to one for Mr. McCormack . It gave Mr. Curtis nine votes to five for George Lodge . Another early reporting town , Windsor , in the Berkshire Mountains , went I ! . to 8 for Mr. Kennedy and 30-to-24 or Mr. Curtis . Morning rain predicted yesterday failed to materialize . Clear weather was reported throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first touch of fall in the air . Rain , by holding down the vote outside Boston , might have hurt Edward Kennedy 's prospects .                     