@@722301

txt MOSCOW , Feb , 24 Communist party newspaper Pravda accused offical Washington today of taking a ' ' frivolous approach " to what it called the most important problem of our time ? disarmament . The comment appeared in a story by one of the newspaper 's correspondents in the United States reporting President Kennedy 's rejection of Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev 's second hid for a Geneva conference at the summit level . The correspondent , B. Strelnikov , said Washington officials maintained " embarrassed silence for 12 hours " after receiving Khrush  --  hev 's note and that then American reporters " got instructions at the state department " to treat it as a propaganda exercise . Washington " at a Loss " " This frivolous approach to the solution . of the most important problem of our time shows that official Washington is at a loss on what to do , " Strelnikov said . Both Pravda , and the official newspaper of the Russian government , Izvestia , said the United States and Britain turned down the communist suggestion because a summit meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Izvestia called western objections " pettifoggery aimed at killing a live cause . " " It should be said that certain western quarters would have liked to bury the live cause of disarmament in order to give the ' green light ' to the further nuclear arms race . " Khrushchev now has- urged twice that the 18-nation conference on disarmament scheduled at Geneva next month be turned into a heads-of-government meeting . Renews Summit Demand On Feb. 14 , President Kennedy and British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan replied by saying that no meeting should be held at the summit level unless it was preceded by I some concrete progress at lower negotiations . In a letter dated last Wednesday , the communist boss said Kennedy appeared to be trying to avert agreement on a disarmament pact . He renewed his insistence on a meeting at the highest level . Kennedy consulted with Macmillan by trans-Atlantic telephone last night and sent Khrushchev another firm rejection . Informed observers here said Khrushchev might react by stepping up his drive to get the neutral members of the Geneva meeting to agree to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted Khrushchev 's invitation to Geneva .                     