@@722521

txt Letters to The Times pg . 22 Letters to The Times For Radiation Data More Detailed Information Asked of Radiation Council To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : AS members of a group , the Scientists ' Committee for Radiation Information , who have supplied information for the past six years on radioactivity and its effects to the public of the New York metropolitan area , we would like to comment on the recent report of the Federal Radiation Council ( Times , June 2 ) . First of all , we would like to applaud the F. R. C. for making the report public ; we are all in need of just such information on which we can base our decisions . However , we agree with Ralph Lapp , who pointed out in a letter to The Times , June 10 , that since the Radiation Council has sources of information not open to the general public , it should have displayed the data from which its conclusions were drawn . Without these data other scientists can not evaluate or validate the conclusions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the comments made in the report on the presented evaluated data are misleading . For example , the report concludes that , if all fall-out up to and including 1961 is taken into account , then this fall-out amounts to only 5 per cent of natural background radiation for the whole body and 10 per cent for the bone . But if one looks at their Table I and reads Appendix A one finds that if a oneyear period is taken , that of 1958-59 , then this figure rises to 10-25 per cent for the whole body and 20-40 per cent for bone marrow . Securing Data We think that it is difficult to take yearly data on dosage and integrate them over a period of time . We have very little notion of the dose-response effect , and until we know more about it we can not integrate high dosage rates with low dosage rates and get a curve from which one-year figures are extrapolated . Another misleading aspect of the three tables in the report is that the conclusions are given in terms of national averages . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nation . The report states " Early concentrations ( of Strontium 90 ) in the bone will be greatest for those children who are less than 1 year of age at the time that peak concentrations of fall-out occur in food . The average bone and bone marrow doses to such children as estimated in Table I are much larger than the average to the whole population . " But the report does not estimate how much larger , and whether this larger figure might actually even be higher than the Government 's own figures for " safe " limits . Another significant omission in the report is the total lack of concern about the short-lived isotopes , such as Iodine 131 . Because the radioactivity in these particles decays very rapidly , it was first thought that they could be disregarded . But in the last couple of years studies  --  particularly on the fall-out from these particles  --  revealed , as indicated in the Oct. 6 , 1961 , issue of Science , and as indicated by the testimony of Dr. Lapp before the 1960 hearing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall-out is not small in the short interval of time . Shortly after bomb test explosions the fall-out due to these short-lived isotopes amounted to as much as 50 per cent of the total fall-out over New York City and 70 per cent of the fall-out over Chicago . The report does admit that " the likelihood and extent of thyroid cancer have been considered to be about the same as other malignancies for comparable exposure " ; and " Doses to the thyroid gland ( to infants ) from the major past tests were estimated to have ranged from 100 to 200 millirems per year during and immediately . following periods of testing . " This 200 figure is twice the safe yearly limit . Iodine Amounts Furthermore , the fall-out due to Iodine 131 is not so evanescent as was once thought . For example : During the week of May 13-19 the radioactive iodine content of milk reached very high levels , ranging from 90 to 600 micromicrocuries per liter of milk . When one knows that the Range III level has been set at 100 micromicrocuries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 131 fall-out which occurred in the Midwest . Finally , we think that at this late date it is totally irresponsible to keep giving the American public , as the report does , a comparison between the increased radiation incurred upon moving to a higher altitude with that incurred upon ingesting radioactive isotopes , which do get deposited in discrete parts of our bodies . We feel that the most important To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Peruvian Congress by law will select a President on July 28 . But , says the military , if candidate Haya de la Torre is selected he will not be allowed to take office . In other words , " please us with democratic processes or we 'll take over . " Dr. Haya has been hated by the military for over thirty years . During the recent election  --  surprisingly free of corruption  --  the army tried to bring about his defeat with hints that even if elected he would not be allowed to serve . He was elected , although he did not receive the required one-third of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final decision must be left up to the Congress . This presents a clear-cut opportunity for President Kennedy to say , before July 28 , that no American aid , including Alliance for Progress funds , will be given to a dictatorship that overthrows a duly elected President . With this advance warning to the military clique , the Congress can make a free choice without fear of political turmoil , and even civil war . This would not be interference in another nation 's internal politics . It would merely activate the kind of support to which he has given lipservice time and again . Choice Faced If the President misses this opportunity he may strike a fatal blow at Peruvian democracy . Even members of Peru 's " forty ruling families " have begun to admit the it is now a choice between Dr. Haya 's party and eventual communism . For all practical purposes the real subversives are the generals and their wealthy supporters . It is they who would like to rule a while longer , on borrowed time  --  and all the while create a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship in Peru at this time would shut the door on democracy , but not on communism . With democracy as a choice gone , the last hope of the oppressed would then rest in communism . JESSE C. BEESLEY . New York , July 6 , 1962 . Teaching About Communism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As a social studies educator , I wish to congratulate The Times and its staff members Fred M. Hechinger and Harry Schwartz for their July 3 and 4 articles , respectively , on teaching about communism in our schools . These articles presented soma of the essential trends and typical examples in this rapidly expanding movement . Of particular value are their critical comments on some of the programs now in force . As they indicated , the basic question is this : What is the purpose of teaching about communism  --  to indoctrinate or to educate ? Is it to consist of a one-sided , shallow presentation.designed to achieve a prejudice against all ideas and nations which have any relation to communism ? Or is it to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Communist movement , including its strengths and its menace to the nonCommunist world ? The latter policy has , during recent months , won the endorsement of such organizations as the American Legion , the American Bar Association and the National Education Association , as well as such leaders as former President Eisenhower and President Kennedy . But not all United States educators agree . As Mr. Schwartz states in his first paragraph : " The anticapitalist and anti-American indoctrination given Soviet pupils in all Soviet schools is being matched by anti-Communist and anti-Soviet indoctrination in many American schools . " Do our educators really want to copy the Soviet policy ? This question deserves prime attention , discussion and action among educators and all interested laymen . I trust that The Times will continue to give it adequate space . RICHARD M. PERDEW . Bronxville , N. Y. , July 4 , 1962 . Choice of School Head Superintendent Should Be Found Out of City System , It Is Felt To Me EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : Your editorial of July 6 referring to the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education to the Regents and State Commissioner of Education reminded us that the board 's progress so far , although promising , has brought it just beyond the threshold of the many problems it must solve . Chief among the challenges still confronting the board is its need to divorce itself from questions of administration so that its entire attention may be given to matters of policy . Achieving this goal will depend in good measure on the board 's choice of a new Superintendent of Schools . Since taking office in January , I have become increasingly engaged in school problems in my district . I have met school administrators at various echelons and of varying abilities . However , I have been most dismayed at the school system 's incredible bureaucracy under which even the best administrators may be reduced to hopeless inefficiency . The results are bad planning for new schools , ill-conceived zoning and rezoning of existing school districts , the almost daily agitation on the part of local parent groups and hastily considered responses of the administrators to the more vocal of these groups , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inbred structure , which urgently needs overhauling . It requires , therefore , a Superintendent , , of Schools with a fresh outlook and a new philosophy , a Superintendent who is both willing to discard present techniques and practices and to experiment with bold , new approaches , much like Commissioner Barnes in the Department of Traffic . Like Commissioner Barnes , such a person must come from outside the city 's school system . The temptation must surely exist to chopse the new Superintendent from among able administrators within the system . However , with such a choice , the possibility of radical changes so badly needed becomes remote . EDWARD L. SADOWSKY , Councilman , City of New York . New York , July 9 , 1962 . Defect in Kerr-Mills Act TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMER : Dr. James Robinson , in his letter published June 30 , quite correctly states that the King-Anderson bill does not propose to pay all medical care costs for our elder . citizens . He is not correct in his assumption that Kerr-Mills welfare medical I care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Senate Committee on the Aging has recently and convincingly documented the fact that the KerrMills Act  --  whatever the hopes of its sponsors may have been ? is failing to provide adequate medical care for elder citizens , Indeed , 90 per cent of the Federal funds under Kerr-Mills are going to four states which are among the most prosperous in the nation . One overriding problem in implementing Kerr-Mills is the availability of state tax funds to match the Federal grant for welfare mealcal care payments . A reluctance to meet this responsibility on the part of the Republicans in New Jersey is evident to any who can substitute reason for emotion on this issue . The important fact about the King-Anderson bill is that it supplements the welfare and voluntary systems of health care financing . It is no more socialism than Social Security is socialism . B. J. DUFFY Jr. , M. D. Short Hills , N. J. , July 1 , 1962 . Against State Sales Tax TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Governor Rockefeller deserves the commendation of all who are interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the state impose a sales tax and take over the costs of education and welfare from the local governments . Regardless of the imposition of new state taxes , the suggestion made by the Citizens Budget Commission would surely mean an end of the influence of local governments , for it would remove from them two vital areas of operation : schools and local welfare . It seems odd that a group as experienced and as responsible as the Citizens Budget Commission would even make such a suggestion . Certainly the local municipalities , being close to their people , should and probably would object to the removal from their concern and activity of these two important areas . GARNETTE JONES . New York , July 10 , 1962 , obligation that the Federal Radiation Council has to the American people is the production of a twopart report , one part with complete data and references , so as to be of value to scientists , and another part which will translate this scientific material into terms understandable by the lay public , without glossing over worrisome data and based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SIEKEVITZ , JACK GOLDSTEIN , The Rockefeller Institute . New York , July 2 , 1962 . Haya for President of Peru Threat of No U. S. Aid Urged if Military Overturns Decision                     