@@726401

txt Welfare Commissioner Mitchell I. Ginsberg warned yesterday that if Welfare Department employes carried out their threatened sit-ins , scheduled to start today , and did not perform their normal work they would not be paid . " We wo n't pay them if they wo n't work , " he declared . " It 's a regular city policy . " The Social Service Employes Union has said that its 6,000 member caseworkers , home economists and home counselors would report , hold seminars and discussions on welfare problems , but perform no other tasks until the city agreed to submit unresolved contract issues to fact-finding . The dispute will not halt the distribution of welfare checks , however . Commissioner Ginsberg said 245,000 checks were sent out " as usual " on Friday , as they are the first and 16th of each month . Deputy Mayor Robert W. Sweet said that curtailment of welfare services during a period of hot weather was " a dangerous , serious concern , " because it could lead to " some kind of disturbance " in the ghetto areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . In reply , Mrs. Judith Mage , president of the union , said that it would not be deterred by wage threats , and that the city must share responsibility if disturb ances resulted from the employes ' sit-ins . Mrs. Mage discussed the , work-stoppage plans at a news ' conference in the union 's hot and humid fifth-floor offices in a dingy loft building at 932 Broadway , near East 22d Street . As she spoke , a score of perspiring union members were mimeographing leaflets and painting union signs . " The work-ins sit-ins will continue as long as is necessary for us to lay the basis for a new contract , " she said . " Whether or not our people get paid is not an issue and we will consider this problem when the time is appropriate . " She said welfare workers would not answer telephones , do paper work , or go out on cases . ' On the question of possible disturbances she said : " If emergency services are in danger , the city should take a hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been trying for ( months to get the city to live ' up to its promise to submit unresolved issues to fact-finding , but it has refused . We have no choice but to take our present course of action . " Part ' of Settlement The impasse between the city and the union stems front the settlement that ended the threeday strike last January . As part of the settlement , both sides agreed to submit the question of wages immediately to a factfinder . The fact-finding recommendation of a $1,300 increase in a two-year contract , retroactive to Jan. 1 , has been accepted by the city and the union executive board . . It was decided , also , that other issues were to continue in negotiation , and that if negotion failed , fact-finding would again be tried . However , there is a dispute between the city and the union as to the additional issues that are to be submitted to arbitration . The union has said that the city agreed to submit all unresolved issues to fact-finding as part of the strike settlement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the installation of a telephone in every welfare . client 's home and the granting of a permanent clothing allowance , were not subject to arbitration because these items were not provided for in aid received under Federal and state welfare regulations . Called Policy Matter The city has said that other union demands , such as a special fund to reimburse caseworkers for physical and property damages suffered through assaults while at work , involved policy affecting all municipal workers and could not be , granted to welfare employes alone . Commissioner Ginsberg said the scheduled sit-in would be considered a work stoppage . " In our system , employes do n't decide what work they are going to do , " he said . " It 's not work , and they wo n't be paid . " Mr. Ginsberg said that arrangements had been made with the police to guard against vandalism if the sit-ins occurred . He discussed the union threats on the WCBS-TV " Newsmakers " program and in interviews later . Mr. Sweet 's remarks- were made on the WNBC-TV " Searchlight " program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Statler Hilton Hotel last night voted by about 2 to 1 to approve the salary recommendation made by Benjamin . Wolf , the fact-finder . They also cheered an address by Mrs. Mage outlining plans for ? today 's sit-Ins . The ? audience was made up predominantly of young people . Many of the young women wore miniskirts or slacks , and numerous young men were coatless and wearing blue denims or khaki trousers . Some were bearded .                     