@@723544

txt Dallas , Oct. 24 Special - Demonstrators opposed to the United Nations interrupted a speech by Adlai Stevenson with boos tonight and spat in his face when he left Dallas Memorial auditorium . Pickets waving American flags blocked police from escorting Stevenson to his limousine and shoved him about repeatedly . When he stepped up to the door , two young men leaped forward and spat in his face . Stevenson , United States ambassador to the U. N. , did not appear to be hurt when he was struck on the head by a sign carried by a woman demonstrator . He asked police not to arrest the woman , saying " it could have been an accident . " Hits Super Patriots Two men demonstrators were arrested as Stevenson left the auditorium after making a U. N. day speech in which he lashed out at those he called super-patriots who decry the U. N. He made no reference to any specific person . Fist fights broke out several times as members of the audience opposed to the U. N. clashed with other spectators . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the front row who identified himself as Frank , organizer of the Indignation convention , an ultra-conservative organization . In answer to one question by , Stevenson drew a thundering response when he replied " for my part , I believe in the forgiveness of sin and the redemption of ignorance . " Gets into Argument When , who was sitting near the front of the auditorium , and another man began to quarrel , police escorted outside . Altho there were a few scattered catcalls and boos , the crowd of 1,750 gave Stevenson two standing ovations at the end of his talk and interrupted his speech a number of times with applause . In the talk , Stevenson defined super-patriots as men " who talk of peace but who object to our only institution for peaceful settlement ; who decry eve r y attempt at negotiation and conciliation and offer no alternative save weapons that will destroy friend and foe alike . " After the incident outside the auditorium , Stevenson said he could not understand why people of different points of view could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " bad manners . " " It was a concerted action by members of former Maj. Gen.l Edwin Walker 's following and the John Birchers , " said Jack Goren , president of the Dallas U. N. association , sponsors of Stevenson 's speech .                     