@@728044

txt Official sources said today that Communist China was believed to have withdrawn all its labor and engineer battalions from North Vietnam . The sources also said that an unspecified number of North Korean pilots had remained on duty in North Vietnam in accordance with a North Korean pledge to assist the North Vietnamese war effort . Between 40,000 and 50,000 Chinese Army engineering troops had been stationed along the transport and communication lines between southern China and North Vietnam to construct and repair those lines . When Lyndon B. Johnson , as President , announced the cessation of American bombing in the northern two-thirds of North Vietnam on March 31 , 1968 , the Chinese gradually began withdrawing their troops . The sources said that the North Vietnamese indicated they were no longer needed and could be replaced by North Vietnamese . Completion Believed Recent The withdrawal is believed to have been completed within the last two months or so . This is supported by reports from diplomats in Hanoi that they have seen fewer and fewer Chinese over recent months , the sources said . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had withdrawn the labor troops was that their mission had ? been completed . They acknowledged that several political reasons may have been involved in the decision , but they said that evidence of this is lacking . When the North Vietnamese began to explore the possibility of peace talks with the United States in the spring of 1968 , the Chinese did everything they could to discourage moves toward settling the war in Vietnam . Relations Have Cooled Having failed to prevent Hanoi from sending representatives to Paris , the sources said , the Chinese may have withdrawn the troops to show their displeasure with Hanoi , although they may have pre-t ferred to maintain a military presence in North Vietnam . The belief is that the Chinese felt that the labor forces would give them little influence . Relations between Hanoi and Peking since then , the sources said , have been cool . Chinese attention to the war in Vietnam in the press and over the radio has dropped off // -  - -   - -  -  - to the point that only required statements , such as on anniversaries , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been established after the Korean war , when the Chinese over the years took all of their troops out of North Korea . But Peking has continued its military aid to North Vietnam , the sources said , in contrast to the cutback in military assistance to North Korea as relations between Peking and Pyongyang have become strained . The sources here said they had received reports that the North Vietnamese were eager to have the Chinese withdrawn in order to prevent Peking from acquiring a " big brother " position . They said , however , that these reports could be neither confirmed nor refuted . ? Relations between the Tonkinese of North Vietnam and the Chinese for the thousand years prior to French colonial rule were often tense as the Tonkinese tried to resist Chinese domination . In recent decades , the North Vietnamese leader , Ho Chi Minh , has been noted for his skill in accepting aid from China while preserving the independence of his party and his country . The sources here doubted that the withdrawal of Chinese troops was directly connected with the border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and western parts of China . They said the troops were probably not the type that the Chinese would send to the border areas to fight against the Russians . But they may have become replacements for those who were sent . Reports from Hong Kong in recent weeks have noted troop movements northward from as far south as Canton . Earlier reports from Moscow quoted Russian sources as having charged that the Chinese had stopped shipments of Russian arms to North Vietnam at the border between China and North Vietnam . There were also reports that some Soviet arms shipments had been seized by the Chinese . The sources here said they believed this to be the on-the-spot decision of a local commander rather than the policy of Peking . With the turmoil of the Cultural Revolution in full swing last year , one of the factions involved may have taken the weapons for its own use .                     